      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Ganga Swachhta Sankalp Divas on May 02, 2017
      Posted On: 29 APR 2017 8:44PM by PIB Delhi


      National Mission on Clean Ganga (NMCG) will be observing Ganga Swachhta Sankalp Divas on May 02,2017 at 12 locations, namely- Kanpur, Allahabad, Varanasi, Patna, Bhagalpur, Sahibganj, Kolkata, Raj Ghat (Hardoi), Bithoor, Srinagar ( Uttarakhand), Vidhur Kuti (Bijnor) and Devprayag. The event would also be organized at more than 30 other locations through Ganga Vichaar Manch , local NGOs and volunteer support.


      Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Sushri Uma Bharti would attend the events at Vidhur Kuti , Srinagar and Devprayag. Events at other locations shall be presided by various Central and State level dignitaries and functionaries, and senior officials from Ministry of Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation and NMCG.


      The objective of the Ganga Swachhta Sankalp Divas is to spread awareness and evoke active involvement of the masses through Ganga Swachhta Sankalp (Pledge) reiterating their commitment to Swachh Ganga through a series of events like Swachhta sandesh rally, Shram daan, plantation, Swachhta sankalp etc. to develop a sense of pride and ownership among citizens to engender support for Namami Gange programme.


      Ganga Vichar Manch, a volunteer wing of NMCG would execute the aforesaid events in close coordination with State Programme Management Groups, State Government Departments/Agencies, District Administration and other key stakeholders at each location respectively.


      It may be recalled that NMCG observed 16 days long ‘ Ganga Swachhta Pakhwada ’ along five Ganga Basin States, which was launched at Allahabad on March 16, 2017 and concluded on March 31, 2017 at Haridwar. The pakhwada emerged as a mass movement and witnessed active involvement and participation of various stakeholders. Considering the success and overwhelming response and active participation of various communities in the pakhwada, NMCG is organizing ‘ Ganga Swachhta Sankalp Divas ’ on on May 02, 2017.


      samir/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488879) Visitor Counter : 110