      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Union Minister Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad Lays Foundation Stone of Swift Centre At Tech City In Kamrup
      Posted On: 11 AUG 2018 6:28PM by PIB Guwahati


    Union Minister for Electronics and Information Technology and Law & Justice Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad and the Chief Minister of Assam Shri Sarbananda Sonowal today laid the foundation stone of the swift centre(Start-up World of Innovation in Future Technologies) and two manufacturing units at Electronics Manufacturing Cluster, Tech City, Kamrup. Laying the foundation stone the Minister showed his happiness towards State Government for the fast development of the project within short period of time. He said that through digital India the Government wants to give the power of technology in the hands of common people. India has capacity, human resource and talent for transforming the country into digital India. Electronic manufacturing is very important in Make in India process. This project will also help to increase employment opportunities in the region, he added.


    The Chief Minister Shri Sarbananda Sonowal said in his speech that, in the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, in the last four years many schemes in North East are witnessing success. Today Assam is on its way to show its strength in technology sector in the country through this big project. The Chief Minister also expressed his gratitude towards Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad for his contribution and support in starting this project.


    Shri Keshab Mahanta, Minister of Water Resources, Cultural Affairs, Science and Technology and Information Technology, Government of Assam and other dignitaries were present in the auspicious programme.


    The Electronic Manufacturing Cluster located in Bongora Village of Palashbari, Kamrup will have state of the art facilities for manufacturing Electronics products along with other manufacturing and support services. The project covering 100 acre areas will be of cost Rs 119.80 Crores and projected investment will be Rs. 1500 Crores. This project will also provide 8000 employment opportunities.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542798) Visitor Counter : 2