      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Secretary, DoNER, Shri Naveen Verma stressed to identify and nurture local artisans of North East
      Secretary DoNER attends 23rd Foundation Day of NEDFi

      Posted On: 09 AUG 2018 6:17PM by PIB Guwahati

    Shri Naveen Verma, Secretary, DoNER, Govt of India today stressed that NEDFi should reach out to the needy and go forward to aid them financially. Attending the 23rd Foundation Day of North East Development Finance Corporation Limited in Guwahati today, Shri Verma said that North East has many talented artisans and it is the duty of NEDFi to trace and help them. The Secretary further appealed NEDFi to develop a mechanism to attract genuine investors to the North East. Referring to the newly introduced North-East Industrial Development Scheme (NEIDS) , the secretary said that the scheme shall promote industrialization in the States of the North Eastern Region and will boost employment and income generation. Shri Verma said that NEDFi can play more vital role in promoting business and investment in North East. The secretary concluded his address with the hope that NEDFi will have an outlet in every districts of the region in coming days to provide assistance to the people at their doorstep.


    NEDFi (North eastern Development Finance Corporation Limited) celebrated its 23rd Foundation Day today by organising a daylong event at NEDFi Convention Centre. The programme was also attended by Smt N L Palai, Regional Director (NER), DC Handicrafts, senior officials of the Central and the state government.


    Smt N L Palai, Regional Director (NER), DC Handicrafts in her address spoke about the potentiality of handicrafts of NER in World Market. She also asked the participants to maintain consistency of their work related to handloom and handicraft.


    Shri B P Muktieh, CMD, NEDFi, while welcoming the dignitaries spoke about NEDFi’s 23 years journey and the performance so far. This was followed by the official release of three important studies carried out by the Advisory and Consultancy Division of NEDFi, viz, “Comprehensive Report on Skill Development” for the States of Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura; State specific “Project profiles on Micro and Small Enterprises” for the States of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura and Sikkim; “Techno commercial feasibility study on E-Commerce Platform for Marketing of Handloom & Handicrafts produces of Northeast”. A film on NEDFi was also screened on the occasion.


    The daylong event also included inauguration of North East craft & organic fair 2018 by Shri Naveen Verma. The fair which will facilitate participation of artisans and weavers belonging to the handloom and the handicraft sector as well as farmers, producer, organisations developed under the scheme of MOVCD-NER (Mission Organic Value Chain Development for North East Region). The 5-day exhibition, from 9th -13th August 2018, is a unique integrated approach to facilitate market linkage to the craft and organic sector of the region. The exhibition is open from 11 am to 8 pm. Among the participants 35 are from the craft sector units, 15 are certified Organic producers and 12 are entrepreneurs from adventure sports. Visitors may also get first-hand information about the adventure sports possibilities of NER in the fair. Today’s programme also included launching of banana fibre products made in handloom and a workshop on using various types of natural fibres in handloom weaving.


    The studies which were released today have important implications for Skill & Entrepreneurship Development in the Northeast States.

     1. The Comprehensive Study on Skill Development focuses on understanding the characteristics of Skill Development System of the North Eastern States, Aspiration and Skill Development needs of various categories of population and the Global, National and local skill requirements trends in recent years and to suggest and recommend suitable strategies to take the Skill Development efforts in the Northeastern States to the next level. A unique feature of this study is the extensive primary survey conducted at block level in all the North eastern states coupled with extensive stakeholder consultations across the region. The study culminates in proposing a strategic Reforms Roadmap in skill development sector for each North Eastern State separately based on key aspects that have emerged out of the study.
     2. The State Specific Project Profiles on Micro and Small Enterprises prepared for all the 8 North Eastern States showcase low-cost innovative business ideas aimed at helping the local entrepreneurs who otherwise suffers due to lack of information regarding business venture opportunities. These project profiles are expected to facilitate gainful employment opportunities and promote entrepreneurial culture among the youths of the North-eastern States. The project profiles for each State are presented in two separate volumes, one showcasing the resource-based project profiles and the other demand-based project profiles. The project profiles also provide information about steps to start and manage a business, key licenses & clearances issuing authorities in the states and indicative list of potential projects in the States. Each project profile provides an overview of the business opportunity, market potentiality, technical know-how & process details, financial aspects and addresses of machinery suppliers with updated information.
     3. The Techno-Commercial Feasibility Study on E-Commerce Platform for Marketing of Handloom and Handicraft Products of the Northeastern Region looks into all the relevant issues that are involved in the Marketing of Handloom & handicrafts products on e-commerce platform through the lenses of multiple stakeholders involved in the crafts sector and suggest strategies for making use of e-commerce platform for marketing of Handloom and Handicraft Products of the North-eastern Region. The study is based on extensive stakeholder discussions with Central & State Government Agencies, the e-commerce stakeholders involved in crafts marketing, quality certification, logistics, CEOs of various e-commerce platforms, experts, artisans and entrepreneurs. While inaugurating, the Secretary, DoNER, the Chief Guest appreciated the products and initiative of NEDFi and asked the participants to maintain quality of their products.

    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542473) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese
    
    
    

3.