      PIB Headquarters

      “Gauhati High Court: History & Heritage” book to be launched on Saturday
      Posted On: 23 AUG 2018 5:17PM by PIB Guwahati


    “Gauhati High Court: History & Heritage” will be launched in the Gauhati High Court premises on 25 th August, 2018. Mr Justice Ranjan Gogoi, Judge, Supreme Court of India will be attending the programme as the Chief Guest and Shri Sarbananda Sonowal, Chief Minister, Assam will be attending the launching ceremony as the Guest of Honour. The programme will also be attended by Mr Justice Sharad Arvind Bobde, Judge, Supreme Court of India, Mr Justice Hrishikesh Roy, Chief Justice, Kerala High Court, Mr Justice Ajit Singh, Chief Justice, Gauhati High Court among other dignitaries.


    “Gauhati High Court: History and Heritage” is an engaging narration of the rich and complex tapestry that is the judicial history of North-East India. At its core is the Gauhati High Court, a unique judicial institution, unparalleled by any other in the country, which has been the common High Court for all seven States of the North-East. It has had the onerous, yet fascinating, task of interpreting not only enacted laws, but also existing tribal laws and customs of the plethora of communities in the region. This book is intended for the wider audience of lay readers in the North-East, as well as the rest of the country. It has judgments, cases and personalities abound, effectively achieving the author’s objective of providing an insight into this vital aspect of governance, and bringing the Judiciary closer to the people.


    Shri Arup Kumar Dutta, an internationally acclaimed author and a Padma Shri awardee, is the author of the book. He has written many longer works of fiction and non-fiction.


    The content of the book has been guided by an Editorial Committee constituted by the Chief Justice of Gauhati High Court, which is headed by Mr Justice Hrishikesh Roy, Chief Justice, High Court of Kerala, Mr Justice Ujjal Bhuyan, Judge, Gauhati High Court, Mr Justice Arup Kumar Goswami, Judge, Gauhati High Court and Mr Justice Manojit Bhuyan, Judge, Gauhati High Court.


    The Publications Division, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, GoI has been entrusted with the responsibility of publishing this book. Publications Division, with its rich legacy in the Indian print industry, is a flag-bearer organisation on the Indian publishing scene. The Division endeavours to put up a rich display of its diverse publications, ranging from Gandhian literature, arts and culture, national freedom movement, biographies of national leaders, flora and fauna, science and economy, Rashtrapati Bhavan series and other areas of Indian panorama. The Division also publishes reputed magazines in different spheres –Yojana, Kurukshetra, Ajkal, Bal Bharati, Employment News and Rojgar Samachar.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543988) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese