      PIB Headquarters

      Book titled “Gauhati High Court: History and Heritage” launched
      Posted On: 25 AUG 2018 6:58PM by PIB Guwahati


    Shri Sarbananda Sonowal, Chief Minister of Assam and Supreme Court Judge, Mr Justice Ranjan Gogoi today released the book titled "Gauhati High Court- History and Heritage", authored by the renowned writer from Assam, Padmashree Shri Arup Kumar Dutta, in an event held at Gauhati High Court campus.


    While addressing the gathering, the Chief Minister termed the book as a real tribute to all those who have contributed in setting up the iconic institution, that is the Gauhati High Court. He assured that all efforts will be taken to make the book available in all the libraries of the State for the students.


    In his speech, Mr Justice Ranjan Gogoi praised the Gauhati High Court for its highly efficient justice delivery system where pendency of cases is lowest in the country, that is about 40,000.


    Director General, Publication Division, New Delhi, Dr Sadhana Rout represented the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting at the function. She thanked the Gauhati High Court and the editorial panel of Judges for associating the Publications Division with the publishing of this esteemed book. Dr Rout requested the Assam Government for wider dissemination of the book in the state as well as the North Eastern region. She also said that it should be made available in all the libraries of school, colleges and universities.


    The Author of the Book, Shri Arup Kumar Dutta mentioned that it was a real honour for him as a writer for getting the opportunity of writing such a great and historic book.


    The Publications Division, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, GoI has been entrusted with the responsibility of publishing this book. Publications Division, with its rich legacy in the Indian print industry, is a flag-bearer organisation on the Indian publishing scene. The Division endeavours to put up a rich display of its diverse publications, ranging from Gandhian literature, arts and culture, national freedom movement, biographies of national leaders, flora and fauna, science and economy, Rashtrapati Bhavan series and other areas of Indian panorama.


    The content of the book has been guided by an Editorial Committee constituted by the Chief Justice of Gauhati High Court, which is headed by Mr Justice Hrishikesh Roy, Chief Justice, High Court of Kerala, Mr Justice Ujjal Bhuyan, Judge, Gauhati High Court, Mr Justice Arup Kumar Goswami, Judge, Gauhati High Court and Mr Justice Manojit Bhuyan, Judge, Gauhati High Court.


    Among the other dignitaries, Justices of the Supreme Court, Mr Justice Abhay Manohar Sapre and Mr Justice Sharad Arvind Bobde, Chief Justice of Gauhati the High Court, Mr Justice Ajit Singh and Chief Justice of Kerela High Court, Mr Justice Hrishikesh Roy were also present at the function.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543985) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese