      Ministry of Communications

      PM to launch India Post Payments Bank across the country on 1st September, 2018
      IPPB will bring financial inclusion for all: Chief Postmaster General, Assam Circle
      
      Posted On: 30 AUG 2018 4:41PM by PIB Guwahati


    Shri Vishwapavan Pati, the Chief Postmaster General, Assam Circle addressed a press meet today in Guwahati regarding the launch of the India Post Payments Bank(IPPB) across the country on 1 st September, 2018 by the Prime Minister of India Shri Narendra Modi. It will also be simultaneously launched in 26 branches and 100 post offices in Assam on that day.


    Shri Pati, addressing the press, said, “With the aim of carrying forward the mission of financial inclusion, IPBB will use multiple delivery channels like mobile banking, SMS/missed call banking, Internet Banking, IVR/Call centre and innovative delivery channels like Post Office Counter and doorstep banking.”


    He further added, “IPPB will offer a wide range of products and services including savings account, current account, money transfer, direct benefit transfer, third party products, bill and utility payments and enterprise & merchant payments will be offered to the common man and so on.”


    The operations of IPPB will rest on biometric authentication, QR card, 1,55,000 access points (Post offices) and work force of more than 3 lakhs postmen and Gramin Dak Sevaks.


    Shri Pati pointed out that with all the above features, IPPB will ensure a secure digital ecosystem which is not only user friendly but also affordable to the general public. It will leverage its digital infrastructure to further a cashless economy and bridge the digital divide by providing last mile service through physical human interaction especially for the rural masses.


    IPPB will strive to reach the senior citizens, homemakers, small businesses, students, farmers, DBT beneficiaries, Kirana stores, urban migrants and rural influencers, Shri Pati added.


    Shri Pranjal Patowary, Senior Branch Manager, IPPB and Shri K. Kevichusa, Director Postal Services (HQ), Assam Circle were also present in the press meet.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544637) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese