      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ interacted with the student in Guwahatiat “YUVA SAMVAAD”
      The Union HRD Minister emphasizes on Stress Free Education
      “Students are the warriors of the Nation”- Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal
      Posted On: 14 FEB 2020 6:49PM by PIB Guwahati

      Union Minister of Human Resource Development Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ emphasized on stress free education while interacting with the students at Sankar Dev Kalakshetra, Guwahati. The interactive session ‘Yuva Sambad’ was organized by The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), Guwahati. Shri. Samsher Singh, Mission Director, RMSA, Assam, Shri. R.C. Jain, Chairman, SEBA, Shri. K.K. Chaudhury, Direcor, CBSC, Assam, Shri. Sanjib Das, Joint Secretary, COE alongwith approx 1200 students from various schools of Guwahati actively participated in the session.
      Shri.Pokhriyal said that he has participated in the “Yuva Sambad” to morally boost the students for their future endeavors. He urged the students to prepare themselves for a stronger tomorrow. The Union Minister apprised that India has always been a nation enriched with knowledge from ancient times and is known globally as a country of rich heritage and culture. Terming the students as Warriors of the Nation, he requested them to contribute to the nation’s development.
      Shri Pokhriyal further interacted with the students and answered lots of their queries. He also suggested that participating actively in both sports and studies will bring about moral as well physical development in the students. He asserted that students should never give-up in life and should have patience while stayingfocused to achieve success in one’s life.
      Shri. Pokhriyal also commented that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed to provide a better nation and is very keen on building a “Swacch Bharat, Sashakt Bharat &Swasth Bharat- Ek Bharat –Sresth Bharat”.
      After the event he was scheduled to visit IIT Guwahati to inaugurate the New State building, NRL centre.
      *******
    
    
    (Release ID: 1603282) Visitor Counter : 14