      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Honourable Union Minister for Human Resource Development Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, Visits IIT Guwahati
      Posted On: 14 FEB 2020 7:55PM by PIB Guwahati

      Union Minister for Human Resource Development (HRD), Government of India Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, today visited Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Guwahati and urged the students and researchers to convert our vision to mission for a strong and vibrant India in the world.
      Speaking on the occasion Pokhriyal said that through hard work we can achieve everything and appealed everyone to revitalise the nation. He said that we should give priority to ‘Make in India’ and focus on innovation and research to shine as a strong nation in the world.
      On the occasion the Union HRD Minister dedicated some of the technologies to the nation developed at IIT Guwahati, were, Duper-water/ oil repellent polymeric coatings; Affordable Healthcare Technologies; a ‘Magic Box’ Multi-Diagnostic Kit to provide Affordable Healthcare; a Portable Bacteria Detection Kit; Method for Removal of Fluoride, Iron, Arsenic and Microorganisms from Contaminated Drinking Water; Portable Kit for Onsite Determination of Formaldehyde in Aqueous Samples and Paper-Based Kit for Detection of Methanol; A Non-Invasive Therapeutic Option for the Treatment of Alzheimer’s Disease and Low Cost Affordable Milk Testing Kit.
      The Minister inaugurated the newly constructed Estate Building and the NRL- Centre of Excellence (CoE) for Sustainable Materials earlier and tree plantation near the Estate Building.
      Hon’ble Minister also visited various laboratories and demonstration of Biodegradable Products and presentation of research innovations by the researchers at NRL- Centre of Excellence (CoE) for Sustainable Materials .
      The Hon’ble Minister was welcomed to the Senate Hall by the members of the Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat (EBSB) Club with the Rajasthani song ‘PadharoMhareDesh’ and the Institute Anthem ‘Yatra Path Jyotishman’, after which the Hon’ble Minister had a brief interaction on the ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ at IITG. In his address, the Hon’ble Minister appreciated the innovative research done by the studentsand faculties members of IIT,Guwahati.
      The Union Minister is in Guwahati to review the progress of ongoing projects of Central Government and meet the Heads of CBSE, KVS, NVS and Central Universities of Assam.
      The Hon'ble Minister was welcomed to IIT Guwahati campus by Prof. T. G. Sitharam, Director, IIT Guwahati, with a traditional phoolamgamocha.
      Minister of Irrigation (Independent Charge). Government of Assam, Bhabesh Kalita was also present on the occasion.
    
    
    (Release ID: 1603289) Visitor Counter : 7