      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Media is a key contributor to health literacy, says Senior Journalist Samudra Gupta Kasyap
      Developmental schemes of the government must be highlighted: Manvendra Pratap Singh, DC, Sonitpur


      PIB organizes media workshop ‘Vartalap’ in Tezpur

      
      Posted On: 20 FEB 2020 2:09PM by PIB Guwahati


    Media is a key contributor to health literacy, says senior journalist Shri Samudra Gupta Kasyap while addressing the press in a media workshop ‘Vartalap’ organized by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati in Tezpur today. He stressed upon the need to give preference to proactive development journalism in the region so that people at grassroots can be made aware about the schemes being run by Central and State Governments for the welfare of the people. He urged the participating journalists to play a positive role in highlighting major government schemes.


    The Chief Guest of the Programme, Shri Manvendra Pratap Singh, Deputy Commissioner, Sonitpur said that “various developmental schemes are being implemented across the country. The media persons must highlight the developmental schemes of the government and also give their feedback about the implementations of the schemes. Our prime aim should be to make the layman aware of such programmes so that they can avail the benefit of the schemes”.


    Shri L.R Vishwanath, Director General, NE Zone, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting (MIB), in his speech, said that the main aim of the workshop is to ensure effective communication and dissemination of information about government policies, programmes and schemes to the masses. He said that journalists serve as a vital link between the Government and the people and they play a significant role in the process of disseminating information and establishing communication between the administration and the citizens. He urged the media persons to give real feedback about people’s awareness about the schemes as well as about the implementation of the developmental schemes so that it can be carry forwarded for further action.


    Smt Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, PIB Guwahati asked the journalists to inform the people about programmes and policies of the government at the grassroot level.


    The Press Information Bureau, Guwahati, Government of India, organised a media workshop for journalists titled “Vartalap” in collaboration with the District Administration at Tezpur in the district of Sonitpur today.


    Special technical sessions about various schemes implemented in the district of Sonitpur were discussed in the Vartalap. Shri Prakash Bora, District Agricultural officer, Sonitpur and Prof Promod Chandra Deka, Krishi Vikash Kendra,Sonitpur spoke extensively on Pradhan Mantri Kisan Bima Yojana, Kisan Credit Card and Soil Health Card. Shri Ali Akbar Choudhury, Executive Engineer, Public Health Engineering spoke about the implementation of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan (Gramin) in Sonitpur district. He also talked about Jal Jeeban Mission. Dr. Krishna Kemprai, Joint Director, Health Services spoke about the implementation of Mission Indradhanush in the districts.


    The workshop was aimed to act as an interface between PIB and the journalists working at district and sub-district levels. The workshop is part of the Governments media outreach strategy with the aim of establishing direct contact with working journalists.


    More than 60 working journalists across the Sonitpur district participated in the one-day event. The journalists were sensitized about their role in highlighting important issues and making people aware in rural areas about the numerous welfare schemes.


    Smt. Nina Deuri, DIPRO, Sonitpur, Shri Gopajit Das, Media and Communication Officer, PIB Guwahati also attended the programme.


    *****************

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603826) Visitor Counter : 42