      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Home Minister launches Industrial & Investment Policy;
      inaugurates projects in Arunachal Pradesh; Assures that Article 371 will not be removed.


      34th Statehood Day celebrated in Itanagar with pomp & show

      
      Posted On: 20 FEB 2020 4:34PM by PIB Guwahati


    Union Home Minister Amit Shah has assured the people of Arunachal Pradesh that the government is committed to protect the culture and heritage of the state. Shri Amit Shah assured the state on it’s 34th Statehood Day function that the Article 371 is intact and will not be removed and it has no connection to abrogation of article 370. The Home Minister inaugurated the Arunachal Pradesh Industrial & Investment policy and launched several projects at IG Park in Itanagar today during the function in presence of Governor of Arunachal Pradesh, Brig. Dr. B.D. Mishra, Union MoS for Youth Affairs & Sports, Kiren Rijiju, Union MoS for DoNER, Dr. Jitendra Singh and Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh, Shri Pema Khandu.


    Speaking at the event, the minister said that Arunachal Pradesh is the only place where people greet each other by saying Jai Hind and this visible patriotism is an inspiration for all of us. He congratulated the state on completion of 33 years of statehood and stated that the Industrial and Investment Policy 2020 is a welcome move which will enable the state to contribute to the nation’s dream of being a 5 trillion economy. Shri Shah appreciated the North-eastern Culture and heritage and said that the country’s development is incomplete without the development of the North-east while stating that the development of the region is the responsibility of the entire country. He assured that protection of the culture of the tribes is the responsibility of the government and the central government is committed to this ideal.


    He mentioned that before 2014, the region was only linked to India in geography, but now, the region is connected to the country by heart and emotion with the 27 tribes and 130 sub-tribes of the state having a special position in the connect. He quelled all rumours that Article 371 will be removed while stating that 370 and 371 had no connection with each other and assured that the special provisions will remain. He mentioned that these rumours were a handiwork of vested interests who wanted to distance the North-East from the rest of the country.


    The Minister added that the government had a policy whereby ministers would be visiting the North East every 15 days and the PM has visited 30 times already during the previous 5 years and the Union Ministers have visited several times.


    While enumerating all development and social initiatives undertaken by the Modi government in the last six years like Bodo Agreement, Bru-Reang settlement, Bogibeel bridge, Rail, road and air connectivity and other infrastructure projects, the Home Minister assured that the capitals of the Northeast will be well connected by road and air very soon. He also said that the region was earlier known for terrorism, infiltration, corruption and other ailments but now it is known for good governance, infrastructure, Act East and Sports while in the next five years the Modi government shall ensure that the region will be a problem free one.


    Earlier, Chief Minister Shri Pema Khandu thanked the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and Home Minister Shri Amit Shah for the attention given by the government and solving not just governance matters but addressing social issues also. He thanked the Home Minister for his proactive role in getting an airport at Hollongi for the capital of the state. Shri Khandu thanked the Centre for exempting the state from Citizenship Amendment Act. He also expressed his best wishes to the state of Mizoram which is also celebrating it’s statehood. He also urged the government to consider the possibility of a dedicated cadre of bureaucracy for Arunachal Pradesh.


    Reiterating the ideal of the government of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas Sabka Vishwaas, Governor of Arunachal Pradesh Brig. Dr. B.D. Mishra informed that three Kendriya Vidyalayas have already been approved for the state. He also mentioned that several hydel projects are yet to be completed and he urged the Home Minister and Minister for DoNER to ensure that these projects are completed at the earliest.


    The projects launched during the event include MLA Apartments at Chimpu, Itanagar, Housing project for Senior Officers, façade lighting of AP Civil secretariat complex, Joram-Koloriang road of BRO falling under Lower Subansiri, 256-slice CT Scanner at TRIHMS, Naharlagun and Inter-state truck terminal near ISBT, Naharlagun. The minister also laid the foundation for Police headquarters at Itanagar. 148 Sanitation Vehicles for all Urban towns of Arunachal Pradesh were also flagged off during the event. Cleanest Village awards were also given away to seven villages of Norbuling, Natun Kheti, Yaglung, Tikhak Taipi, Singchung, Namet, and Nongtaw Shyam.


    After the event, Shri Amit Shah planted a sapling at Raj Bhawan and met representatives of community-based organisations. The statehood day event marks the establishment of the state of Arunachal Pradesh on this day February 20, 1987. The cultural performances in the event highlighted the cultural diversity of the state as well as Uttar Pradesh under the ambit of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat. Alongside the event, exhibition stalls and flower show also were put up.


    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603852) Visitor Counter : 15