      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati organizes review workshop on Mission Indradhanush 2.0 and exhibition on the theme of Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat
      Posted On: 28 FEB 2020 6:01PM by PIB Guwahati


    EK Bharat Shrestha Bharat(EBSB) is a unique initiative of the Government of India for depicting the rich cultural heritage of different states of India said Shri. Ramesh Chand Jain, Chairman of SEBA while addressing a review workshop on Intensified Mission Indradhanush 2.0 and an exhibition on the theme of Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat at Greenwood resort, Guwahati today. He mentioned that as Assam is paired with Rajasthan, the rich culture of our state will be known to the people of Rajasthan. Likewise, Rajasthani culture will be depicted in our state for better amalgamation of brotherhood.


    The Regional Outreach Bureau,(ROB) Guwahati under Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Govt. of India has organized a one day review workshop on Intensified Mission Indradhanus 2.0 and exhibition on the theme of Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat.


    Speaking on the occasion, Director General NE zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Shri. L.R Vishwanath appreciated the troupes for their commendable performance across the state.


    Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, PIB Guwahati and Dr. Ahmed Muyeen Farooqi, Deputy Director, ROB Guwahati also spoke extensively about the activities undertaken under Intensified Mission Indradhanush 2.0 in the State of Assam by Ministry of I&B.


    Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati has organized 180 special awareness programmes on Intensified Mission Indradhanush (IMI 2.0). As part of the Campaign, Dance troupes of ROB, Guwahati are spreading awareness through skit’s, drama, songs & street play at villages, concentrating on high focus districts, where dropouts in immunization has been identified. There are 18 such districts in Assam where such awareness programmes are being carried out. They are Dhubri, Kokrajhar, Borpeta, Goalpara, Udalguri, Baksha, Nagaon, Sonitpur, Golaghat, Dhemaji, Dimahasao, Sivasagar, Tinsukia, Hailakandi, Karimganj, Bongaigaon, Dibrugarh & Darrang. In the review programme, the troupe leaders shared their experiences while campaigning in the remote parts of Assam.


    Photo panels on the tourist places of Rajasthan, Rajasthani lifestyle, folk arts, music, dance and food were depicted in the Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat exhibition. The artists of the dance troupes performed various Rajasthani dance forms like Kalbelia, Kachi Ghodi, Kathputli, Gair and Ghoomar in the workshop.


    ****************

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604685) Visitor Counter : 59
    Click Here for Related Photos
    
      Read this release in: Assamese