      Ministry of Finance

      Contribution of banks will be immense in fulfilling PM’s dream to develop North East : Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman

      Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman visited 3-day Financial inclusion Outreach programme in Guwahati

      Posted On: 27 FEB 2020 6:14PM by PIB Guwahati


    Union Minister of Finance & Corporate Affairs Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman along with the Finance Minister Shri Himanta Biswa Sarma visited the three-day Financial inclusion outreach programme at Guwahati today afternoon.


    The three-day Financial inclusion outreach programme is being organised by the Department of Financial Services along with the concerned State Level Bankers’ Committees (SLBCs) at the respective State Capitals of all the seven North Eastern States, West Bengal and Bihar from 26 th to 28 th February 2020.


    Smt. Sitharaman along with the Finance Minister Shri Himanta Biswa Sarma visited the stalls and interacted with SHG members, beneficiaries of financial inclusion schemes, successful small entrepreneurs, fresh Mudra loanees etc.


    Addressing the gathering, the Union Finance & Corporate Minister Smt Nirmala Sitharaman said that the contribution of banks will be immense in fulfilling PM’s dream to develop North East. She further asked all officers of Public Sector Banks to meet the State Finance Minister to deal and discuss all issues related to finance.


    Various Public Sector Banks (PSBs), Private Sector Banks, Small Finance Banks, NBFCs present in these States, NABARD, Insurance companies, North Eastern Council, Self Help Groups (SHGs) and various FPOs are participating in outreach programme.


    Stalls have been set up by banks, insurance companies, NBFCs, SHGs, FPOs etc. at the venue of the outreach programme in these States.


    Activities such as opening a bank-account, Aadhaar seeding of bank account, Aadhaar enrolment, enrolment for micro-insurance schemes like Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and micro-pension scheme Atal Pension Yojana etc. will be facilitated at the stalls.


    Applications for Kisan Credit Card, loan under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY) and other small loans can be submitted at the stalls organised under the outreach programme. Visitors will also be advised on Financial literacy and digital payment products such as Bhim UPI etc. SHGs, FPOs and other beneficiaries are also putting up their stalls at the event showcasing their products.


    Banks are also showcasing successful entrepreneurs supported by them in the region. Banks have identified various clusters involved in traditional handicrafts, manufacturing etc. that they have identified for extending finance to eligible artisans.


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604567) Visitor Counter : 49
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese