      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Performance of Nehru Yuva Kendras
      Posted On: 04 JUL 2019 2:50PM by PIB Delhi


    The work performance of Nehru Yuva Kendras (NYKs) is satisfactory as the physical target achievement w.r.t implementation of Core Programmes during the financial year 2018-19 was 95%. More than 42,05,933 youth from all sections of the society got opportunity to take part in NYKS programmes and activities. Youth were given opportunity to participate in Adventure Camps, National Integration Camps, Life Skill Education, Inter State Youth Exchange Programme (Ek Bharat-Shreshtha Bharat) and other Youth Exchange Programmes supported by Ministry of Home Affairs viz. Tribal Youth Exchange Programme, North East Youth Exchange Programme and Kashmiri Youth Exchange Programmes. Through these programmes, the leadership qualities have been enhanced. In addition Youth were engaged in Swachh Bharat Summer Internship Programme, Celebration of 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, Celebration of International Day of Yoga, Mission Indradhanush, Preventive Health Care, Voluntary Blood Donation, Environment and water conservation, Awareness & Education about social and financial inclusion schemes of Central Government, Campaign against use of Alcohol and substance abuse, Relief Camps during Disaster, etc.


    Following steps have been taken to improve the work performance of NYKS in the Country:


    i. Data base of Youth Clubs has been created on NYKS website: www.nyks.nic.in along with details of members. This is in public domain.


    ii. Payments including monthly honorarium to all National Youth Volunteers (NYVs) are made through PFMS.


    iii. Number of districts has been increased from 29 districts to 58 Districts where United Nation Volunteers(UNVs) are taking up the project “Strengthening of NYKS and NSS”.


    iv. NYKS has commenced recruitment drive against various categories of posts revived/re-created with the approval of Ministry of Finance. Filling up of these posts and induction of young people in NYKS will improve the performance.


    Presently Nehru Yuva Kendras are functioning in 623 Districts of the country. Ministry is again taking up the issue of opening NYKs offices in 83 districts where NYKS is not present.


    This information was given by Minister of State (Independent Charge) forYouth Affairs and Sports Shri Kiren Rijiju in a written reply to the Lok Sabha today.


    ******


    YKB/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577148) Visitor Counter : 1071