      Ministry of Defence

      Celebrating 20 Years of Kargil Vijay Diwas
      
      Raksha Mantri Lights the Victory Flame to Mark 20 Years
      of Kargil Vijay Diwas on 14 Jul 2019
      
      Posted On: 14 JUL 2019 9:00PM by PIB Delhi


    The year 2019 marks the 20 th anniversary of the successful culmination of Operation Vijay wherein brave soldiers of the Indian Army overcame seemingly insurmountable odds, hostile terrain, weather, and a determined enemy occupying dominating heights, to win the Kargil war. On this momentous occasion, the Indian Army is celebrating this victory in memory of its brave martyrs with events covering a myriad spectrum.


    One of the major events planned during the celebrations is the relay of a Victory Flame from National War Memorial, New Delhi to Kargil War Memorial, Dras. The Victory Flame symbolizes the coalescence of the souls of the Kargil War martyrs. The Victory Flame was lit at the National War Memorial, New Delhi, by Honourable Raksha Mantri, Shri Rajnath Singh on 14 July 19 along with General Bipin Rawat, COAS, Subedar Sanjay Kumar, PVC handed it over to ace army shooter Subedar Jitu Rai, as the first torch bearer.


    The event was attended by Lt Gen Ranbir Singh, GOC-in-C Northern command, Lt Gen Y K Joshi, Fire and Fury Corps and a large number of officer & civil dignitaries.


    The Victory Flame will be carried by Indian Army’s outstanding sportsmen and war heroes. It will pass through nine major towns/ cities of North India and finally culminate at the Kargil War Memorial located at Dras on 26 Jul 19,where it will be received by the COAS. All along the journey, Indian Army personnel will be paying homage to the heroes who fought valiantly for the Nation.


    The design of the Victory Torch has been inspired by the grit, guts and glory displayed by the immortals who made the supreme sacrifice for the motherland in the finest tradition of the Indian Army. The Torch is made of copper, brass and wood which symbolizes the tenacity and determination of our fallen heroes. The upper portion of the Torch has a metal etching of the Amar Jawan, epitomizing the fallen Unknown Soldiers. The lower wooden portion of the Torch has 20 gold embossed inscriptions of the Amar Jawan exemplifying 20 glorious years of the Kargil Victory.


    This Victory Flame and the journey of the eternal flame from the National War Memorial to the Kargil War Memorial brings alive the theme of the 20 th anniversary of the Kargil Vijay Diwas -‘Remember, Rejoice and Renew’. We ‘remember’ our martyrs by revisiting their sacrifices, we ‘rejoice’ by celebrating the victory in Kargil and we ‘renew’ our resolve to safeguard the honour of the Tricolour.


    ***********


    Lt Col Harsh Wardhan Pande


    for PRO (Army)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578695) Visitor Counter : 684
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali