      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ unveils new logo and website of Indian Institute of Management, Jammu
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2019 6:50PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ unveiled new logo and website of Indian Institute of Management, Jammu in New Delhi today . The new logo has beendesigned by National Institute of Design, Ahmedabadwhich aptly portrays the core principles of IIM Jammu, depicting the dynamic and sharp leadership of a flying eagle.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said that he is confident that IIM, Jammu will usher in new era of research with primary focus on regional development. He expressed his happiness over the starting of off-campus of IIM, Jammu at Srinagar. The Minister reviewed the progress of the Institute . He also reviewed the present infrastructure, maintenance and human resource related aspects. The Minister gave assurance to the Director of IIM Jammu to extend maximum support for the overall dev elopment of this world class institution.


    The distinct quality of an eagle, of nurturing its young ones in a unique manner, relates to the philosophy of the institute. A young eagle is made to go through a tough, rigorous but rewarding training, which prepares it for the hardships of the real world. IIM Jammu too, follows a pedagogic approach that creates an environment filled with academic rigor, training their students to emerge as dynamic leaders, prepared to efficiently tackle the challenges of the world.


    The design of the logo is enriched with symbolism. The six elements represented in both the wings of the flying eagle are the six core values of IIM Jammu which includes: Indian Ethos and Business Ethics, Excellence, Innovation and Entrepreneurship, Inclusiveness and Sustainable, Integrity, and Collaboration. The circle at the top represents the rising sun signifying new possibilities and beginnings for the graduates and alumni of IIM Jammu, the bold lettering reflects a firm foundation and rootedness, the blue color signifies the endless sky and the rich maroon color signifies fertility and growth, as well as rootedness in Indian culture. The motto of IIM Jammu, in Sanskrit “ साविद्यायाविमुक्तये ” translates aptly to "It is knowledge that liberates", imbibes the institution’s mission of serving the humanity, the society, the state and the nation for economic growth and prosperity through outstanding value-based quality education, high quality research, executive education, consultancy and strong corporate as well as international linkages.


    Along with that, IIM Jammu also launchedits new official website on the same day. The new website is more vivid, vibrant, and much more interactive. The new website will be instrumental in furnishing details about the institute, administrative activities, the programs conducted at IIM Jammu, faculties and the achievements of faculty, as well as the activities of student committees and clubs that take place or are scheduled to take place in the institute. This new website is another milestone that has been achieved towards the strategic vision of making IIM Jammu a world class B-school.


    Shri Milind Pralhad Kamble, Chairman, Board of Governors, IIM Jammu, Prof. B.S. Sahay, Director, IIM Jammu and senior officials as well as dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580952) Visitor Counter : 579
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi