      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      Regional Training Camp (RTC) on Socio Economic Survey (76th Round) on “Drinking water, Sanitation, Hygiene and Housing Condition” and “Survey of Persons with Disabilities”.
      Posted On: 18 JUN 2018 11:20AM by PIB Mumbai


    The 76th Round of Socio-Economic Survey on “Drinking water, Sanitation, Hygiene and Housing Condition” and “Survey of Persons with Disabilities” will be launched by The National Sample Survey office (NSSO) – the premier field survey office under the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, Government of India – in collaboration with State Directorate of Economics and Statistics, from 1 st July to 31st December 2018.


    The objective of the survey on “Drinking water, Sanitation, Hygiene and Housing Condition” is to study the facilities of drinking water, sanitation along with housing facilities available to the households and the micro environment surrounding the houses which are important determinants of overall quality of living condition of the people of the country.


    The “Survey of Persons with Disabilities” is aimed at estimating indicators of incidence and prevalence of disability, cause of disability, age at onset of disability, facilities available to the disabled persons, difficulties faced by them in accessing public building/transport, arrangement of regular care giver, out-of-pocket expense relating to disability, etc. Further, estimates will be obtained on various employment and unemployment particulars in usual status for the household members with at least one disability.


    The statistical indicators derived on the basis of the survey are required for planning and policy making. The results of the survey will be used by various stakeholders like Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation, NITI Aayog, Housing and Urban Development Corporation, Water Aid India, UNICEF, WHO, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, ESCAP, etc. All the States, including Maharashtra will participate in this survey with a common set of schedules and sampling design.


    In order to impart training to the field functionaries , the Maharashtra (West) Region will hold its RTC from 19th to 22nd June 2018 at its Regional Office, C.G.O Complex, CBD Belapur, Navi Mumbai. It will also provide a platform to discuss the various intricacies regarding the upcoming survey.


    Around 100 delegates/officials are expected to attend this Regional Training Camp. Senior officers from Directorate of Economics and Statistics, Government of Maharashtra will also attend the training camp with a view to keep uniformity in survey procedures and practices followed by central and state agencies.


    BACKGROUND:


    The National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) has been in the service of the nation since 1950. It has been instrumental in developing a strong database on various Socio-Economic parameters through its countrywide sample surveys , which have helped the Central as well as State Governments in development of planning and policy formulations. Various agencies in India and abroad are utilising the NSS data for estimation of poverty, construction of price indices and assessing impact of various programmes on the pattern and level of household consumption expenditure, employment-unemployment situation, condition of agricultural households, migration, utilisation of health and education services, domestic tourism etc. The data made available by NSSO on unorganised manufacturing/services sector is widely used by planners and policy makers.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1535707) Visitor Counter : 1131