      Ministry of Finance

      Finance Minister Shri Piyush Goyal inaugurates India Infrastructure Expo 2018, jointly organised by Ministry of Finance, Government of India and FICCI at NCPA, Mumbai today
      
      Exposition to showcase achievements under major national infrastructure development programs as well as related investment opportunities to investors from over 80 countries
      
      
      Companies from public and private sector, state governments and central government ministries come together to present India’s ambitious infrastructure development programs as well as exhibit latest solutions, technologies and offerings in the realm of infrastructure project development and delivery

      Posted On: 24 JUN 2018 6:15PM by PIB Mumbai

    The Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Government of India, in partnership with the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI), is organising India Infrastructure Expo 2018 that will run in parallel to the third Annual Meeting of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB).


    The 2018 Annual Meeting of AIIB is taking place in Mumbai on June 25-26, 2018 at the National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA) and India Infrastructure Expo 2018 is being organised from June 24-26, 2018 at the same venue. Finance Minister Piyush Goyal inaugurated the exposition today.


    The exposition offers companies from the public and private sector to showcase their latest solutions, technologies and offerings in the realm of infrastructure project development and delivery. Participating companies will also highlight their capabilities and key projects delivered over time for information of all delegates. Another novel feature of the exposition is the participation of several state governments and central ministries and they will be showcasing investment opportunities in their respective regions / under their national flagship programs to financial investors from across the world.


    The exposition is having state of the art digital display and is offering participants ample avenues to network and have business meetings with potential partners and investors.


    The highlight of the exposition is the oil & gas pavilion which has participation of leading public-sector companies who are showcasing the upcoming projects in their respective areas of operation.


    Some of the key national development programs that will be showcased at this exposition include Smart Cities, Sagarmala, Bharatmala, Ganga Rejuvenation Plan and the River Linking project. Details on the modernisation plans of the Railways sector in India will also be of interest to the delegates.


    Government of Chhattisgarh & Government of Gujarat are the partner states to the exposition while Government of Maharashtra is the host state to the exposition.


    IIFCL etc. Over 50 organisations are participating in the exposition including leading entities such as IL&FS, Essel Infrastructure, GAIL, JSPL, Wapcos, HPCL, BPCL, NHAI, MMRDA, MIDC, CIDCO, IREDA, ONGC, Indian Oil, EIL and


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536422) Visitor Counter : 666
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi