      AYUSH

      International Day of Yoga celebrated with full vigour across Maharashtra
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2018 7:17PM by PIB Mumbai


    The fourth International Day of Yoga is being celebrated across the globe today. This year, the main event in India was held at Dehradun’s Forest Research Institute, led by Honourable Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


    The 4th International Day of Yoga was celebrated at Rashtrapati Bhavan today with a yoga demonstration. More than 500 officers and staff of Rashtrapati Bhavan and their family members as well as residents of the President’s Estate participated in the event. The Honourable President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, who is on a state visit to Suriname participated in the celebration along with the President of Suriname and other dignitaries in Paramaribo, Suriname. The President said that while Yoga is an ancient Indian tradition, but it doesn’t belong to India alone. He said it is a part of humanity’s intangible heritage and has invited everyone to explore and celebrate yoga.


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that Yoga is a holistic approach towards health and well-being with physical, emotional and spiritual dimensions to it. Addressing the gathering in Mumbai while participating in the International Day of Yoga 2018 celebrations today, he said that the ancient science of Yoga is India’s invaluable gift to the modern world. The Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri Devendra Fadnavis and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    Prime Minister Narendra Modi performed Yogasan, Pranayama and Dhyan with about 50,000 yoga enthusiasts and volunteers at the Forest Research Institute campus. Giving a clear-cut message to the Yoga enthusiasts all over the world, Prime Minister said that the entire world has embraced Yoga and the glimpses of this can be seen in the way International Day of Yoga is celebrated every year. He further added that Yoga Day has become one of the biggest mass movements in the quest for good health and well-being. Talking about the potential of Yoga, Prime Minister said that Yoga has a solution to most of the problems faced by people, as individuals as well as a society. He said that Yoga could lead to a calm, creative and content life, removing tensions and needless anxiety. “Instead of dividing, Yoga unites. Instead of further animosity, Yoga assimilates. Instead of increasing suffering, Yoga heals”, he added.


    Meanwhile, in Maharashtra, Governor CH. Vidyasagar Rao participated in a special yoga session organized by Kaivalyadhama Yoga Institute on the occasion of International Day of Yoga at Sunrise Gallery, Raj Bhavan, in Mumbai.


    Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri Prakash Javdekar too practised yoga at Marine Drive and in Mumbai University. He performed asanas with students of Mumbai University to mark the International Yoga Day. The Minister said that everyone should practice yoga for a complete and healthy life. "I have seen people being coached for Yoga across the world and it's still spreading; this is India's soft power and it's a gift given by India to the world," the Minister said at a function in Mumbai University to mark the 4th International Day of Yoga. The Minister said that when Shri Narendra Modi became Prime Minister of India, he put forth a proposal in front of the United Nations to promote Yoga as it is cost-free, equipment-free and good for the well-being and health of the individual, due to which June 21 was adopted by the UN as International Day of Yoga. He said that more than 190 countries are celebrating the Yoga Day today.


    f


    Mumbai Port Trust celebrated 'International Yoga Day at Gateway of India in association with Heartfulness and Patanjali Yog Samiti. Shri Sanjay Bhatia, Chairman, Mumbai Port Trust conducted meditation session on the occasion of International Yoga Day.


    The Western Naval Command has adopted Yoga as a way of life with a new philosophy, “From Fitness to Wellness” to achieve synergy between mind, body, emotions and energy towards healthy and happy living. International Yoga Day – 2018 was observed by units of the Western Naval Command at Mumbai, Karnataka, Goa and Gujarat. Defence civilians from industrial units of the Command also conducted Yoga camps at their work places. Over 15,000 service personnel and family members of the Western Naval Command participated in the events.


    Nehru Science Centre Mumbai (NSCM) commemorated 4th International Day for Yoga by organizing an exhibition ‘History of Yoga: Balance & Alignment’. The exhibition presents historic references to the prevalence of Yogic practices in India since ancient times. On this occasion, a yoga practice session was organized under the patronage of Iyengar Yogashraya, Mumbai and a documentary film “History of Yoga” was screened.


    The Department of Posts released a special postal cover on "Surya Namaskar" on the occasion.


    Central Railway, Konkan Railway and Western Railway, NCC of Maharashtra Directorate and IIT Bombay observed Yoga Day.


    Nagpur Municipal Corporation also celebrated International Day of Yoga by performing Yogasana demonstrations. Guardian Minister of Nagpur Chandrashekhar Bavankule and other dignitaries were present on the occasion. Minister said that, “It is necessary for everyone to understand the importance of yoga”.


    Yoga day was observed successfully by Khadi and Village Industries Commission, Mumbai. KVIC celebrated International Yoga Day today morning, by practising various postures of yoga, Mudra and Pranayam which started with subtle exercises for body warm-up. On this occasion, Ms. Usha Suresh, Financial Advisor, Khadi and Village Industries Commission; Deputy Chief Executive Officers and other officers and employees were present.


    International Yoga Day was celebrated at Vividh Bharati Studios, Borivali. All the members of staff and officers actively participated in this programme. Various Asanas, Suryanamaskar and Omkar Sadhana were done under the guidance of well-known film and TV actress Ms. Sonali Shewale.


    As part of its celebration of Yoga Day, Press Information Bureau, Mumbai organized a seminar on the essence and fundamentals of Yoga. The knowledge session was taken by Shri Rahul Tidke IIS, Deputy Director, PIB Mumbai. Later in the day, Yogacharya Biswanath of Yogatech conducted a Yoga demonstration session for the officers and staff of PIB Mumbai.


    ***


    DJM/ST/IJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536232) Visitor Counter : 621
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi