      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      IOCL’s pro-active measures to combat Cyclone Fani appreciated by Chief Secretary and district authorities in Odisha
      Posted On: 08 MAY 2019 5:03PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 08 May, 2019


    Indian Oil Limited’s pro-active measures to combat Cyclone Fani in Odisha has been appreciated by the Chief Secretary, Government of Odisha, district authorities and all concerned. Starting with a review meeting convened by the Central PSU’s Odisha State Head Shri Subhojit Ghosh on 30 th April, when Cyclone Fani’s change of track was revealed and further review of the company’s readiness and preparedness by Chairman –IndianOil Sri Sanjiv Singh and Director (Marketing) Sri Gurmeet Singh on the next day; the company personnel swiftly took necessary action on war footing at all retail outlets in affected districtsof Ganjam, Khurda, Puri, Cuttack, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak, Balasore, Mayurbhanj, Dhenkenal and Gajpati.


    A control cell was formed, which started operating from IOCL office from 6 a.m. on 2 nd April and worked round the clock throughout the distress period. On Labour Day of 1 st May, IndianOil operated its bottling plant at Jharsuguda and oil installations at Jatni and Jharsuguda and further topped up the stock. However, the Balasore units were shut down as a precautionary measure. Action was also taken to top up the major public service providers like railway consumer depots, Coast Guard, Airport Authority of India, Mahanadi coalfields,NTPC, IIFCO, telecom service providers, mining sectors and so on. Further, five mobile dispensing units were sent to Odisha from IOCL units in Maharashtra, Telegana, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. LPG supplies were normalised in the affected districts through the extended hours of operations.


    The sales group of the company formed teams to venture into various areas in coastal belt assessing the activities required to be carried out for safety and emergency requirements. Also, after the cyclone, team members worked with contractors to clear all debris from affected retail outlets.


    *******


    CG/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571741) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali