      Election Commission

      ECI Directs for Repolling in 52 No. Polling Booth of Ketugram AC of Bolpur (SC) PC on May 12-Date of Sixth Phase of General Election to Lok Sabha, 2019
      Posted On: 09 MAY 2019 7:02PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, May 9, 2019


    Eight Lok Sabha constituencies of West Bengal will have polling in the sixth phase of General Election, 2019 on May 12, 2019 (Sunday). Besides, there will be repolling in the polling booth number 52 of Ketugram Assembly constituency, under Bolpur (SC) Parliamentary constituency (PC) on May 12. The polling of Bolpur (SC) PC took place in the fourth phase Lok Sabha poll in West Bengal on April 29, 2019. Meanwhile, The Chief Electoral Officer’s Office, West Bengal has taken adequate measures to have free and fair election in the State. Efforts are on to deploy Central force in every polling booth.


    The Additional Chief Electoral Officer, Shri Sanjoy Basu today informed that the Deputy Election Commissioner, Shri Sudeep Jain is coming to the city on May 12, 2019 evening. He will be having a meeting with the District Election Officers (DEOs), SP, IG and DG of Police, West Bengal on the preparations of poll in respective PCs where polling will be held in the seventh phase. The seventh phase of Lok Sabha poll will be held on May 19, 2019. All the District level observers including general and police will also be present in the meeting. There will be counting training with DEOs, Returning Officers (ROs) of all PCs excepting the DEOs and ROs of sixth phase of poll, as they will be busy with scrutiny. This apart, there will also be a demonstration of ideal counting hall on May 13, 2019.


    Meanwhile the Chief Electoral Officer’s office, WB has taken adequate measures to provide water to the polling personnel as well as the voters for the remaining phases of poll in viewing scorching heat. For this, Public Health Engineering department are given instructions to provide water in pouch whenever in need.


    It is to be noted that polling has been done in 25 constituencies of West Bengal so far. Apart from the above-mentioned eight constituencies of the State which will go to poll in the sixth phase of poll, nine other constituencies will be left for polling which will be covered in the seventh phase on May 19, 2019. The result will be declared on May 23, 2019.


    The Commission meanwhile has impressed upon all the observers to remain on constant vigil and ensure that the polls are conducted in an absolutely free, fair and credible manner.


    *******


    CC/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571816) Visitor Counter : 2