      Election Commission

      770 Companies of CAPF Deployed for Sixth Phase of Lok Sabha Poll in West Bengal
      Posted On: 10 MAY 2019 7:21PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, May 10, 2019


    Eight Parliamentary constituencies of West Bengal will go for sixth phase of Lok Sabha poll on May 12, 2019 (Sunday). These constituencies are Tamluk, Kanthi, Ghatal, Jhargram (ST), Medinipur, Purulia, Bankura and Bishnupur (SC).


    For fair, safe and secured polling, total 770 companies of Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) have been deployed which include BSF, CRPF, SSB, CISF, SAP, ITBP and RPF. Out of 770 companies, 743 will be deployed for polling duties and 27 for strong room duties. Out of these forces, BSF is contributing in maximum deployment of 241.


    The troops of various CAPF including BSF carried out flag march today in their respective constituencies scheduled for sixth phase of General Election scheduled on May 12.


    The Additional Chief Electoral Officer, Shri Sanjoy Basu informed today that sufficient force deployment is there for the sixth phase of poll according to the direction of Election Commission.


    In view of heat wave conditions, temporary sheds have been constructed where there are no permanent sheds. Besides, measures have been taken to keep sufficient drinking water and for this the tube wells which are not in working conditions have been repaired on an emergency basis. This apart, municipal water tanks and Public Health Engineering (PHE) water pouches will be provided to the polling personnel as well as the voters. Meanwhile, minimum assured facilities are also arranged like fans, light, toilet and health kits for polling personnel.


    Measures have also been taken for mapping of hospitals as well as ambulances for quick service whenever needed. As the VVPATs are vulnerable to scorching heat, extra 5% VVPATs will be kept in reserve for every district which is going to poll.


    *******


    CC/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571882) Visitor Counter : 4