      Ministry of Culture

      NEW DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY GALLERY INAUGURATED IN BITM AS PART OF DIAMOND JUBILEE CELEBRATION
      Posted On: 02 MAY 2019 4:41PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 2nd May, 2019


    A new state-of-the-art digital technology gallery has been inaugurated at Birla Industrial & Technological Museum (BITM), here today. As part of BITM’s diamond jubilee celebration, this newly opened gallery in the science museum will showcase how the advancement of digital technology has forayed into the entertainment and education segment. The gallery has around 15 exhibits, and will feature about 10 different interactive and multimedia thrills. Technologies like motion sensing, augmented reality, virtual reality, mind mapping technique, gesture recognition etc. will provide the visiting public with opportunities to engage with various digital installations.


    An exhibition titled ‘Mind Over Matter’ was also organised to pay tribute to Stephen Hawking as part of science museum’s diamond jubilee celebration. Besides, another exhibition highlighting BITM’s journey of 60 years was also put up.


    The dignitaries present on the occasion included Prof M. Jagadesh Kumar, Vice Chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru University and Chairman, Governing Council of National Council Science Museum (NCSM); Shri Arijit Dutta Choudhury, Director- General, NCSM; Shri V.S. Ramachandran, Director, BITM and other former heads and serving office-holders of the science museum, NCSM and other institutes. While appreciating the efforts taken by BITM to bring underprivileged children to BITM and introducing them to the wonders of science, Prof Sibaji Raha, former Director of Bose Institute suggested taking up more science related programmes for community participation. Prof. M. Jagadesh Kumar appreciated the efforts taken up by BITM over the years to popularise science and conducting science related outreach programmes in remote corners of the country.


    ********


    CG/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571496) Visitor Counter : 119
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali