      Election Commission

      ECI Takes Adequate Security Measures to Ensure Free and Fair Poll in West Bengal in Seventh Phase
      Posted On: 18 MAY 2019 12:27PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, May 18, 2019


    Fifty nine Lok Sabha constituencies across seven States and a Union Territory will go for poll tomorrow in the seventh phase of General Election, 2019. Out of these, nine constituencies belong to West Bengal. They are DumDum, Barasat, Basirhat, Jaynagar (SC), Mathurapur(SC), Diamond Harbour, Jadavpur, Kolkata Dakshin and Kolkata Uttar. Besides, there will be bye-elections in Darjeeling, Islampur, Habibpur and Bhatpara Assembly constituencies tomorrow. In addition, there will be a repoll in Saltora (SC) Assembly segment of Bankura Parliamentary constituency in Chhatarkanali Prathamik Vidyalaya. The poll in all these constituencies will take place from 7 am to 6 pm.


    In order to ensure free and fair poll adequate security arrangements have been made by Election Commission of India (ECI).To keep away of any untoward incident, 710 companies of Central Forces have been deployed. These forces will provide 100 per cent static postings at all the polling booths. In addition, 461 Quick Response Teams (QRTs) headed by an Assistant Commandant of Central Forces will also be in support. The QRTs will reach a scene of trouble in five to seven minutes. In any case, the response time will not exceed 15 minutes. A civil constable is attached as a guide and liaison officer to each QRT.

    Kolkata Police itself will have 178 QRTs.


    This apart, the State armed forces will also figure in RT mobiles, flying squads etc. At the same time, route/ flag marches are being continued in vulnerable areas as confidence building measures. Section 144 Cr PC orders have been clamped to a distance of 200 metres from the polling stations. An IPC case which entails violation of this order may result in three years of rigorous imprisonment with fine.


    *******


    CC/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572234) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali