      Election Commission

      Election Commission holds Meeting with CEO, DEOs, Police and Observers on Preparedness for Seventh Phase of General Election to Lok Sabha, 2019
      Posted On: 15 MAY 2019 7:45PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, May 15, 2019


    Nine Lok Sabha constituencies of West Bengal will have polling in the seventh and last phase of General Election, 2019 on May 19, 2019 (Sunday). The Election Commission of India (ECI) today held a video-conference with District election Officers (DEOs), Observers (both Police and General) and other police officials of West Bengal regarding the poll process to be conducted in the seventh and the last phase of Lok Sabha election on May 19, 2019 (Sunday). The Commission gave CEO and other officials present in the meeting requisite instructions on peacefully conducting the last phase of poll in West Bengal. The entire situation of the State was also reviewed in the meeting. Besides, the Commission was also apprised on the preliminary report of yesterday’s incident in the city.


    The nine constituencies of West Bengal which will go for poll on May 19 are Dum Dum, Barasat, Basirhat, Jaynagar (SC), Mathurapur (SC), Diamond Harbour, Jadavpur, Kolkata Dakshin and Kolkata Uttar. There will be 710 companies of Central Armed Police Force in this phase of poll for providing 100 per cent coverage including 512 Quick Response Teams (QRTs). This apart, Shri Vivek Dube, the Special Central Police Observer will travel to North 24 Parganas tomorrow to review the situation and on May 17, 2019 he will visit South Kolkata for the same.


    According to Shri Sanjoy Basu, The Additional Chief Electoral Officer, there will be 10 General and five Police observer for the last phase of poll on Sunday.


    The Commission meanwhile has impressed upon all the observers to remain on constant vigil and ensure that the polls are conducted in an absolutely free, fair and credible manner.


    *******


    CC/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572076) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali