      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      THREE YOUNG PASSOUTS OF SRFTI PARTICIPATES IN 72ND CANNES INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL THIS YEAR
      Posted On: 15 MAY 2019 6:23PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, May 15, 2019


    Meghalaya's Dominic Sangma, Darjeeling lad Saurav Rai (maker of the 2016 Cannes entry "Gudh") and Kolkata based cinematographer Modhura Palit will be in the 72 nd Cannes film festival in France this year to participate in three different official segments. The Festival kicked off on May 14 and will continue up to May 25, 2019 with India missing from the official selection for the first time in this decade. All three of them are ex-students of Satyajit Ray Film & Television Institute (SRFTI).


    
    Sangma, whose debut film, the Garo-language "Ma'Ama" (Moan), premiered in the Mumbai Film Festival, last year, will explore co-production tie-ups for his sophomore film "Rapture". The under-production film is one of ten projects in La Fabrique des Cinema du Monde, a programme hosted by Institut Francais. It invites ten directors working on their first or second features, to the festival along with their producers. Sangma will participate along with Chinese co-producer Jianshang Xu, who was also involved in the making of "Ma'Ama".


    
    Saurav Rai will pitch his debut work-in-progress narrative feature, "Nimtoh" (Invitation), in the Hong Kong Asia Film Financing Forum (HAF). He is going to Cannes' programme in the festival's Marche du Film (Film Market).


    
    Kolkata based cinematographer Modhura Palit will travel to Cannes to be part of the 7th edition of the Angenieux Excel Lens in Cinematography ceremony. She will receive the Angenieux Special Encouragement for excellence in Cinematography, which is given to a young professional.


    These young talents are products of the country’s premier film institute SRFTI which is an autonomous body under the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.


    CG/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572075) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali