      Ministry of Culture

      Ahmedabad Edition of Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav Concludes RSM's Journey to Vadodara, Rajkot, Somnath and Dwarka Begins Tomorrow
      Posted On: 09 OCT 2017 8:46PM by PIB Delhi


    Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav( RSM) 2017, the celebrated festival organized by the Ministry of Culture in Gujarat from 07th October, 2017 closed its Ahmedabad component today with a dazzling grand finale of various art forms along with soulful performances of Teejan Bai and Ankit Chadha . Its further journey to Vadodara, Rajkot, Somnath and Dwarka starts from tomorrow.


    The festival has been receiving continuous acclaim for playing a major role to effectively connect the Ahmedabad audience to the rich, diverse and undiscovered culture of India under the umbrella of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat. The festival brought together more than 200 performers to perform over 10 folk dance forms and showcased handicrafts created by more than 40 master craftsmen from all over India clubbed with, diverse cuisines prepared by traditional chefs, all under one- roof.


    This RSM, which has been a diversified cultural Utsav to celebrate the idea of unity in diversity has coincided with the granting World Heritage status to the city of Ahmedabad which has lent a unique charm to the hosting of this festival.


    This RSM under the broad umbrella theme of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat has covered a profusion of art forms from mystical bhajan's and folk music and dance, to literature and the visual arts . A handloom and handicrafts-utsav was part of this Mahotsav. The gastronomic culture of Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and several other partnering states was showcased through a food festival. The people of Ahmedabad witnessed an unequalled shopping journey viz handicrafts, cuisines, rangoli painting, sculpture, photography, wood art and performing arts, all under one campus.


    The 3rd day of the Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav witnessed Pandvani by Padmabhushan Teejan Bai and mysticism with rendering of Dastangoi on Kabir by Ankit Chadha. The festival showcases a variety of tribal art forms from different cities and towns across the country accompanied by folk dance and music such as Karma & Shaila from Chhattisgarh, Kutchi Bhajan from Gujarat, Natua from West Bengal and Stick , Pung Cholam from Manipur .


    The Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav's next journey to Vadodara , Rajkot, Somnath and Dwarka begins tomorrow and the same folk dances will be presented at the above mentioned four cities of Gujarat from 10 th to 13th October 2017 respectively at the following venues:

                                                                            
Date           City      Venue                               Time           
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
10th October   Vadodara  Mahatma Gandhi Nagar Gruh, Mandvi   7.00 PM onwards
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                           
11th October   Rajkot    Hemu Gadhvi Natyagruh, Manhar Plot
                                                           
                                                           
                                                           
12th October   Somnath   Somnath Temple Premises           
                                                           
                                                           
                                                           
13 th October  Dwarka    Gomti Ghat,Dwarka                 
                                                           
                                                           

    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/Culture/09.10.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505435) Visitor Counter : 108