      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister chairs the review meeting on observance of ‘Rashtriya Ekta Diwas’ on 31st October, 2017
      Posted On: 16 OCT 2017 8:08PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh chaired a meeting to review the preparations for observance of Rashtriya Ekta Diwas (31st October, 2017), here today. The Minister of External Affairs, Smt. Sushma Swaraj, Minister of Textiles and Information & Broadcasting, Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani, Minister of Railways and Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Culture and Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports and Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Col. Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore and Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Shri Hardeep Singh Puri attended the meeting. The ministers gave their suggestions for the implementation of various programmes on Rashtriya Ekta Diwas, to be observed across country.
    
    The Government observes 31st October all over the country as a day of special occasion, to foster and reinforce the Government’s dedication to preserve and strengthen unity, integrity and security of our nation, by celebrating it as Rashtriya Ekta Diwas to commemorate the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, one of the founding fathers of the Republic of India. The Union Home Minister has written to the Chief Ministers and Ministers of Union Government for organizing Pledge, Run for Unity and March Past, on the occasion. In the National Capital Territory of Delhi, celebrations on the occasion of Rashtriya Ekta Diwas between 7 a.m. and 8 a.m. include offering Floral Tribute on the portrait of Sardar Patel at Patel Chowk by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, followed by administering Pledge and flagging off Run for Unity. March Past will be carried out by Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) and Delhi Police in their respective grounds on 31.10.2017.
    
    ‘Run’ will take place from National Stadium - C-Hexagon – Shah Jahan Road Radial – India Gate (1.5 km). A large gathering is expected to participate in the Run. Ms. P.V. Sindhu (Badminton), Ms. Mitali Raj (Cricket) and Shri Sardar Singh (Hockey) are likely to participate. The Run will be organized by experienced Coaches from Sports Authority of India. Ministries/ Departments involved in organizing the programme include Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs, Department of Sports, Department of Youth Affairs, Ministry of Railways, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting and GNCTD and Organizations involved include CPWD, NDMC, DDA, SAI, CAPFs and Delhi Police.
    
    The Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba and senior officers were also present.

    ************


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506318) Visitor Counter : 108