      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore interacts with NSS volunteers at Kolkata
      Posted On: 29 OCT 2017 3:44PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of state (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports and Minister of state for I&B Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore today interacted with the State level functionaries and volunteers of NSS of West Bengal at Kolkata. More than 1000 officials and NSS volunteers, Program Coordinators, Principals and other NSS functionaries from 25 Universities/Institutes/+ 2 Higher Secondary Council (Higher Secondary schools) took part in the interactive session.
    
    Addressing the gathering Col. Rathore recalled his own experiences in the army and in the field of sports and cited various examples from his life to make the students and the youth feel the necessity and importance of social work. Referring to different schemes launched by the Modi government at the Centre, Col Rathore mentioned Clean India campaign where young and old all can participate equally to highlight issues related to hygiene. He urged them to make Digital India programme a success as less cash economy will make the country free from corruption. Referring to women empowerment he stressed the need for women education and saving girl child. He said Beti Bachao and Beti Padhao Abhiyaan is contributing significantly in creating awareness against female feticide and promoting education among girls. Urging the gathering to participate in Run for Unity to commemorate the birth anniversary of Sardar VallabhBhai Patel on Rashtriya Ekta Diwas on 31st October, Col. Rathore said, youth must work towards development of society and nation.
    
    Col. Rathore also administered Sankalp Se Siddhi pledge to participants.
    
    Vice Chancellor Amity University Prof. (Dr.) Dhrubajyoti Chattopadhyay, Director NSS Shri Virendra Mishra, Smt. Sarita Patel-Regional Director, NSS, Government of India, Dr. Rama Prasad Bhattacharya- Joint DPI and State NSS Officer, Department of Higher Education, Government of West Bengal were also present on the occasion...
    
    AD/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507386) Visitor Counter : 36