      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Observance of ‘Rashtriya Ekta Diwas’ on 31st October
      Posted On: 27 OCT 2017 2:27PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government observes 31st October all over the country as a day of special occasion, to foster and reinforce the Government’s dedication to preserve and strengthen unity, integrity and security of our nation, by celebrating it as Rashtriya Ekta Diwas to commemorate the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, one of the founding fathers of the Republic of India.


    In the National Capital Territory of Delhi, celebrations on the occasion of Rashtriya Ekta Diwas between 7 a.m. and 8 a.m. include offering Floral Tribute to Sardar Patel at Patel Chowk by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, followed by administering Pledge and flagging off the Run for Unity.


    ‘Run’ will take place from National Stadium - C-Hexagon – Shah Jahan Road Radial – India Gate (1.5 km). A large gathering is expected to participate in the Run. Ms. P.V. Sindhu (Badminton), Ms. Mitali Raj (Cricket) and Shri Sardar Singh (Hockey) are likely to participate. The Run will be organized by experienced Coaches from Sports Authority of India. Ministries/ Departments involved in organizing the programme include Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs, Department of Sports, Department of Youth Affairs, Ministry of Railways, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting and GNCTD and Organizations involved include CPWD, NDMC, DDA, SAI, CAPFs and Delhi Police.


    All States/UTs will organize State-level functions at respective capitals and the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports is coordinating with the local administration to organize functions in 623 districts while the Ministry of Human Resource Development is organizing functions in the Kendriya and Navodaya Vidyalayas. Railways Ministry will organize functions at 1,500 Railway Stations while Ministries of Steel, Power, Labour, Tourism and Housing and Urban Affairs will organize functions in various Tier-1/2/SMART & AMRUT cities, tourist spots, EPF/ESI Offices and respective PSUs. Ministry of Culture will conduct appropriate cultural programmes in various cities to mark the Unity Day.


    March Pasts will be carried out by Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) and Delhi Police in their respective grounds on 31.10.2017. CAPFs are actively participating in State-level and other field level functions.


    Functions to commemorate the National Unity Day will also be held in all Indian Embassies/Missions abroad.


    ******


    KSD/NK/PK

    

    
    (Release ID: 1507255) Visitor Counter : 122