      PIB Headquarters

      Sub-Inspector in Delhi Police, CAPFs and Assistant Sub-Inspector in CISF Examination, 2019 (Paper-I)
      Posted On: 04 DEC 2019 5:20PM by PIB Chennai


    Staff Selection Commission will be conducting Sub-Inspector in Delhi Police, CAPFs and Assistant Sub-Inspector in CISF Examination, 2019 (Paper-I) in Computer Based Mode.


    2. In Southern Region, 51615 candidates have been admitted for the examination, The Examination will be held in 21 Venues at 11 Centres/Cities viz. Guntur, Kurnool, Rajahmundry, Tirupati, Vijayawada & Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh; Hyderabad & Warangal in Telangana and Chennai, Coimbatore & Madurai in Tamil Nadu. The examination will be held on 9 th , 11 th & 12 th December, 2019 in 2 shifts from 10.00 AM to 12.00 Noon and 02.00 PM to 04.00 PM.


    3. Facility to download e-admission Certificates will be provided in our website in such a way that candidates can download the same Only 4 days before their actual date of examination and all the subsequent days till their date of examination. These details are also intimated to the candidates through SMS to their mobile numbers and e-mail to their mail IDs as provided by them in their Online Applications.


    4. Prohibited Items such as watches, books, paper chits, magazines, electronic gadgets (mobile phones, Bluetooth devices, head phones, pen/buttonhole/spy cameras, scanner, calculator, storage devices etc) are strictly not allowed in the examination hall. If any such item is found in possession of a candidate in the examination hall. His/her candidature is liable to be cancelled and legal/criminal proceedings could be initiated against him/her. He/she would also be liable to be debarred from appearing in future examinations of the Commission for a period of 3-7 years. Candidates are therefore, strictly advised not to bring prohibited items and bags into the Examination Venue.


    5. Candidates are further requested to note that they shall not be permitted to attend the examination without e-Admission Certificate and Original Valid Identity Proof enumerated in the instructions attached with e-Admission Certificate.


    6. In addition to Original Valid Identity Proof, the Candidate must carry a Photo Identity Card having Date of Birth as printed on the Admission Certificate. If photo identity card does not have the Date of Birth then the candidate must carry an additional certificate in proof of Date of Birth. In case of mismatch in the Date of Birth mentioned in the Admission Certificate and Photo ID/the Certificate brought in support of Date of Birth, the candidate will not be allowed to appear in the examination.


    7. All the candidates are, therefore, requested to download their e-Admission Certificates without fail. For further queries/clarifications, candidates may contact Southern Regional Office Helpline Numbers (Landline: 044-28251139 & Mobile: 9445195946)


    8. The Press Note is issued for information and benefit to the candidates, according to a press release issued by Mr.K.Nagaraja, Joint Secretary & Regional Director, Staff Selection Commission.


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594953) Visitor Counter : 41
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil