      PIB Headquarters

      LT GEN PN RAO TAKES OVER AS GOC DAKSHIN BHARAT AREA
      Posted On: 10 DEC 2019 4:26PM by PIB Chennai


    Lieutenant General Pandala Nagesh Rao, YudhSeva Medal, Sena Medal has taken over the charge of General Officer Commanding, Dakshin Bharat (DB) Area on 08 December 2019. DB Area has its headquarters in Chennai which is under Southern Command of Indian Army. The General was commissioned in December 1982 into Fifth Battalion the Parachute Regiment from Indian Military Academy.


    He was the Sword of Honour of his course. The General Officer brings along vast combat and command experience of different terrains and operations. He commanded 5 Parachute Regiment in Operation RAKSHAK in Jammu& Kashmir; a Mountain Brigade in Binnaguri, a Mountain Division in Manipur and a Mountain Strike Corps at Ranchi later at Panagarh. Before taking over as General Officer Commanding Dakshin Bharat Area, he was Chief of Staff at Headquarters South Western Command, Jaipur. The General Officer has soldiered arduously during his extensive career and has served in Operation Blue Star, Operation Trident, Operation Pawan, Operation Orchid, Operation Meghdoot, Operation Vijay, Operation Rakshak and Operation Rhino. He has been awarded Chief of Army Staff Commendation Card and General Officer Commanding-in-Chief Central Command Commendation Card, Wound Medal – twice, Yudh Seva Medal and Sena Medal for Gallantry. The General Officer has held an envious profile of appointments during his distinguished career, both in operations and in peace. His staff and instructional assignments include; Instructor class ‘C’ at National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla; General Staff Officer at the Military Operations Directorate and Director Faculty of Studies, Infantry School, Mhow; and Directing Staff and later Senior Instructor, at Defence Services Staff College, Wellington. He headed, Junior Leaders Wing, Belgaumand was Deputy Technical Manager (Land Systems) in the Acquisition Wing of Ministry of Defence, Delhi. He has also represented India as Chief Advisor of the Indian Military Advisory Team at Lusaka, Zambia for two years.


    After initial schooling at St. Edward’s School, Shimla and Doveton Corrie School, Madras, Gen Rao joined National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla. The General Officer is a graduate of the prestigious Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, and is an alumnus of coveted National Defence College, New Delhi.


    An accomplished sportsman, Lieutenant General Rao has been a Blue in Football & Hockey at both NDA and IMA. He is also a passionate Golf and Basketball player, according to a release issued by the PIB (Defence wing), Chennai.


    ***********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595735) Visitor Counter : 287
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil