      PIB Headquarters

      Processed Shark Fins seized by Customs at Chennai Airport
      Posted On: 11 DEC 2019 2:19PM by PIB Chennai


    On Monday based on intelligence that some wildlife/marine product are likely to be smuggled to Singapore special alert and vigil was maintained by AIU officers at the departure terminal to catch the smugglers. The officers noticed that one male passenger was moving in a suspicious manner with a carton box in departure area. A close watch was kept on his movement and he was intercepted after he had cleared immigration and was proceeding towards security check. From his boarding pass and passport the passenger was identified as one Basheer Ahamed (31) who was bound for Singapore by Indigo Airlines Flight 6E-53. He was questioned about the contents of his carton box. As he was evasive in his reply he along with his checked in luggage was brought in for detailed examination. On opening the carton box, one white HDPE gunny bag was found inside . On opening the gunny bag 8 kg of suspected wild life product similar to shark fin were found inside.


    The suspected shark fins were got examined by Wild Life Crime Control Bureau officials who certified that same as “processed shark fins” and there was a probability that these belonged belong to a CITES listed species. Moreover, as the export of shark fins is prohibited as per the Foreign Trade Policy, the 8 Kg shark fins worth Rs. 4.5 lakhs were seized under the provisions of Customs Act read with FT(D&R) 1992.


    Shark fin Soup is an expensive delicacy served in high end restaurants abroad. The Chinese consider it a symbol of prosperity and conferrer of good health. The practice of finning is causing the collapse of shark populations around the world.


    Further investigation is under progress according to a press release issued by the Commissioner of Customs, Chennai International Airport.


    *******


    

    
    (Release ID: 1595858) Visitor Counter : 17
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil