      PIB Headquarters

      78th Round Regional Training Conference on Socio Economic Survey inaugurated in Chennai
      Posted On: 16 DEC 2019 5:53PM by PIB Chennai


    Dr. S. Durai Raju, Deputy Director General, NSO (FOD), Tamil Nadu (North) Region , inaugurated today the 78th Round Regional Training Conference on Socio Economic Survey for Field Personnel of the National Statistical Office (Field Operations Division), Tamil Nadu (North) Region under the Union Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation scheduled to be held from 16.12.2019 to 19-12-2019 in Chennai. The representatives from Departments of Economics and Statistics, Government of Tamil Nadu and Union Territory, Puducherry, who are also conducting survey on matching sample basis were participating in the Regional Training conference.


    In his inaugural address he highlighted the reports based on the previous surveys on domestic tourism and also the approaches of the previous surveys and ensuing survey. he also emphasized the importance of the ensuing survey and the role the field personnel in collecting the quality data. Around 150 officials of NSO(FOD) and Departments of Economics and Statistics, Government of Tamil Nadu and Union Territory, Puducherry are


    participating in the Conference.


    The 78th Round (January 2020 to December 2020) of NSS is earmarked for “Domestic Tourism Expenditure” and “Multiple Indicator Survey”. All the States and Union Territories will be participating in this

    78th Round Socio Economic survey except the villages in Andaman and Nicobar island which are difficult to access. Overall 804 (Rural-404 Urban-400) samples each by Central (NSO, FOD) and State Government (DES).


    The Domestic Tourism Expenditure Survey is designed for generating Important information on Domestic Overnight Trips required for the preparation of Tourism Satellite Account (TSA) such as Trip Characteristics (Number of persons in the trip, leading purpose, starting month, main destination),Visitor Characteristics (Age, Purpose of trip, type of trip,


    mode of travel, type of stay, number of nights spent),detailed Expenditure incurred during and related to the trip. Expenditure related to Indian jurisdiction for Foreign trip is also captured.


    In Addition, the survey is also designed to collect important information on trips and expenditure in connection with domestic same-day trips , information on services of tour operators, tour guides, etc., availed by the domestic tourists will also be collected in this survey.


    They constitute a valuable information base for further policy research and for formulation of sector specific policies and programmes for creation and development of infrastructure, tour packages, etc.


    The objective of Multiple Indicator Survey (MIS) is to collect information for


    developing some important indicators of Sustainable Development Goals 2030. Information on (i) Migration and (ii) Construction of Houses since 2014-15 will also be collected through MIS. In addition to these, information on access to mass media, availability of birth registration certificate will be collected in MIS.


    The period of survey will be of twelve months duration starting from 1 st January 2020 and ending on 31 st December 2020. The Information collected pertaining to an individual or family in the survey is kept confidential and is not revealed to anybody, including other


    Departments. The General Public is requested to extend their fullest co-operation by providing relevant, valuable and factual information to the visiting field officials of NSO (FOD), and there by contribute their might in the Nation Building Process, according to a press release issued by National Statistical Office Chennai.


    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596641) Visitor Counter : 185
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil