      PIB Headquarters

      2.4 Kg Gold worth Rs. 88 lakhs seized by Customs at Chennai Airport
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2019 6:13PM by PIB Chennai


    On Wednesday morning based on information that gold is likely to be smuggled by way of concealment in Indigo airline flight 6E 66 arriving from Dubai, the aircraft was rummaged by AIU team on arrival. During rummaging two packets wrapped in black adhesive tape were recovered from inside of life jacket kept beneath one of the seats. On opening the packets, gold in paste form was found concealed inside. On extraction 1.22 Kg gold valued at Rs. 48 lakhs was recovered and same was seized as unclaimed.


    In another case today morning one Nihal Ahamed,27, of Ramanathapuram who had arrived from Dubai by Emirates Airline flight EK 542 was intercepted at exit. On personal search was found to have concealed gold in rectum and his wallet. Total 211 grams valued at Rs. 7.1 lakhs was recovered and seized.


    On Tuesday night based on specific information one Anushka, 31, and Nishanthani, 29 , both Srilankan nationals who had arrived from Colombo by Air India flight AI 274 were intercepted at exit on suspicion of carrying gold. On persistent questioning both admitted to have concealed gold in rectum in paste form. On personal search, three bundles of gold paste were recovered and 805 grams of gold valued at Rs. 27.16 lakhs was extracted from the paste and same was seized.


    In another case Tuesday night AIU officer on routine surveillance noticed one small ladies purse lying unattended in the indoor planter pot situated at the arrival hall. On examination three gold cut bars weighing 177 grams valued at Rs. 6 lakhs were recovered and same seized.


    In total 2.4 Kg gold worth Rs. 88 lakhs was recovered and seized under the provisions of Customs Act 1962.


    Further investigation is in progress, according to a press release issued by Commissioner of Customs, Chennai International Airport, Chennai.


    *********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596875) Visitor Counter : 27
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil