      PIB Headquarters

      Hon’ble Telangana Ministers conferred the “PRSI Leadership Award-2019”
      On BARC’s Shri J. Daniel Chellappa on Friday 13th Dec 2019 At Hyderabad

      Posted On: 14 DEC 2019 6:30PM by PIB Chennai

    Shri J. Daniel Chellappa Senior Scientist of Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), Government of India, a Crusader for People’s Welfare, Progress and Development, through his Unparalleled Leadership , was honoured with “PRSI Leadership 2019 Award” at Hyderabad Today Friday 13 th December 2019 in a Ceremony by Hon’ble Telangana Minister Sri Mohd. Mahmood Ali in the presence of Media Advisor to Telangana Govt Dr.K.V.Ramana Chary IAS (Retd).


    The multifaceted People’s Scientist J. Daniel Chellappa spearheads the Mission of Taking the Fruits of Indigenous Science & Technology Breakthroughs to the Grassroots to enhance their Livelihoods & Environment.


    The Passionate, Proactive, Down-to-Earth, Easily Accessible Nuclear Scientist J.Daniel Chellappa has widespread Interest, Appetite & Distinctive Leadership and Serves the Country with Dedication. An Ardent Campaigner of Technologies for Jal Sakthi, Eco-restoration of Holy Temple Tanks, Rivers & Waterbodies, Smart City, Swachh Bharat, AMRUT, Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, Make-in-India, Healthcare, Providing Clean Safe Hygienic Affordable Drinking Water, Agriculture & Kisan Well-being, Food Processing, Prisoners’ Rehabilitation, Inclusive Growth & Governance, Rural Women & Tribal Empowerment, Energy & Environment and other Missions of Government of India.


    A Popular Science Communicator par-excellence & Motivator and a much Admired Mentor of Next Generation Scientists & Engineers, is well known for his Pioneering Endeavors & Accomplishments in Human Resources Development and Management.


    He meticulously outreaches the fruits of desi technologies to the common man through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and other initiatives as well.


    Media-friendly J.Daniel Chellappa’s life passport is enviously stamped – A University PG Rank Holder, An associate at IIT - Joined the galaxy of scientists of Atomic Energy Department developing Indigenous Technologies Aimed at Architecting An Energy-Secure India; Currently serves Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) of Government of India. Assimilating wisdom, he unceasingly explores new horizons to contribute to our Nation.


    Shri J. Daniel Chellappa has won many Prestigious Awards and Honours all along his Professional Career, for his Committed Services our Country and People.


    *********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596502) Visitor Counter : 147