      PIB Headquarters

      NABARD distributes prizes to the winners of Gramiya Thiruvizha contests for college students
      Posted On: 19 DEC 2019 5:58PM by PIB Chennai


    NABARD Gramiya Thiruvizha, a NABARD initiative to showcase the products made by Rural Artisans, Handloom weavers, Self Help Groups (SHGs) and Farmers’ Producers Organizations across the country was a grand success with sales crossing Rs. 35.00 lakh during the four days from 12 to 15 December 2019, at Chennai.


    The four day exhibition cum sale at Chennai was inaugurated by Thiru K. Shanmugam, IAS, Chief Secretary, Government of Tamil Nadu on 12 December 2019. Traditional art-crafts like Thanjavur art plates, Nachiyar koil brass lamps, Palm leaf products, terracotta items, traditional rice verities and millets, Handloom products, organic products, Artificial jewellery, Coconut based value added products like Neera, Neera sugar etc., Jute products, Spirulina products, besides Pattachitta (Odisha), Bamboo crafts (Megalaya), Channapatna Toys(Karnataka), Coconut shell products (Kerala), Kantha Stitch Embroidery (West Bengal), Chanderi Handloom (Madya Pradesh), Kalamkari (Andra Pradesh), Shawls (Kashmir), Madubani painting (Bihar) and much more were on sale. The exhibition attracted some of the foreign tourists, besides a huge number of local visitors.


    NABARD utilized the social media platform to reach out the metro customers to sell the handicrafts and other products of the National level exhibition. Various contests for college students including a quiz on handicrafts, had very good response from the student community. The theme of the Photo and Video Contests was ‘Make Rural Market Global’.


    As a part of Gramiya Thiruvizha, contests for college students were also organized and the winners were awarded cash prizes and Certificates by Smt. Padma Raghunathan, Chief General Manager of NABARD Tamil Nadu Regional Office on 18.12.2019.


    Smt. Padma Raghunathan, Chief General Manager, NABARD, Tamil Nadu Regional Office explained that the objective of Gramiya Thiruvizha is to facilitate the artisans, weavers and SHG Women to showcase their products to urban India and also to enable them to sell their products directly to the consumers without intermediaries. This is the second Gramiya Thiruvizha organized by NABARD and the first one was organized during last Pongal this year in January. “The contests were aimed to bring the younger generation closer to the traditional artisans and weavers” she added, according to a press release issued by the NABARD Regional Office, Chennai.


    *********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596975) Visitor Counter : 9
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil