      PIB Headquarters

      Five days Jute Fair in Mylapore
      Posted On: 12 DEC 2019 5:25PM by PIB Chennai


    National Jute Board organises Five days “JUTE FIAR” at Kamadhenu Kalyana Mahal (No.8/178, Luz Church Road, Mylapore, Chennai – 4) from 12 th to 16 th Dec’2019 (Timing: 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.)


    Shri. Kumar Jayant, I.A.S., Principal Secretary to Government, Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi Department, Government of Tamil Nadu, has inaugurated this the promotional event today.


    This fair comprises of Exhibition cum sale of Lifestyle Jute Products, 27 jute entrepreneurs from all over INDIA, like Tamilnadu, Karnataka, Telungana, West Bengal, etc., will showcase their environment-friendly jute products, in this event.


    Jute Jewelry & Jute Ornaments like, Jute Paintings, footwear, floor coverings, made-ups, File Folders, Jute Shopping bags, Laptop bags, Bottle bags, Ladies Bags, Lunch bags, Travel bags, Jute Mirrors, Pen Stand, Key holder, Moulded Jute Products, Hammocks, Jute Handcraft Coasters, Jute Dolls, Jute Clocks, Door Chains, Jute Purses & Pouches, Mobile covers, Jute Chess Board, etc. will be available in this Exhibition cum sale.


    The main objective of organizing this promotional Fair is to create general awareness about the eco-friendly products made from a natural fibre, and it gives the General public, an opportunity to share their ideas and activities for making our world Cleaner, Greener, and Eco-Friendly. This sort of promotional activity, at Chennai, in the state of Tamilnadu, would generate a new generation of entrepreneurs, who would take up jute diversification activities as a path, in their carrier to cater to the needs of domestic market. Stalls are provided Free-of-Cost for all Small Scale Jute Units.


    Set up under the Ministry of Textiles, Govt. of India, National Jute Board (NJB) is undertaking various programmes for promotion of Indian jute. NJB represent interests of different sectors including growers, workmen of jute, producers and exporters of jute goods.


    The sustained market promotion activities of NJB have resulted in the increase in number of enterprises in the informal sector in recent years. The employment generation has also increased. Similarly, the Sale of JDPs registered an increasing trend over the years.


    NJB is responsible for implementation of activities in connection with product, process and market development of jute products. The Jute related Schemes are available in NJB website www.jute.com.


    NJB supported by its branch offices at Chennai, New Delhi and Hyderabad has the broad objective of promoting arrangements for better marketing and sale of jute. NJB, Chennai office undertakes the promotional activities, in Tamilnadu, Kerala, Karnataka, and Pondicherry region. Please visit www.indianjute.blogspot.com, for south based Jute suppliers details.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596216) Visitor Counter : 197
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil