      PIB Headquarters

      107th Indian Science Congress to be held at Bangalore next month: Spot registration from 1st to 7th January
      Posted On: 30 DEC 2019 11:34AM by PIB Chennai


    107 th Indian Science congress (ISC), organized by Indian Science Congress Organization will be held at University of Agricultural Sciences, GKVK Campus, Bangalore, Karnataka from 3 rd to 7 th January 2020. Spot registration for the delegates will be available from 1 st to 7 th January. ISC will welcome a large number of speakers, research scholars and students from the faculty of science from all across the country.


    The programs will be conducted in 27 halls and on eight sessions a day. Any queries can be made through toll-free number 1800 572 2020 or through mail isc107uasb@gmail.com . The ISC Association have released an android application named ‘ISC 2020 UASB’ for easy navigation of programs, dates, venues and updates regarding the congress which can be downloaded from Google Play Store.


    The major events of ISC are Science Communicators Meet, Children Science Congress, Science Exhibition and Women’s Science Congress. The focal theme of the congress is “Science and Technology: Rural Development”. The congress will address the challenges involving in rural production and productivity, greater socio-economic equality and aspiration balance in social and economic development. The congress aims to provide a platform for the science fraternity of the country to uplift the livelihoods of rural poor by taking advantage of the recent developments in science and technology in rural areas which will increase the socio-economic status of the rural population.


    Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi is to inaugurate the congress. CM of Karnataka Shri B. S. Yediyurappa and Deputy CM of Karnataka Shri LaxmanSangappaSavadi will take part in the inauguration ceremony.


    SC …..

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597940) Visitor Counter : 116
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil