      Finance Commission

      Inquiry of Suspicious Financial Transactions and Probable Tax Evasion by DGGI, Surat Zonal Unit
      Posted On: 30 JUL 2020 5:27PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    A news has appeared today in a few of the Newspapers of vernacular medium, i.e. Divya Bhashkar, Gujarat Mitra, Sandesh & Gujarat Samachar to the effect that the Directorate General Of GST Intelligence, Surat Zonal Unit has been investigating cases of evasion of Service tax/GST against some of the builders by calling for the documents for the last eight years leading to their harassment. Similar news also appeared in another Newspaper- Samna Times yesterday on 29.07.2020 in Hindi as well as in Gujarati.


    In this regard it is to state that the DGGI has been tasked with verifying the cases of suspicious transactions of certain Individuals, Partnerships Firms, Private Limited Companies for possible evasion of Excise Duty, Service tax or GST on the basis of the data received from the DGGI HQ., New Delhi which has been referred to them by the Financial Intelligence Unit, New Delhi. These transactions mostly pertain to the period of de-monetization & also prior to that in some cases but the inquiry is not against the builders alone but cutting across all streams of business activities. This office categorically denies harassing the builders.


    This office is thankful to the entire community of Print Media including the ones mentioned above, for spreading the awareness of tax compliance under the nascent GST regime and also that the DGGI cannot investigate the cases of tax evasion beyond five years, thus helping the trade to fall prey to misadventures of a possible few officials, however it is expected that the Media must be above partisan and should not resort to spreading mis-information without ascertaining the facts.


    DGGI, Surat Zonal Unit has been working relentlessly against the tax evaders of the Zone ever since the undersigned joined this office in July last year. It has been sincere efforts of this office to effectively curb the menace of tax evasion in the Zone, which not only hampers the economic growth of the country but also denies the honest tax payers a level playing field. In the last financial year tax evasion to the tune of Rs.1526.81 Crs. was detected as against the detection of Rs.551.975 Crs. the previous year and this would not have been possible without active cooperation of all the stake holders, including the Media.


    Despite the sincere efforts of this office to be above board, there could still be occasions of harassment. The specific cases of complaints, if any, may kindly be brought to the notice of the undersigned through mail at adgdggi-szu@gov.in , by phone at 0261-2291500, 2291522 (fax) or by meeting the undersigned in person.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1642363) Visitor Counter : 16
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati