      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Admission Seminar to be held in Ahmedabad for Admissions to FTII and SRFTI
      Golden Opportunity for Gujarat Youth Interested in Careers in Cinema and Television.

      Posted On: 17 JAN 2018 4:40PM by PIB Ahmedabad

    For the first time in Gujarat , India's two most reputed centres of film and television education are conducting an Admission Seminar in Ahmedabad for the academic session in 2018.


    Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) Pune and Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute (SRFTI) Kolkata (both Institutions under Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Govt. of India ) have announced Joint Entrance Test (JET) for 2018 admissions. The all-India test will be on 18th February in 26 centres across the country which includes Ahmedabad in Gujarat.


    As this is the first time both institutes have come together for a common entrance test, FTII is conducting Admission Seminars in various locations across the country. Such seminars will generate awareness about JET, about the increased number of courses on offer and provide an opportunity to prospective candidates to seek clarifications from FTII representatives who will be addressing such seminars.


    "FTII aims to attract maximum participants to these Seminars so that a large number of aspirants from Gujarat get an opportunity to take the JET exams this year. This year FTII is making special efforts to increase entrance test enrolment in states such as Gujarat where the entrance test candidate turn out has been traditionally low", said Bhupendra Kainthola announcing FTII's plans to reach out to states with low turn out in FTII- SRFTI entrance tests.


    In Ahmedabad, the Admission Seminar would be from 12 noon to 2 pm on Friday, 19th January at


    Conference Hall,


    H K Arts College,


    Opposite Handloom House,


    Near Nehru Bridge,


    Ashram Road,


    Ahmedabad.


    Candidates applying for admission to


    FTII and SRFTI go through a multi-stage selection process. The first is an All India level written examination, Joint Entrance Test, 2018 (JET 2018).


    JET 2018 is a written test of three hours duration consisting of objective type and subjective questions and will be conducted in 26 centers across India. Based on the JET 2018 score of the candidates, FTII and SRFTI will send call letters to the candidates for the Second stage of the selection process and thereafter, on successful accomplishment of all the requisites, finally admit students in their full time regular programmes for the academic year 2018.


    The last date of online registration for JET 2018 is 25th January while the Test will be held on Sunday, 18th February 2018 in two sessions (forenoon & afternoon).


    Admission Seminars to generate awareness about FTII- SRFTI Joint Entrance Test (JET) have already been held in Uttarakhand (Haldwani and Dehradun), Banasthali Vidyapeeth and Jaipur (Rajasthan),Somaiya Vidyavihar and Mumbai (Maharashtra.) Guwahati (Assam),Imphal (Manipur) Bhubaneswar (Orissa) Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh), Patna (Bihar)and Jammu (J&K).


    [12:55 PM, 1/17/2018] Navalsinh Parmar: Scroll for Ahmedabad News Bulletins.....


    FTII Pune & SRFTI Kolkata is holding


    Admission Seminar in Ahmedabad for Film and TV courses.


    Date : 12-2 pm Friday, 19th January.


    Venue : HK Arts College, Near Nehru Bridge, Ashram Road, Ahmedabad.


    For details visit www.ftiindia.com & www.srfti.ac.in

    
    
    (Release ID: 1516951) Visitor Counter : 291
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati