      President's Secretariat

      President of India in Gujarat; Addresses 66th Convocation of Gujarat University
      Posted On: 21 JAN 2018 10:23PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, graced and addressed the 66th convocation of Gujarat University today (January 21, 2018) in Ahmedabad.


    Speaking on the occasion, the President noted that Gujarat University is supporting many new entrepreneurs through its “Start-up and Entrepreneurship Council”. The creation of the “Council of Skill Development” is also a welcome step towards empowering students. He stated that today’s universities should give top priority to preparing their students for employability, and for self-employment and entrepreneurship.


    The President said that there are many good institutions in Ahmedabad that promote a start-up culture. Recently, the Prime Ministers of India and Israel inaugurated the International Centre for Entrepreneurship and Technology – or iCreate – in Ahmedabad. This will provide world-class facilities to young Indian entrepreneurs. The President urged students of Gujarat University to take advantage of these facilities.


    Addressing the students, the President said that whatever they have received in life is not only due to their own efforts but also due to contributions from their family, well-wishers, teachers, society and the government. It is up to them to think of how they must pay back, especially to society. He urged them to think of those who had been deprived of opportunities for education and try and help their process of development.


    The President said that good education should not only make students skilled but also sensitive. He said that it was natural to expect that students from Gujarat, the state of Narsee Mehta and Mahatma Gandhi, will contribute to compassion, morality and human well-being.


    Click here to see Hindi Speech


    ****


    AKT/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517356) Visitor Counter : 120
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati