      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Smt. Anupriya Patel reviews the activities of National Centre for Disease Control
      Posted On: 18 JAN 2018 5:53PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    Smt. Anupriya Patel, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare reviewed the activities of National Centre for Disease Control and issued necessary directions for disease surveillance, monitoring of health status, educating the public, providing evidence for public health action and enforcing public health regulations. She also visited the Epidemiology & Disease Control Complex and interacted with India Epidemic Intelligence Service (EIS) officers undergoing two years training at NCDC in collaboration with CDC Atlanta under Global Health Security Agenda (GHSA). During her visit at the Strategic Health Operations Centre (SHOC), the MoS (Health) reviewed the Seasonal Influenza (H1N1) status through video conferencing with the States of Rajasthan, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh.


    In her address at NCDC, the MoS (Health) appreciated the work being carried out at NCDC. She was impressed to visit the Institute and was glad to see the achievements and growth of the Institute. She further mentioned that Ministry the Ministry has high expectations from the Institute and the intent is reflected by the allocation of budget of Rs.382 Cr for up-gradation of NCDC campus.


    Smt. Anupriya Patel also mentioned about the NITI AYOG’s vision document (2017-18 to 2019-20) that suggests that NCDC can act as a focal point with greater authority and resources for disease surveillance, monitoring of health status, educating the public, providing evidence for public health action and enforcing public health regulations. The MoS (Health) further said that the National Health Policy 2017 envisages for greater role of preventive and promotive aspects than curative and NCDC could play a pivotal role in this aspect.


    Mentioning about Hon’ble Prime Minister’s vision regarding Resurgent India, she ensured all the support from the Ministry. She instructed NCDC faculty to be in touch with State Health Authorities and make field visits to monitor the working of NCDC branches and other field activities.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517108) Visitor Counter : 119
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati