      Ministry of Defence

      “DHAROHAR SANGRAKSHAN” BEYT DWARKA AND 42 ISLAND SEA EXPEDITION BY NCC GUJARAT
      Posted On: 20 JAN 2018 5:20PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    In September 2017, NCC was established in Beyt Dwarka in Swami Narayan High School, the only school in Beyt Dwarka with a strength of 100 cadets (50 Army & 50 Navy).


    In keeping with the aim of raising the new Naval NCC units and training of these newly raised Units, it has been planned to have an expedition covering all the 42 Islands which are uninhabited and have been declared protected areas by the Govt. The Islands are strategically important and are located around Beyt Dwarka in the Arabian Sea.


    The expedition aims at the following :


    (a) To provide an inherent security check to the Islands, ensuring the Islands are not utilized by miscreants/anti-nationals.


    (b) Environmentally protectthem from oceanic pollutants.


    (c) Preserve Marine Life.


    (d) Instill National Pride by hoisting National Flag on the Republic Day along with NCC Cadets, at Beyt Dwarka.


    (e) Instill spirit of National Integration, adventure and train cadets to become responsible citizens of the nation.


    Under the guidance of Major General Subhash Sharan Additional Director General NCC Gujarat, Brigadier Ajit Singh Group Commander NCC Rajkot, in coordination with the Civil administration has carried out a detailed study of the intended area of expedition. National Flag will be hoisted on a number of islands during the expedition.


    The National flag being erected has been so fabricated that it will be able to withstand all weather conditions and be visible from the sea routes. The camp will conclude by erecting of the largest flag in the area measuring 13500mm/900mm at a height of 36 feet. The flag shall be lighted by high luminosity solar powered units. Similar Flags are also being erected on nine other uninhabited islands spreading the message of “Dharohar Sangrakshan”.


    A flag hoisting ceremony is planned on the forthcoming Republic Day, wherein Major General Subhash Sharan ADG NCC shall be hoisting the tricolor at Beyt Dwarka marking the culmination of the Expedition.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1517315) Visitor Counter : 169