      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Prime Minister’s Shram Award for 2016 announced 50 workers to be conferred with Shram Awards
      Posted On: 25 JAN 2018 2:42PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    The Government of India today announced the Prime Minister’s Shram Awards for the year 2016 to be awarded to 50 workers employed in the Departmental undertakings and PSU’s of the Central and State Governments and Private Sector units employing 500 or more workers. Although, the total number of Shram Awards conferred this year are 32 but the number of workers receiving the Awards are 50 including 3 women. 34 workers from Public Sector and 16 workers from Private Sectors have won the Awards.


    Shram Awards are given in four categories namely ‘Shram Ratna Award’, ‘Shram Bhushan Award’, ‘Shram Vir/Shram Virangana’ and ‘Shram Shree/Shram Devi Awards’. This year no nomination was found suitable for the prestigious ‘Shram Ratna Award’. 12 workers from SAIL, BHEL and TATA Steel Ltd. have been awarded ‘Shram Bhushan’ which carries cash award of Rs. 1,00,000 and a Sanad. 18 workers from Naval Dockyard, Ordinance Factory, Rashtriya Ispat Nigam, TATA Steel, Hindalco Industries, Paradeep Phosphates Ltd., Brahmos Aerospace will receive Rs. 60,000 and a ‘Sanad’ as Shram Vir/Shram Veerangana Award.


    20 workers will receive a cash award of Rs. 40, 000 and a ‘Sanad’ as Shram Shree/Shram Devi Award from Cement Corporation of India, Naval Ship Repair Yard, TATA Motors, Surat Lignite Power Plant, Larsen & Toubro Ltd. etc.


    Ministry of Labour and Employment announces Prime Minister’s Shram Award every year. These awards are given to the workers in the Public Sector Undertakings, Departmental Undertakings of the Central and the State Governments and Private Sector units employing 500 or more workers in recognition of their distinguished performance, innovative ability, outstanding contribution in the field of productivity and exhibition of exceptional courage and presence of mind.


    Click here to view the List of Awardees


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517793) Visitor Counter : 153
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati