      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Athawale Calls for Renunciation of all Sorts of Atrocities Against Disadvantaged Communities
      Posted On: 05 NOV 2018 6:17PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, November 5, 2018


    The Union Minister of State for Social Justice and empowerment Shri Ramdas Athawale has called for renunciation of all sorts of atrocities against the disadvantaged communities throughout the country. He was speaking to people from different walks of life including officials from West Bengal Government in the city today, in a meeting where he clearly pointed out that any kind of violence against people, more particularly the Divyangjans as well as the minorities of the society should be dealt with strongly.


    The Minister was of the opinion that people across the country should unite together to stop violence, whether it is killing by Naxalites or Maoists or by ULFA extremists. He gave the instance of B R Ambedkar and his philosophy in this connection and said Baba Saheb Ambedkar always stood for non-violence and against social discrimination.


    While speaking on persons with disabilities or Divyangjans, Shri Athawale said, they are more than being able. He gave the total figure of such persons in the country now. According to him, India is the dwelling place of nearly 2.68 crore persons with disabilities which is 2.21 per cent of the total population and emphasised that focussed initiatives for the welfare of disabled persons is what the present Government is working for.


      Shri Athawale also mentioned in details the schemes available in the country at present for the welfare of the persons with disabilities like Revised Scheme for Awareness Generation and Publicity, Scheme for Implementation of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (SIPDA) and the like.


      The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment is in favour of granting Constitutional status to the OBC Commission, mentioned the Minister at a press conference later in the day.The Minister gave out detailed information about initiatives taken up by Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry for disadvantaged persons and communities including scholarships and overseas scholarships, residential schools and hostels, pension for Divyangjans and Safai Karmaacharis, provision of venture capital, partnering in skilled training programmes and the like.


    CC/CG/SSS/SC/ 5. 11.18/...

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551970) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali