      Ministry of Steel

      Ministry of Steel observes 56th National Metallurgists’ Day along with IIM
      Secretary, Ministry of Steel Gives Away National Metallurgists’ Day Awards
      
      Posted On: 14 NOV 2018 6:26PM by PIB Kolkata


    India is bestowed with significant material resources, which help industries to grow, supporting economic growth of the country . According to the National Steel Policy, 2017, India envisaged having 300 million tones production capacity by 2030 and now we are poised to become the second largest producer of steel in the world. The Secretary, Union Ministry of Steel Shri Binoy Kumar, stated this today, in the inauguration ceremony of the 56 th National Metallurgists’ Day here, jointly organized by the Ministry of Steel and the Indian Institute of Metals (IIM). He pointed that India’s per capita steel consumption is still very low and hence, it is a part of Steel Ministry’s concern that 69 per kg is the figure as per as JPC (Joint Plant Committee) whereas the world average is 214 kg.


    Shri Kumar added that the Union Government has come up with many other policies and also introduced the life cycle cost, which makes the usage more cost-friendly and he urged the entire steel fraternity to spread this consciousness among the construction agencies, architects, planners and the entire academicia.


    The Secretary reiterated on the fact that India is still to come under the global forum of steel excess capacity, where 39 countries have already entered. And in this context, Shri Kumar added that India has to be vigilant enough on this matter and the industry must pose to be more competitive. He also pointed out the safety issue in steel plants and said, SAIL (Steel Authority of India Limited) is very serious about that.


    Shri Kumar also gave away the 56 th National Metallurgists’ Day Awards to the successful Metallurgists of the country. Shri Sanak Mishra, former Managing Director of Rourkela Steel Plant received the 2018 Lifetime Achievement Award. Besides, Dr Sanjay Chandra, Chief, R & D and Scientific Services, Tata Steel and Professor Indranil Manna, IIT, Kharagpur received the award towards Research and Academic activities. He also gave away Metallurgists of the Year Award, Young Metallurgists’ Award, IIM Sustainability Award (Quality Awards), IIM Non-ferrous Best Performance Award among others.


    *********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1552772) Visitor Counter : 32