      Ministry of Defence

      GRSE launches two Fast Patrol Vessels with 90% indigenous content.
      Posted On: 22 NOV 2018 4:15PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, November, 22, 2018


    Two Fast Patrol Vessels (FPV) named “ICGS Amrit Kaur and ICGS Kamla Devi” were launched today by Smt. Veena Naravane, wife of Lt. General Manoj Mukund Naravane, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Region at Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineering Ltd. (GRSE) here today. These were the third and the fourth in the series of five FPVs built by GRSE for the Indian Coast Guard. Lt. General Manoj Mukund Naravane, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Region and IG Rajan Bargotra, Commander Coast Guard, North East Region were also present on the occasion.


    Briefing the media, Shri V.K. Saxena, Chairman and Managing Director, GRSE, said, GRSE has made commendable progress by successfully incorporating a high percentage of indigenous content in the ships made in shipyard to achieve Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s dream of Make in India. These ships are the first warships built in the country with indigenously developed warship grade steel, thus having the distinction of achieving over 90% indigenous content and hence a major step towards achieving self reliance in the state of the art warship design and construction space, Shri Saxena added.


    The design of these FPVs has been developed in-house by GRSE as per requirements specified by the Coast Guard. These ships are 50m long, 7.5m wide and have a displacement of 308 tonnes. These are capable of speeds of up to 34 knots and have an endurance of over 1,500 nautical miles, he informed. The ships are fuel efficient and the powerful platforms are well suited for patrolling, anti-smuggling, anti-poaching and rescue operations. They come fitted with state-of-the-art main engines with Advanced Control Systems and Water Jet Units and an Integrated Bridge System assimilating all communication and navigation systems. They key armament of a 40/60 gun and improved habitability features with fully air conditioned modular accommodation for 35 personnel are the other significant features of the ships.


    ****


    CC/MSA/bb…..

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553515) Visitor Counter : 15