      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Quami Ekta Week observed in PIB
      Posted On: 19 NOV 2018 3:09PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, November 19, 2018.


    With a view to foster and reinforce the spirit of Communal Harmony in the country, Quami Ekta Week (National Integration Week) is celebrated every year all across the country from 19 th to 25 th of November. Press Information Bureau (PIB), Kolkata today organized one colourful programme in this regard. The programme started by taking of pledge of Quami Ekta Week by staff members of PIB, Kolkata. In this function, Smt. Jane Namchu, Addl. Director General, PIB, said, we must respect each other’s religion, culture and languages to boost brotherhood and harmony in the society and must refrain from offending others. In his welcome address, Shri Chinmay Chakraborty, Joint Director, PIB said, this occasion provides an opportunity to reaffirm age old traditions and faith in the values of tolerance, co-existence and brotherhood in a multi-cultural and multi-religious society. All people must work as a team to maintain harmony and unity in the country as we work in PIB, Shri Chakraborty added.


    Reciting various slots from Bhagwat Gita and Ramayana and some verses from the Holy Quaran, Shri Jamal Ahmad Jamal, a prominent Sanskrit scholar said, all religions have taught us the very same value of brotherhood and humanity and envisaged the importance of harmony and unity in the society. Shri Abul Bashar, eminent writer and poet and Shri Khurshid Mallick, Deputy Director, Publications Division highlighted the inherent strength and resilience of our nation to withstand actual and potential threats to the eclectic and secular fabric of our country, and nurture a spirit of communal harmony in its widest sense.


    National Integration and pride in vibrant, composite culture and nationhood, the “Qaumi Ekta Week” (National Integration Week) is being observed all over the country, from November, 19 th to November, 25 th 2018 across the country.


    Various cultural performances were presented by the Song and Drama Division on the occasion.


    ******


    CC/CG/MSA/bb/Kol…

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553150) Visitor Counter : 7
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali