      Ministry of Defence

      NCC COMMEMORATES ITS 70TH RAISING DAY IN KOLKATA
      Posted On: 26 NOV 2018 3:50PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, November 26, 2018.


    National Cadet Corps (NCC) Directorate West Bengal & Sikkim celebrated its 70 th Raising Day on Sunday 25 th November 2018 all across the State. On this solemn occasion, a grand event was organised at Fort William Sports Stadium, Kolkata. Cadets all across the state participated in march past, cultural activities and social development programmes.


    The programme commenced with the performance by the Equestrian team of Eastern Command. The state of the art equipment display by Infantry Battalion, Arty Mortar Regt, Engineer Regt, Signal Regt, instilled a sense of pride amongst all. The spectators were enthralled to witness demonstrations on Section Battle Drill by the NCC Cadets of Kol ‘B’ Group located in Fort William. The deployment drills of Mighty Artillery Mortars stole the show. Kolkata Police was forthcoming in showcasing the strength of the force by demonstration the drills of their Dog & Bomb Squad, their QRTs. Aero modelling and Ship Modelling was demonstrated by the NCC Cadets of Air & Naval Wings of the NCC Directorate.


    The plethora of colourful events unfolded by the prize giving by the Group Commanders followed by the giving away of Certificates of Excellence and prizes by Maj Gen K.T. Sreekumar, ADG NCC to selected cadets and associates NCC Officers of all categories.


    ADG National Cadets Corps Directorate West Bengal & Sikkim Maj Gen. K. T. Sreekumar in his address to Cadets, motivated the youth to join defence forces. The address by Dr. R. S. Shukla, Addl Chief Secretary, the military precision with which the event was conceived and executed. The event was witnessed by a number of senior dignitaries from the State Govt. and Army. Dr. R. S. Shukla, Additional Chief Secretary, Higher Education & Biotechnology Department was the Chief Guest. In Kolkata, about 200 Instructors from the three services, Associated NCC Officers and more than 1800 Cadets were present during the celebration.


    It may be mentioned that, National Cadet Corps Directorate West Bengal & Sikkim which is spread over 25 districts, 7 universities, around 200 colleges, 600 schools have a total strength of approximately 1 lakh of Cadets and is giving significant contribution toward cultural development, character building of the youth, sustaining secularism, patriotism and communal harmony of the nation. The Cadets from West Bengal & Sikkim Directorate have done the nation and the organisation proud by their remarkable achievements in the field of sports, adventure and shooting.


    *****


    CG/bb/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553871) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali