      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      OMCs invite application for expansion of petrol pump network.
      Posted On: 26 NOV 2018 2:13PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, November, 26, 2018


    In order to meet the growing fuel needs and the convenience of the customers, Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) are undertaking retail outlet (Petrol Pump) network expansion across the country. Major oil marketing companies including BPCL, HPCL and IOCL jointly invited online application to double the existing number of petrol pumps through advertisement, said Shri Dipankar Ray, Executive Director, Marketing Division of the Indian Oil in West Bengal in a press conference here yesterday.


    The Retail Outlet network in rural, remote and far-flung areas are also being expanded with the intention of reaching product and ensuring quality and correct price to meet the rural agricultural demand, he informed and added that the expansion of retail outlet network would also generate employment opportunities.


    The process of dealer selection has been simplified in line the Government's emphasis on Ease of doing business. User friendly on-line application has been introduced. The application form has also been simplified. The rigmarole of submitting voluminous documents by the applicants, in support of eligibility, has been dispensed with. Only the selected candidate would be required to produce the documents.


    Availability of suitable land at the advertised location/stretch is the most important requirement. Applicants without land can also apply, however, they are expected to offer land when called for. For the first time, computerized Draw of Lots/Bid opening would be held under the aegis of an independent agency to bring in more transparency.


    All Retail outlets will be constructed with latest technology including automation.


    Interested entrepreneurs may see the detailed advertisement and Brochure available in the website “ www.petrolpumpdealerchayan.in ".


    ****


    CC/MSA…

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553852) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali