      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB, Kolkata organizes media workshop "Vartalap" in Birbhum
      Posted On: 30 NOV 2018 3:24PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, November, 30, 2018


    To sensitize the journalists about various Centrally-sponsored schemes and create awareness among the masses, a day-long media workshop "Vartalap" was held by Press Information Bureau (PIB), Kolkata at Suri, Birbhum district of West Bengal today. Addressing the function, Smt. Jane Namchu, Additional Director General, PIB, Kolkata said, the objective of the workshop is to enlighten the masses through media with regard to their welfare measures taken by the Union Government. Smt. Namchu urged the journalists to look at the impact of the several Centrally-sponsored schemes for welfare of the people and write more on those to aware the people to access the benefits. She further said, in the present digital era, live cabinet decisions, and videos on cabinet briefings can also be seen on YouTube.


    Shri Biplab Loho Choudhury, Professor and Head, Centre for Journalism and Mass Communication, Viswa Bharti University and Country Director, Asian Congress for Media and Communication and Shri Swapan Kumar Ghosh, senior journalist from Bolpur in their addresses, prescribed the ways and means as how to utilize PIB items, features and other materials for making a good news report, both in print and electronic media.


    Highlighting utility of press releases and write-ups and official data issued round the clock by PIB in context of the journalists working at the district-level, Shri Ajay Mhamia, Dy. Director, PIB, Kolkata said, it is essential for media-persons to know about different Government schemes in detail so that proper information can reach to the people at ground level and urged them to work in constant coordination with PIB to disseminate authentic information.


    Shri Ritankar Kundu, Manager, Lead Bank, UCO Bank, Birbhum, spoke about the success on the various banking schemes like Jan-Dhan Yojana, MUDRA Yojana and also disclosed about the bank’s endeavour to help Stand-Ups in the district.


    The workshop concluded with an interactive session in which Shri Ajay Mhamia responded to various queries of the media persons. Around 70 media persons including three women journalists participated in the workshop which became so lively and participative in nature that it was appreciated by most of the media persons present


    Media and Communication Officer, PIB, Kolkata, Smt. Srijata Saha Sahu conducted the event. Shri Samrat Bandhopadhyay moved the vote of thanks. Shri Santanu Sinha gave an audio visual presentation of PIB utilities, including the diversified multilingual pages of reference matter that has been made available on the revamped PIB website.


    *******


    JN/AM/SSS/MSA…

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554299) Visitor Counter : 44
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali