      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Oscar Academy President John Bailey launches Hindi version of ‘Digital Dilemma’ by NFAI
      Posted On: 28 MAY 2019 6:00PM by PIB Mumbai


    In a special event today, John Bailey, President of Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences (popularly known as Oscar Academy), e-launched the Hindi translation of an Academy Publication, "Digital Dilemma", in Delhi. Also present on the occasion were renowned film editor and Governor of Academy Ms. Carol Littleton; Justice Manmohan Sarin, Chairman, FCAT; Shri Amit Khare, Secretary, Ministry of I&B; Shri Prasoon Joshi, Chairman, CBFC; Shri Ujwal Nirgudkar, Member of the Academy and Shri Prakash Magdum, Director, NFAI.


    During his speech, John Bailey said that the translation of the Academy publication into Hindi is important in order to reach out to film fraternity in India. There are many challenges thrown by the technological changes in the film storage medium and this book will help film makers in understanding and planning the storage of born-digital material, he said.


    Written by Milt Shelton and Andy Maltz, this publication has been translated in many languages the world over. National Film Archive of India, the premier organization of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting which is involved in film conservation, preservation and restoration, had signed an MoU with the Academy to translate the publication into Hindi so that it can benefit various stakeholders in the country.


    The Academy works towards the goal of advancing the arts and sciences of motion pictures.


    In its landmark report, the Academy’s Science and Technology Council examined ways in which key players in the movie business currently store and access important digital data. Through years of research, the Council discovered that issues of digital storage reliability go far beyond lost snapshots and spreadsheets. The publication discusses the challenges of efficiently archiving and accessing the massive data in the long term.


    ***


    DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572743) Visitor Counter : 1159
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali