      PIB Headquarters

      INDONESIAN DELEGATION VISITS EFLU
      Posted On: 16 MAY 2019 6:35PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Mr. Ade Sukendar, Consul General, Republic of Indonesia in Mumbai, accompanied by an official delegation of 09 officials has called on Prof. E Suresh Kumar, Vice Chancellor, the English and Foreign Languages University, Hyderabad, today.


    Mr. Ade Sukendar stressed on the need for active cooperation between India and Indonesia in Education sector. He reiterated that his visit to EFL University will enhance specialised teacher training programmes, proficiency training for diplomats, and further enrich cultural relations. The Consul General made a special mention that many Indonesian students are studying in various universities across India, while EFLU has a few students on rolls at present. The Indonesian delegation led by the Consul General also included Mr. Yadi Suriahadi, Consul (Economics); Mr. Soemarajanto Karyasentika, Vice Consul (Economics); Mr. Ferry Samuel Jacob, Trade attaché; Mr. D Rizky Novihamzah, Director, Indonesian Investment Promotion Centre (IIPC); Abudhabi, Mr. Kumara Jati, Director, Indonesia Trade Promotion Centre (ITPC) Chennai.


    Prof. E Suresh Kumar briefed Mr. Ade Sukendar and the delegation about in EFLU Courses Programmes and other initiatives undertaken by the university in the last two years. The Consul General thanked the English and Foreign Languages University and the University administration for extending timely cooperation to the Indonesian students presently studying at EFL University. Mr. Sukendar said he would like to send more students to EFL University and also explore the possibility of sending teachers and diplomats for Teacher training and Professional Development Programmes through the Ministry of External Affairs. Prof. Surabhi Bharati, Dean, International Relations of the University, coordinated the visit of the Indonesian delegation.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572182) Visitor Counter : 76
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu