      PIB Headquarters

      Vast opportunities in plastic industry -AVR Krishna, director CIPET Plastic is a key element of day to day life - T V K Reddy
      The date for CIPET JEE is July 7 and the course will commence from Aug. 1, 2019, last date for submission is June 30

      Posted On: 20 MAY 2019 6:20PM by PIB Hyderabad

    “Plastic is a key element of day to day life right from the morning brush to the door knobs, electrical switches etc. Said Shri T. V .K Reddy, Additional Director General, Press Information Bureau in a press conference today in CGO Towers. He said Plastic is a useful component but the people due to their habits, have forced plastic to sound negative. If the demand for plastic increases, then there will be more technology, more employment opportunities and eventually growth of the society,” he added.


    The Central Institute of Plastics Engineering & Technology is working towards plastic products that would decompose, says AVR Krishna, director and head of Central Institute of Plastics Engineering & Technology (CIPET), Cherlapally. “There is a huge misconception in the minds of people about plastic. They have the concept that plastic should be banned. But it is because of the littering culture of people. The ultimate blame is put on plastic. CIPET is trying its best to create awareness and educate people about the need to recycle and reuse plastic items properly, besides focusing on ways to replace conventional plastics with biodegradable polymers. Vast opportunities available in healthcare, petro-chemical and transportation industries for the students in this field, he added.


    Centre for Skilling and Technical Support (CSTS) is Govt. of India institute under the Dept. of Chemicals and Petrochemicals, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers is established at Hyderabad during the year 1987 for providing Training & Technical Services to the Plastics and allied Industries in the region. The Centre is well equipped with the state-of-art facilities in Design, CAD/CAM/CAE/, tooling, Plastics Processing, Testing Departments, in order to meet the customer requirements by providing quality Training & Technical services. The campus is having full-fledgedfacilities at IDA Cherlapally including hostels for Girls & Boys, he added.


    CIPET stands tall not only as a premier institute in the country but also emerged as a global institution renowned for its research & development in the niche areas of Polymer Science & Technology and high quality Education & Skill development in the field of plastics. CIPET has been accredited with ISO 9001:2015 QMS, ISO/IEC - 17025, ISO/IEC - 17020 certification for Design, Development and Conduct of specialized training courses in Plastics Engineering & Technology and rendering technical /consultancy services in design, tooling, plastics processing & testing for the benefit of plastics & allied industry. Besides, STAR activities, CIPET also plays pivotal role in generating employment opportunities especially for unemployed and underemployed youth, promoting entrepreneurs though various skill development training programs.


    Presently, the following AICTE approved Long Term Training Programs are being conducted at CIPET: CSTS - Hyderabad with a stre ngth of 532 trainees in the current academic year:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Sl. No  Name of the Course                                                Duration  Eligibility                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
1       Post Graduate Diploma in Plastics Processing & Testing (PGD-PPT)  1 ½ Year  3 Years Degree in Science with Chemistry as one of the Subject                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
2       Post Diploma in Plastics Mould Design with CAD /CAM (PD-PMD)      1 ½ Year  3 Years Diploma in Mechanical, Plastics Technology, Tool/Production Engg, Mechatronics, Automobile Engg, Tool & Die Making, DPMT/DP (CIPET) or equivalent
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
3       Diploma in Plastics Mould Technology (DPMT)                       3 Years   X. Std with Maths, Science and English                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
4       Diploma in Plastics Technology (DPT)                              3 Years   X. Std with Maths, Science and English                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             

    * There is no age limit for admission into the above courses.


    For the above Long term courses the sale of application has already started through online.


    Apply Online: eadmission.cipet.gov.in


    Last date for Application Submission: 30.06.2019.


    Date of CIPET JEE: 07.07.2019


    For more information regarding the admission process and the institute contact 18004251455/ 9959333414 or visit www.cipet.gov.in


    Regarding Short term courses, during the current year 2018-19, 1429 trainees have been trained in various short term training programs sponsored by BDL, GAIL, MCT , NBCFDCetc., apart fromTailor Made courses. Presently, 80 trainees are undergoing training in 02 different Short Term programs and some are in pipe line, Krishna Director, CIPET said.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572278) Visitor Counter : 148
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu