      Ministry of Science & Technology

      SCIENTISTS OF CMERI DEVELOPS TWO SENSOR-BASED DISINFECTING WALKWAYS TO COMBAT COVID-19
      Posted On: 10 APR 2020 2:22PM by PIB Kolkata

      Kolkata, 10th April, 2020
      In an effort to support government’s initiative to combat pandemic COVID-19 Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), has stepped forward to deliver two of the recent innovations that can help in the mitigation of the Corona outbreak.
      Scientists of Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute (CMERI) have developed two sensor-based disinfecting walkways, which could help people to get sanitized in less than 40 seconds. CSIR-Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute, Durgapur has effectively channelized its resources to develop technologies and products, which help in countering the menacing virus.
      Disinfection Walkway: The Disinfection Walkway can be considered to be one of the most comprehensive Disinfectant Delivery Systems available. The Walkway ensures maximum target coverage with minimum shadow area of an individual.
      The Two Variants of the Disinfection Walkway are as follows:
      Pneumatic Variant Disinfection Walkway: It deploys Six Bar pressure Air Compressor to ensure optimum mist formation. This variant of Disinfection Walkway has been installed at the CMERI Medical Centre. The dimensions of the Walkway at the Institute Main Gate are 2metre height by 2.1 metre length and 1 metre width. The embedded sensors of the Walkway ensure that the operational time of the system can be varied within a range of 20 seconds to 40 seconds. Though the initial cost of this variant is relatively higher, the operating cost of this system is much less, owing to optimum usage of disinfectant in this system.
      Hydraulic Variant Disinfection Walkway: It deploys 1 hp pressurised motor High Velocity pump to ensure optimum mist formation. This variant of Disinfection Walkway has also been installed at the CMERI Medical Centre. The dimensions of the Walkway at the Institute Main Gate are 2metre height by 1.7 metre length and 1.8 metre width. The embedded sensors of the Walkway ensure that the operational time of the system can be varied within a range of 20 seconds to 40 seconds. The initial cost of this variant is relatively lower.
      Prof. Harish Hirani, Director, CMERI informed that “A person needs to enter the chamber-like walkway and stand inside it. The embedded sensors will detect the person’s presence and trigger a mist of disinfectant. This would kill the virus and disinfect. It could take any time between 20 and 40 seconds depending on what type of disinfectant one is using.” He added that the Disinfection Walkways can be deployed at the entry and exit points of isolation and quarantine facilities, hospitals, metro stations, shopping malls, and offices among other places where social distancing is few and the chances of getting infected are abnormally high.
      CG
    
    
    (Release ID: 1612882) Visitor Counter : 2