      Ministry of Science & Technology

      CSIR-CMERI scientists develop Tractor Operated Road Disinfection Spray System
      Posted On: 12 APR 2020 6:45PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 12th April, 2020


    

    Scientists at Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute (CMERI), Durgapur, West Bengal, an institute of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) under the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India, have designed a road disinfection Spray System to fight COVID-19 pandemic.


    
    The CSIR-CMERI Road Sanitizer Unit is a tractor-mounted Road Sanitizing System. which has a span of 16 feet. It uses 10 to 15 bars of pressure to ensure effective delivery of the sanitizer. 12 nozzles are used to ensure optimum radial coverage of sanitizer. The system utilizes a 2000-5000 litre tank with a pump of 22 LMP which can be used to sanitize a road stretch of upto 60-100 kms. The tank is filled by water and Sodium Hypochlorite solution.


    
    This Road Sanitization unit can be effectively deployed in long stretches of highways, vicinity of toll plazas etc, where there is a massive volume of traffic and good chance of infection spreading. It can also be deployed in Housing Complexes, Office Complexes, Sports Arenas, Apartment buildings etc. This product will ensure maximum sanitisation coverage within minimum possible time, which is the need of the hour. There is also an in-built provision of two extendable hand spraying systems with a reach of 30 feet on both sides of the Vehicle. There are 6 nozzles at the rear end and 3 on each side (Left and Right) This provision can be used to reach remote nook and corners on any given site.


    
    Prof. Dr. Harish Hirani, Director, CSIR-CMERI,Durgapur, stated that the Tractor Driven Disinfection Spray Unit is equipped with technology to ensure comprehensive Disinfection of a particular area and its extendable hand held operability will also ensure that the effect of the disinfectant reaches the inaccessible nooks and corners of a given site. Maximum coverage of Disinfection is the need of the hour in the country.


    
    Asansol Municipal Corporation after Inspection of the Unit has placed an order for four such systems, of which one has already been delivered. CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur, delivered the 2nd of the four placed orders of the Tractor Driven Disinfection Spray Unit to Asansol Municipal Corporation on 12th April 2020.


    
    Prof Herani also added that Durgapur Municipal Corporation has also expressed interest for the Unit and procedural negotiations are under progress. Some MSMEs and Small Business Clusters have also expressed interest for the Unit and interactions are underway for the same.


    

    CG/CB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1613672) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali