      Ministry of Finance

      More than 75,000 Transactions in all Bank Branches of Nadia District for Withdrawing Money of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package
      Posted On: 14 APR 2020 7:56PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, April 14, 2020


    In Nadia district of West Bengal, there has been huge rush of beneficiaries who are availing of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package (PMGKP). They are customers who have already opened zero balance account under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) and have been availing of the benefit under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package (PMGKP). The women beneficiaries are the majority who have thronged the different branches of the banks and business correspondent (BC) outlets to withdraw the amount. According to the Lead Bank Manager of the district Shri Bimal Kumar Bhattacharya, more than 75,000 numbers of transactions were made by now in all bank branches and BC outlets.


    In order to ensure that weaker sections of the society continue to get the basic amenities and do not get impacted during the lockdown period due to COVID-19, Rs 1.70 lakh crore Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) was announced by Union Finance Minister Smt Nirmala Sitharaman by the end of March, 2020. As a part of the package, the Government announced free food grains and cash payment to women and senior citizens and farmers. So far 32.32 crore beneficiaries have been given cash support through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) amounting to Rs 29 thousand 352 crore. Moreover, an amount of Rs 1000 crore has already been released to EPFO for the scheme- EPF contribution to its members drawing wages below Rs 15,000 per month in establishments up to 100 workers, for the month of April, 2020.


    According to the reports received from various bank branches of Nadia, like Chapra, Ballavpara, Plassey, Bhimpur, Chakdaha, Baidyapur, Banpur branches of Bangiya Gramin Vikash Bank (BGVB) and Dignagar & Badkulla branches of State Bank of India (SBI) as well as other bank branches and BC outlets in the district, huge rush of customers have been witnessed to withdraw PMGKP money from PMJDY accounts maintaining social distancing and sanitisation norms prescribed by the Union Government. It is to be mentioned that as many as 19,86 crore women Jan Dhan account holders received Rs 500 each in their account in the country. The total disbursement under the head amounts to Rs 9,930 crore.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1614484) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali