      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      TEA GARDENS IN NORTH BENGAL RESUMES OPERATIONS, WHILE MAINTAINING SOCIAL DISTANCING AND PRESCRIBED SANITISATION NORMS
      Posted On: 13 APR 2020 7:03PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, April 13, 2020


    In North Bengal, the plucking and skiffing of tea resumed in several tea gardens, maintaining social distance and other sanitisation norms prescribed by the Union and State Government. According to the Deputy Chairman, Tea Board India, Shri Arun Kumar Ray, the tea gardens in Terai, Dooars and Darjeeling have started field operations from Monday.


    According to the directives of the Centre as well as the State Government, the tea estates have to follow social distancing norms, proper hygiene and sanitisation measures for the workers while resuming works. Only 15 to 25 percent workers rotationally should work following the State administrative directives. The directives are to be implemented by the district authorities. Shri Ray said, abiding by all directives, 25 percent of the work-force have already started operations.


    On 3 rd April, the Centre had proposed re-opening of the tea gardens, for which the Union Ministry for Home Affairs sent an advisory to all States/Union Territories regarding granting of exception to agricultural operations from lockdown restrictions to fight COVID-19, keeping in mind the harvesting and sowing season. Exceptions were allowed for farming operations by farmers and farm workers, procurement of agricultural productions, operation of Mandis, movement of harvesting and sowing related machinery. Chief Minister, West Bengal, Smt. Mamata Banerjee first hesitated as the workers were a bit unnerved in the wake of the outbreak of COVID-19. However, after the meeting with representatives of industries, Chambers of Commerce and MSME units, the State Government allowed 15 to 25 percent workers to work in the tea gardens following rotation and social distancing as well as sanitisation norms.


    According to Tea Board there are 1585 established tea gardens in the country and more than 387 tea estates in West Bengal out of which 300 belong to Dooars region. The time now is ripe for first flush tea production the Dooars region. There are more than 3,35000 (three lakh thirty five thousand) tea-workers in the State, out of which nearly 2,50000 (two lakh fifty thousand) are permanent employees. At present 11 tea gardens are closed in the country out of which, eight belong to West Bengal. The tea gardens in West Bengal closed since the last week of March, 2020, following the announcement of the lockdown.


    SSS/AB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1614739) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali