      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      INDIAN OIL TAKES ALL MEASURES TO ENSURE UNINTERRUPTED LPG & OTHER FUEL SUPPLIES AMID LOCKDOWN IN WEST BENGAL
      
      INDIAN OIL RETAIL OUTLETS AND KISAN SEVA KENDRAS (VILLAGE PETROL PUMPS) ARE FULLY OPERATIONAL

      Posted On: 17 APR 2020 2:25PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata: April, 17, 2020


    In West Bengal, reiterating the assurance of uninterrupted supply, Indian Oil has undertaken several initiatives in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic under the guidance of Union Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas. This includes Rs.5 lakhs ex-gratia payment to the family members of any delivery boy, showroom staff, mechanic or godown keeper in case of any unfortunate death due to Covid-19. Indian Oil has also ensured that maximum focus is put on the health and hygiene of all the drivers and contractual workers in its operating locations across the country All Indian Oil Bottling plants are providing free hand sanitizers, gloves and food to all the drivers and contractual workers throughout the period of lockdown, informed Shri Arup Das, Deputy General Manager (Corporate Communications), Eastern Region, IOCL (MD). Shri Das said, to ease the burden on common people and the economically disadvantaged classes, the Government of India has announced free refills for all the Ujjwala Yojana consumers for the next three months, ie - April 2020-June 2020 under which eight crore PMUY (Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana) beneficiaries will be entitled to free 14.2 kg LPG cylinders.


    Decision has also been taken to transfer the full Retail selling Price of the refill cost in advance, to the linked bank account of Ujjwala beneficiaries solely for the purpose of utilising this amount to purchase the free LPG cylinders. A PMUY customer is entitled to one cylinder per month and the beneficiary can book the next refill only after 15 days of receipt of the last refill. The booking of refill must be done through IVRS or registered mobile number.


    Refill acknowledgement can be OTP based/Lat-long capture/ undertaking (only in exceptional cases), besides cash- memo signature and blue book entry, he added.


    Shri Das further informed that after COVID-19 outbreak in the country, there has been an increase in demand for LPG cooking gas. To meet the rising demand for LPG, Indian Oil has taken all steps to increase LPG production in its major refineries by optimizing operations and improving LPG yield in LPG producing units like FCC/Indmax, etc. All the LPG Bottling plant operations and LPG refill deliveries of Indian Oil in West Bengal are also being streamlined accordingly, he stated. Initially just after the lockdown, there was a surge of 50% in Kolkata market (Kolkata market includes Kolkata, North-24 Parganas and South-24 Parganas). However, normalcy in the booking was restored very soon and customers were assured of sufficiency of LPG supply in the country and the state. In these trying times, Indian Oil is committed to ensuring uninterrupted LPG supplies and Indian Oil’s LPG bottling plants in West Bengal (at Budge Budge, Kalyani, Durgapur, Siliguri and Malda) and LPG distributorships have been advised to operate under the advisory of the State Governments/local administrations to maintain essential services in their area. Shri Das urged the LPG Customers to resort to digital means of booking cylinders in order to avoid physical rush for the same as the Online Booking system is operational.


    To book an Indane cylinder through IVRS customers may call 9088324365 in West Bengal or through the Indian Oil One App on android/iOS. Team Indian Oil reiterates its capability to handle all exigencies related to fuel supply and ensure uninterrupted supply of LPG, Petrol and Diesel in the state, he mentioned. Entire Indian Oil team including the employees, contract workers, drivers, helpers, distributors, distributor’s staff, dealers, pump attendants & Delivery boys are committed to keep West Bengal energised and customers are requested to avoid panic buying as the same strains the distribution network, Shri Das reiterated.


    Moreover, as the citizens are confined to the safety of their homes due to Lockdown on account of COVID-19 outbreak, Indian Oil Retail Outlets have been working round the clock to ensure that fuel & LPG reaches every household in the country. Several Retail Outlets across West Bengal has moved beyond the fuel supply and reached out to the needy with food and essential supplies in these difficult times.


    Indian Oil Retail Outlets and Kisan Seva Kendras (Village Petrol Pumps) are fully operational during the lockdown phase. Their Petrol pumps are not only catering to the fuel requirements of customers on emergency duties but also looking after their basic necessities . Many of the highway retail outlets have been giving free parking and food to stranded truck drivers. Several Indian Oil ROs are providing essential necessities like grocery items for freeto foot travellers and other needy people. In a very special gesture, Indian Oil’s Retail Outlet's all these initiatives aimed at reaching out to the economically challenged section of the society and each of these activities were conducted while maintaining all the COVID-19 related health advisories.


    Indian Oil and its channel partners are fully committed to the national cause and are ensuring energy availability all across West Bengal.


    MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1615324) Visitor Counter : 34
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali