      Ministry of Railways

      RPF OF EASTERN RAILWAY DISTRIBUTES FOOD AMONG 3499 STARVING PEOPLE
      Posted On: 19 APR 2020 8:52PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, April 19, 2020


    Railway Protection Force (RPF) of Eastern Railway (ER) is rendering benevolent service by distributing food among the thousands of starving people every day since imposition of lockdown in the country in the wake of COVID-19. The food is being prepared by RPF/NGO & IRCTC and the same is being distributed every day by RPF personnel all over the jurisdiction of ER.


    In this process, today cooked food (lunch) were distributed among 2354 persons at different locations in and around Kolkata, like. Fairlie Place, Howrah, Sealdah, Bidhannagar, Park Circus, Ballygunge etc. and far-off places like Ranaghat, Srirampur, Seoraphuli, Nabadwip Dham, Durgapur, Barakar, Malda, Asansol, Madhupur and Jasidih. Out of this, RPF/NGO/other organisations prepared food for 1229 persons and the rest for 1125 persons were prepared by IRCTC.


    Moreover, dinner for 1145 persons has been prepared on date and the same will be distributed among the starving people by RPF personnel at various places. Out of this, food for 195 persons is being prepared by RPF/NGO/Others & the rest for 950 persons is the contribution from IRCTC.


    Moreover, owing to lockdown, many people at many places could not come out of their homes to collect cooked food at food distribution camps. In view of this, food grains packets were distributed by RPF/ER to many families at various locations like:


    1) RPF Post at Jamtara of Asansol Division distributed food grain packets to 120 needy families outside of Jamtara Railway station. Each packet contained 2 KG rice and 1 KG potato.


    2) RPF Post of New Farakka of Malda Division distributed food grain packets to 25 needy families near New Farakka Railway station. Each packet contained 5 KG rice, ½ KG pulse, 2 KG potato and 1 KG onion.


    3) RPF Post of Kanchhrapara Workshop coordinated in distribution of food grain packets to 200 needy families outside the Workshop. Each packet contained 2 KG rice, 300 gms pulse and 2 KG potatoes. The food grain packets were arranged jointly by Chief Works Manager and Dy. Chief Mechanical Engineer of the said Workshop.


    4) RPF Post of Kolkata Terminal of Sealdah Division has also been entrusted with the responsibility of distributing food grain packets to 50 needy persons outside Kolkata Railway station in the evening.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1616172) Visitor Counter : 4