      Ministry of Power

      Power Grid Corporation extending support to the Centre and State Governments in fight against COVID-19
      Posted On: 20 APR 2020 8:32PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kol kata, 20 April, 2020


    Power Grid Corporation, of India Ltd. which works under Union ministry of Power has extended support to the Government of India and the State Governments in fight against spreading of COVID-19 Virus in the country. The Corporation besides committing Rs.200 Crores to the PM-CARE Fund, all establishments of POWERGRID are supporting the concerned State Governments in supply and distribution of food grain and Personal Protective Equipments (PPEs), like Mask, sanitizers, soap etc. to the needy people along with Government establishments.


    In West Bengal, underlining POWERGRID’s resolve to contribute fight against COVID-19, POWERGRID has supplied furnishing for setting up of 10 Quarantine Centres in Alipurduar District by the District Administration. Besides constructing a toilet block in 1 such Centre near to its Substation in Topsikhata, Alipurduar. It has also funded supply 115 Mist Blower Sanitizer Machines, 48 MT of Surface purification/disinfectant solution and 1500 PPEs to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation.


    In Sikkim, POWERGRID is also providing with 10 ICU beds for COVID-19 patients in the District Hospital of Gyalshing in West Sikkim.


    Besides, in West Bengal and Sikkim, POWERGRID, with assistance from the concerned District Administration, is distributing food grain and PPE to the needy villagers and stranded construction workers, through its 21 establishments spread across the states from Alipurduar in North Bengal to Subhashgram/Bhangar in South Bengal and Gangtok, Gyalshing, Mangan and Namchi in the East, West, North and South districts of Sikkim. About 15,000 persons, primarily belonging to the weaker and neglected section of the society who have lost their livelihood due to the lockdown, have already been reached through the food grain distribution programme and another 15,000 people are envisaged to be benefitted during the next few days across West Bengal and Sikkim.


    MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1616515) Visitor Counter : 39