      Ministry of Communications

      WEST BENGAL CIRCLE OF DoP UNDERTAKES MASSIVE ENDEAVOR TO ASSIST PEOPLE IN MEDICAL EMERGENCY SITUATION
      Posted On: 23 APR 2020 2:35PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 23 April, 2020


    India Post has taken numbers of initiatives to provide benefits to the common people in this medical emergency situation. It is playing a very positive role in fulfilling its social responsibilities during the lockdown period. Be it the matter of delivery of essential medicines, PPE, COVID-19 testing kits and other medical equipments or be it disbursement of pensionary benefits, social security benefits etc reaching out to the doorstep of needy specially the pensioners/elderly/divyangs, it has always been the priority of Department of Posts to serve the people.


    In the last fortnight, India Post has delivered large number of parcels containing medicines, testing kits and other medical equipment to hospitals and individuals of Kolkata, North and South 24 Parganas, Nadia, Murshidabad and Birbhum districts by making special arrangements through its mail motor vehicles.


    East Kolkata Division at New Town, Bidhannagar & Salt Lake Areas has taken a magnificent initiative since 20 th April, 2020. They tied up with NKDA (Newtown Kolkata Development Authority) for delivering Senior Citizens and physically ill people with required essential medicines at their doorsteps free of cost. According to NKD Authority it has been helping huge number of people since the beginning and is acting as a blessing to the needy. It has also opened an online facility of receiving Medical Supply Requisition for the Senior Citizens and physically ill people over Whatsapp (+91 6292132450) for the mentioned areas only.


    India Post has reached out to more than 1000 elderly pensioners and made pension payments of an amount over Rs 90 lakh at their doorstep in the above districts during the last fortnight. Equipped with RICT devices of DoP and Micro ATM devices of India Post Payments Bank (IPPB), Postmen and GDS Employees have disbursed DBT payments from DoP/IPPB accounts and also accessing accounts of any other banks through Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AePS) at the doorstep of the beneficiaries. In this way, more than 10,000 beneficiaries have been disbursed with DBT payments during the last fortnight in Kolkata and predominantly in the rural areas North and South 24 Parganas, Nadia, Murshidabad and Birbhum Districts.


    India Post has also taken direct initiative to involve a helping hand of IPPB in cases of disbursing the Cash Assistance to the Beneficiaries of the PM Ujjwala Yojana. Staffs are currently taking enormous efforts to make this possible to avoid direct cash transaction and to provide the Online Banking Service to a majority of the BPL & Female Beneficiaries who come directly under this Yojana.


    India Post advised people not come out of their house at this crucial juncture. Instead they get the financial aids delivered at their doorstep by Department of Posts.


    CG/SDG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617427) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali