      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Indian Oil Corporation resumes work on select projects, gears to ramp up operations post-lockdown
      
      Ensured delivery of LPG cylinders to 1.1 crore families under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) during this period

      Posted On: 23 APR 2020 1:20PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, 23 April, 2020


    Indian Oil Corporation Limited (Indian Oil) has commenced resumption of stalled activities on the projects front and is fully geared to ramp up operations towards normalcy for the post-lockdown scenario, informed Shri John Prasad K. Chief General Manager, Corporate Communications, Indian Oil Corporation Ltd.


    Shri Prasad mentioned that the Corporation at the same time, is monitoring the situation on a continuous basis to ensure that the supply lines of essential petroleum products are maintained across the country, with all necessary safety protocols in place for its field force.


    Meanwhile the Corporation’s LPG sale during April 1-20, 2020 was 696.6 thousand metric tonnes (TMT), up by over 19.6% compared to the same period last year. To meet this rise in demand, Indian Oil has tied up additional LPG imports by almost 50%, and its 98 LPG bottling plants are working extended hours, operating night shifts and on public holidays/Sundays. With its LPG distribution channels, particularly the delivery staff, working round-the-clock, Indian Oil teams have been delivering on an average 26 lakh cylinders every day to the doorsteps of customers in spite of the lockdown. Additionally, the Corporation has ensured delivery of LPG cylinders to 1.1 crore families under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) during this period.


    The Chief General Manager Corporate Communication has said while global cues and the changing market scenario will guide its future strategy, the Corporation has already built up stocks of finished products, including petrochemicals, at its upcountry locations for future-readiness once the countrywide lockdown is lifted and the demand picks up again with resumption of economic activity. Its refineries continue to operate at optimised capacity utilisation to cater to the needs of households and essential/emergency services. Indian Oil refineries and pipelines networks are in full readiness to ramp up production and transport with rise in demand, he added.


    All critical locations of the Corporation have continued operating during the lockdown period. 420 of its 423 supply and distribution locations, including bulk storage terminals and depots, LPG bottling plants, aviation fuel stations, lube blending plants, etc., are functioning with optimised manpower under the advisories of their respective State Governments and local administrations.


    The Corporation’s workforce in non-critical administrative locations, who were rendering back-end support working-from-home, have also begun attending office on a strict rota basis from 20th April, with stringent social distancing protocols and detailed health and hygiene advisories in place.


    MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617401) Visitor Counter : 17