      Ministry of Home Affairs

      IMCT SEEKS CLARIFICATION FROM CHIEF SECRETARY OF WEST BENGAL ON COVID RELATED DEATHS AND OTHER ISSUES
      
      IMCT WANTS REPLY ON THE TIME TAKEN FOR DECLARING TEST RESULTS

      Posted On: 24 APR 2020 7:59PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, 24 April, 2020


    

    The Inter Ministerial Central Team visiting Kolkata to assess the COVID-19 situation has sought some clarifications from the Chief Secretary of the State regarding some observations made by the team on the necessity of formation of Committee of Doctors to declare cause of COVID deaths. The team leader of the IMCT as well as the Additional Secretary to the Government of India Shri Apurva Chandra today in a communication addressed to the Chief Secretary referred to a letter written by him on 22nd April where the information was sought on the system of approval of cause of declaration of death for COVID patients by a Committee of Doctors at State level. He said that the Principal Secretary (Health) in the presentation done on 23rd April gave some reasons for formation of such committee but that explanation could not convince them. The letter states: ‘The Principal Secretary (Health) in his presentation on 23 April, 2020 gave some reasons for establishment of the Committee of Doctors and also mentioned that if a COVID patient dies in a road accident, he cannot be said to have died of COVID. The IMCT did not find the reasoning convincing as there is no comparison between a road death and in a death in a hospital due to disease’.


    
    ​Shri Apurva Chandra further wrote ‘To understand the issue better, in accordance with the directions contained in the letter of the Home Ministry to the State Government dated 19.04.2020 the IMCT seeks to have the following:


    
    i) Government order constituting the committee of Doctors to declare cause of death for COVID patients.
    ii) Case records of all COVID patients where cause of death is attributed to some other cause by the committee.
    iii) Time taken by the committee in coming to its conclusion.
    iv) Whether such a committee to ascertain cause of death exists for any other diseases in the State of West Bengal.
    v) Whether such a committee is in the line with ICMR guidelines or medical practice.


    
    At the end the IMCT sought to interact with this committee to understand their methodology.
    
    ​Earlier today in another letter addressed to the Chief Secretary Shri Apurva Chandra sought clarifications on the observations based on the visit of the team on 23rd April to CNCI and Bangur Hospitals both of which are dedicated for COVID patients. He wrote:


    
    i) There were large numbers of patients in the isolation ward of CNCI as well as Bangur Hospitals awaiting COVID test results for 05 days or longer. Specifically at CNCI, there were 04 patients since 16.04.2020 awaiting test result, 02 since 17.04.2020 and three since 18.04.2020. Some of the patients have tested negative. It is not clear why the test results should take such a long time and there is a danger of COVID negative patient acquiring the infection in the hospital while awaiting his test result.


    
    ii) The patient admission at Bangur hospital appears to be chaotic. There was no social distancing in the waiting area. 02 of the patients appear to be in very poor health but there was no medical support available.


    
    iii) The patients are referred to Bangur Hospital from other medical facilities. However it seems the patients are left on their own to report to the hospital and are not escorted. This would always leave the scope for some patients not turning up or delaying reporting to the hospital.


    
    iv) There are only 12 ventilator beds available in Bangur Hospital even though the hospital caters to 354 serious COVID patients. When asked the IMCT was informed that in case a patient requires ventilation support and ventilator is not available, the patient is transferred to some other facilities. Records in this regard may be made available.


    
    v) There have been reports on social media that dead bodies were lying on the beds in a ward. On inquiry, it was informed that it is possible that dead bodies are lying on bed in a ward as it takes at least 04 hours to issue a death certificate after which the body is shifted to the mortuary. It is not clear why a body should lie in a ward in full view of other patients and not shifted to the mortuary even while awaiting death certificate. Records may be furnished for how much time it takes to issue a death certificate and shift a body to the mortuary.


    
    After that Shri Chandra wrote that they sought some information after the presentation made by the Principal Secretary (Health). The clarifications they wanted were as follows:-


    
    i) It was claimed that the rate of testing in the State is in line with the rate of testing in other states at a corresponding period of time. The first case in States like Kerala was detected on 10.01.2020 while in the state of West Bengal, the first case was detected on 08.03.2020. details may be furnished of those having returned to Kolkata from abroad, when the first testing protocol was introduced till 08.03.2020 and whether all those who returned from abroad and were required to be tested were found negative till the date that the first case was detected.


    
    ii) The IMCT was informed that the number of tests have gone up around 400/ day to 900/day in last four days. It may be informed how many of these are repeat tests and how many are first time patients.


    
    iii) The IMCT was informed that the number of survey teams have been constituted for screening of individuals. In each district the number of individual screened range from 1.25 to 2 lakhs/ day. Information may be provided on how many of the screened individuals are actually tested for COVID and found positive.


    
    iv) From the presentation, it appeared that the state is reaching almost its peak capacity for testing. Since the States believes that the State is at the beginning of the curve compared to the other States, the IMCT may be provided with any efforts made by the State to increase its testing capability further in future considering the large population of the State to say 2500 or 5000/ day and over what time period.


    
    v) During the presentation, the IMCT was informed that medical professionals and health workers in COVID hospitals can themselves be tested at their discretion even on a daily basis. Even other health workers and Doctors are free to get their testing done. Any orders of State Government in this regard may be provided as there is considerable disquiet among medical professionals in the social media regarding their vulnerability to the disease.


    
    vi) The State Government has a scheme for providing compensation of Rs.10 lakhs in case of death of a health worker due to COVID. The scheme of Government of India provides for Rs.50 lakhs in such an unfortunate eventuality. The IMCT was informed that a health worker in West Bengal is free to choose any of the options. Any order of the State Government in this regard may be provided.


    
    At the end the team leader reminded the Chief Secretary that they were promised a copy of the presentation for which they are still awaiting.


    

    CG/SDG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617937) Visitor Counter : 61
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali