      Ministry of Railways

      SER BHARAT SCOUTS & GUIDES GIVES YEOMAN’S SERVICE TO PEOPLE IN THE WAKE OF LOCKDOWN
      Posted On: 27 APR 2020 6:17PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, April 27, 2020:


    South Eastern Railway (SER)’s Bharat Scouts & Guides and its four divisions have been providing Community Services in the form of distributing cooked meals, ration of daily needs, face masks, soaps, hand-sanitizer in the ongoing lockdown due to outbreak of COVID-19. They are providing yeoman’s services with a mission that no one should remain hungry and all unfed must be equally treated as service to the mankind.


    SER Bharat Scouts and Guides distributed more than 20,000 meals comprising rice, egg & potato curry, soya beans, vegetables, khichri etc to the poor and needy people like daily wage workers, rickshaw pullers, street beggars, slum dwellers and their families in and around large areas of entire SER during these lockdown days. Apart from this nearly 2 lakh dry ration packets of essential foods were distributed to the under-privileged people which include rice, pulses, onions, edible oil, potatoes, spices, salt, sugar etc. SER Scouts & Guides members also distributed more than 7500 face masks produced by the Rangers/Rovers of this unit. As commitment to fight against Coronavirus, the Scouts & Guides also conducted more than 100 awareness campaigns amongst masses to explain the need for frequent hand washing with soap and sanitizer and even distributed more than 14000 hand sanitizer and soaps among them. This apart, Infra-red Thermal Test was also conducted among common people at Santragàchhi and other places of this railway.


    Blood Donation camps were also organized by Divisional Scouts & Guides maintaining social distancing to fulfil the requirement of blood for the persons at hospitals and for Thalessaemia patients.


    Besides, numerous community services were rendered among slum dwellers by SER Bharat Scouts & Guides. The Rovers, Rangers and young scouters who are more than 1000 in number actively involved in this noble work with full assistance from Railway officials with the commitment of “Once a Scout - Always a Scout.”


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1618718) Visitor Counter : 3