      Ministry of Railways

      SER MODIFIES 338 PASSENGER COACHES INTO QUARANTINE COACHES
      Posted On: 25 APR 2020 4:03PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, April 25, 2020:


    As an emergency measure and following the advisories of the Union Government, South Eastern Railway (SER) has till date modified 338 passenger coaches into isolation or quarantine coaches as a contingency measure to contain the spread of Novel Corona virus. As a part of the multipronged strategies taken by railways to combat the spread of COVID-19, the Indian Railways has instructed all the zonal railways to convert non-AC passenger carrying coaches into isolation or quarantine coaches. In this context, SER has modified 329 passenger coaches into isolation or quarantine coaches.


    The work for conversion of passenger coaches into isolation/quarantine coaches has been carried out on war footing at Kharagpur Workshop, Santragachi Depot, Tatanagar Depot and Hatia Depot under the guidance of Medical Department of SER. The modified coaches are equipped with necessary facilities to serve the COVID-19 affected persons.


    Basically sleeper and general class coaches are taken for modification to isolation or quarantine coaches. Steps have been taken to ensure disinfection and sanitization of the modified coaches. Mosquito nets have been fixed on the windows and measures have also been taken to ensure proper ventilation. The middle berths of the coaches have been removed and all the charging points for mobiles and laptops have been made functional. One Indian style toilet has been converted into a bathing room with soap dispenser and other necessary facilities and there are three toilets with required arrangements. A converted coach has nine cabins with two berths in each cabin. One cabin will be utilized by paramedical staff and the other eight cabins are to accommodate two COVID-19 patients in each cabin. Three dustbins (Red, Blue and Yellow colour) with foot operated lids have been provided in all the cabins. Extra bottle holders and 3-peg coat hooks have been fixed in each cabin for holding medical equipment and suitable clamping arrangements have also been made for oxygen cylinder. The first cabin near the wash room is nominated as Paramedics/Store cabin and is screened off from the rest of the coach by plastic curtains


    The Ministry of Railways, as its contribution to the national cause, has initiated conversion of coaches to provide additional beds and supports for COVID 19 affected persons as and when required. During this crucial time of the country, SER’s dedicated workforce fulfil their social commitments and responsibilities by working round the clock to complete the modification work of coaches before any emergency arises. The employees have carried out this work without compromising their personal safety and South Eastern Railway Administration has taken all necessary measures in this regard.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1618151) Visitor Counter : 5