      Ministry of Railways

      SER MANUFACTURES 1191 PPE KITS TO COMBAT COVID-19 PANDEMIC
      Posted On: 30 APR 2020 4:19PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, April 30, 2020


    As a part of precautionary measure, South Eastern Railway (SER) is manufacturing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Kits for protection of railway doctors, paramedical staff, nurses, health care personnel and other frontline warriors to contain the spread of Coronavirus. These PPE Kits are manufactured mainly at Kharagpur Workshop and Kharagpur Division of South Eastern Railway. The PPE Kits include Face Cover, Eye Shield, NS-95 Mask, Coverall Gown with Hood, Shoe Cover, Gloves etc.


    Kharagpur Workshop has manufactured 601 PPE Kits, while Kharagpur Division has produced 590 PPE Kits till April 29, 2020. SER, in total, has manufactured 1191 PPE Kits so far and supplied to the user departments. The entire manufacturing process is carried out as per the approved Quality Assurance Plan with the Design & materials certified by DRDE, Gwalior. The material used is non-woven polypropylene barrier fabric which is impermeable to blood and bodily fluids. Not only the stitching is to be seamless, it requires special tape and taping machine also. After stitching, the PPEs with shoe covers are sealed in plastic bags with markings of size, serial number and date of manufacturing.


    Before the start of production process, the entire workplace is cleaned and sanitised. The workmen are screened for detecting any symptoms of COVID-19 and are allowed to start work after hand washing and thermal screening. Workmen are maintaining social distancing in workplace and are counselled to use hand sanitizer and hand wash at frequent intervals.


    SER is venturing in this In-house Production which requires extreme care. The artisan and technicians involved in production of PPE Kits, are kept in separate workplace to avoid cross contamination.


    SER has put its all out efforts to produce high quality PPE Kit which is equivalent to the best available PPE Kit. Railway technicians have been motivated on making these PPE Kits to deal with this health crisis in the wake of COVID-19.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1619573) Visitor Counter : 10