      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister chairs a High Level meeting to review the LWE situation in Chhattisgarh
      Shri Rajnath Singh assures all possible support to Chhattisgarh Government

      Posted On: 03 NOV 2017 4:32PM by PIB Chennai

    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh chaired a High Level Meeting to review the Left Wing Extremism (LWE) situation in Chhattisgarh here today. The meeting was attended by the Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh Dr Raman Singh, the Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir, Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba, Chief Secretary of Chhattisgarh, DG CRPF and senior officers of the Union Home Ministry and the Chhattisgarh administration.
    
    During the meeting, it was brought out that the declining trend of LWE violence continues across the country which has seen an overall reduction of 21% in violence incidents over corresponding period of last year. The Left Wing Extremists continue to remain under pressure with ever shrinking influence, both in terms of geographical spread and public support. Security and development related measures required to achieve the same were discussed. The Home Minister assured the Chief Minister of all possible support to the State to achieve this objective.
    
    Currently the Centre is providing security related assistance to the State which includes provision of CAPF Bns, helicopters, UAVs and CIAT Schools. In addition, 11 India Reserve Bns and 02 Special India Reserve Bns have been sanctioned to the State. Funds have also been provided for fortification of 75 Police Stations and for capacity building of Special Forces under the Special Infrastructure Scheme.
    
    As part of the multi-pronged strategy to deal with LWE, the Central Government gives equal focus to development measures to bring LWE affected districts at par with other areas. Towards this end, the Central Government has approved a Special Central Assistance Scheme for 35 worst affected LWE districts with an annual outlay of Rs 1000 cr. Important development schemes include the Road Requirement Plan Phase–I under which Chhattisgarh was sanctioned 1988 km of road out of which 1351 km have been completed. Under the newly launched RRP-II, Chhattisgarh has been sanctioned a further 891 km of road. To improve mobile connectivity, 519 mobile towers have been installed in Phase-I. Another 1028 towers are being planned in Phase-II of the project.
    
    As part of efforts to enhance skill development, Chhattisgarh has been sanctioned 09 ITIs and 14 Skill Development Centres. The initiatives taken to improve education infrastructure include approval of 02 Kendriya Vidyalayas at Bijapur and Sukma and 03 JNVs at Bijapur, Narayanpur and Kondagaon. Jagdalpur Medical College has been approved for up-gradation as Centre of Excellence at a cost of 200 Cr under PMSSY.
    
    The Jagdalpur Airport has been included under the Regional Connectivity Scheme and work for making it operational is nearing completion. Financial inclusion initiatives include sanction of 707 post offices and opening of 108 ATMs and 81 bank branches in LWE affected districts in last two years.

    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510018) Visitor Counter : 178
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil