      Ministry of Defence

      Award of President’s Standard to 223 Squadron and 117 Helicopter Unit on 16 Nov 2017
      Posted On: 16 NOV 2017 11:01AM by PIB Chennai


    The Hon’ble President of India and the Supreme Commander of Indian Armed Forces, Shri Ram Nath Kovind awarded the prestigious President’s Standard to 223 Squadron and 117 Helicopter Unit during a ceremonial parade held at Air Force Station Adampur on 16 Nov 17. The President’s Standards were received by Group Captain Prabhat Malik, Commanding Officer of 223 Squadron, and Wg Cdr N Batra Commanding Officer of 117 Helicopter Unit.
    
    The ceremonial parade was commanded by Group Captain Tushar Vaidya. The President also released First Day Covers of 223 Squadron and 117 Helicopter Unit at the function. A Fly past consisting of MiG-29, ALH and Mi-17 helicopters was synchronized with significant events of the parade. The parade was followed by a spectacular display of precision and daredevilry by the Air Warriors Drill Team. The grand ceremony concluded with a breathtaking air show by the Sarang and Surya Kiran Aerobatic Team.
    
    Shri V P Singh Badnore Governor of Punjab, Shri Rana Gurjeet Singh, Cabinet Minister for Irrigation and Power of the State of Punjab, Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa, Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal C Hari Kumar, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief Western Air Command along with other senior Defence and Civilian dignitaries were present on the occasion.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Ram Nath Kovind Hon’ble President of India congratulated both the awardee units and complimented all personnel for the excellent Parade. He said that the nation is proud of the capability and competency of the IAF. Excellent performance of its personnel in International exercises, both at home and abroad, is indeed a glowing testimony to the level of training and preparedness of our Air Force. The Indian Air Force, besides safeguarding the sovereign skies of our Nation, has also been at the forefront of all humanitarian aid and disaster relief operations. The resilience and tenacity displayed by our valiant air warriors is a great source of pride for the nation.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510298) Visitor Counter : 139
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil