      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Food & Nutrition Board organises seminar on women’s health and empowerment issues on Women’s Day
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2019 6:15PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 8th March, 2019


    On the occasion of International Women’s Day, a seminar on women’s issues was organised by Community Food and Nutrition Extension Unit (CFNEU)- Food & Nutrition Board under Union Ministry of Women and Child Development in collaboration with various NGOs in Kolkata today threw light on the advancements and challenges being faced in works related to women’s empowerment in the country, with particular focus on West Bengal.


    Speaking on the social issues that confront women, Ms. Bula Bhadra, Former Head of the Department of Sociology, Calcutta University commented that commercial surrogacy was abolished as late as in 2018. In this context, the sociologist mentioned that many Indian women are still not free to take decisions on reproductive health issues. However, on a positive note, Shri Pijush Saha, District Programme Officer –ICDS in Kolkata stated that statistics for Infant Mortality Rate and Maternal Mortality Rate in West Bengal are more improved now in comparison to others states. Dr. Papri Nayek, Additional Director –Health Services – Child Health in the State feels, health, nutrition, safety and education which form the four vital needs for empowerment at critical periods of life can be reached to all women through “convergent methods” in which all stakeholders including the Government, NGOs and others take part. This view was resonated in the opinion of Dr, Samir Chaudhuri, Founder-Director of CINI. This NGO works in various parts of Eastern and North-eastern India on these issues. Ms. Manasi Jana, Secretary, Society of Midwives-India (SOMI) and Associate Professor- Nursing in Kolkata Medical College stated, next target is to reduce the IMR figure to one digit (presently around 25 percent) and MMR figure to two digits (presently 101 out of 1000). Speaking about gender-balance, she stated, males are also coming in the nursing profession in appreciable numbers. Smt Chitra Gupta, Deputy Director of Press Information Bureau highlighted Government’s schemes like Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana, Maternity Leave for 26 weeks etc that go a long way to empower women and girl-child.


    The NGO –CINI, which works at grass-root level for women’s empowerment, also felicitated women achievers who fought against all odds to attain freedom from poverty, neglect, torture and other evils. The dignitaries who participated in the seminar also included Shri N N Tewari, Deputy Technical Adviser of Food and Nutrition Board, Government of India; Dr. Basab Mukherjee, Secretary of Bengal Obstetric and Gynaecological Society; Ms Srabani Majumdar, Nodal Officer ASHA Programme in West Bengal among others.


    *****


    CC/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1568340) Visitor Counter : 23