      Election Commission

      ELECTION COVERAGE RELATED GUIDELINES FOR PRINT MEDIA ISSUED BY ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA
      Posted On: 25 MAR 2019 4:14PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 25 March 2019


    The Election Commission of India on Saturday (23.03.2019) has issued a notification related to media coverage in connection with General Elections to the 17 th Lok Sabha 2019 and State Legislative Assemblies of Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Odisha and Sikkim in 2019.


    The notification which extracts relevant portion of Section 126 of the Representation of People Act, 1951 contains guidelines issues by Press Council of India for all print media for observance during the elections, which reads:


    i. It will be the duty of the Press to give objective reports about elections and the candidates. The newspapers are not expected to indulge in unhealthy election campaigns, exaggerated reports about any candidate/party or incident during the elections. In practice, two or three closely contesting candidates attract all the media attention. While reporting on the actual campaign, a newspaper may not leave out any important point raised by a candidate and make an attack on his or her opponent.


    ii. Election campaign along communal or caste lines is banned under the election rules. Hence, the Press should eschew reports, which tend to promote feelings of enmity or hatred between people on the ground of religion, race, caste, community or language.


    iii. The Press should refrain from publishing false or critical statements in regard to the personal character and conduct of any candidate or in relation to the candidature or withdrawal of any candidate or his candidature, to prejudice the prospects of that candidate in the elections. The Press shall not publish unverified allegations against any candidate/party.


    iv. The Press shall not accept any kind of inducement, financial or otherwise, to project a candidate/party. It shall not accept hospitality or other facilities offered to them by or on behalf of any candidate/party.


    v. The Press is not expected to indulge in canvassing of a particular candidate/party. If it does, it shall allow the right of reply to the other candidate/party.


    vi. The Press shall not accept/publish any advertisement at the cost of public exchequer regarding achievements of a party/ government in power.


    vii. The Press shall observe all the directions/ orders/instructions of the Election Commission/Returning Officers or Chief Electoral Officer issued from time to time.


    ******


    CG/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1569405) Visitor Counter : 17
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali