      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      HIV/AIDS awareness programme jointly organised by Nehru Yuva Kendra and West Bengal AIDS Prevention and Control Society
      Posted On: 20 MAR 2019 6:29PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 20 March 2019


    A training programme on generating awareness about HIV/AIDS was organised jointly by Nehru Yuva Kendra –South Kolkata and West Bengal State AIDS Prevention and Control Society (WBSAPCS) for the youth leaders and young volunteers, here today. 50 youngsters who are pursuing Master’s or Bachelor’s degree in Social Work as well as some of whom who are associated with NGOs chosen for the programme attended the training session. Smt. Piyali Das, Assistant Director-WB SAPCS conducted the first session where basic knowledge about HIV-AIDS and Bood Safety and Blood Donation was imparted. Besides, Smt Moushumi Chatterjee, Folk IEC Troupe Leader associated with this same project of the State Government also remained present and enlightened the participants about creating awareness about HIV/AIDS in rural areas with means of folk music and cultural programmes. The dignitaries present also included Shri B. Basu, Project Director, West Bengal Voluntary Health Association and Shri Nabin Naik, State Director of Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS).


    Speaking on the occasion, Smt Piyali Das, mentioned that NYKS has been chosen for implementation of HIV/AIDS awareness programme because of their reach and works carried out by their youth volunteers and resource persons in distant rural areas and faraway blocks of the state. Further, mostly the youth volunteers are out of school youngsters in the age group of 18-49, who can very aptly connect with vulnerable people from various social backgrounds and influence them to take right steps to prevent or carry out treatment for HIV and AIDS. It is necessary to make social groups understand and give up mindset of boycotting HIV reactive and AIDS patients who often do not seek medication and proper guidance for treatment in fear of society, she stated to the volunteers. WBSAPCS has tied up with NYKS for two years in a row for this campaign, she further stated.


    Shri Jaydeb Jana, a HIV awareness campaigner, who himself has been affected by HIV, also participated in the programme and shared his experience about overcoming the stigma and discrimination faced by HIV patients. Shi Subhobrata Das, associated with the NGO –Shantidan Charitable Trust in Sunderbans area spoke about the vulnerability of youth in connection with HIV.


    ****


    CG/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1569200) Visitor Counter : 73