      Election Commission

      Social Media Platforms Present ‘Voluntary Code of Ethics for 2019 General Election’ to ECI
      Posted On: 22 MAR 2019 1:16PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, March 22, 2019


    The Social Media Platforms, Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) presented a ‘Voluntary Code of Ethics for the General Election 2019’ to Chief Election Commissioner Shri Sunil Arora and Election Commissioners Shri Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra at Delhi on Wednesday (March 20, 2019). The Code of Ethics has been developed as a follow up to the Tuesday’s (March 19, 2019) meeting with IAMAI and representatives of Social Media platforms including Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter, Google, ShareChat and TikTok etc.


    Shri Arora said, the formulation of the Code augurs well but is essentially, a work in making. He reiterated that the participants need to follow in letter and spirit the commitments made in the Code of Ethics. The platforms have committed to process any violations reported under Section 126 of RP Act, 1951 within three hours in accordance with Sinha Committee recommendations.


    The social media platforms have also agreed to create a high priority dedicated reporting mechanism for the Election Commission of India or ECI and appoint dedicated teams during the period of General Elections for taking expeditious action on any reported violations. The participants have also agreed to provide a mechanism for political advertisers to submit pre-certified advertisements issued by Media Certification and Monitoring Committee. The Code of Ethics also promises to facilitate transparency in paid political advertisements. The participants have also committed to voluntarily undertake voter awareness campaign.


    It is to be mentioned that the ‘Code of Ethics’ has been developed to ensure free, fair and ethical usage of social media platforms to maintain the integrity of the electoral process for the General Elections 2019.


    ****


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1569252) Visitor Counter : 39
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali