      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Beti Bachao Beti Padhao : Achievements and Progress
      Posted On: 07 MAR 2018 6:51PM by PIB Delhi

     1. Launch of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao:

    The Census, 2011 has shown significant declining trend in Child Sex Ratio (CSR), with 918 girls per 1000 boys in the age group of 0-6 years. CSR has declined from 976 in 1961 to 918 in 2011. Out of 640 districts, CSR has declined in 429 districts (2/3 rd of the country). 244 districts were below the national average of 918.


    This unabated decline in CSR is a matter of grave concern as it reflects the low status of women in our society and indicates her disempowerment over a life-cycle continuum. Declining CSR is also indicative of pre-birth discrimination manifested through gender biased sex selection and post birth discrimination against girls (in terms of health care, nutrition and educational opportunities).


    Against this backdrop, Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao (BBBP) was launched by the Hon’ble Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, on 22 nd January, 2015 in Panipat, Haryana as one of the flagship programmes of the Government, to address the declining Child Sex Ratio and related issues of empowerment of women on a life-cycle continuum. It is a tri-ministerial, convergent effort of Ministries of Women and Child Development, Health & Family Welfare and Human Resource Development with a focus on awareness and advocacy campaign for changing mindsets, multi-sectoral action in select 161 districts (low on CSR), enabling girls' education and effective enforcement of Pre-Conception & Pre Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PC&PNDT) Act.


     1. Progress so far

     1. In Phase-1 (2014-15 i.e. January, 2015), the scheme was started with 100 districts and got expanded to 61 additional districts in Phase-II (2015-16, February 2016)
     2. The Scheme has been received well and has been successful in establishing the improvement in Child Sex Ratio as a National Agenda. It has resulted in increased awareness, sensitization and conscious building around the issue of declining CSR in the public domain.
      * iii. The implementation of BBBP scheme is led by the Ministry of Women and Child Development as the Nodal Ministry, with support from State Social Welfare/ WCD departments in partnership with Departments of Health and Education. On ground, the scheme is driven by the motivation and enthusiasm of the District Collector/Deputy Magistrate (DCs/DMs) of the selected district. The transformative potential of BBBP could be assessed in the kind of local level innovative initiatives undertaken by District Administration in coordination with WCD, Health and Education departments.
      * iv. As of now, favourable trends are visible in many of the districts. The latest reports as per Health Management Information System (HMIS) data of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) for 161 BBBP districts indicate that for the time period between April-March, 2015-16 & 2016-17, the progress on intermediary targets are as follows:
                                          
Progress status of 161 districts          
                                          
                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Sex Ratio at Birth (SRB)                    Improving trend in SRB is visible in 104 BBBP districts out of 161 districts (with 1 district showing stable trend)                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Status of first trimester ANC registration  119 Districts have reported progress in first trimester registration against the reported ANC registrations (with 13 districts showing stable trend).                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Status of Institutional deliveries          Institutional deliveries against the total reported deliveries have improved in 146 districts in comparison to the previous year (with stable trend seen in 60 districts).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      

    Disclaimer : As per the HMIS data received from MoH&FW. Figures are statistically rounded off.


    ( Note : Except West Bengal which is not implementing BBBP)


     1. Glimpse of Innovative Interventions under BBBP which have created a Positive Ecosystem/ enabling environment for our Girls


    The transformative potential of BBBP could be assessed in the kind of local level innovative initiatives undertaken by District Administration in coordination with WCD, Health and Education departments.

     1. Visibility of the Issue in public domain: Display of Birth Statistics ( number of Girls born vis-à-vis number of Boys) in public places through Guddi Gudda Boards. Entry point for discussion and debate on this issue.

    Example: Jalgaon district, Maharashtra has installed digital Guddi Gudda Display Boards in offices and public places.

     1. Brand Visibility of BBBP logo: All govt. buildings, public offices, official/public vehicles, public transport, school buses are using BBBP logo Example: Haryana, Chandigarh UT etc.
     2. Breaking gender stereotypes & challenging son-centric rituals

    Celebration of Birth of Girl Child, dedicating special day on value of girl child, linking sukanya samriddhi accounts with birth of girl child and felicitating parents, plantation drives symbolizing nurturing and care for girl child, prevention of child marriages.


    Example: Cuddalore (Tamil Nadu); Selfie with Daughters (Jind district, Haryana)

     1. Local Champions: Some districts have catalyzed the potential of local champions on BBBP who are chosen from diverse fields of sports, academics, writers, lawyers, students etc. The local champions are selected by District Administration as role models excelling in different fields. These local champions are entrusted to work in each block to sensitize the community about importance of gender equality and empowerment of women as well as spreading the message of BBBP. The local champions are mobilizing youth from gram panchayats and villages to work as community volunteers under BBBP.

    Example: Sikar district, Rajasthan; Una Himachal Pradesh; Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh

     1. Reward & Recognition: Felicitation of Best Panchayats, Parents for valuing their daughters , Community Members, Local Champions for their exemplary work, meritorious girls

    Example: Nagaland, Jammu (J&K), Gandhinagar (Gujarat)

     1. Enabling Girl’s Education: Through Enrolment Campaigns/drives focusing on girl child education

    Example:

      * “School Chalein Hum” by Jalgaon, Maharashtra
      * “Aao School Chalein” by Sikar, Rajasthan
      * “Apna Baccha Apna Vidyalaya” and “ Collector ki Class” by Jhunjhunu district, Rajsthan
      * Career Counselling Guide by Sirsa, Haryana
      * Udaan Initiative by Mansa district, Punjab

     1. Prevention of Child Marriage: Campaigns are being undertaken by States and Districts to prevent Child Marriage.


    Example:


    Nayagarh Story : Notapalli village is declared Child Marriage free village. This has motivated other gram panchayats to pass similar resolutions to prevent child marriage in their respective panchayats and villages. Through BBBP initiatives, schools have become an important platform for preventing child marriage . Attendance of girls in schools has improved


    Cuddalore district (Tamil Nadu) has prevented several (approx. 200 Child Marriages) by taking it in a campaign involving all stakeholders


     1. Special Gram Sabha/Mahila Sabha on the issue of declining Child Sex Ratio


    Example: All districts of Rajasthan; Raigarh (Chattisgarh); Kurukshetra, Panchkula (Haryana)

     1. Campaign based/Theme based support from Civil Society Organizations (that too on a pro bono basis )
     2. “Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Week- The Daughters of New India”: In order to influence national and mainstream discourse in favour of girls and women and to bring visibility to Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, the Ministry of Women and Child Development celebrated “Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Week- The Daughters of New India” as a mark to Celebrate Girl Child and Enable her Education around the week of International Girl Child Day (i.e. 11th October).

     1. Expansion of BBBP for Pan India Coverage: Initial focus of BBBP had been on the districts which were either below national average or were the worse in their own states in terms of absolute values of CSR. However, looking at the magnitude and criticality of the problem and its spread across the country, no district can be left out of BBBP ambit to make a real dent on overall CSR :

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
S.No.  Strategies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Proposed expansion                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
1.     Multi sectoral intervention: Under the stewardship of DCs/DMs, convergent action between WCD, Health and Education to focus on changing mindsets through local level community engagements, training/ sensitization of functionaries and community members; effective implementation of PC&PNDT Act, enabling girl child education and engaging local champions in the districts.  244 districts                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (in addition to existing 161 districts )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
2.     Alert District Media & Advocacy by following a 360 approach with focus on positive reinforcement of girl child and sustained local level engagement with community.                                                                                                                                                                                                                235 districts                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1. districts                           
       TOTAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

     1. Pan India Expansion of BBBP by Hon’ble PM in Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan


    The Hon’ble Prime Minister of India is launching the Pan India Expansion of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP) covering all 640 districts of the Country in a formal function being held at Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan on 8th March 2018.


    To commemorate the 3 rd Anniversary of BBBP, Hon’ble PM will release a Photo Journey Book showcasing the innovative initiatives undertaken by the districts. At the event, 10 good performing districts will also be felicitated for their exemplary work.The districts are :


    1. Sikar


    2. Raigarh


    3. Tarantaran


    4. North Sikkim


    5. Bijapur (Vijayapur)


    6. Hyderabad


    7. Sonepat


    8. Ahemdabad


    9. Jhunjhunu


    10. Udhampur


    To bring visibility to the cause, the Hon’ble PM will be in conversation with the BBBP Collectors to understand the challenge and work being done on the issue. Hon’ble PM will personally interact with community girls and mothers to influence national and mainstream discourse in favour of girls and women.


    As a prelude to the Hon’ble PM’s Programme on the Launch of Pan India Expansion of BBBP, the existing 161 districts have been requested to celebrate a fortnight through observance of activities at district, block and Anganwadi Centre/Village levels. This includes pre-launch activities as a build up to the Launch Day and followed by Post launch activities till 15th March, 2018. The 161 districts will also get to watch the PM’s Programme and launch of BBBP expansion at a central location and live participation through Live Video Streaming.


    ***


    AKR/NG/SKK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1523059) Visitor Counter : 871
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
       
    1. 
       
1.