      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Top leaders to take part in first high-level industry consultation for formulation of the STIP 2020
      Posted On: 02 JUL 2020 5:30PM by PIB Delhi


    A high-level Industry consultation roundtable for the formulation of the new Science, Technology & Innovation Policy STIP 2020 will be organised during 2 - 3 July 2020 over a virtual platform by the STIP 2020 Secretariat in partnership with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Science Policy Forum. The STIP 2020 Secretariat has been established jointly by the Office of Pricipal Scientific Adviser (PSA) and Department of Science and Technology (DST) to coordinate and execute the entire STIP 2020 policy-making process.


    The power-packed discussions chaired by Professor K VijayRaghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India and Professor Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, will focus on inviting suggestions from Industry champions for the upcoming STIP 2020 that will pave the way towards a knowledge-based economy. Industry leaders would be requested to share their thoughts and suggestions integral to the new STI policy.


    Top leaders from various industries like Forbes Marshall, Bharat Forge, Infosys, TVS, ReNew Power Limited, AVAADA Group, Cadila Pharmaceuticals, Thermax, Medanta, Tata Chemicals, ELICO Limited, Panacea Biotech Ltd, Tata Steel, Serum Institute of India, Mapmygenome, Myelin Foundry, Urban Clap, Jubilant Bhartia Group, Tech Mahindra, Blue Star Limited, PI Industries Limited, Cyient Limited, Hi-Tech Group, Snapdeal, Tejas Networks Ltd, Mahindra, Mastek Limited, TCS, Reliance, Sterlite Technologies Limited and DCM Shriram and more would be sharing their insights and expectation on the STIP 2020.


    This is the first-ever high-level industry consultation for the formulation of a Science, Technology, and Innovation Policy, which by way of its decentralized, bottom-up, and inclusive design process, aims to re-strategize priorities, sectoral focus, and methods of research and technology development for larger socio-economic welfare.


    The Science, Technology and Innovation Policy (STIP 2020) has been flagged off jointly by the (Office of PSA) and DST as India and the world reorient in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis. The new policy is expected to be released later this year, replacing the existing policy, which was formulated in 2013.


    The STIP 2020 formulation process is organised into 4 highly interlinked tracks, which will reach out to around 15,000 stakeholders for consultation in the policy formulation. Track I involves an extensive public and expert consultation process through Science Policy Forum - a dedicated platform for soliciting inputs from larger public and expert pool during and after the policy drafting process.


    Track II comprises experts-driven thematic consultations to feed evidence-informed recommendations into the policy drafting process. Twenty-one (21) focused thematic groups have been constituted for this purpose. Track III involves consultations with Ministries and States, while Track IV constitutes apex level multi-stakeholder consultation.


    *****


    NB/KGS/(DST)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1635927) Visitor Counter : 1023
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil