      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Union Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare Minister, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar has appealed to farmers to adopt best agricultural practices for maximizing crop production during the kharif season
      
      Appreciating the dedication of the farming community during Covid-19 lockdown, Shri Tomar says in a letter to farmers that agricultural production has become the pivot of the country’s economy; agriculture and villages are at the centre of Atmanirbhar Bharat

      Posted On: 01 JUL 2020 2:19PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare Minister, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar has appealed to farmers to grow different varieties of crops keeping in view the type of farmland in order to make farming a gainful activity. In a letter to the farmers of the country, Shri Tomar has said that with the onset of monsoon in most parts of the country, sowing of crops has also been completed in many places, and is in process in other areas. Shri Tomar says in his letter that he is communicating with the farmers to exhort them to adopt best agricultural practices in order to maximize production.


    Appreciating that farmers in the country have completed their agricultural work with responsibility and dedication even during the difficult time of the lockdown which affected industries and businesses, the Union Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare Minister has said that under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, the country is dealing effectively with the Coronavirus crisis since the past three months. The rabi crops were harvested and selling procedure completed without any hindrance. Agricultural production has become the pivot of the country’s economy.


    Shri Tomar has in his communication, written of a number of good agricultural practices such as best methods of growing paddy which is the main crop in the kharif season, control of weeds, use of biopesticides, organic manure and vermicompost, ridge and furrow method of crop planting, seed treatment of pulses with rhizobium bacteria, balanced use of nitrogenous fertilizers along with potash and phosphorus in accordance with soil health card, and using best irrigation methods. The Minister has dealt with the requirements of different regions of the country individually in great detail in his letter.


    Summing up, the Minister says that by adopting better crop management practices, agricultural production can be increased manifold. It is essential to plan beforehand, make correct decisions and implement them in the field. Quoting the slogan given by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi - “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan, Jai Vigyan, Jai Anusandhan”, Shri Tomar has stressed that the Prime Minister has visualized an Atmanirbhar or self-reliant India keeping agriculture and villages at the centrestage. We must ensure an abundant kharif crop. In the present situation, farmers are shouldering an immense responsibility of increasing agricultural production not just for their own welfare but for the welfare of the whole country.


    (Link of the letter to farmers from Union Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare Minister)


    ***


    APS/SG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1635599) Visitor Counter : 1930
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu , Malayalam