      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      NPPA is monitoring price increase of critical medical equipments for COVID-19 Pulse Oximeter and Oyxgen Concentrators and also ensuring sufficient availability of the same in the country
      
      Press note

      Posted On: 02 JUL 2020 4:31PM by PIB Delhi
      In the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, Government is striving to ensure sufficient availability of critical medical equipments for clinical management of COVID-19 in the country. Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) has identified list of critical medical equipments for the same and has requested National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) to ensure availability of the same in the country.
      The Government is committed for availability of life saving drugs/devices at affordable prices to the consumers. All the medical devices have been notified as Drugs and have come under regulatory regime of the Drugs & Cosmetics Act, 1940 and Drugs (Prices (Control Order), 2013 w.e.f. 1st April 2020. In order to keep check on the price rise of critical medical equipments, NPPA, in exercise of powers conferred under DPCO, 2013, has called for price related data from manufacturers/importers of (i) Pulse Oximeter and (ii) Oxygen Concentrator to ensure that prices existing as on 1st April 2020 should not be increased more than 10% in a year.
      A Stakeholders Consultation with Medical Devices Industry Associations and Civil Society Group was held in NPPA on 1st July 2020 wherein it was stressed that all the manufacturers/importers of critical medical equipments shall ensure sufficient availability of the same in the country. It has been reiterated that all the Medical Devices have come under price regulation under DPCO, 2013 w.e.f. 1st April 2020, accordingly, price increase of medical devices would be monitored under Para 20. Chairman, NPPA also urged the Industry that it is not “Business as usual” and not the time to profiteer in the public health emergency. The Medical Devices Industry Associations have been urged to bring down the retail price of critical medical equipments in larger public interest in the prevailing situation as has been done by the manufacturers/importers of N-95 masks.
        National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority, Department of Pharmaceuticals,
        Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers, Government of India
        New Delhi: 2nd July, 2020

      ******


      RCJ /RKM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1635899) Visitor Counter : 1359
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu