      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Dr. Harsh Vardhan releases Good Clinical Practice Guidelines Handbook & Prospectus for Fellowship Programme for International Students (FPIS) of NBE
      
      “FPIS Program will make India a leader in Medical Education”: Dr. Harsh Vardhan
      
      Congratulates doctors on National Doctors’ Day, calls them the Real Heroes
      
      Posted On: 01 JUL 2020 5:06PM by PIB Delhi


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister of Health & Family Welfare released the Good Clinical Practice Guidelines Handbook and Prospectus for Fellowship Programme for International Students (FPIS) of National Board of Examinations (NBE), here today along with Sh. Ashwini Kumar Choubey, MoS (Health).


    Speaking at the release of the e-books on the web platform, Dr. Harsh Vardhan exhorted the medical community to pledge to follow ethical behaviour in their profession. He said “Good Clinical Practice Guidelines Handbook is an attempt to provide guiding points to all Diplomates of National Board (DNB) residents to follow the principles of ethical and professional conduct expected from a medical professional. The exercise is aimed at the safety of doctors and patients alike.” He emphasized the importance of understanding their roles and responsibilities as a ‘Good Clinical Practitioner’ during the formative years of DNB resident training life.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan also electronically released Fellowship Programme for International Students (FPIS) – Prospectus for Current year 2020 – 2021 in 11 specialties spread over 42 premium institutions. Appluading this innovative effort, he stated that “this is the first time that International Fellowship Programme is being launched for International Students from all countries including SAARC Nations, at Post MD/MS level through common Fellowship Entrance Test and would go a long way in enhancing the prestige of the country in the international medical sphere.” On the course structure, he further said “NBE’s flagship DNB Programmes are offered in 82 disciplines and subspecialties of modern medicine which includes DNB Programme in 29 Broad, 30 super specialties & fellowship programme in 23 sub-specialties across 703 private and government institutions. NBE is encouraging Govt/PSU/Municipal/Private sector hospitals across the country to start the DNB programme to bridge the specialist gap in the country by increasing the number of Post Graduate seats using existing infrastructure and clinical resources.”


    Congratulating the doctors on National Doctors’ Day today, Dr. Harsh Vardhan paid rich tributes to Dr. B.C. Roy, in whose honour the country celebrates 1 st July as National Doctors’ Day. “The event is particularly significant for being held today, as today is celebrated to commemorate the birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy, who was a renowned medical practitioner, philanthropist, educationist and social worker, nationalist, freedom fighter and a widely renowned doctor. Overcoming great odds he rose to have the rare distinction of being a fellow of both the Royal College of Physicians and the Royal College of Surgeons”, he stated. “Becoming a doctor is a personal achievement, becoming a good doctor is a continuous challenge. It is the only profession where one can earn their daily bread and serve the entire humanity at the same time.” He expressed deep gratitude for their selfless service during the COVID pandemic. They are our real heroes, Dr Harsh Vardhan said.


    Sh. Ashwini Kumar Choubey, MoS (Health) also greeted the doctors on National Doctors’ Day and emphasized on the relationship of trust between doctors and their patients. He congratulated the entire community of doctors for taking the country closer to the goal of “Sarve Santu Niramaya” as envisioned in the National Health Policy unveiled by Hon’ble Prime Minister Sh. Narendra Modi in 2017.


    The National Board of Examinations came into existence in 1975, as a wing of the National Academy of Medical Sciences and has been conducting Postgraduate Medical Examinations at the national level since 1976. The Board was registered as an Autonomous Organization under MoHFW in 1982 with the objective of conducting high standard post-graduate examinations in the field of modern medicine on all India basis, formulating basic training requirements for eligibility, developing curriculum for post graduate training and accreditation of institutions where this training is imparted. The students enrolled are called Diplomates of National Board (DNB).


    Ms. Preeti Sudan, Secretary (Health), Shri Rajesh Bhushan, OSD (Health), Dr. D.K. Sharma, Vice President, NBE, Dr. Shiva Kant Misra, Vice President, NBE, Prof. Pawanindra Lal, Executive Director, NBE and other senior officials from the Ministry and NBE were also present during the event.


    ****


    MV/SG


    

    
    (Release ID: 1635676) Visitor Counter : 781
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil