      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Meity-NITI launches Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge to realise PM's vision of Digital India – AatmaNirbhar Bharat
      
      Existing apps are to be promoted in Track 1 of App Innovation Challenge
      
      The Track 2 of the challenge focuses on Development of New Apps

      Posted On: 04 JUL 2020 4:04PM by PIB Delhi

    With an objective to support and build a strong ecosystem for Indian Apps, MeitY in partnership with Atal Innovation Mission – Niti Aayog launches Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge for Indian tech entrepreneurs and Startups. This is to help realise the vision of Prime Minister for building a Digital India and using Digital Technologies for building an AatmaNirbhar Bharat.


    This shall run in 2 tracks: Promotion of Existing Apps and Development of New Apps.


    The focus of the Track 1 App Innovation Challenge, being launched today is to identify the best Indian Apps that are already being used by citizens and have the potential to scale and become world class Apps in their respective categories. This Innovation Challenge with various cash awards and incentives of featuring Apps on Leader Boards seeks to create an ecosystem where Indian entrepreneurs and Startups are incentivised to ideate, incubate, build, nurture and sustain Tech solutions that can serve not only citizens within India but also the world. The Mantra is to Make in India for India and the World. This shall be completed in a month.


    Subsequent to this App Innovation Challenge, Government will also launch Track 2 of the AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge that will seek to identify Indian start ups / entrepreneurs /companies and encourage them with ideation, incubation, prototyping and roll out of applications. This track will run for a longer course of a time, details of which shall be provided separately.


    The AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge Track 1 is being launched in the following 8 broad categories:

     1. Office Productivity & Work from Home
     2. Social Networking
     3. E-Learning
     4. Entertainment
     5. Health & Wellness
     6. Business including Agritech and Fin-tech
     7. News
     8. Games.

    There may be several sub categories within each category.


    The Innovation Challenge will be available on innovate.mygov.in/app-challenge from 4th July 2020. The last date of submission of entries is 18th July 2020. The applicants need to apply online to submit their proposals by registering and logging on to the MyGov portal - www.mygov.in .


    A specific Jury for each track with experts from Private Sector & Academia will evaluate the entries received. Shortlisted Apps will be given awards & will also feature on Leader boards for information of citizens. Government will also adopt suitable Apps, guide them to maturity and list on Government e-Marketplace (GeM).


    Some of the Key Evaluation parameters will include Ease of use (UI/UX), Robustness, Security and Scalability


    *************


    RJ/M

    
    
    (Release ID: 1636407) Visitor Counter : 1735
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Odia , Tamil , Telugu
    
    
    

8.