      Ministry of Earth Science

      Isolated extremely heavy falls are very likely over Sub-Himalayan West Bengal & Sikkim during next 48hours
      
      Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy falls very likely over north Konkan on 03rd & 04th July; Gujarat region on 04th & 05th July and over Madhya Maharashtra on 04th July
      
      Isolated heavy to very heavy falls is also very likely over Coastal Karnataka during 02nd-04th July and over Saurashtra & Kutch during 04th-06th July
      
      Subdued rainfall activity over Western Himalayan Region and adjoining northwest India very likely to continue during next 2 days and its distribution & intensity very likely to increase thereafter
      Posted On: 02 JUL 2020 9:14PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Weather Forecasting Centre/Regional Meteorological Centre, New Delhi of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said:


    ♦ A cyclonic circulation lies over south Gujarat & neighbourhood in lower & mid tropospheric levels and another cyclonic circulation liesover East Uttar Pradesh & neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels. High convergence of strong moist westerly/southwesterlywinds at lower tropospheric levels from the Arabian sea very likely along west coast till 06th July and over plains of northwestIndia & central India from 03rd July, 2020. Under its influence, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with:


     1. Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy falls is very likely over north Konkan on 03rd & 04th July; Gujarat region on 04th &05th July and over Madhya Maharashtra on 04th July.

     2. Isolated heavy to very heavy falls is also very likely over Coastal Karnataka during 02nd-04th July and over Saurashtra & Kutch during 04th-06th July.

    ♦ Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls most likely over Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and East Uttar Pradeshduring next 5 days.


    ♦ Northeast India and East India very likely to continue to receive fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavyfalls during next 5 days. Isolated extremely heavy falls are very likely over Sub-Himalayan West Bengal & Sikkim during next 48


    hours.


    ♦ Subdued rainfall activity over Western Himalayan Region and adjoining northwest India very likely to continue during next 2 days andits distribution & intensity very likely to increase thereafter.


    ♦ The monsoon trough at mean sea level continues to pass through Ganganagar, Narnaul, Aligarh,Sultanpur, Patna, Raiganj, Shillong and Imphal.


    For details of All India Weather Warning (Night) Dated 02-07-2020, pl see the link here .


    (Pl see attachment)


    Kindly visit www.imd.gov.in for updates .


    *****


    NB/KGS/(IMD Release)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1636004) Visitor Counter : 464
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Manipuri , Tamil
    
    
    

2.