      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 04 JUL 2020 6:27PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on Covid-19 from Ministry of Health and Family Welfare: Nearly 1.6 lakh more recovered cases than the active ones; Recovery rate is 60.81%; More than 95 lakh samples tested


    The number of the recovered COVID-19 cases continues to increase steadily. There are 1,58,793 recovered cases more than the active COVID-19 cases, as on date. As a result of this, the recovery rate has further increased to 60.81%.During the last 24 hours, a total of 14,335 COVID-19 patients have been cured, taking the cumulative figure to 3,94,226.Presently, there are 2,35,433 active cases and all are under medical supervision.The efforts to expand the testing labs network in the country have led to their numbers increasing very day. There are as many as 1087 labs in the country, including 780 labs in the government sector and 307 private labs.During the last 24 hours 2,42,383 samples have been tested, pushing the cumulative number of tests to 95,40,132.


    For details:


    As the pandemic ravages human lives and economies across the globe, the Buddha’s message serves like a beacon, says the President


    The President of India, Shri Ram NathKovind said that as the pandemic ravages human lives and economies across the globe, the Buddha’s message serves like a beacon. Lord Buddha advised people to shun greed, hatred, violence, jealousy and many other vices to find happiness. Contrast this message with the hankering of an unrepentant mankind indulging in the same old violence and degradation of nature. We all know that the moment the virulence of Coronavirus slows down, we have a far more serious challenge of climate change before us. The President was speaking at a virtual event organized by the International Buddhist Confederation on the occasion of the Dharma Chakra Diwas at RashtrapatiBhavan today


    For details:


    PM addresses on the occasion of Dharma Chakra Day


    Prime Minister talked about the teaching of Lord Buddha and about the eight-fold path which shows the way towards the well-being of many societies and nations. He noted that Buddhism teaches respect for people, women, poor, for peace and non-violence and these teachings are the means to a sustainable planet.Prime Minister said that Lord Buddha spoke about hope and purpose and saw a strong link between the two. He spoke about how he is hopeful about the 21st century, and this hope springs from the youth. He underlined that India has one of the largest start-up ecosystems where bright young minds are finding solutions to global problems.Prime Minister said that the world today is fighting extraordinary challenges, lasting solutions to which can come from the ideals of Lord Buddha.


    For details:


    Text of PM's address on the occasion of Dharma Chakra Day


    For details:


    DhanvantriRath: Taking Non-COVID healthcare services to peoples’ doorsteps in Ahmedabad


    A unique and innovative example has been set by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), through the DhanvantriRath, a mobile van, providing non-COVID essential healthcare services to the doorsteps of the people in the city. Many of the large hospitals in the city have been dedicated for COVID-19 treatment, hence various measures have been taken to ensure that non-COVID essential services related to diabetes, blood pressure, heart ailment etc., are also provisioned to people who cannot visit the hospitals as many of them were not operating the OPDs. Mobile ‘DhanvantriRath’ have an Ayush Doctor, paramedic and nursing staff along with local Medical Officer from Urban Health Centre of AMC. These vans have been visiting various areas and providing OPD services for non-COVID essential services and field medical consultations to people all over Ahmedabad City at their doorsteps. The mobile medical vans carry all essential medicines including ayurvedic& homeopathic medicines, vitamin supplements, basic testing equipment along with pulse Oxymeter. In addition to healthcare services reaching the people who cannot access hospital OPD services for various reasons, DhanvantriRath has helped identify those who need further clinical treatment or an IPD admission, and ensured that they reach the hospital in a timely manner. 120 DhanvantriRaths across the city have successfully conducted over 4.27 lakh OPDs consultations, so far.


    For details:


    6700 ASHAs in Meghalaya strengthened the Surveillance and Awareness Drives


    As soon as the index case was reported in Meghalaya, ASHAs and ASHA facilitators were trained to become an integral part of the Active Case Search Team in the identified Containment Areas. The frontline workers of Meghalaya have been instrumental in containing spread of this disease. The State’s fight against COVID-19 has demonstrated the strong embeddedness of ASHAs within the communities. At all levels, about 6700 ASHAs were made part of COVID Village Health Awareness and Active Case Search teams in the Containment Areas. The teams raised community awareness about preventive measures against COVID-19 such as hand washing, wearing masks/face covers, maintaining physical distance etc. Through active case search they have also facilitated timely access to testing and treatment.


    For details:


    PM launches Aatmanirbhar Bharat Innovation Challenge


    The Prime Minister, Shri NarendraModi has launched Aatmanirbhar Bharat Innovation Challenge, to identify the best Indian Apps that are already being used by citizens and have the potential to scale and become world class Apps in their respective categories. “Today there is immense enthusiasm among the tech & start-up community to create world class Made in India Apps. To facilitate their ideas and products @GoI_MeitY and @AIMtoInnovate are launching the Aatmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge.This challenge is for you if you have such a working product or if you feel you have the vision and expertise to create such products. I urge all my friends in the tech community to participate”, the Prime Minister said.


    For details:


    PM urges tech community to participate in Aatmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge


    Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi has urged the tech community to participate in the Aatmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge.In a post published on LinkedIn, Prime Minister mentioned about the vibrant tech and start up ecosystem in India and how the youngsters have excelled in providing tech solutions across sectors. He said that there is a lot of enthusiasm among the start-up and tech ecosystem to innovate, develop and promote homegrown apps, adding that while the nation is working towards creating an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, it is a good opportunity to give direction and momentum to evolve apps which can satisfy our market as well as compete with the world.


    For details:


    Meity-NITI launches Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge to realise PM's vision of Digital India – AatmaNirbhar Bharat


    With an objective to support and build a strong ecosystem for Indian Apps, MeitY in partnership with Atal Innovation Mission – NitiAayog launched Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge for Indian tech entrepreneurs and Startups. This is to help realise the vision of Prime Minister for building a Digital India and using Digital Technologies for building an AatmaNirbhar Bharat. This shall run in 2 tracks: Promotion of Existing Apps and Development of New Apps.


    For details:


    HRD Minister announces fresh examination dates of NEET and JEE Mains & Advance


    Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' has announced through online medium the fresh examination dates of NEET and JEE Mains & Advance. The Minister informed that keeping in mind the safety of students and to ensure quality education on the advise of Ministry of HRD, the National Testing Agency has decided to postpone JEE and NEET examinations. He further informed that JEE Main examination will now be held between 1st-6th Sept, 2020 and JEE Advance exam will be held on 27th September, 2020. He added that the NEET examination will be held on 13th September, 2020.


    For details:


    Shri PiyushGoyal lauds the efforts of Exporters as the country makes fast recovery in Exports


    Addressing the EPCs yesterday, Shri Goyal said that the Exports, after setbacks in first two months of this financial year, due to Covid-19, are recovering fast, as the Unlock process gains and the Economic activity makes a revival. He said that the data of June, 2020 will reflect the gains, with the merchandise export figures touching almost 88% of the corresponding period last year. He lauded the role of exporters for attaining the feat in such a short time. The Minister said that their hardwork, self-confidence and determination really paid off. He said that the achievement is all the more laudable because many of the areas in the country are still under containment zones and having restrictions. Most of the markets abroad have not been able to make such a remarkable comeback, he added. Shri PiyushGoyal said that as the Unlock 2.0 has come with more permissions, it is expected that things will further improve in the future.


    For details:


    Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare takes several measures to facilitate farmers and farming activities at field level during COVID 19 pandemic


    Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare, Government of India is taking several measures to facilitate the farmers and farming activities at field level during COVID 19 pandemic. There has been noteworthy progress of sowing area coverage under Kharif crops . About 68.08 lakh ha area coverage under summer rice as compared to 49.23 lakh ha. during the corresponding period of last year.


    For details:


    N-E Region will take a lead for India to emerge as an economic power house inthe Post-COVID era: DrJitendra Singh


    Union Minister Dr Jitendra Singh today said that North-Eastern Region will take a lead for India to emerge as an economic power with the support of its huge natural and human skill resources in the Post-COVID era. He said that women power (Matrashakti) of the N-E region is taking a lead in all spheres of economic activity due to successful management of Corona Pandemic. He said that women have excelled in the fight against Pandemic and helped North-Eastern Region to emerge as a Model of Corona Management. He was interacting with various Self Help Groups associated with North Eastern Region Community Resource and Management Program through a Webinar.


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Maharashtra: On a day when India's Covid 19 count soared by over 20,000 for the first time, Maharashtra reported 6,364 new cases taking the state tally to 1,92,990. With more than 1.04 lakh patients cured, the total number of active cases is 79,911. Mumbai City reported 1,392 cases. Even as the number of Corona virus cases in Mumbai has stabilized, the satellite cities of Mumbai Metropolitan Region - Thane, Kalyan-Dombivili, Mira-Bhayandar have become new Covid hot spots.
      * Gujarat: Gujarat recorded 687 new coronavirus positive cases during the last 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 34,686. Also, 18 patients have lost their lives due to COVID-19 taking the total death toll in the state to 1,906. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, AMC has added 26 new areas of the city in Micro-Containment Zones after detection of new cases. The Health Department of AMC has launched intense door to door surveillance and mass screening in these areas.
      * Rajasthan: 204 new cases and 3 deaths have been reported today morning, which takes the total count of coronavirus positive patients to 19,256.
      * There are 3,461 active cases in the state presently, while the state death toll is 443. The state has carried out over 8.70 lakh tests so far.
      * Madhya Pradesh: 191 new COVID-19 cases have been identified, which takes the state tally of coronavirus positive cases to 14,297. While there are 2655 active cases in the state presently, 11049 people have recovered till date.
      * Chhattisgarh: 40 new COVID-19 positive cases were confirmed in Chhattisgarh taking the state total to 3,065. The active cases number 637.
      * Goa: 95 positive cases have been identified on Friday, which takes the state tally of COVID-19 to 1,482. Active cases are 734.
      * Chandigarh: In view of present situation due to COVID-19 and the economic background of the parents of students studying in Govt. Schools of U.T., Chandigarh, the Education Department Chandigarh Administration has decided to waive off Annual and Monthly funds of class 9th and 10th students studying in Govt. Schools for the first six months of academic session 2020-21 i.e. from April-2020 to September-2020 as a one-time measure. Around 24500 students of class 9th and 10th studying in Govt. Schools will benefit from this decision.
      * Punjab: Chief Minister gave the go-ahead for launching a pilot project for Covid-19 rapid antigen testing from the coming week. On successful completion of the pilot rapid antigen project, which will cover a minimum of 1000 tests, such testing would be done on the migrants coming back to the state in the wake of reopening of industries and for work in the paddy fields.
      * Haryana: Deputy Chief Minister said that during the nationwide Unlock-2 , industrial and commercial activities are heading towards normalcy and strengthening of roads, Metro expansion and Regional Rapid Transit Corridor System development plans will be carried forward rapidly in a phased manner in the state.
      * Himachal Pradesh: Chief Minister, while addressing the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research- Institute of Himalayan Bio-Resource Technology, Palampur on its 38th Founders’ Week function through Video Conference, said that the Institute has been playing pivotal role in undertaking COVID-19 tests, besides providing all necessary instruments and logistic support for test of COVID-19 to Tanda, Chamba and Hamirpur Medical Colleges of the State. He further said the Institute also succeeded in preparing alcohol free hand sanitizer and herbal soap for the consumers.
      * Kerala: High alert has been sounded in capital Thiruvananthapuram, with more areas being declared as containment zones to limit the further spread of Covid-19. 22 policemen at the Armed Reserve camp have been quarantined following one of them testing positive while on duty outside the Government Secretariat. 15 staff at the Indira Gandhi Co-operative hospital in Kochi have been placed under quarantine, after a man who had sought treatment two days ago tested positive. One more Keralite died of Covid in New Delhi today, taking the toll of Malayali deaths in Delhi to 13. As many as 211 new cases of Covid-19 were confirmed in Kerala yesterday, the highest number of cases to be reported on a single day. 2,098 patients are still under treatment for the infection and a total of 1,77,001 people are placed under observation in various districts.
      * Tamil Nadu: In Puducherry, private medical colleges resist setting up of Covid care centres; Director of Health and Family Welfare sought the assistance of Lt Governor KiranBedi and CM V Narayanasamy to resolve the issue. One death and 80 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported in Puducherry, taking the total number of cases to 904 and death toll to 14 in the UT. After 20 positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in JIPMER campus including health officials, District Collector has ordered a detailed inquiry. Tamil Nadu becomes India's second worst-affected state in India, with total number of Covid cases crossing 1lakh mark to reach 102721 yesterday. 4329 new cases, 2357 recoveries & 64 deaths reported yesterday. Total Active cases: 42955, Deaths: 1385, Discharges: 58378, Active cases in Chennai: 23581.
      * Karnataka: State releases detailed guidelines for home isolation of asymptomatic cases and funeral of dead bodies. Booth level task force committees to be formed and this will be the basic structural and functional unit for covid management. A centralised system being created for allocation of beds in hospitals and a nodal officer has been appointed to oversee it. 400 ambulances will be deployed in city, dedicating 2 for each ward. Strict legal action will be taken against those who violate home isolation guidelines and funeral guidelines, Minister said. Complete lockdown in the entire state today, only emergency services will be available. 1694 new cases, 471 discharges & 21 deaths reported yesterday; 994 cases in Bangalore city. Total positive cases: 19710, Active cases: 10,608 Deaths: 293.
      * Andhra Pradesh:Saying that Covid-19 does not spread from a person who has been dead for at least 4-6 hours, Special Chief Secretary (Health) KS Jawahar Reddy appeals to the public not to hinder the cremation of Covid victims. Volunteers of the Indian Red Cross Society in Srikakulam have come forward to assist officials in conducting cremation of the persons who died of Covid-19, as per the protocol. Inspired by the Muslim NGO in Tamil Nadu which took the initiative to conduct the last rites of Covid-19 victims in a respectful manner, District Collector J Nivas said, the same has been replicated in the district. 765 new cases, 311 discharged and 12 deaths reported during last 24 hours after testing 24,962 samples. Of the 765 cases, 32 are inter-state cases and six from abroad. Total cases: 17,699, Active cases: 9473, Deaths: 218, Discharges: 8008.
      * Telangana: Home isolation strategy working effectively in the State. So far, around 12,000 positive patients in the State took the ‘home isolation’ route to fight Covid-19 and almost half of them have recovered. Total cases reported yesterday: 20462, Active cases: 9984 Deaths: 283, Disharged: 10195.
      * Arunachal Pradesh: In view of increasing cases of COVID-19 in Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh government declared Lockdown from Monday 6th July (5am) to 12th July 5pm in Itanagar Capital Region.While addressing the media persons in Itanagar today Chief Secretary Naresh Kumar said that details of SoP will be released soon. Arunachal Pradesh on Thursday saw single day highest spike, registered 37 new Covid-19 cases, and yesterday state has recorded 20 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, taking its total number of confirmed cases to 252, of which 176 are active cases and 75 have already recovered with one casualty so far.
      * Mizoram: Three more Covid-19 patients recovered in Mizoram. Now Active cases stand at 32 in the state while 130 patients have recovered so far.

    FACTCHECK


    *****


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1636467) Visitor Counter : 1071
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

*