      AYUSH

      MoU Signed between National Medicinal Plants Board and ICAR-National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources
      
      Inter-Ministerial Cooperation for conservation of Germplasm on long-term basis, safely and cost-effectively to ensure the social and economic security

      Posted On: 07 JUL 2020 2:43PM by PIB Delhi

    National Medicinal Plants Board (NMPB) under Ministry of AYUSH and ICAR-National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (NBPGR) under Department of Agricultural Research and Education have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on 6th July, 2020. The purpose of this MoU to conserve the Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Genetic Resources (MAPGRs) at designated space of ICAR-NBPGR in long-term storage module (as per availability) in the National Gene bank and or at Regional Station for medium term storage module and acquire hands-on training on plant germplasm conservation techniques to the working group of NMPB.


    Both NMPB and ICAR-NBPGR are committed to serve the National interests through conservation of germplasm on long-term basis, safely and cost-effectively for present and future generations to ensure the social and economic security. The authorized institute NMPB and the ICAR-NBPGR on behalf of the ICAR would develop detailed modalities for seed storage of MAPGRs and submit periodic progress report to their respective organizations.


    Medicinal Plants are regarded as rich resources of traditional medicines and are being used for thousands of years in the health care system. India has rich diversity of medicinal Plants (MPs) resources. The natural resources are gradually getting depleted due to various developmental activities in its habitat. There is a need to conserve these natural resources and make sustainable utilization of them. The conservation of plant genetic resources is an integral part of biodiversity conservation. The purpose of conservation is to make sustainable development by protecting and using natural resources in ways that do not diminish the variety of genes and species or destroy important habitats and ecosystems.


    ***


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1636964) Visitor Counter : 1927
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu , Malayalam