      Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry & Dairying

      National Fish Farmers Day 2020 celebrated - Department of Fisheries in association with National Fisheries Development Board interacts with fishermen, scientists and entrepreneurs through webinar
      
      
      Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Shri Giriraj Singh emphasises on sustainable harnessing of fish resources through technology and best farming practices; highlights the importance of quality seed, feed, species diversification and marketing infrastructure
      
      “Fish Cryobanks” to be set up in different parts of the country
      Posted On: 10 JUL 2020 8:24PM by PIB Delhi


    On the occasion of National Fish Farmers Day, a webinar was hosted today by the Department of Fisheries, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying in association with the National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB). The occasion was graced by Shri Giriraj Singh, Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Shri P. C. Sarangi, Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Dr. Rajeev Ranjan, Secretary, Department of Fisheries, Government of India and senior officers from the Department of Fisheries.


    National Fish Farmers Day is celebrated on 10 th July every year in remembrance of scientists Dr. K. H. Alikunhi and Dr. H.L. Chaudhury who successfully demonstrated the technology of induced breeding (Hypophysation) in Indian Major Carps on 10 th July, 1957 at the erstwhile ‘Pond Culture Division’ of CIFRI at Cuttack, Odisha (presently Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, CIFA, Bhubaneswar). The event aims to draw attention to changing the way the country manages fisheries resources to ensure sustainable stocks and healthy ecosystems.


    Every year, the event is celebrated by felicitating outstanding fish farmers, aquapreneurs& fisher folks in recognition of their accomplishments in the field and their contribution in the growth of the fisheries sector in the country. Fishermen and fish farmers across the nation participate in the event apart from officials, scientists, professionals, entrepreneurs and stakeholders.


    Interacting through video conference with fishermen, officials, scientists, entrepreneurs at different locations in different parts of the country, Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Shri Giriraj Singh observed that in order to consolidate the achievements of Blue Revolution and pave the way from NeeliKranti to ArthKranti , under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and to realise his vision of doubling the farmer’s income, the “Pradhan MantriMatsyaSampadaYojana” (PMMSY) has been launched with highest ever investment of Rs. 20,050 crore during next five years. This scheme will address the critical gaps in fish production and productivity, quality, technology, post-harvest infrastructure and management, modernisation and strengthening of value chain, traceability, establishing a robust fisheries management framework and fishermen’s welfare.


    The Minister also emphasised the sustainable harnessing of fisheries resources through technology infusion and bestfarming practices while highlighting the importance of quality seed, feed, species diversification, entrepreneurial models and marketing infrastructure with backward and forward linkages.


    Shri Giriraj Singh said that providing ‘Quality Seed’ of fish is very important in enhancing production and productivity in the country. He announced on the occasion of ‘National Fish Farmers Day’ that NFDB in collaboration with the NBFGR will take up the work to establish “Fish Cryobanks” in different parts of the country, which will facilitate all time availability of ‘fish sperms’ of desired species to fish farmers. This would be the first time in the world when “Fish Cryobank” will be established, which can bring a revolutionary change in the fisheries sector in the country for enhancing fish production and productivity and thereby increasing prosperity among the fish farmers.


    Dr.Kuldeep K. Lal, Director, NBFGR informed that the “Cryomilt” technology developed by the NBFGR in support with NFDB may be helpful in establishment of “Fish Cryobanks”, which will provide good quality of fish sperms in hatcheries at any time. Dr Rajeev Ranjan, Union Secretary of Fisheries while delivering his welcome address highlighted the ambitious targets under PMMSY and the importance of active cooperation of States/UTs and other stakeholders including private sector in achieving the same.


    Senior officials of Department of Fisheries, Government of India and Dr. C. Suvarna, Chief Executive, NFDB along with team also participated in the event. Officials from State Fisheries Departments, Directors & Scientists from ICAR institutes, entrepreneurs, and about 150 progressive fish farmers from Odisha, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, etc. participated in the webinar and shared their experiences during the interaction.


    ****


    APS/SG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1637838) Visitor Counter : 860
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Tamil , Telugu