      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      UPDATES ON COVID-19
      
      Recoveries/million show a steep upturn as compared to the Active Cases/ million
      
      Posted On: 07 JUL 2020 6:53PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central and State/UT governments are following the “Test, Track and Treat” strategy for the effective management of COVID-19 pandemic.


    In India, the States/UTs with high case load of COVID-19 are turning their focus on early identification and effective clinical management of positive cases to ensure that recovery/million is more than active cases/million. This shows that while the total number of positive cases might be high but the recoveries are fast catching up, thereby keeping the active cases low. This has also ensured that COVID healthcare facilities are not under pressure and are not stretched.


    India has 315.8 recovered cases per million while the active cases per million in the country is at a low level of 186.3.


    States have followed the direction of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to substantially increase testing with the deployment of RT-PCR tests, Rapid Antigen Tests which have helped in early identification of the cases. The ramped up healthcare infrastructure in the States has resulted in distribution of the positive cases in different healthcare facilities including Dedicated COVID Hospitals, COVID Health Care Centres and COVID Care Centres. This coupled with effective treatment has ensured in keeping the case mortality low. Ramping up of Dedicated COVID facilities within the public and private sectors has ensured timely triaging and treatment of the patients.


    Along with testing, contact tracing and house to house surveys has been intensified especially in the containment zones. States have been specifically advised to ensure that at least 80% of new positive cases have their contacts traced and quarantined within 72 hours of confirmation of the positive case. States have developed several mobile apps to keep track of high risk population including the senior and elderly population, people with co-morbidities, pregnant women and small children. The involvement of the community, ASHAs and ANMs at the local government has led to effective surveillance in the community.


    For all authentic & updated information on COVID-19 related technical issues, guidelines & advisories please regularly visit: https://www.mohfw.gov.in/ and @MoHFW_INDIA.


    Technical queries related to COVID-19 may be sent to technicalquery.covid19@gov.in and other queries on ncov2019@gov.in and @CovidIndiaSeva .


    In case of any queries on COVID-19, please call at the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare helpline no.: +91-11-23978046 or 1075 (Toll-free). List of helpline numbers of States/UTs on COVID-19 is also available at https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/coronvavirushelplinenumber.pdf


    ****


    MV/SG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1637024) Visitor Counter : 818
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu , Malayalam