      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister announces revision of syllabi by CBSE for classes IX-XII for the academic session 2020-21
      
      Considering the importance of learning achievement, it has been decided to rationalize syllabus up to 30% by retaining the core concepts – HRD Minister

      Posted On: 07 JUL 2020 6:21PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for HRD Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ has said that looking at the extraordinary situation prevailing in the country and the world, CBSE was advised to revise the curriculum and reduce course load for the students of Class 9th to 12th.Accordingly, CBSE has revised the syllabi for classes IX-XII for the academic session 2020-21


    He also informed that a few weeks ago, he invited suggestions from all educationists on the reduction of syllabus on social media by using #SyllabusForStudents2020. ShriNishank informed that we received more than 1.5K suggestions and expressed his gratitude to everyone for the overwhelming response.


    Looking at the extraordinary situation prevailing in the country and the world, #CBSE was advised to revise the curriculum and reduce course load for the students of Class 9th to 12th. @PMOIndia @HMOIndia @PIB_India @MIB_India @DDNewslive @cbseindia29 @mygovindia

    — Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank (@DrRPNishank) July 7, 2020

    The union Minister said that the changes made in the syllabi have been finalised by the respective Course Committees with the approval of the Curriculum Committee and Governing Body of the Board.


    The revision of syllabi is a measure taken due to the extraordinary situation prevailing in the country and at different parts of the world. Considering the importance of achieving the level of learning, the syllabus has been rationalised to the extent possible up to 30% by retaining the core concepts.


    The Heads of Schools and Teachers have been advised by the Board to ensure that the topics that have been reduced are also explained to the students to the extent required to connect different topics. However the reduced syllabus will not be part of the topics for Internal Assessment and year-end Board Examination. Alternative Academic Calendar and inputs from the NCERT on transacting the curriculum using different strategies shall also be part of the teaching pedagogy in the affiliated schools.


    For Elementary Classes (I-VIII) schools shall follow the Alternative Academic Calendar and Learning Outcomes specified by NCERT. The revised syllabus is available on CBSE Academic Website www.cbseacademic.nic.in


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1637012) Visitor Counter : 1402
    
    
      Read this release in: Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri