      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah hailed the key decisions taken by Union Cabinet today, expressed his gratitude to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi
      
      Shri Amit Shah thanked Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on the extension of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) till November which will provide rations to crores of poor people
      
      Shri Amit Shah said Prime Minister’s resolve to ensure nobody stays hungry during the Corona disaster is praiseworthy
      
      Ujjwala Yojana also extended till September, will benefit 7.4 crore women: Shri Amit Shah
      
      Union Home Minister said the historic decision of providing affordable rental housing complex for urban migrants under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana will help migrant labourers get rental accommodation at cheaper rates
      
      In the spirit of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vishwas', Shri Narendra Modi has extended contribution in the EPF account till August, will benefit about 72 lakh people of small businesses: Shri Amit Shah
      Posted On: 08 JUL 2020 8:09PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah has said the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s resolve to ensure nobody stays hungry during the Corona disaster is praiseworthy. In a tweet, Shri Amit Shah expressed his gratitude and thanked the Prime Minister on the decision taken at the Cabinet meeting to extend the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) till November which will provide rations to crores of poor people.


    Shri Amit Shah said, “During the early days of Corona crisis, Prime Minister had taken the decision to provide three free cylinders to poor women for three months under the Ujjwala Yojana. Many families could not fully avail the three cylinders as a result of which the scheme was extended till September”. “This would benefit 7 crore and 40 lakh women,” said Shri Amit Shah.


    “Today, the cabinet also gave approval to an “Affordable Rental Housing Complex” for urban migrants under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. With this historic decision of the Modi government, PMAY flats built in cities will be available to the migrant labourers at cheaper rent”, said Shri Amit Shah. Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah welcomed and thanked Modi ji for this decision which will further strengthen the goal of “Housing for All”.


    Union Home Minister said, “By re-emphasizing his commitment to the mantra of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vishwas', the Prime Minister has extended another very important scheme which caters to the cause of small businesses”. “The contribution in the EPF account has been extended till August, in the cabinet meeting today. This decision of Modi government will benefit about 72 lakh people of small businesses”, said Shri Amit Shah.


    Shri Amit Shah said the Cabinet approval of Rs.1,00,000 crore 'Agriculture Infrastructure Fund' will strengthen the Agriculture sector and reflects Modi ji’s commitment for all-round development of rural India. It will provide a big momentum to the development of rural infrastructure.


    प्रधानमंत्री @narendramodi जी ने कोरोना आपदा के समय देश में कोई भूखा न रहे उसके लिए जो कटिबद्धता दिखाई वह सचमुच अनुकरणीय है।

    
    आज कैबिनेट में करोड़ों गरीबों को राशन देने वाली ‘प्रधानमंत्री गरीब कल्याण अन्न योजना’ के नवंबर तक विस्तार के निर्णय को मंजूरी देने के लिए मोदी जी का आभार।

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) July 8, 2020

    कोरोना आपदा के शुरुआत में @narendramodi जी ने गरीब महिलाओं को उज्ज्वला योजना से 3महीने तक 3 मुफ्त सिलिंडर देने का निर्णय किया था। कई परिवारों द्वारा यह तीन सिलिंडर उपयोग नहीं हो पाए जिसके कारण इसकी अवधि को भी सितंबर तक बढ़ाया है। इससे लगभग 7 करोड़ 40 लाख महिलाओं को लाभ मिलेगा।

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) July 8, 2020

    आज कैबिनेट ने शहरी प्रवासियों के लिए प्रधानमंत्री आवास योजना के तहत अफॉर्डेबल रेंटल हाउसिंग कॉम्प्लेक्स को भी मंजूरी दी।
    
    मोदी सरकार के इस ऐतिहासिक निर्णय से प्रवासी मजदूरों को शहरों में बने PMAY के फ्लैट्स सस्ते किराए पर उपलब्ध होंगे। इस निर्णय के लिए मोदी जी का अभिनन्दन।

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) July 8, 2020

    ‘सबका साथ-सबका विश्वास’ के अपने मंत्र को पुनः चरितार्थ कर श्री @narendramodi जी ने आज कैबिनेट बैठक में एक और योजना का विस्तार करते हुए ईपीएफ अकाउंट में कॉन्ट्रिब्यूशन के निर्णय को अगस्त तक बढ़ाया है। मोदी सरकार के इस निर्णय से छोटे व्यवसायों के लगभग 72 लाख लोगों को फायदा होगा।

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) July 8, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/PK/AD/DDD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1637365) Visitor Counter : 515
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu