      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      National Institutes of Design students will be able to easily apply for work permits in Germany now, as NIDs have been included in the Anabin database, Germany
      Posted On: 15 JUL 2020 1:46PM by PIB Delhi


    Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India has established five National Institutes of Design (NID) in India for imparting world-class design education. While NID Ahmedabad (with campuses in Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar & Bengaluru) commenced its activities in 1961, four new NID’s namely – NID Andhra Pradesh, NID Haryana, NID Assam, and NID Madhya Pradesh came up in the last few years. These NIDs are declared as Institutions of National Importance by virtue of the Act of Parliament and are internationally acclaimed premier design institutes. While graduates from NID are working in varied fields in India, many of them also opt for challenging opportunities in different countries outside India.


    One such country is Germany, which has opened a Central Office for Foreign Education (ZAB) which acts as the sole authority for the evaluation of foreign qualifications in Germany. As part of their service, they maintain a database called Anabin that lists foreign degrees and higher education qualifications in relation to German diplomas and degrees.


    Recognition of foreign university-level qualifications in Germany is often an essential prerequisite for securing a German Work Visa, Job Seekers Visa or German Blue Card. Often the success of visa application is dependent on the proof that the university-level qualification acquired outside Germany is considered on par with an equivalent German qualification. Generally, a 3/4-year bachelor's degree is required to meet the basic requirements for one’s degree to be recognised in Germany.


    NID Ahmedabad was included in the Anabin list in 2015 and the other new NIDs have also now been incorporated in this database recently.


    Now that all NIDs are a part of this list, its students will be able to easily apply for work permits in Germany for working in the fields relevant to their education.

    ***


    YB/ AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1638707) Visitor Counter : 3332
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu