      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home minister Shri Amit Shah sent his greetings on World Youth Skills Day today
      
      The occasion also marks Five Years of Skill India Mission under visionary leadership of PM Shri Narendra Modi, says Home Minister
      
      Skill India has played a major role in boosting the spirit of entrepreneurship among the youth – Shri Amit Shah
      
      Union Home Minister said, by encouraging job seekers to become job givers, Skill India will surely go a long way in realising PM Modi’s vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat.

      Posted On: 15 JUL 2020 3:01PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah sent his greetings on World Youth Skills Day today. In a tweet, Shri Amit Shah said “the occasion also marks Five Years of Skill India Mission under the visionary leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi”.


    Union Home Minister added that “Skill India has been empowering the youth of the country by enhancing their inner potential by providing them with the right skill sets and has played a major role in boosting the spirit of entrepreneurship among them”.


    Shri Amit Shah expressed his belief that by encouraging job seekers to become job givers, Skill India will surely go a long way in realising the Prime Minister’s vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat.


    Skill India is an initiative of the Government of India which has been launched to empower the youth of the country with skill sets which make them more employable and more productive in their work environment. Skill India offers courses across several sectors which are aligned to the standards recognised by both, the industry and the government under the National Skill Qualification Framework.


    Greetings on World Youth Skills Day, this occasion also marks #5YearsofSkillIndia Mission under the visionary leadership of PM @narendramodi.
    
    Skill India has been empowering the youth of the country by enhancing their inner potential by providing them with the right skill sets.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) July 15, 2020

    In the last five years, Skill India has played a major role in boosting the spirit of entrepreneurship among the youth. By encouraging the job seekers to become job givers, I am sure that this will go a long way in realising PM @narendramodi ji’s vision of #AatmaNirbharBharat.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) July 15, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/PK/DDD/AD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1638729) Visitor Counter : 422
    
    
      Read this release in: Odia , Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu , Malayalam