      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      Rajiv Gandhi National Aviation University starts admission process for short term course in firefighting
      
      6 month program starts on 17th August 2020

      Posted On: 15 JUL 2020 1:10PM by PIB Delhi

    India’s sole Aviation University, Rajiv Gandhi National Aviation University (RGNAU), Amethi, Uttar Pradesh has announced the start of admission process to its vocational course in firefighting- Basic Fire Fighter Course. Interested students have to mail at gmraa.contact@gmrgroup.in to enlist for the program.


    Shri Amber Dubey, Acting Vice Chancellor, Rajiv Gandhi National Aviation University , said, “Fire Fighters form a vital part of aviation sector. With expansion of airports across the country, there will be increase in demand of trained professionals. Through our course, we are preparing skilled professionals to meet this future demand in the sector.”


    Basic Fire Fighters Course is a 6 months certificate program for aspirants who want to make a career as a fire fighter. This course is run in collaboration with the GMR Aviation Academy.


    The course is conducted in a world class training center equipped with fully air conditioned classrooms, library and hostels. During the course, live fire training is provided by experts on an active runway to give real life experience to the students. Interactions with pilot cadets and airport operation experts are also organized to offer first hand insight into real working conditions. The university also offers opportunity of campus placement with leading airport operators.


    Eligibility: Any physically and medically fit Male or Female candidate over 18 years age and having passed 10+2 examination can apply for the admission process. Female candidate should be 157 cm and above in height while Male candidate should be 165 cm and above in height. Candidates should also have LMV/HMV driving licence and good understanding of English.


    The current course will run from 17 th August 2020 to 14 th February 2021.


    About Rajiv Gandhi National Aviation University


    The Rajiv Gandhi National Aviation University (RGNAU) is India’s first and only Aviation University established under the Rajiv Gandhi National Aviation University Act, 2013, in Amethi, Uttar Pradesh. The objective of RGNAU is to facilitate and promote aviation studies, teaching, training, research in conjunction with the industry to achieve excellence in operations and management of all the sub-sectors within the aviation industry. In order to bridge the skill gap within the Indian Aviation industry,the university currently offers three programs – one Under Graduate Program, One Post Graduate Program and a Certificate Course in Basic Fire Fighting. The university also conducts a number of EDPs/ MDPs to provide updated knowledge for mid-level and senior aviation professionals already engaged in their professions. More information about university can be accessed at: www.rgnau.ac.in


    ****


    RJ/NG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1638699) Visitor Counter : 682
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu