      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Locust control operations carried out in 3,15,636 hectares area in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Bihar till 14th July 2020
      
      Presently, 79 central control teams with spray equipment mounted vehicles are deployed;
      
      control operations were carried out in 8 districts of Rajasthan, Balrampur and Bahraich districts of Uttar Pradesh, and Kutch district of Gujarat in the night of 14th-15th July

      Posted On: 15 JUL 2020 4:52PM by PIB Delhi

    Starting from 11th April 2020 till 14 th July 2020, control operations have been done in 1,68,315 hectares area in states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana by Locust Circle Offices (LCOs). Till 14 th July 2020, control operations have been done in 1,47,321 hectares area in states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Bihar by State Governments.


    In the intervening night of 14 th -15 th July, 2020, control operations were carried out at 27 places in Barmer, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Churu, Jhunjhunu and Sikar districts of Rajasthan, 1 place in Bahraich district of Uttar Pradesh, 2 places in Kutch district of Gujarat. Besides this, respective State Agriculture Department/s also carried out control operations at 2 place each in the districts of Balrampur and Bahraich in Uttar Pradesh and 1 place in Pali district of Rajasthan in the intervening night of 14 th -15 th July 2020 against small groups and scattered population of locusts.


    Presently 79 control teams with spray equipment mounted vehicles and more than 200 Central Government personnel, 50 Technical officers and 22 drivers on contractual basis, are engaged in locust control operations. Also, 15 new Ulvamast sprayers have reached India from UK.


    Further, 5 companies with 15 drones are deployed at Barmer, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Nagaur and Phalodi in Rajasthan for effective control of locusts on tall trees and in inaccessible areas through spraying of pesticides. A Bell helicopter has been deployed in Rajasthan for use in Scheduled Desert Area as per the need. Indian Air Force is also conducting trials in anti-locust operation by using a Mi-17 helicopter.


    No significant crop losses have been reported in the States of Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Haryana. However, some minor crop losses have been reported in some districts of Rajasthan


    Today (15.07.2020), swarms of immature pink locusts and adult yellow locusts are active in Barmer, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Churu, Jhunjhunu, Pali and Sikar of Rajasthan and Balrampur and Bahraich districts of Uttar Pradesh


11. A. Control operation at Dodge ki Dhani, Jodhpur in Rajasthan


    B. Control operation at Binjansi Dhoondh, Sikar in Rajasthan


    C. A Locust Control Team at Bikaner in Rajasthan


    D. Locust mortality in Bandhala Nokha, Bikaner in Rajasthan


    E. Control operation at Dodge ki Dhani Dechu, Jodhpur in Rajasthan


    Food and Agriculture Organization’s Locust Status Update of 13.07.2020 indicates that more swarms are likely to form in northern Somalia in coming weeks and that locust migration from northeast Somalia across the Indian Ocean to the summer breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border could be imminent. Many of the spring-bred swarms that migrated to Indo-Pak border before the monsoon rains, some continued east to northern states of India and a few groups reached Nepal. The forecast is that these swarms will return to Rajasthan with the start of the monsoon in the coming days to join other swarms still arriving from Iran and Pakistan, which is expected to be supplemented by swarms from the Horn of Africa in about mid-July. Early breeding has already occurred along the Indo-Pak border where substantial hatching and band formation will take place in July that will cause the first-generation summer swarms to form in mid-August.


    *****


    APS/SG/MG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1638773) Visitor Counter : 523
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Punjabi , Urdu , Manipuri , Tamil
    
    
    

11.