      Ministry of Tourism

      Union Minister of State(IC) for Tourism Shri Prahlad Singh Patel virtually joins the inauguration of project ‘Development of Pilgrimage Amenities at Somnath, Gujarat'under Prashad scheme of Tourism Ministry today
      
      Funded under PRASHAD Scheme of Tourism Ministry, the project successfully completed at a cost of Rs. 45.36 crores

      Posted On: 16 JUL 2020 7:40PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State(IC) for TourismSh. Prahlad Singh Patelvirtually joined Chief Minister of GujaratSh. Vijaybhai Rupanion the inauguration of project“Development of Pilgrimage Amenities at Somnath, Gujarat” today. The project “Development of Pilgrimage Amenities at Somnath, Gujarat” sanctioned under the PRASHADscheme in March 2017 has been successfully completed with the cost of Rs. 45.36 crores. High quality world class facilities for Parking, Tourism Amenities Centre and Solid Waste Management have been developed under the project.


    @tourismgoi की प्रसाद योजना के अंतर्गत श्री सोमनाथ मंदिर के प्रांगण में अंतरराष्ट्रीय स्तर की सभी सुविधाओं के निर्माण पूर्ण होने पर मा मुख्यमंत्री गुजरात @vijayrupanibjp द्वारा लोकार्पण समारोह मे वर्चुअल शामिल होकर शुभकामनाएँ दी @@PMOIndia @JPNadda @incredibleindia @BJP4MP pic.twitter.com/1zjdl6NHPc

    — Prahlad Singh Patel (@prahladspatel) July 16, 2020

    Shri Patel praised the State Government for the optimum use of the funds released by the Government of India for creating the facilities of international standards. Minister further, assured the State Government for every cooperation and support required from the Ministry of Tourism under tourism sector.


    The ‘National Mission on Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual, Heritage Augmentation Drive’ (PRASHAD) launched by the Ministry of Tourism in the year 2014-15 with the objective of integrated development of identified pilgrimage and heritage destinations. The scheme aimed at infrastructure development such as entry points (Road, Rail and Water Transport), last mile connectivity, basic tourism facilities like Information/ Interpretation Centers, ATM/ Money exchange, eco-friendly modes of transport, area Lighting and illumination with renewable sources of energy, parking, drinking water, toilets, cloak room, waiting rooms, first aid centers, craft bazars /haats/ souvenir shops/ cafeteria, rain shelters, Telecom facilities, internet connectivity etc.


    *******


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1639135) Visitor Counter : 670
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu