      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      KVIC opens state-of-the-art Footwear Training Center for Leather Artisans in Delhi
      Posted On: 16 JUL 2020 5:38PM by PIB Delhi


    The first-of-its-kind footwear training center in Delhi to train the marginalized community of leather artisans was inaugurated by Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) Today. The center has been established with the technical knowhow of Central Footwear Training Institute (CFTI), Agra, a unit of the Ministry of MSME. The “KVIC-CFTI Footwear Training Cum Production Center” located at Gandhi Darshan, Rajghat, will provide a comprehensive 2-months training program to leather artisans for making high-quality footwear.


    KVIC Chairman Shri VK Saxena while inaugurating the centre termed the leather artisans as “Charm Chikitsak” (leather doctors). The training center will also provide logistical support to the trained artisans in starting their own shoe-making business once their two-months training is successfully completed. The artisans will also be provided a tool kit worth Rs 5000 for carrying out their activities in future.


    The KVIC-CFTI Footwear Training Cum Production Center equipped with advanced tool kits and machinery has been set up in a record time of less than two months. The inauguration was, however, delayed due to lockdown. Initially the training programs was designed for a batch of 40 leather artisans but keeping in view the social distancing norms in wake of Corona disease, the number has been reduced to a batch of 20 artisans. KVIC is setting up a similar footwear training center in Varanasi also.


    The KVIC Chairman said the training of leather artisans or the 'charm chikitsak' is aligned with the Prime Minister’s vision of “Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas”.


    He said footwear has become an integral part of fashion and shoe-making no longer remains a menial job. “Through this training center, we are trying to rope in maximum people with shoe-making activities. The program has been so designed that in just two months time, the artisans will be able to manufacture all kinds of footwear. This will increase their income by manifold,” the KVIC Chairman said.


    *****


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1639095) Visitor Counter : 699
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu