      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah has expressed his condolences on the sad demise of highly revered Saint Acharya Shree Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree Maharaj ji
      
      Acharya Shree Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree Maharaj ji’s divine teachings and selfless contribution towards the welfare of society has no parallels says Shri Amit Shah
      
      Union Home Minister adds that Acharya Shree Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree Maharaj ji’s life was full of values and wisdom, selflessly devoted to the greater cause of humanity

      Posted On: 16 JUL 2020 1:11PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah has expressed his condolences on the demise of the highly revered Saint,Acharya Shree Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree Maharaj ji who blessed and enlightened millions of lives.


    The Union Home Minister, in a tweet, said his divine teachings and selfless contribution towards the welfare of society has no parallels.


    Shri Amit Shah added that Acharya Shree Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree Maharajji's life was full of values and wisdom and he selflessly devoted himself to the greater cause of humanity.


    The Union Home Minister further said that the revered Saint’s passing away is an irreparable loss and he prays for his noble soul to rest in peace and give strength to his followers all across the globe.


    Acharya Swamishree Purushottampriyadasji Maharaj was the spiritual leader of Maninagar Shree Swaminarayan Gadi Sansthan. He was the fifth heir in the lineage of ascetic Acharyas. He was presently the incumbent Acharya of Shree SwaminarayanGadi.


    Deeply saddened to learn about the demise of Acharya Shree Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree Maharaj ji. A revered saint who blessed and enlightened millions of lives. His divine teachings & selfless contribution towards the welfare of society has no parallels.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) July 16, 2020

    Acharya Shree Purushottampriyadasji Swamishree Maharaj ji's life was full of values & wisdom, selflessly devoted to the greater cause of humanity. His passing away is an irreparable loss. My deepest condolences to his followers all across the globe. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) July 16, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/PK/DDD/AD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1639018) Visitor Counter : 443
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu