      Ministry of Power

      NTPC enters pact with NIIF to explore business opportunities in India
      Posted On: 16 JUL 2020 5:23PM by PIB Delhi


    As per a statement issued by NTPC Ltd, a central PSU under Ministry of Power and Country’s largest power generation company, today it has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF), acting through National Investment and Infrastructure Fund Limited (NIIFL), to explore opportunities for investments in areas like renewable energy, power distribution among other areas of mutual interest in India.


    The MoU was signed in the august presence of Shri Gurdeep Singh, CMD, NTPC & Shri Sujoy Bose, Managing Director and CEO, NIIFL. Shri A K Gupta, Director (Commercial) NTPC, Smt Ambalika Banerji, Executive Director – Direct Investments, NIIF, Shri A K Gautam, Director (Finance) NTPC, Shri Vinod Giri, Managing Partner, NIIF Master Fund and other senior dignitaries from both the organisations were also present on the occasion.


    The MoU was signed through video conferencing between Smt. Sangeeta Kaushik, GM (BD-Domestic), NTPC and Shri. Rajiv Dhar, Executive Director& Chief Operating Officer, NIIFL.


    With this MoU, NTPC and NIIF aim to collaborate to further help India’s vision of building sustainable and robust energy infrastructure in the country. This partnership aims to bring together NTPC’s technical expertise and NIIF’s ability to raise capital and bring in global best practices by leveraging its existing relationships with leading players.


    With a total installed capacity of 62110 MW, NTPC Group has 70 Power stations comprising of 24 Coal, 7 combined cycle Gas/Liquid Fuel, 1 Hydro, 13 Renewables along with 25 Subsidiary & JV Power Stations.


    NTPC targets to have nearly 30 GW of its overall power generation capacity from renewable energy sources by 2032.


    NIIF Limited manages over USD 4.3 billion of equity capital commitments across its three funds – Master Fund, Fund of Funds and Strategic Opportunities Fund, each with its distinct investment strategy. NIIFL is a collaborative investment platform for international and Indian investors, anchored by the Government of India. NIIFL invests across asset classes such as infrastructure, private equity and other diversified sectors in India, with the objective to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns for its investors. The NIIF Master Fund is the largest infrastructure fund in the country and invests in core infrastructure sectors such as transportation and energy.


    *************


    RCJ/M

    
    
    (Release ID: 1639087) Visitor Counter : 939
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu