      Ministry of Railways

      Shri Arun Kumar, DG/RPF nominated as the Vice-Chairman of the UIC (Union Internationale Des Chemins / International Union of Railways), Security Platform
      Posted On: 22 JUL 2020 7:14PM by PIB Delhi


    Mr. François Davenne, The Director General of UIC has intimated Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav, Chairman, Railway Board that under the 96th UIC General Assembly decision, Shri Arun Kumar, DG/RPF has been nominated as the Vice-Chairman of the Security platform from July 2020 to July 2022. DG/ RPF will then take over as Chairman of the Security Platform from July 2022 to July 2024.


    UIC (Union Internationale Des Chemins) is a French word the meaning of which in English is International Union of Railways. It is headquartered in Paris


    The UIC Security Platform is empowered to develop and formulate analysis and policy positions on behalf of the rail sector in matters relating to security of persons, property and installations. The security platform promotes the exchange of information and experience among the security agencies of UIC members and proposes common interest projects and activities in the field of railway security as dictated by requirement of members or external events. The COVID-19 Task Force setup by UIC security platform has proved to be very useful in exchange of ideas, precautions to be taken, restoration efforts and experience sharing during the current pandemic.


    RPF, on behalf of Indian Railways, has always been an active member of the UIC security platform and contributed to discussions, deliberations, exchange of ideas and best practices since long. It has also organized UIC Security Conferences in 2006 and 2015 in New Delhi. RPF involves itself in working groups, forums and meetings and its contribution in working of UIC security platform has been appreciated by UIC leadership since long.


    *****


    DJN/SG/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1640464) Visitor Counter : 740
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu