      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister to launch Manodarpan, an initiative under Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, to provide psychosocial support to students for their Mental Health and Well-being
      Posted On: 20 JUL 2020 8:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Union HRD Minister, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ will be launching virtually the Manodarpan initiative of HRD Ministry tomorrow i.e. 21 st July, 2020 at 11 am. Minister of State for HRD Shri Sanjay Dhotre will also grace the occasion. Secretary, Department of Higher Education, Shri Amit Khare;Secretary, School Education and Literacy Smt Anita Karwal and senior officials of the Ministry will also be present on the occasion.


    Dear Parents, Teachers, and Students!
    
    Now the results are out, and admissions have started, children would be having psychosocial issues, especially during these unprecedented times of #COVID19. To address such concerns, I am launching #MANODARPAN tomorrow at 11 AM. pic.twitter.com/c53axW8V3G

    — Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank (@DrRPNishank) July 20, 2020

    छात्रों के मानसिक स्वास्थ्य एवं भावनात्मक कल्याण के लिए कल आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी की प्रेरणा से मैं सुबह 11 बजे #MANODARPAN पहल को लॉन्च कर रहा हूँ।
    यह छात्रों, शिक्षकों और अभिभावकों के लिए एक स्थायी मनोसामाजिक सहायता प्रणाली के रूप में कार्य करेगा। pic.twitter.com/0Kbf62Xfi8

    — Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank (@DrRPNishank) July 20, 2020

    Through a video tweet, Shri Pokhriyal informed that during the COVID pandemic, the HRD Ministry felt the need to focus on continuing education on the academic front and the mental well-being of the students. He further informed that the Ministry has, therefore, taken up an initiative, named, ‘ MANODARPAN ’ covering a wide range of activities to provide Psychosocial Support to students for their Mental Health & Well-being during the COVID outbreak and beyond.


    The Minister informed that the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on 12.05.2020, launched the ATMANIRBHAR BHARAT ABHIYAN, a stimulus package for revitalising the economy of India post COVID-19 outbreak. T he ‘Manodarpan’ initiative has been included in the ATMANIRBHAR BHARAT ABHIYAN, as a part of strengthening human capital and increasing productivity and efficient reform and initiatives for the Education sector.


    Shri Pokhriyal also appealed to all the students, teachers and parents across the country to join the initiative to keep a healthy lifestyle and lead a stress free life.


    Click here to watch live : http://webcast.gov.in/mhrd


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1640013) Visitor Counter : 1621
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu