      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Big Boost to Khadi; Indian Red Cross Society to Buy 1.80 lakh Face Masks from KVIC
      Posted On: 30 JUL 2020 1:12PM by PIB Delhi


    As the popularity of the Khadi Face Masks grows across the country due to its fine quality and affordable price, the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) has received a prestigious purchase order from Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) to supply 1.80 lakh face masks.


    As per KVIC, the IRCS masks will be made of 100% double-twisted handcrafted cotton fabric in brown colour with red piping. KVIC has especially designed these double-layered cotton masks for the Indian Red Cross Society as per the samples provided by them. The mask will have suitably printed IRCS logo on the left side and the Khadi India tag on the right side. The supply of masks will begin by next month.


    The execution of this order will require over 20,000 meter of fabric which will generate 9000 additional man days for the Khadi artisans.


    KVIC Chairman, Shri Vinai Kumar Saxena welcomed the purchase order from the Indian Red Cross Society and said the massive demand of Khadi Face Masks is a major step in the direction of “Aatmanirbhar Bharat”. “This order will help our Khadi artisans to produce more yarn and fabric and will further add to their income in these difficult times,” Saxena said.


    KVIC has added that so far it has sold over 10 lakh face masks which include double layered Cotton Masks and triple-layered Silk Masks. The biggest order for face masks that the KVIC received was from the Jammu & Kashmir government for 7 lakh masks that has been delivered on time.


    Approximately 1 lakh meter of Cotton fabric worth over Rs one crore and nearly 2000 meters of Silk fabric of different colors and prints has been used in making these masks till recently.


    KVIC received repeat orders from the Rashtrapati Bhavan, Prime Minister’s Office, Central Government ministries and orders from general public through KVIC’s E-portal. KVIC has supplied over 20,000 face masks to the Indian Railways too. Apart from the sale, KVIC has free distributed nearly 10 lakh Khadi masks to the District Authorities though its Khadi Institutions across the country.


    “Face Masks are the most critical tool to fight the Corona Pandemic. These masks prepared from Double Twisted Khadi fabric not only meet the quality and scale of demand but are cost effective, breathable, washable, reusable and bio-degradable” Saxena added.


    *****


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1642274) Visitor Counter : 1043
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu , Malayalam