      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      RCF has contributed immensely towards India's Agricultural & Industrial growth
      
      RCF Crosses Rs. 200 Crore Mark In Cumulative Sales of Its Industrial Products in the Current Financial Year on 27th July 2020

      Posted On: 30 JUL 2020 1:03PM by PIB Delhi

    Despite the COVID-19 challenging situation Rashtriya Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd. (RCF) a Public Sector Undertaking under the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers has been successful in keeping its operations running and has crossed the milestone of Rs. 200 Crore in sales of its Industrial Products in the current Financial year 2020-21 up to 27th July 2020 .


    As per a the statement of the company Rs. 100 Crore was achieved in 67 days whereas the next Rs. 100 Crore was achieved only within 51 days.


    RCF's Industrial Products Division (IPD) has 23 products in its portfolio which are key inputs for other industries viz. pharmaceuticals, pesticides, mining, bakery products, fibers, leather etc. RCF has remained a strong driving force for furthering agricultural and industrial growth of the nation during these challenging times.


    Company has immensely contributed towards ensuring "Food Security" and endeavored to provide uninterrupted supply of fertilizers to farmers. Despite several constraints during this year because of COVID pandemic especially in supply chain logistics, RCF has been successful in producing more than 5.9


    Lakh MT of fertilizers in the 1st Quarter of 2020-21 and has already produced more than 2.3 Lakh MT of fertilizers in the month of July 2020. RCF has also imported more than 2 Lakh MT of complex fertilizers of various grades to overcome the shortages in the country. As State Trading Enterprise, company has imported more than 13 Lakh MT of Urea on behalf of the Department of Fertilizers.


    As a socially responsible corporate it has contributed by multiple means towards fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. RCF employees have contributed wholeheartedly towards the PM Cares Fund and to CM Relief Fund. Company has made available its Hostel premises as a COVID Care Centre. It has also provided an ambulance to the collector's office in Alibag along with other supportive activities.


    During this period, RCF has followed all the guidelines issued by the authorities and ensured uninterrupted production of fertilizers and industrial products with support of all its employees and with the support & guidance of the Department of Fertilizers, Government of India.


    ******


    RCJ/RKM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1642272) Visitor Counter : 1106
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu