      AYUSH

      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Zimbabwe on Cooperation in the field of Traditional System of Medicine and Homeopathy
      Posted On: 29 JUL 2020 5:24PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval to Memorandum of Understanding signed between the Republic of India and the Republic of Zimbabwe on Cooperation in the field of Traditional Systems of Medicine and Homeopathy. The MoU was signed on November 3 rd , 2018.


    Details


    This will provide a frame work for the cooperation between the two countries for the promotion of traditional systems of medicine and homeopathy and will mutually benefit the two countries in the field of Traditional Medicine.


    Objective


    The main objective of the MoU is to strengthen, promote and develop co-operation in the field of traditional systems of medicine between the two countries on the basis of equality and mutual benefit. The MoU identifies following areas of cooperation:

     1. Promotion in the regulation of teaching, practice, drugs, and drugless therapies within the scope of the MoU
     2. Supply of all medicine materials and documents necessary for demonstration and reference in achieving the objectives specified within the framework of the MoU;
     3. Exchange of experts for the training of practitioners, paramedics, scientists, teaching professionals and students;
     4. Accommodation of interested scientists, practitioners, paramedics and students in Institutions for Research, Educational and Training Programmes;
     5. Mutual recognition of Pharmacopoeias and Formularies;
     6. Mutual recognition of systems of medicines which are officially recognized by the Parties;
     7. Mutual recognition of Educational Qualifications awarded Central/State recognized Universities of the Parties;
     8. Provision of Scholarships for education in recognized Institutions;
     9. Recognition of traditional preparations on a reciprocal basis by the qualified practitioners as per the existing laws of the respective Countries;
    10. Permission to practice on reciprocal basis by the qualified practitioners as per the existing laws of the respective Countries;
    11. Any other areas and/or forms of cooperation mutually agreed upon subsequently by the Parties.

    *******


    VRRK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1642047) Visitor Counter : 496
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Gujarati , Odia , Telugu , Kannada
    
    
    

11.