      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      FACT starts movement of fertilizers through Coastal shipping
      
      First batch of 560MT Ammonium Sulphate, was flagged off from Eloor
      
      A total of 20 containers of Ammonium Sulphate will be dispatched to Haldia Port for distribution to the farmers in West Bengal
      
      Posted On: 29 JUL 2020 3:51PM by PIB Delhi


    The Fertilizers & Chemicals Travancore Limited (FACT), a PSU under the Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers has started using Coastal Shipping as a new mode of transport for the movement of fertilizers to East and the West Coast of the country.


    Shri Kishor Rungta , CMD, FACT and Dr. Beena, IAS, Chairperson, Cochin Port Trust jointly flagged off the movement of the first batch of containers with 560 MT Ammonium Sulphate, in a function held at FACT Udyogamandal Complex, Eloor yesterday. The Ship “SSL Visakhapatnam” is expected to sail with this load on 30th July from Cochin Port.


    A total of 20 containers of Ammonium Sulphate will be dispatched to Haldia Port for distribution to the farmers in West Bengal.


    FACT is getting active support of Cochin Port Trust in this endeavour. Fertilizers moved through costal shipping will be carried out further through Rail to reach the required destination.


    Shri A K Mehera, Deputy Chairman, Cochin Port Trust,. Vipin R Menoth, Traffic Manager , Gautam Gupta, Advisor to CPT and Anil Raghavan, Chief General Manager (Marketing) of FACT were also present on this occasion.


    They said shipping of fertilizers through sea route shall ease the pressure on movement of fertilizers by rail and road to a great extent, especially during the tough time of COVID- 19 pandemic. Coastal Shipping shall also help to ensure regular supplies to farmers in Coastal states.


    **********


    RCJ/RKM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1642022) Visitor Counter : 990
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu