      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah heralded the touchdown of Rafale fighter jets on Indian soil as a “game changer”
      
      “Rafale touchdown is a historic day for our vigorous Indian Air Force and a proud moment for India” – Shri Amit Shah
      
      Union Home Minister says induction of these next generation aircrafts is a true testimony of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s resolve to make India a powerful and secure nation
      
      Shri Amit Shah says Rafales are the world's most powerful machines capable to thwart any challenge in the sky
      
      “From speed to weapon capabilities, Rafale is way ahead”: Shri Amit Shah
      Posted On: 29 JUL 2020 5:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah has heralded the touchdown of Rafale fighter jets on Indian soil as a “game changer”.


    “Rafale touchdown is a historic day for our vigorous Indian Air Force and a proud moment for India!” said Shri Amit Shah in a tweet soon after the five Rafale aircrafts flying Indian colours landed at the IAF airbase in Ambala.


    Calling it a momentous day for the entire country, the Union Home Minister said: “Induction of these next generation aircrafts is a true testimony of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s resolve to make India a powerful and secure nation. Modi Government is committed to build on India’s defence capabilities.”


    “These are the world's most powerful machines capable to thwart any challenge in the sky,” the Union Home Minister said.


    Congratulating the Prime Minister, Defence Minister Shri Rajnath Singh, IAF and the entire country, Shri Amit Shah thanked the Prime Minister for providing this unprecedented strength to the IAF.


    “From speed to weapon capabilities, Rafale is way ahead! I am sure these world class fighter jets will prove to be a game changer,” said Shri Amit Shah. “I am sure Rafale will help our Air warriors to safeguard our skies with its mighty superiority,” he added.


    Rafale touchdown is a historic day for our vigorous @IAF_MCC and a proud moment for India!

    
    These are the world's most powerful machines capable to thwart any challenge in the sky. I am sure Rafale will help our Air warriors to safeguard our skies with its mighty superiority. pic.twitter.com/wTsK0XYcIX

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) July 29, 2020

    Induction of these next generation aircrafts is a true testimony of PM @narendramodi's resolve to make India a powerful and secure nation.
    
    Modi govt is committed to build on India’s defence capabilities. I thank honourable PM for providing this unprecedented strength to our IAF. pic.twitter.com/g9lIO0bl6d

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) July 29, 2020

    From speed to weapon capabilities, Rafale is way ahead!
    
    I am sure these world class fighter jets will prove to be a game changer. Congratulations to PM @narendramodi ji, DM @rajnathsingh ji, Indian Air Force and the entire country on this momentous day. #RafaleInIndia pic.twitter.com/1PuSgVtlZm

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) July 29, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/PK/SS/DD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1642055) Visitor Counter : 422
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu