      Ministry of Rural Development

      Union Minister of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar releases booklet on Best Practices in Digital India Land Records Modernization Programme
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2020 7:39PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar today released a booklet on “Best Practices in Digital India Land Records Modernization Programme (DILRMP)” of Department of Land Resources (DoLR), Ministry of Rural Development based on the presentations made by the States during Regional and National workshops since inception of the programme.


    This publication lists various ‘good practices’ followed in land records modernisation across national policy framework and in nine study states namely Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Maharashtra, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand and Rajasthan. It also covers the gaps in implementation of different processes (such as registration, mutation, survey, settlement, land acquisition), technological initiatives and legal and institutional aspects.


    Substantial progress has been achieved under the Digital India Land Record Modernization Programme (DILRMP) since its inception. The details of the same are as under:

     1. Computerization of Land Records has been completed (more than 90%) in 23 States/ UTs and substantial progress has been achieved in 11 States/ UTs.
     2. Digitization of Cadastral Maps has been completed (more than 90%) in 19 States/ UTs and substantial progress has been achieved in 9 States/ UTs.
     3. Computerization of Registration (SRO) has been completed (more than 90%) in 22 States/ UTs and substantial progress has been achieved in 8 States/ UTs.
     4. Integration of SRO with Revenue Office has been completed (more than 90%) in 16 States/ UTs and substantial progress has been achieved in 8 States/ UTs.

    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar said that a good land records system is a necessity for any harmonious and progressive society. Over the years, significance of error-free, tamper proof and effortlessly accessible land records has been the focus in India. This book is a compilation of different best practices which focus on addressing various issues, challenges, and threats to the implementation of DILRMP.


    The book discusses very scientifically about the mechanisms adopted by the states for better land record management. It provides useful inputs to identify areas for innovation and helping other States to imbibe such innovative practices in order to arrive at a more comprehensive understanding of the realities on the ground. It would ultimately lead to improved land governance system, reduction in land disputes, prevention of benami transactions and comprehensive Integrated Land Information Management System in the country.


    ****


    APS/SG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1642671) Visitor Counter : 895
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil
    
    
    

4.