      Ministry of Railways

      Shri Piyush Goyal takes charge as Minister of Railways
      Posted On: 04 SEP 2017 6:39PM by PIB Guwahati


    Shri Piyush Goyal took over as the New Minister of Railways in Rail Bhavan today i.e.04th September, 2017. He is also Minister of Coal. Prior to this, he was Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Ministries of Power; Coal; New and Renewable Energy & Mines. Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu, Minister of Commerce and Industry & former Minister of Railways was specially present to hand over the charge to Shri Piyush Goyal.


    On this occasion, Shri Manoj Sinha, Minister of State for Railways & Minister of Communication (I/C) & Shri Rajen Gohain, Minister of State for Railways were specially present to grace the occasion. Shri Ashwani Lohani, Chairman, Railway Board & other Board Members were also present.


    Speaking on the occasion, Minister of Railways Shri Piyush Goyal said, “Huge Investments in Railways have been made in past three years which will definitely lead to the Development in Railways. Indian Railways shall continue on the roadmap of Development.” He also profusely appreciated the efforts put in by his predecessor, Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu.


    In his address, Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu extended his best wishes to Shri Piyush Goyal. Shri Suresh Prabhu said that the present Government gives lot of importance to the development of Railway Sector as growth of Railways leads to Nation’s progress. He expressed his confidence that Shri Piyush Goyal will continue to work hard to achieve desired objectives.


    Later, Minister of Railways Shri Piyush Goyal held the meeting with the Railway Board Members.


    During Shri Goyal’s previous tenure, India became Power & Coal surplus for the first time ever. Also transformative growth in Power resulted in net capacity addition of renewable energy which exceeded that of conventional power while also achieving record low tariff in this sector.


    Bio Data of Shri Piyush Goyal


    Shri Piyush Goyal is currently a Member of Rajya Sabha (he was first elected to RajyaSabha in 2010 & re-elected in 2016) and was earlier the National Treasurer of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He headed the BJP's Information Communication Campaign Committee and oversaw the publicity and advertising campaign of the party including the social media outreach for the Indian General Elections 2014.


    He has had a brilliant academic record- all-India second rank holder Chartered Accountant and second rank holder in Law in Mumbai University. He was a well-known investment banker and he has advised top corporates on management strategy and growth. He earlier served on the Board of India’s largest commercial bank, the State Bank of India and Bank of Baroda.


    He has participated in Leadership Programs at Yale University (2011), Oxford University (2012) and Princeton University (2013) and is currently pursuing the Owner/President Management (OPM) Program at Harvard Business School.


    During his 33 year long political career, he has held several important positions at different levels in the BJP and is in the National Executive of the Party. He had the privilege of being mentored by stalwarts such as Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee , former Prime Minister of India. He was also nominated by the Government of India to the prestigious Task Force for Interlinking of Rivers in 2002.


    Link of twitter @ PiyushGoyal


    Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/PiyushGoyalOfficial/?ref=br_rs


    *********


    AKS/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1501720) Visitor Counter : 54