      President's Secretariat

      Children should be taught to be good human beings first, says President
      Posted On: 06 SEP 2017 7:58PM by PIB Guwahati


    The President of India, Shri Ram NathKovind received 319 recipients of ‘National Awards to Meritorious Teachers’ at RashtrapatiBhavan today (September 5, 2017). This is the first time that a high tea has been hosted for award winning teachers by the President of India on Teachers' Day at RashtrapatiBhavan.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, the President congratulated the award winning teachers who had received awards earlier today. He said that Dr. S. Radhakrishnan, former President of India, was an illustrious teacher. On his birth anniversary which is celebrated as Teachers’ Day, we pay our respect and regards to teachers. He said that in Indian culture, teachers are seen as equivalent to God.
    
    The President said that Dr. S. Radhakrishnan, Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam and Shri Pranab Mukherjee became Presidents but are cherished as teachers. Even Gandhiji taught English to underprivileged children in Delhi. Teachers have the very important responsibility of laying the foundation of a child’s future. He urged the teaching fraternity to embrace the importance of their profession and ensure that there is no decline in standards of education. He stated that he was confident that they would fulfil their responsibilities earnestly. He said that Dr. Radhakrishnan had once observed that “When we think we know, we cease to learn”. It is therefore, important that all of us, including teachers, should never stop learning.
    
    The President said that India is a land of diversity. Children in schools are from diverse socio-economic backgrounds. Teachers need to take care of this. They should make an effort to understand the child’s family background and minimise disparity among the students of a class.
    
    The President said that we all need to give back to society. In our tradition imparting education has been termed as ‘VidyaDaan’. Teachers build the next generation. They can be role models for their students with their actions and deeds. It is for teachers to bring out the best in their children. Quoting Kabir, the President stated that the status of teachers is very high. They shape a child’s life. It is important that our children should be taught to be good human beings first and imbibe the values of honesty and integrity. Only then will they excel in the profession they choose. Thus, he said that teachers are the most important nation builders.
    
    Among the dignitaries present on the occasion were Shri Prakash Javadekar, Union Minister for Human Resource Development and Dr. Satyapal Singh, Minister of State for Human Resource Development. Students from National Bal Bhavan also presented a cultural performance.

    ***


    
    
    AKT/SH/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1501851) Visitor Counter : 31