      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Ministry of DoNER to organise “North East Calling” on 09th-10th September
      Entries are open to public for various contests during the event

      Posted On: 06 SEP 2017 5:46PM by PIB Guwahati

      The Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), Government of India is organising an event “North East Calling” under its Destination North East series of this year. The purpose of the event is to promote the art, culture, heritage, cuisine, handicrafts, business and tourism of North East India. The event will showcase all activities and products of North-East and it coincides with the 16 th Anniversary of Ministry of DoNER.


      In the run-up of to the event, a variety of contests with North East as the theme are open to the public with attractive prizes. These contests include Photography and Caption Contest, video contest, Choreography Contest for Colleges on the theme “Connect NE”, Quiz Competition for schools and colleges, Best North-Eastern attire in the crowd, Home Chef Contest. For details of contests, please click the following link:


      http://mdoner.gov.in/content/destination-north-east


      Winners of these contests will be given awards during the Cultural evening on the closing day of the event.


      The event will include Music Festival for bands of North-East, Cultural Night for Dances of North-East, Handloom Demo Show presenting the clothes of North-East, Exhibitions of activities being undertaken in NE, stalls by various Central Government ministries showcasing the works being undertaken by them in the region, stalls by State Governments offering opportunities in their states, stalls for Sale of products of NERAMAC and NEHHDC, variety of food stalls including sale of delicacies of NE, contests for all sections of young population to expose them to NE, B2B Summits on Food Processing, Tourism and Start-up opportunities in the North-East.


      The highlights of the event also include Music Festival, Cultural festival, and live band performances. The Handloom Demo Show to include designers from a mix of NE and rest of India.


      The two-day (9 th -10 th September) event will be held at India Gate lawns from 11.00 AM to 10.00 PM. The entry for the general public is free.


      ****


      KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1501858) Visitor Counter : 154