      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Shri Ashwini Choubey inaugurates the 7th International Conference on Cost Effective Use of Technology in eHealth Care
      Posted On: 11 SEP 2017 4:43PM by PIB Guwahati


    Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Minister of State for Health & Family Welfare, today inaugurated the 7th International Conference and Workshop on Cost Effective Use of Technology in eHealth Care at AIIMS, New Delhi.


    Speaking at the function, Shri Choubey underscored the urgency for harnessing Information Technology for better and effective healthcare delivery in the country. Referring to the Digital India initiative of the Honourable Prime Minister, he emphasised on the need for making optimal use of technology for delivering healthcare services to the people. The Minister further stated that that e-application in healthcare will reduce cost and save time for doctors and patients.


    While alluding to the ancient healthcare system of India and the contribution of Sushruta, Charak and Dhanwantari, the Minister said that we must keep pace with the advances in Science and Technology so that the healthcare delivery becomes cost effective, accessible, affordable and more transparent.


    At the event, Shri Choubey also felicitated the doctors, particularly the specialists who have successfully treated patients by e-application without actually visiting them in remote and far-flung areas. He further stated that new technology will not only enhance efficiency but will also bring greater transparency in the healthcare and health administration.


    The Minister congratulated Dr. Randeep Guleria, Director, AIIMS, Professor Deepak Aggarwal, Professor in-Charge Computer Facility and the organizing Committee of AIIMS for organizing the conference on highly contextual and important theme. The Minister also hoped that the e-Initiative of AIIMS would go a long way in implementing the Digital India vision of the Prime Minister.


    Also present at the occasion were, Prof. M. C. Mishra, President cum Vice Chancellor, Mahatma Gandhi University of Medical Sciences, Jaipur and Ex-Director AIIMS and other senior officers of the Health Ministry and AIIMS, New Delhi.


    *****


    SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502456) Visitor Counter : 5