      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      2-day Regional Conference on Good Governance and Replication of Best Practices to begin in Goa tomorrow
      Posted On: 13 SEP 2017 10:38AM by PIB Guwahati


    The Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances (DARPG), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Government of India is organising a 2-day Regional Conference on Good Governance and Replication of Best Practices on September 14-15, 2017 in collaboration with Government of Goa. The Secretary (DARPG), Shri C. Viswanath will inaugurate the conference tomorrow in Goa. The Chief Minister, Goa Shri Manohar Parrikar and Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh will address the participants in the Valedictory Session on September 15, 2017.


    The theme for this year’s Conference is Good Governance and Replication of Best Practices. The Conference is an effort to create a common platform to share experiences in the formulation and implementation of citizen centric governance, improved public service delivery through e-Governance, transparent, accountable and citizen-friendly effective administration. Delegates from 25 States/UTs (of Southern, Central, Eastern, North Eastern Regions and 5 other States/UTs) will be participating in the conference.


    As per the programme schedule, 6 sessions will be held during the conference. In the first session tomorrow, a brief presentation on Priority Exemplary Initiatives in the State of Goa will be made. In the second session, a brief presentation on Priority programmes [Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, Din Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana, Promoting Digital Payments and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban and Rural)] chosen for PM Awards, 2018 will be made. Two presentations on Good Governance Index will be made in third and fourth session on tomorrow. In the fifth and sixth sessions, presentation on Replication of PM Awarded Initiatives will be made on 15th September.


    The DARPG has so far organised 26 such regional conferences to share experiences in the formulation and successful implementation of good governance practices and to facilitate speedy and efficient delivery of public services. The event brings together national and state level organisations along with other stakeholders including intelligentsia and media on the same platform.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502793) Visitor Counter : 37