      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      Swachhta Hi Seva
      Unprecedented nationwide campaign on Swachhta: India responds to Prime Minister’s Call

      Posted On: 14 SEP 2017 5:57PM by PIB Guwahati

      Starting tomorrow, the whole country will take up sanitation initiatives, for over 15 days, in an unprecedented campaign to highlight, once again. the jan aandolan that is the Swachh Bharat Mission. This follows an impassioned call by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, ahead of the 3 rd anniversary of Swachh Bharat Mission that falls on 2 nd October. The Prime Minister has named the nation-wide sanitation campaign from 15 th September to 2 nd October 2017 as “Swachhta Hi Seva”. This is being coordinated by the Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation, the convening Ministry for the Swachh Bharat Mission.


      The objective of the campaign is to mobilise people and reinforce the “Jan Aandolan” for sanitation to contribute to Mahatma Gandhi’s dream of a Clean India. Swachhta Hi Seva campaign will see large scale mobilisation of people from all walks of life to undertake shramdaan for cleanliness and construction of toilets and to make their environments free from open defecation. There will be targeted cleaning of public and tourist places. The participation will range from the President of India to the common citizen and would involve Union Ministers, Governors, Chief Ministers, legislators celebrities and top officials. Celebrities, faith leaders, corporate honchos etc. are being mobilised to spearhead the campaign in their respective areas of influence.


      Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation has made elaborate plans along with the State Governments to involve people from various walks of life and make this an unprecedented people’s campaign. Reaching out to the poor and marginalised and providing them with sustainable sanitation services would be the hallmark of this campaign.


      The campaign is scheduled to be launched by President of India on the 15 th of September 2017 from village Ishwarigunj in Kanpur that has attained the status of open free defecation status. The President would administer nation-wide “Swachhta Hi Seva” pledge thereby initiating parallel action in all the 250,000 plus Gram Panchayats and cities in India. The launch campaign will be joined by Sushri Uma Bharti, Union Minister for Drinking Water and Sanitation; Shri Ram Naik, Governor of Uttar Pradesh; Shri Yogi Adityanath, Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh and 7 persons representing various sectors of society, who are involved in supporting Swachh Bharat Mission.


      Arrangements have been made to ensure formal launch of “Swachhta Hi Seva” campaign in all States and Districts involving Governors, Chief Ministers, State Ministers, MPs, MLAs and District Collectors. Pledged will be taken and Shramdaans done in Panchayats and other places simultaneously.


      Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation has identified special dates during the campaign period. It includes three Sundays, 17 th , 24 th September and 1 st October when people are being mobilised to do large scale shramdaan for toilet construction, cleaning of public places, bus stands, school and colleges, statues, hospitals and ponds in rural and urban areas. A special cleanliness drive is planned in 15 identified tourist places on 1 st October 2017.


      Vice President, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu, is scheduled to visit a village in Karnataka on 17 th September 2017, which is being celebrated as “Seva Diwas” and offer shramdaan for toilet construction and general cleanliness. A large number of Union Ministers, MPs and MLAs are also scheduled to offer shramdaan across the length and breadth of the country on this day.


      On Seva Diwas, 17 th September, Doordarshan has organised a World TV Premiere of “Toilet: Ek Prem Katha”, a film that has an overwhelming message about access and usage of toilets on Doordarshan, at 11am. Community viewing of the telecast is being mobilised to effect positive behaviour change. Several media houses have voluntarily come out to mount special campaigns for Swachhta during the fortnight.


      At the culminating event of the fortnight on October 2 Gandhi Jayanti, which is also the Swachh Bharat Diwas, national awards for essays, films and paintings, and other Swachh Bharat awards will be presented to Swachhta champions from across the country and all walks of life. The fortnight was preceded by a countrywide essay, short films and paintings competition, especially focused on schools, youth organisations, central police forces, besides general citizens.


      The Ministry has created a special portal and web page on MyGov.in facilitating people to upload pre and post intervention photos of their shramdaan and other interventions.


      <><><><><>


      SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502957) Visitor Counter : 53