      Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA)

      Cabinet approves development of six laning of Narasannapeta-Ranastalam section of National Highway (NH) - 16 in Andhra Pradesh
      Posted On: 12 SEP 2017 5:01PM by PIB Guwahati


    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for development of six laning of Narasannapeta-Ranastalam section of National Highway (NH) – 16 (old NH-5) in Andhra Pradesh.
    
    The cost is estimated to be Rs.1423 crore including cost of land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation and other pre-construction activities. The total length of the six laningroad to be developed is approximately 54 km.
    
    This work will be done under National Highways Development Project (NHDP) Phase V on Hybrid Annuity Mode.
    
    The major industrial development centres that will be benefitted with better connectivity from the project corridor are APIIC SEZ, Pydibhimavaram, Bhogapuram Airport, Vizag Steel Plant, Visakhapatnam Port, Gangavaram Port, Divi'S Laboratories Limited & INS Varsha. The projected traffic in 2016-17 on this stretch is about 33000 PCUs per day. Keeping in view the expected traffic growth in the near future, the expansion to from existing four Lanes to Six lanes is a very timely step taken by the Government of India.
    
    The provision for two by-passes will ensure decongestion of the urban areas of Etcherla and Ranastalam. Similarly, the 29 flyovers/ VUPs/CUPs would facilitate fast movement of traffic in the project reach while simultaneously decongesting the areas. Three trucks parking will facilitate smooth movement of freight traffic. The truck drivers would also benefit from the amenities in one rest area being developed. On both sides, provision for service roads in 37 km of the project stretch, slip roads in about 43 km and bus bays at 42 locations will benefit safe, comfortable and smooth movement of long distance commercial traffic as well as movement of local traffic in inhabited/urbanized areas.
    
    The project would also increase employment potential for local labourers from project activities. It has been estimated that a total number of 4076 mandays are required for construction of one kilometre of highway. As such, employment potential of 2,21,000 (approx.) mandays will be generated locally during the construction period of this stretch. Consequent self-employment due to improved traffic conditions would be in addition.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502622) Visitor Counter : 145
    
    

      Background release reference

      At present, the existing road is two-lane and passes through urban habitations of Narasannapeta,Madapam, Singipurma, Pedapadu, Seepannaidupeta, Navabharatnagar, Chilakapalem, Budumuru, Bonthupeta and Laveru. National Highway No-16 (Old NH-5), a part of Golden Quadrilateral, connects Chennai in the State of Tamilnadu and Kolkata in the State of West Bengal, and passes through Cuttack, Bhubaneswar, Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada. The development to six-lane of this road with bypasses at Etcherla&Ranastalam, and construction of 29 flyovers/VUPs/CUPs would greatly reduce travel time and Vehicle Operating Costs as well as help in expediting the improvement of infrastructure in Andhra Pradesh state. This road is part of the high-density traffic corridor namely Kolkata-Cuttack-Bhubaneswar-Visakhapatnam-Vijayawada-Chennai. ***** AKT/VBA/SH