      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister visits J&K Police Lines and CRPF Camp in Anantnag
      Bullet proof vests and vehicles to be provided at all police stations: Shri Rajnath Singh

      Posted On: 10 SEP 2017 4:23PM by PIB Guwahati

    Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh visited the Jammu and Kashmir Police Lines and CRPF camp in Anantnag district today. He was accompanied by the State’s Deputy Chief Minister Dr. Nirmal Kumar Singh and Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba.
    
    On the second day of his visit to J&K, Shri Rajnath Singh also paid rich tributes to Constable Imtiyaz Ahmed, who was killed in a terrorist attack on a police patrol yesterday barely a kilometer away from the venue of today’s meeting of the Union Home Minister at the J&K Police Lines, and Assistant Sub Inspector Abdul Rasheed who was martyred in a terrorist attack in Anantnag last month.
    
    “This is not an ordinary sacrifice, this is the supreme sacrifice,” said Shri Rajnath Singh, addressing the J&K Police personnel. “I am short of words to salute your bravery in the line of duty, even the Prime Minister has praised your courage,” he added. The Union Home Minister said it’s not only the J&K State, but the whole nation is proud of the bravery and valour of the Security Forces in facing the terrorism sponsored by the neighbouring country.
    
    Shri Rajnath Singh said the Government is fully aware of the extremely challenging circumstances the Police and Security Forces are working under, and is making all out efforts for the security and welfare of the Police and Paramilitary personnel. He said a trauma centre has been sanctioned and bullet proof vehicles will be provided at all police stations in the State. The Union Home Minister said the Centre has also released adequate funds for procurement of bullet proof vehicles vests and latest equipments for Police Stations.
    
    The Union Home Minister said that the nation is indebted to the supreme sacrifices and no amount of money can compensate these sacrifice. He said we will again make J&K into a “heaven on earth” and no force can stop the country from achieving this goal. Shri Rajnath Singh said this is his fifth visit to the State within the space of a year. Reiterating the commitment of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, the Union Home Minister assured that the Centre will provide all assistance to the State, including resolving the Housing problem of the jawans.
    
    The Union Home Minister later addressed a Sainik Sammelan at the CRPF 90 Battalion Camp in Anantnag. “Courage is not something that can be bought from the market; you are born with unassailable and unmatched courage,” he said. Assuring that the Centre is ready to extend more facilities to the CRPF personnel, Shri Rajnath Singh said the Government will consider providing helicopter services to the CRPF personnel in J&K. The Union Home Minister said, “It is my aim to provide at least Rs. 1 crore to the families of our martyrs from the CAPFs.” He said the Government launched the “Bharat ke Veer” portal to support the families of our martyrs and the nation as a whole has given tremendous support to their cause.
    
    The Union Home Minister also interacted with the J&K Police and CRPF personnel.
    
    Earlier, addressing the State Police personnel, Director General of Police, J&K, Dr. SP Vaid underlined the need for providing a safe and secure environment to the families of the Police personnel. Despite inadequate infrastructure and maintenance grant and the enemy’s nefarious designs to demonize the Police personnel through the social media, they are performing the most difficult task with utmost bravery and devotion.

    *****


    
    
    KSD/BV/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502296) Visitor Counter : 51