      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Two-Day Regional Conference on Good Governance and Replication of Best Practices begins in Goa
      
      Ultimate aim of Good Governance is to get people benefited: Secretary, DARPG

      Posted On: 14 SEP 2017 7:57PM by PIB Guwahati

    The two-day Regional Conference on 'Good Governance and Replication of Best Practices' began in Goa today. Shri C. Viswanath, Secretary, Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, Government of India, Shri Dharmendra Sharma, Chief Secretary, Government of Goa, Shri Mathew Samuel, DG, Goa Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development, Smt Smita Kumar, Joint Secretary (AR&PG) and other senior officers were also present at the inauguration.
    
    Shri C. Viswanath, in his inaugural address, emphasised on the need for Good Governance. To achieve Prime Minister's call for speedy delivery of services, the bureaucracy has to change its mindset, he said. Ultimate aim of Good Governance is to benefit people, he added. Since 2007 Civil Services Day is being celebrated, but for the last two years, the pattern of celebration of Civil Services Day has totally changed. Civil Services Day is a great opportunity for bureaucrats to perform and to get recognized, he further said.
    
    Now, with the overwhelming response for Civil Services Day, last year 599 districts in the country had enrolled for the PM Awards, he said. For this year’s Civil Services Day, so far 601 districts have registered. To enhance the performance of bureaucracy, a Group of Secretaries has been formed in the Centre to decide on the Good Governance Index. The Centre for Good Governance, Hyderabad has been roped in as knowledge partner for this initiative. So, Good Governance Index is going to become a reality very soon, he informed. By implementing Good Governance Index, there will be a healthy competition among the States for reforms.
    
    Inaugural Session was followed by Power Point Presentations on different success stories and new projects initiated by the Central Government.
    
    Smt Nila Mohanan, Collector, North Goa, in her presentation elaborated on the successful Solid Waste Management Project and other initiatives by Government of Goa. The Government of Goa has started e-krishi initiative for farmers in the state. There is a dedicated portal for farmers. 65 services are available online and 31,000 farmers in the state have been given Krishi cards, she said. Saligaon Solid Waste Management Facility Project is country’s first integrated solid waste management project. This project owes its origin to Prime Minister’s dream of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. Smt. Mohanan, mentioned about Registration Facilitation Centre, Goa Excise Management System, Prisons Management System, e-Revenue, and Goa Online, - single window online portal for all services.
    
    Shri Rajiv Chaudhary, General Manager, Agricultural Insurance Company, threw light on implementation of Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana. He informed that the scheme is applicable to all crops. Earlier it took six-seven months to settle claims. Now claims are being settled within three weeks and till date 50% claims have been settled.
    
    Shri Anil Subramaniam, Director, Ministry of Skill Development informed about the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY), an initiative by Government as part of Sustainable Livelihood Mission. Now we have only 4 to 5 percent skilled workforce. The Government has targeted 400 million skilled workforce in the national policy.
    
    For promoting Digital Payments, apart from bank issued cards, Government has started Aadhaar Enabled Payment Service, BHIM, Bharat QR Code. In the financial year 2017-18, Government has targeted Rs 2500 crore transaction through digital mode, informed Smt Archana Dureja, Senior Director, Ministry of Information and Technology.
    
    Presentations were also made on Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Rural).
    
    The two-day Conference is an effort to create a common platform to share experiences in the formulation and implementation of citizen centric governance, improved public service delivery through e-Governance, transparent, accountable and citizen friendly effective administration. Delegates from 25 States/UTs are participating in the conference.
    
    The DARPG has so far organized 26 such regional conferences to share experiences in the formulation and successful implementation of Good Governance practices and to facilitate speedy and efficient delivery of public services.
    
    The Chief Minister, Goa Shri Manohar Parrikar and Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh will attend the Valedictory Session tomorrow in Goa.

    *****


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502954) Visitor Counter : 35