      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Two-day “North East Calling” festival organised by DoNER Ministry concluded yesterday
      Posted On: 11 SEP 2017 2:47PM by PIB Guwahati


    The two-day festival ‘North East Calling’, organized by the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) concluded here yesterday. The Cabinet Secretary Shri P. K. Sinha was the Chief Guest at the closing ceremony. The Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting Shri N K Sinha, Secretary, Ministry of DoNER Shri Naveen Verma and Secretary, Ministry of Tourism Smt. Rashmi Verma and other senior officers were also present.


    During the event, the Assistant Secretaries of 2015 Batch participated in the fashion show and Shri P. K. Sinha felicitated the fashion designers of the show. The event also included various performances depicting the rich culture of North East.


    During the closing ceremony, the winners and runner up prizes of the contests were also declared. In the School Quiz contest “Know your North East”, Ishan Chourasia and Dhruv Sharma from New Era Public School, Mayapuri bagged the first prize. In the Open Quiz contest, Mukunth Raghavan & Shakya Shamik Kar Khound won the first prize. In the Home Chef contest, the winner was Christina Pukhrambam and Jina Moirangthem for Best Thali. Mr. Joseph Tonthang bagged the first prize for the Videography contest under the theme “Explore North East”. Under Photography Competition “Beauty of North East”, 1st Prize was declared for Nirjen Sharma for “Best days of a lifetime”. Under Symposium Event, Vishal Singh from Salwan Public School was declared best speaker. For the Choreography Event, Joint First Prize was bagged by JIIT & Rajdhani College.


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh inaugurated the “North East Calling” festival on Saturday (September 09, 2017).


    The two-day event included showcase of rich culture of North East, including Music Festival for bands of North-East, Cultural Night for Dances of North-East. The B2B conferences were also organised at the event.


    The event witnessed huge response from the public. People from all sections enthusiastically participated in the event.


    The Ministry of DoNER plans to organise more such events in future in various parts of the country under ‘Destination North East series’. The purpose of these events is to promote the art, culture, heritage, cuisine, handicrafts, business and tourism of North East India.


    *****


    KSD/NK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502448) Visitor Counter : 27