      Ministry of Defence

      Defence Minister Lauds Cantonment Boards for Cleanliness Drive
      Posted On: 17 SEP 2017 3:37PM by PIB Guwahati


    Defence Minister Smt Nirmala Satharaman formally launched ‘Swachhata Hi Sewa’ campaign at Delhi Cantonment today. Speaking on the occasion, the Defence Minister showed her happiness over the efforts made by various Cantonment Boards under Swachh Bharat Mission and emphasised on the need for further reinforcement of the resolve and appealed that each and every resident of the Cantonment should actively participate in the campaign.
    
    Smt Sitharaman also said Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi started this campaign on 2nd October 2014 to realise the dream of Mahatma Gandhi of cleaner and healthier India, by 2019. Mentioning achievements of the country in the field of space and IT sectors, she said the same can be achieved in the field of sanitation as it has been a substantial part of the Sustainable Development Goals. She complimented Cantonment Boards for overall sanitation at their properties and lauded their efforts for going full throttle during the ‘Swachhata Hi Sewa’ campaign.
    
    Addressing to large number of schoolchildren present during the function, she stated that they are cleanliness ambassadors and should vigorously carry forward this campaign to make their localities and neighbouring places spic and span. She informed the gathering that her Ministry has allocated Rs. 50 crore dedicated funds to Cantonment Boards for cleaning activities, waste management of all forms, construction of toilets with main focus to declare Cantonments open defecation free.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, Defence Secretary Shri Sanjay Mitra highlighted the importance of segregation of wastes at individual household level and to strengthen on door to door collection of municipal waste in segregated form. He stated that the Cantonment Boards across the country should strive for making Cantonments clean, green, open defecation free and to prioritise recycling of wastes.
    
    Director General, Defence Estates Shri Jojneswar Sharma stated that Cantonment Boards across the country are working on mission mode to make the campaign a great success. He stated that out of 62 Cantonments, 27 Cantonments have already been declared open defecation free.
    
    Additional DG, Defence Estates administered ‘Swachhata Shapath’ to Defence Minister, dignitaries and over 2,000 public gathered at the function. The Minister flagged off 11 Solid Waste Management vehicles and seven special auto rickshaws on the occasion for door to door collection of wastes. The Minister visited Gopinath Bazar to inspect the kind of cleanliness drive going on there by the Cantonment Board, including e-toilet and water ATM facilities. She also visited Sri Nagesh Garden in the Cantonment to encourage schoolchildren who were participating in painting competition on Swachhata theme.
    
    GOC Delhi Area, Lt Gen M M Naravane, senior officers of the Armed Forces, Ministry of Defence and members & officers of Delhi Cantonment Board also attended the function. The campaign is in full swing in the Ministry from 15th September and will go till 2nd October.
    
    MJPS/NAo/NM/DK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1503137) Visitor Counter : 79