      Ministry of Culture

      Dr. Mahesh sharma participates in ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa Abhiyaan’ in Noida
      
      Ministry of Culture's 4th Swachhta Pakhwada Being Observed During 16th-30th September, 2017

      Posted On: 17 SEP 2017 2:04PM by PIB Guwahati

    Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State (I/C) for Culture and Minister of State for Environment, Forests & Climate Change today participated in the ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa Sbhiyaan’ and kick started the campaign for the 4th ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ being observed by the Ministry of Culture (MoC) and its 43 organisations. ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ is being observed during 16th September to 30 th September, 2017 to spread awareness about the need and importance of cleanliness in all the domains. Minister of State for Finance, Shri Shiv Pratap Shukla and Member of Legislative Asembly, Noida, Shri Pankaj Singh were present on the ocassion. So far, this ministry has dedicated a total of 505 effort hours for cleanliness and awareness and also more than 350 activities /events were organised by the Ministry and its organizations during the earlier three Swachhata Pakhwada.


    Dr. Mahesh Sharma spends Sunday morning doing shramdaan in various parts of Noida. He encouraged citizens to participate in ‘Swachhta hi Sewa Abhiyaan’ up to 2nd October 2017 as a tribute to the Father of Nation, Mahatma Gandhi on his Jayanti. Before starting padyatra, Minister of State for Finance, Shri Shiv Pratap Shukla administered Swachhta pledge to the official's of the Ministry and Citizens of his Lok Sabha constituency at Dr Ambedkar Park, Sector 37, Noida.


    The Minister started at 9.30 in the morning by first doing shramdaan in the Harijan Basti, Sector 37, Noida followed by doing Shramdaan in other areas of Noida such as Salarpur/Bhatta Colony, Sarfabad, Choda Sadatpur and Nithari. The Minister was accompanied by the team of National School of Drama (NSD) who also performed a Nukkad Natak supporting the campaign for cleanliness.


    Dr Sharma also led a padyatra in various sectors of Noida thereby urging the citizens to keep their city clean. Most people were excited to have Union Culture Minister in their area and promised to make their contribution towards cleanliness.


    Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address of ‘Man ki Baat’ over Radio on 27th August 2017 have urged to start the ‘Swachhta he sewa abhiyaan’ from 15th September to up to Gandhi Jayanti i.e 2nd October 2017. As September 17 is also marked the birthday of Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, Dr Mahesh Sharma wished long life for him saying “I wish a long life for our Prime Minister, may God bless him with good health, happiness & many more years of dedicated service to the nation"


    During the campaign of ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ in MoC from September 16 to 30, Various autonomous, attached and subordinated organisations under the Ministry of Culture are undertaking a total of 414 activities related to the Swachhta Pakhwada. Cleanliness drives are regularly being organised by these organisations in and around their respective organisations’ premises.


    Various lectures, seminars, nukkad nataka's and cleanliness activities with an objective of dissemination of the message of Swachh Bharat are planned during this time by the Ministry of Culture and its organisations.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/Culture/17.09.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1503138) Visitor Counter : 83