      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      After 8 days of Swachhata Hi Seva Campaign, 201 Districts are ODF now.
      Posted On: 24 SEP 2017 12:41PM by PIB Guwahati


    Swacchata Hi Seva campaign has fostered collaborations, across the country, to fight against the evils of open defecation. In a major milestone, the rural sanitation coverage has increased with 4 districts being declared ODF today taking the total tally to 201.
    
    After a week of the Swacchata Hi Seva campaign, the movement received support from Bollywood. Superstar Rajinikanth responded to the Hon’ble Prime Minister’s call by committing to extend full support to Swachhata. Filmmaker S.S. Rajamouli also extended full support to the Swachhata Hi Seva Campaign.
    
    In Balasore, Odisha scientists and staff members of Interim Test Range (ITR) Chandipur, picked up brooms and cleaned roads. As a part of on-going Swachhata Hi Seva programme, several activities have been taken up across Assam. In response to the Hon’ble Prime Minister’s invite to be a part of the Swachhata Hi Seva campaign, famous breast cancer expert, Padma Shri Dr P Raghu Ram (Director City Based KIMS-Ushalakshmi Centre, President Association of Breast Surgeons of India), stated, “ I have Decided to conduct the Swachhata Iniative in Ibrahimpur, my adopted village, in remotest part of Telangana State”.
    
    The students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Bihar garnered support to the Swacchata Hi Seva campaign, by undertaking cleanliness drive in their school. The young mascots of Swachhata Hi Seva andolan, undertook numerous activities. Indiat Tourism, along with Gujarat Tourism, Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), Institute of Hotel Management (IHM) Gandhinagar, Travel Agents, Tour Operators, Hoteliers and Approved Guides organized a cleanliness drive at the Shaking Minarets, a world heritage site.

    *****


    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1503883) Visitor Counter : 101