      Ministry of Finance

      Government to Launch Mudra Promotion camPaigns on Pan India Basis; Union Ministers to Participate in the Events being Organised on this Occasion.
      Posted On: 25 SEP 2017 6:12PM by PIB Guwahati


      Department of Financial Services (DFS), Ministry of Finance, Government of India is launching a Mudra Promotion Campaign on national basis from 27 th September to 17 th October, 2017 in different parts of the country. The campaign will start on 27 th September, 2017 at Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh where the Union Minister for Railway and Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal will be participating in the function organised on this occasion. In a similar function being organised on 2 nd October, 2017 at Gandhinagar, Gujarat, the Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways, Shipping and Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Shri Nitin Jairam Gadkari will be participating. On that day i.e., 2 nd October, 2017, similar functions will also be held at Dehradun, Uttarakhand and Guwahati, Assam where Shri Ajay Tamta, Union Minister of State for Textiles and Shri Rajen Gohain, Minister for State for Railways respectively will participate.


      On 3 rd October, 2017, there will be three events being organised in this regard in different parts of the country. One such campaign will be held at Vijaywada, Andhra Pradesh where the Union Minister for Minority Affairs, Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi will be participating. In Raipur, Chhattisgarh, Shri Vishnu Deo Sai, Minister of State for Steel will be participating. A third function will be held at Agartala, Tripur where Shri Jaswantsinh Sumanbhai Bhabhor, Minister of State for Tribal Affairs will be participating.


      Total 50 such Mudra Promotion Campaigns will be organised in different parts of the country where the Union Ministers will be participating among others.


      ​ State Level Banking Committee (SLBC)​


      ​of different States will actively participate and coordinate all these Campaigns.​


      Mudra Promotion Campaigns will be held at various places including at Patna, Shimla, Chandigarh, Chennai, Srinagar, Indore, Ludhiana, Meerut Johdpur, Bhuvaneshwar, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Lucknow, Daman, Nagpur, Panaji, Rajkot, Shillong, Bhopal, Kavaratti, Kolkata, Silvasa, Mumbai, Muzaffarpur, Aizawl, Salem, Hubli, Thiruvanantpuram, Puducherry, Jaipur, Ranchi, New Delhi, Faridabad, Gorakhpur, Jammu, Jamnagar, Mangalore, Gangtok, Pune, Imphal, Kohima, Port Blair and Itanagar. A detailed List of events being organised at different places on account of Mudra Promotion Campaign is also attached here with for ready reference.


      Please Click here to see Mudra Promotion list


      *****


      DSM/SBS/KA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1504021) Visitor Counter : 3