      Ministry of Culture

      Shri Prahlad Singh Patel held delegation level meeting with German Federal Commissioner for Culture Ms. Monika Grutters in New Delhi today
      
      India & Germany sign a Memorandum of Understanding regarding cooperation between select Museums of India and Germany
      
      Possibilities will be explored to translate classics belonging to both countries into German, Hindi & Sanskrit: Shri Prahlad Singh Patel
      
      Posted On: 01 NOV 2019 2:32PM by PIB Delhi


      Union Minister of State for Culture & Tourism (IC), Shri Prahlad Singh Patel held bilateral meeting with German delegation led by Ms. Monika Grutters, Minister of State to the Federal Chancellor, Federal Government Commissioner for Culture and Media in New Delhi today. During the meeting, a Memorandum of Understanding regarding cooperation between the Museums of India and Germany has been signed.


      MoU includes cooperation between the National Museum Delhi, the National Gallery of Modern Art Delhi, the Indian Museum Kolkata, the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation Stauffenbergstr, Berlin and the Stiftung Humboldt Forum im Berliner Schloss, Berlin.


      The aim of this Memorandum of Understanding is to research archaeological ethnological and art historical objects and their historical and contemporary sources within the framework of material culture studies. This will include intangible cultural heritage, restoration and conservation studies and education work. The basis for cooperation is the collections and expertise of the participating institutions.


      During the meeting Shri Prahlad Singh Patel said that culture plays an important role in the development of a nation. India and Germany have a long tradition of academic and cultural exchange. Along with this MoU the possibilities will be explored to translate classics belonging to both countries into German and Indian languages. For example, Sanskrit classics like Sannayasa Upanisads & Yatidharma Prakasha can be translated into German. Similarly, one of the following three German classics can be translated either into Hindi or Sanskrit: Die Blechtrommel by Gunter Grass, Buddenbrooks by Thomas Mann & the Trial by Franz Kafka.


      *******


      NB/AKJ/ OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589923) Visitor Counter : 446
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali