      Prime Minister's Office

      List of MoUs/Agreements signed during the visit of Chancellor of Germany to India (November 1, 2019)
      Posted On: 01 NOV 2019 3:10PM by PIB Delhi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Sl.No  Title                                                                                                   Parties                                                                                                            Exchange by (Indian Side)                        Exchange by (German Side)                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
1.     Joint Declaration of Intent on Consultations for the period 2020-2024                                   Ministry of External Affairs and German Ministry of Foreign Affairs                                                Dr. S. Jaishankar, EAM                           Mr. Heiko Maas, Foreign Minister                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
2.     Joint Declaration of Intent (JDI) of Regarding Cooperation on Strategic Projects                        Ministry of Railways (MoR) and Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy                                            Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav, Chairman, Railway Board  Mr. Christian Hirte Parliamentary State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Affairs & Energy                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
3.     Joint Declaration of Intent on Indo-German Partnership for Green Urban Mobility                         Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) and German Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development         Shri Durga Shankar Mishra, Secretary, MoHUA      Mr. Norbert Barthle, Parliamentary State Secretary, Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
4.     Joint Declaration of Intent for Joint Cooperation in Research & Development on Artificial Intelligence  Ministry of Science & Technology (MST) and German Ministry of Education & Research (BMBF)                          Prof Ashutosh Sharma Secretary, MST              Ms. AnjaKarliczek, Minister of Education & Research                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
5.     Joint Declaration of Intent regarding the cooperation in the field of prevention of marine litter       Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs AND Ministry for Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety, (BMU)  Shri Durga Shankar Mishra, Secretary, MoHUA      Mr. JochenFlasbarth, Parliamentary State Secretary, Ministry for Environment, Nature Conservation & Nuclear Safety
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     

    
    List of Agreements/ MoUs signed on the sidelines

     1. Implementing Arrangement for Exchange of Personnel between ISRO and German Aerospace Centre
        
        2. Joint Declaration of Intent on Cooperation in the Field of Civil Aviation
        
        3. Joint Declaration of Intent (JDI) on Cooperation within the International Smart Cities Network
        
        4. Joint Declaration of Intent between on Cooperation in the Field of Skills Development and Vocational Education and Training
        
        5. Declaration of Intent on Strengthening Economic Cooperation in the field of Start-ups
        
        6. Joint Declaration of Intent on the Establishment of Bilateral Cooperation Project regarding Agricultural Market Development
        
        7. Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in the field of Occupational Diseases, Re-habilitation and vocational training of Insured Persons & workers with disabilities
        
        8. Memorandum of Understanding For Cooperation in Inland, Coastal and Maritime Technology
        
        9. Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to promote, establish and expand scientific and technological research cooperation
        
        10. MoU on Establishment of an Academic Collaboration in Ayurveda, Yoga and Meditation
        
        11. Addendum to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Germany on Cooperation in the Field of Higher Education for Extension of the period of Indo-German Partnership in Higher Education
        
        12. MoU between National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management MANAGE and the German Agricultural Academy DEULA in the city of Nienburg on collaboration in agricultural technical and professional training
        
        13. Joint Declaration of Intent between Siemens Limited, India and MSDE and German Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development on Skills for Sustainable Growth
        
        14. MoU on the Extension of Indo-German Partnership in Higher Education
        
        15. Memorandum of Understanding regarding cooperation between the National Museum, the National Gallery of Modern Art, the Indian Museum Kolkata, the Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation and the Stiftung Humboldt Forum in Berliner Schloss
        
        16. Memorandum of Understanding between All India Football Federation (AIFF) and DeutscherFußball-Bund e.V (DFB)
        
        17. Statement of Intent on the key elements of the Indo-German Migration and Mobility Partnership Agreement.

    ***


    VRRK/KP/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589943) Visitor Counter : 1723
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
1.