      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Vigyanika to showcase science literature events at IISF 2019
      Posted On: 03 NOV 2019 5:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Vigyanika – an International Science Literature Festival – is slated to showcase science communication efforts and concepts through an interesting mix of media including drama, poetry, panel discussions and paper presentations during the 5 th India International Science Festival (IISF) beginning in Kolkata on Tuesday, November 5, 2019. The Vigyanika , to be held from November 5-7, 2019, will also include a science book fair displaying scientific publications from more than 30 reputed publishers.


    Vigyanika is being coordinated by the CSIR-National Institute of Science Communication and Information Resources (CSIR-NISCAIR), Vigyan Prasar, and Vigyan Bharati.


    The Union Minister of Science & Technology, Earth Sciences, and Health and Family Welfare, Dr. Harsh Vardhan, will be the Chief Guest of the inaugural function. Prof. Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, Department of Science and Technology will deliver the keynote address and Dr. Shekhar C. Mande, DG-CSIR and Secretary, DSIR will Chair the inaugural session.


    Spread across 16 multiple sessions of Vigyan Manthan (panel discussions), Vigyan Manchan (drama and poetry), Vigyan Spandan (scientific sessions) and Vigyan Prakashan (book fair), Vigyyanika will see nearly 75 eminent science communicators, authors, researchers and science journalists from India, USA, UK, South Korea, Indonesia, Vietnam and Nepal addressing more than 200 delegates from across the country.


    Vigyan Manthan will have four panel discussions on the themes Science of Happiness, Contemporary Science Literature: A perspective, Science Communication in Indian Languages and Taking Science to the People – Challenges & Solutions. The panel discussions will have 27 experts deliberating on these contemporary topics.


    Vigyan Spandan will have two scientific sessions on the theme Science Communication – Innovative Approaches during which fourteen research papers will be presented by researchers and scientists.


    Apart from discussions on the current state of science communication in the country and the attendant challenges & solutions, the International Science Literature Festival this time promises an eclectic mix of science communication media in the form of science poetry (Vigyan Kavi Sammelan), science drama on Acharya Prafulla Chandra Ray, and a science magic show. All these events are expected to entertain and educate the audience on science communication through unconventional methods.


    Two competitions will also be held as part of Vigyanika – a science debate competition and a science cartoon competition.


    The International Science Book Fair (Vigyan Prakashan) will have 30 publishers and research institutions exhibiting their science and technology publications and archives at Vigyanika. Book releases, meet-up and interactive discussions with authors will be part of the book fair. Six science books are slated for release at the book fair.


    Vigyanika will conclude with a Round Table discussion on November 7, 2019.


    *****


    KSP/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1590172) Visitor Counter : 408
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi