      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      M/o Personnel to organise conferences in newly created UTs of J&K and Ladakh: Dr Jitendra Singh
      
      
      2-day Regional Conference on “Replication of Good Governance Practices in UTs ofJ&K andLadakh” to be organised at Jammu on 15th-16th November
      
      Conference on ‘Jal Shakti and Disaster Management’under ‘Ek Bharat Shresht Bharat’ programmeto be held at Jammu on 30th Nov-1st Dec
      
      Posted On: 07 NOV 2019 6:35PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions is organising two conferences in Jammu focussing on replicating good governance practices in the newly created UTs of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. This was disclosed during the review meeting chaired by the MoS (PP) Dr Jitendra Singh here today. The Secretary DoPT, DARPG & Pensions Shri C. Chandramouli and senior officers of the department were also present during the meeting.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said that the Central Government aims to bring development and replicate good governance practices in the newly created UTs of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. The conferences to be organised by the Ministry of Personnel are a part of this proactive approach of the Central Government, he added.


    The Regional Conference on “Replication of good governance practices in UTs of Jammu &Kashmir andLadakh” will be organised at Jammuon 15 th and 16 th November. Various sessions will be held on the topics including Public Policy &Governance and Capacity Building& Personnel Administration etc. Presentations will be made on Digital Governance , Citizen Centric Governance , Aspirational Districts and PM Awards initiatives. The conference will be attended by MoS (PP) Dr Jitendra Singh, the LG, Ladakh Shri R. K. Mathur, LG J&K Shri G.C.Murmu, Secretary DOPT & DARPG Dr.C.Chandramouli, Chief Secretary J&K, Shri B.V. R. Subramanyam, Special Secretary & EO, DoPT, Shri P. K. Tripathi, Additional Secretary DARPG Shri V. Srinivas and other senior officers of the UTs and Central Government. Other initiatives such as GEM, UMANG, e-Vidhaan and e-Office will also be discussed. The DARPG initiatives including CPGRAMS 7.0 and Grievance Redressal– systemic improvements will be presented. The states including Bihar, Gujarat and J&K have been invited to share their experiences of Grievance Redressal. Presentations on PM awards initiatives will also be made. The conference is likely to be attended by representatives of 19 states and Central Ministries and Departments.


    The second Conference on ‘Jal Shakti and Disaster Management’ will be organised at Jammu on 30 th November and 1 st December on the theme of ‘Ek Bharat Shresht Bharat’, with Tamil Nadu being the leading participant. During this conference, sessions will be held on themes: Rejuvenation of rivers – Cauvery and Jhelum, Reducing Water Consumption in Agriculture, water warriors discussion, Management of Floods, NDRF Rescue Operations – 2014 Srinagar floods and 2015 Chennai floods, Emergency Responses and Forecasting & Early warning, among others. TheSecretary Water Resources, Shri U. P. Singh is also expected to attend the conference. Many officials including Director General National Mission on Clean Ganga Shri Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, Chairman Central Water Commission, ShriRajendra Kumar Jain and senior experts from Central Government, J&K Government and state Governments are also expected to attend the conference. The Member Secretary, NDMA Shri G. V. V. Sharma, Members NDMA Shri Kamal Kishore and Lt Gen N. C. Marwah will also participate in the conference, along with experts from NRSA, Hyderabad and Ministry of Earth Sciences. Experience sharing session on the role of NGO’s/ Civil Society in Rescue & Relief Operations will also be held. About 350 delegates from State Government, District Collectors/ District SP’s/ SDRF/ Additional District Collectors/ CEO’s of ZillavParishads/ Civil Society/ Engineering Departments/ Food & Civil Supplies Department/ Communication/ Flood affected Families are expected to attend the conference.


    The Minister said that the Department of Pensions and Pensioners’ Welfare will organise a Pensions Adalat in J&K , the date of which will be announced soon.,


    During the review meeting, other issues including 5-year Vision Document, 100-day agenda, dashboard of the Ministry and other issues related to the departments were also discussed.


    *************


    VRRK/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590927) Visitor Counter : 295
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi