      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Maps of newly formed Union Territories of Jammu Kashmir and Ladakh, with the map of India
      Posted On: 02 NOV 2019 6:11PM by PIB Delhi


    On the recommendation of Parliament, the President effectively dismantled Article 370 of the Indian Constitution and gave assent to the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act, 2019. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and supervision of Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah, the former state of Jammu & Kashmir has been reorganized as the new Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and the new Union Territory of Ladakh on 31 st October 2019.


    The new Union Territory of Ladakh consists of two districts of Kargil and Leh. The rest of the former State of Jammu and Kashmir is in the new Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir.


    In 1947, the former State of Jammu and Kashmir had the following 14 districts - Kathua, Jammu, Udhampur, Reasi, Anantnag, Baramulla, Poonch, Mirpur, Muzaffarabad, Leh and Ladakh, Gilgit, Gilgit Wazarat, Chilhas and Tribal Territory.


    By 2019, the state government of former Jammu and Kashmir had reorganized the areas of these 14 districts into 28 districts. The names of the new districts are as follows - Kupwara, Bandipur, Ganderbal, Srinagar, Budgam, Pulwama, Shupian, Kulgam, Rajouri, Ramban, Doda, Kishtivar, Samba and Kargil.


    Out of these, Kargil district was carved out from the area of ​​Leh and Ladakh district. The Leh district of the new Union Territory of Ladakh has been defined in the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization (Removal of Difficulties) Second Order, 2019, issued by the President of India, to include the areas of the districts of Gilgit, Gilgit Wazarat, Chilhas and Tribal Territory of 1947, in addition to the remaining areas of Leh and Ladakh districts of 1947, after carving out the Kargil District.


    On this basis, the maps prepared by Survey General of India depicting the new Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, as created on 31 October 2019, along with the map of India, are attached below.


    Please click here to see GAZETTE NOTIFICATION


    Please click here to see Map of UTs


    Please click here to see UT Ladakh


    Please click here to see UT of J&K


    Please click here to see India - Political1


    Please click here to see India Political2


    *****


    VG/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590112) Visitor Counter : 25424
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali