      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railways has celebrated Vigilance Awareness Week 2019 with the theme “Integrity-a way of life”
      
      Internal and outreach activities were organised in a number of schools and colleges in an effort to sensitize the youth
      
      A unique method was adopted of circulating Integrity Pledge on a mass scale to railway employees, rail users and public at large through text messages and railway portal
      
      Posted On: 05 NOV 2019 5:46PM by PIB Delhi


    Indian Railways has observed Vigilance Awareness Week- 2019 with the theme “Integrity- A way of life (ईमानदारी-एक जीवन शैली ) ” from 28 th October, 2019 to 02 nd November 2019 all over Indian Railways with mass participation at all levels. Integrity pledge was taken on 28 th October, 2019 by the officials of Ministry of Railways, Zonal Railways, Divisions, PUs & PSUs to commence the Vigilance Awareness Week.


    In a message on the occasion, Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal expressed his happiness regarding the event. He described:


    “Transparency and Accountability as the hallmark of the Government led by Honourable Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi and reiterated commitment of Railway administration in removing corruption as part of National Policy”.


    Minister of State of Railways, Shri Suresh C. Angadi in his message said that:


    “ Corruption can be rooted out with active and dedicated participation of the railway employees, stakeholders and citizens of the country and it can be done by creating awareness about ill effects of corruption to effect long lasting changes in the system” .


    Central Vigilance Commissioner (CVC), Shri Sharad Kumar administered Integrity Pledge to Railway Officials and released a vigilance magazine called “Chetna Aahwan” incorporating articles, stories, poems and messages on relevant issues concerning Vigilance at Northern Railway Head Quarter, New Delhi on 30 th October 2019. Similar booklets were released by other units of Indian Railways and widely circulated. Integrity Flame named “Agni Shikha” was flagged off by Shri Sharad Kumar, CVC and Chairman Railway Board, Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav to inculcate the spirit of integrity and transparency in the employees.


    To spread the message of honesty & Integrity amongst employees, passengers and other stakeholders, a unique method was adopted of circulating Integrity Pledge on a mass scale to railway employees, rail users and public at large through text messages and railway portal. Approximately five lakh Railway personnel and more than 03 lakh passengers took the Integrity pledge while about 2.64 crore users received messages of Integrity Pledge through railway app.


    Wide ranging publicity of activities focussed on corruption prevention and eradication were done on print, electronic and social media to sensitise employees & users and ensure their whole-hearted participation.


    A special effort was made to organise internal and outreach activities in a number of schools and colleges in an effort to sensitize the youth. Apart from distributing pamphlets, newsletters and journals on the topic, many seminars/workshops/skits/ street plays, employees/family competitions (debate, Quiz etc.), human chain formation & Customer Grievance Redressal Camps were also conducted. Debates/essay competitions contests etc. were organized in many educational institutions (schools and colleges).


    *****


    KSP/MKV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1590483) Visitor Counter : 530
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi