      Prime Minister's Office

      PM to visit Thailand from 2nd-4th November 2019
      
      PM to participate in various ASEAN related summits
      
      PM to address Indian community in Bangkok today
      Posted On: 02 NOV 2019 11:03AM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Narendra Modi is visiting Bangkok, Thailand today. He will participate in various ASEAN related Summits including the ASEAN-India Summit, East Asia Summit and a meeting on RCEP negotiations. He will also hold meetings with world leaders to discuss important bilateral and global issues.


    In his departure statement, Prime Minister said ASEAN related Summits are key elements of India’s foreign policy, most notably our Act East Policy. Highlighting the importance of East Asia Summit, Prime Minister said it gives an opportunity to present our vision for the Indo-Pacific region.


    At 6 PM IST today, PM will address ‘Sawasdee PM Modi’ community programme in Bangkok. Praising the contributions of Indian community to Thailand, Prime Minister said he is looking forward to interact with them.


    I would be in Bangkok, Thailand to participate in various @ASEAN related Summits including the ASEAN-India Summit, East Asia Summit and a meeting on RCEP negotiations. ASEAN related Summits are key elements of India’s foreign policy, most notably our Act East Policy. @ASEAN2019TH

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 2, 2019

    I would be in Bangkok, Thailand to participate in various @ASEAN related Summits including the ASEAN-India Summit, East Asia Summit and a meeting on RCEP negotiations. ASEAN related Summits are key elements of India’s foreign policy, most notably our Act East Policy. @ASEAN2019TH

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 2, 2019

    Connecting with the Indian diaspora is something I always look forward to. At 6 PM IST this evening in Bangkok, I would interact with the Indian community based in Thailand. Their contributions to Thailand in various spheres are valuable. https://t.co/ceR74W2sLr

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 2, 2019

    ***


    
    VRRK/KP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1590069) Visitor Counter : 666
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Tamil , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Kannada