      Prime Minister's Office

      Principal Secretary to PM holds a high level meeting with the States of Punjab, Haryana and Delhi to tackle air pollution
      
      Cabinet Secretary to monitor the situation with these States on daily basis.
      
      States told to monitor the situation with the districts regularly

      Posted On: 03 NOV 2019 7:05PM by PIB Delhi

    Principal Secretary to Prime Minister Dr. P. K. Mishra held a high level meeting this evening with the States of Punjab, Haryana and Delhi to tackle air pollution. The meeting comes in the wake of the increasing air pollution levels leading to an emergency like situation in the NCR.


    The meeting reviewed the situation arising out of stubble burning, construction activities, burning of wastes and industrial and vehicular pollution. It has been decided that the Cabinet Secretary Shri Rajiv Guaba will monitor the situation with these States on a daily basis. State Chief Secretaries have been asked to monitor the situation in the districts on 24x7 basis.


    The Centre has also asked the neighbouring states to reduce fire incidents and dust levels due to adverse meteorological conditions in the last three days. Chief Secretaries of the states provided details about the actions being taken by them to improve the situation.


    About 300 teams have been deployed in the field in the national capital to tackle the challenge of air pollution. Main focus is on 7 Industrial Clusters and major traffic corridors in the NCR. Similar arrangements have also been made by Punjab and Haryana and necessary machinery has been provided in the states.


    Today’s meeting is in continuation of the meeting held by Principal Secretary to Prime Minister on 24 th of October, 2019. The States had assured that the necessary measures will be put in place at the earliest. Centre held a series of meetings for necessary preparations to tackle the pollution problem since the high level review meeting by the Cabinet Secretary on 4 th October, 2019.


    Today’s meeting was attended by the Principal Advisor to the Prime Minister Shri P. K. Sinha, Cabinet Secretary, Secretary, Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Secretary, Agriculture, Chairman, Central Pollution Control Board, Director General of India Meteorological Department and Chief Secretaries of Punjab, Haryana and Delhi along with other senior officials.


    KSD/SNC/RP/MI

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590188) Visitor Counter : 616
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Tamil