      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Inter-Ministerial Committee reviews prices & availability of Onions across the Nation; Union Government to act as a facilitator for Onion imports to ease the process and ensure a quick and healthy supply from other countries
      Posted On: 05 NOV 2019 7:36PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Consumer Affairs (DoCA) through an inter-ministerial committee today again reviewed the prices and availability of Onions. The meeting chaired by the Secretary, Consumer Affairs Shri Avinash K Srivastava was attended by representatives of Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare including the Horticulture Commissioner, NAFED, Mother Dairy, Kendriya Bhandar, Representative of Delhi Government, representative from APMC Azadpur and senior officials of the Department of Consumer Affairs. During the meeting it was informed by officials that supply disruptions are mainly due to rain and two cyclones and it is expected to improve in the coming days.


    The following decisions were taken to augment supplies:

     1. Union Government to act as a facilitator for import of Onion. Phytosanitary and fumigation requirement to be suitably liberalised to facilitate imports. Indian missions in Afghanistan, Egypt, Turkey and Iran to be requested to facilitate supply of Onions to India. This is expected to facilitate immediate import of 80 containers and diversion of 100 containers in high seas to India.
     2. NAFED was directed to supply the maximum possible quantities to Delhi Government and Mother Dairy/Safal for retailing. Team led by Additional MD, NAFED to go to Nashik and take stock of the situation there and facilitate movement of supplies from Maharashtra to consuming regions including Delhi and adjoining regions.
     3. Two Inter Ministerial teams to be dispatched tomorrow and day after to Karnataka and Rajasthan to take stock of their Onion supplies and encourage the supplies to consuming regions including Delhi-NCR.
     4. Rajasthan government has already assured quick movement of Onion stock post harvesting to augment supplies. The harvesting has already commenced in some areas.
     5. Delhi Government was advised to accompany the Inter Ministerial team of officials going to Karnataka and Rajasthan. They were also advised to hold meeting with traders and encourage them to pick up available supplies in the region. They may also discourage traders from profiteering and speculative pricing.

    ****


    APS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590536) Visitor Counter : 440
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

5.