      Ministry of Education

      With a message of National Unity “KVS EK Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Parv” ends with a Grand Cultural Evening
      Posted On: 03 NOV 2019 8:36PM by PIB Delhi


    The four day long mega cultural and literary event of Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan ‘Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat Parv’ culminated in a grand cultural evening with Prize Distribution to the winners of various events. Secretary (SE&L), MHRD Sh. Amit Khare attended the ceremony as Chief Guest. While Joint Secretary, MHRD Sh. Ram Chandra Meena and Joint Secretary, MHRD Ms. LS Changson also graced the occasion as Guests of Honour. “Swachh Bharat” was adopted as the side theme of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat on closing day.


    Shri Amit Khare, Secretary, Department of School Education & Literacy, Ministry of Human Resource Development, hailed the efforts of Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan for organizing this mega event. He appealed to all students to imbibe the concept of Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat and make it a part of their school and daily life. He asked all Principals to allot special page in their annual school magazine for Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat. Sh. Amit Khare also disclosed before the august audience that he too is an alumnus of Kendriya Vidyalaya in Ranchi.


    Kolkata Region bagged 1st position as the overall winner under Ek Bharat SHreshth Bharat category, while Bengaluru stood first in the category of Language of LitFest and Bhopal Region got first position in the Display of Artefacts or Exhibition. A total number of 28 events were organized during the Parv.


    “Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat” on its concluding day adopted “Swachh Bharat” as its side theme to promote awareness on clean and green environment. Today’s outstanding exhibition based on the side theme was presented by KVS Gurugram Region. There were four different side themes allotted for all the four days, namely Fit India, Samagra Shiksha & Jal Suraksha, Ban on Single use Plastic and Swachh Bharat.


    KVS Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat Parv on its last day graciously started with the solo classical dance performances of selected participants from 25 KVS regions across the country. They presented gorgeous performances on Bharat Natyam, Kuchipudi and Kathak in Hall 1. In singing, Participants also presented solo classical songs whereas the audience enjoyed quiz competition and musical show presented by KVS teachers in hall no. 3 and 4 respectively.


    Participants from all the 25 KVS regions were paired with a different state and a foreign country. Students from these regions presented their crafted talent to represent the cultures, traditions, dressing style, language of their allotted states and countries.


    This mega event of KVS was inaugurated by Union HRD Minister Sh. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on 31st October 2019. HRD Minister himself wore the attire of Andhra Pradesh to give a message of Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat.


    Overall winners of the Parv:


    Category: Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat


    1st Prize: Kolkata Region


    2nd Prize: Ahmedabad Region


    3rd Prize: Bhubaneswar Region


    Category: Language & LitFest


    1st Prize: Bengaluru Region


    2nd Prize: Chennai Region


    3rd Prize: Ahmedabad Region


    Category: Display of Artefacts


    1st Prize: Bhopal Region


    2nd Prize: Hyderabad Region


    3rd Prize: Jaipur Region


    *****


    NB/AKJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590198) Visitor Counter : 810
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi