      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Switzerland on Technical Cooperation in the field of Climate Change and Environment
      Posted On: 06 NOV 2019 8:35PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Switzerland on Technical Cooperation in the field of Climate Change and Environment. The MoU was signed in Switzerland on 13 th September, 2019.


    Major impact:


    Environmental degradation falls on the socially and economically disadvantaged, more heavily than the better of sections of the society. Any effort at thwarting environmental degradation would lead to environmental equity in the sense of availability of sound environmental resources to all sections of the society.


    Benefits:


    The MoU will enable establishment and promotion of closer and long-term cooperation between the two countries in the field of environmental protection and management of natural resources on the basis of equity, reciprocity and mutual benefits, taking into account the applicable laws and legal provisions in each country. It will enhance public accountability by way of exchange of information and technology between the two countries. Further, It is expected to bring in the latest technologies and best practices suited for bringing about better environment protection, better conservation, better management of climate change and wildlife protection/conservation.


    Salient features:

     1. Capacity-building on Climate Change and Sustainable Water management;
     2. Sustainable Forest Management;
     3. Sustainable development of mountainous regions;
     4. Environmentally sustainable and resilient urban development;
     5. Addressing issues of Air, land and water pollution;
     6. Focussing on Clean and Renewable Energy; and
     7. Climate change risk management.

    ***


    VRRK/SC/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590687) Visitor Counter : 486
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil
    
    
    

7.