      Prime Minister's Office

      Meeting of Prime Minister with Prime Minister of Vietnam
      Posted On: 04 NOV 2019 6:43PM by PIB Delhi

     1. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi met H.E. Mr Nguyen Xuan Phuc, Prime Minister of Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the sidelines of India-ASEAN and East Asia Summit 2019 at Bangkok on 04 November 2019.
     2. The Leaders reaffirmed the historical and traditional friendly relations between the two countries and emphasized that India-Vietnam relations have been built on a firm foundation of cultural and civilisational links and are marked by mutual trust and understanding as well as strong cooperation in regional and international fora.
     3. It was highlighted during the meeting that recent high-level exchanges between both countries have resulted in robust cooperation in several areas, expansion of defence and security ties, forging of closer economic and commercial linkages and deepening of people-to-people engagement.
     4. Noting the enhanced engagement in defence and security fields, both sides agreed to enhance cooperation in maritime domain. The two leaders discussed the threat of extremism and terrorism and agreed to work closely to tackle this menace.

    5. The two sides reiterated their desire to promote peace, security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region. Both leaders committed to the maintenance of a rules-based order that is based on respect for international law, including the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). This will promote independence of navigation, overflight and rules-based trade in South China Sea.


    6. Prime Minister Modi conveyed India’s readiness to work closely with Vietnam as the incoming Chairman of ASEAN for 2020, and during its tenure as non-permanent member of UNSC for2020-2021.


    *****


    VRRK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590342) Visitor Counter : 548
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada
    
    
    

4.