      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Minister of Home Affairs Shri Amit Shah to inaugurate SCO Joint Urban Earthquake Search & Rescue Exercise (SCOJTEX)-2019
      Posted On: 02 NOV 2019 5:08PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Home Affairs Shri Amit Shah will inaugurate the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Joint Exercise on Urban Earthquake Search & Rescue (SCOJtEx-2019) on 04 th November, 2019 at 1500 Hrs at Dr. Ambedkar International Center, New Delhi. Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Nityanand Rai will be the chief guest for closing ceremony scheduled for 07 th November, 2019.


    On the initiative of Government of India, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) is hosting “Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Joint Urban Earthquake Search & Rescue Exercise (SCOJtEx.)-2019” of all 08 SCO member countries, with the aim to rehearse the disaster response mechanism, share knowledge, experience, technology & also for mutual coordination, etc. This exercise shall also provide an opportunity to enhance the coordination & co-operation involving multi-agency operations in an earthquake scenario.


    The four day long simulation exercise shall be held from 4-7 November, 2019 at Delhi. The participants of all 08 member countries namely China, India, Kazakhastan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan shall be participating in this exercise.


    The four day long simulation exercise shall be conducted as per the International Search & Rescue Advisory Group (INSARAG) methodology & guidelines. There will be a Joint Urban Earthquake Search & Rescue Exercise for Shanghai Cooperation Organization member states followed by the Shanghai Cooperation Organization experts meeting of Ministries responsible for Prevention and Elimination of Emergency Situation. During the exercise, role & responsibility of Urban Search & Rescue (USAR) at National & International Level, Emergency Medical Team (EMT), Humanitarian System/The United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination (UNDAC)/Emergency Response & Assessment Team (ERAT), On-Site Operations Coordination Centre (OSOCC), Establishment of Emergency Operation Centre (EOC)/Integrated Command Post (ICP)/Response Cluster, Local Emergency Management Authority (LEMA) & Cluster Meetings, Humanitarian Civil-Military Coordination (CM-Cord) will be discussed and practiced among the representatives from all 8 member nations.


    The main focus of Shanghai Cooperation Organization Joint Exercise on Urban Earthquake Search & Rescue (SCOJtEx-2019) shall be to test the region’s preparedness and resilience towards effective activation of Inter- governmental interaction for immediate response.


    Besides above, representatives from International Search & Rescue Advisory Group (INSARAG), Asian Coordination Centre for Humanitarian Assistance (AHA), Brazil, Mongolia, South Africa have been invited as observers. Representatives from the embassies of all SCO member nations, heads of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and representatives of other stakeholders shall also be participating in this exercise.


    ****


    VG/VM/HS/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590096) Visitor Counter : 827
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi