      Cabinet

      Cabinet approves protocol amending the Convention between India and Brazil for the avoidance of double taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income
      Posted On: 06 NOV 2019 8:34PM by PIB Delhi


    he Union Cabinet Chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi approved the signing of the Protocol amending the Convention between the Government of the Republic of India and the Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income.


    Implementation Strategy and Targets:


    After Cabinet approval, necessary formalities for bringing the Protocol into force will be completed. Implementation would be watched and reported by the Ministry.


    Major impact:


    Through updation of the Double Taxation Avoidance Convention’s (DTAC's) provisions to international standards, the Amending Protocol between India and the Federative Republic of Brazil will facilitate elimination of double taxation. Clear allocation of taxing rights between Contracting States through DTAC will provide tax certainty to investors & businesses of both countries. The Amending Protocol will augment the flow of investment through lowering of tax rates in source State on interest, royalties and fees for technical services. The Amending Protocol implements minimum standards and other recommendations of G-20 OECD Base Erosion Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project. Inclusion of Preamble Text, a Principal Purpose Test, a general anti abuse provision in the DTAC along with a Simplified Limitation of Benefits Clause as per BEPS Project will result in curbing of tax planning strategies which exploit gaps and mismatches in tax rules


    Point-wise details:


    a. The existing DTAC between India and Brazil was signed on 26th April, 1988 and was amended through a Protocol signed on 15th October 2013 in respect of exchange of information. Through the present Protocol, the DTAC has been amended on various other aspects.


    b. The amended DTAC also implements the minimum standards as well as other recommendations of the G-20 OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Project.


    Background:


    The existing Double Taxation Avoidance Convention (DTAC) between India and Brazil being very old was required to be amended to bring it in line with international developments and also to implement the recommendations contained in the G20 OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project (BEPS).


    ***


    VRRK/SC/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590686) Visitor Counter : 549
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam