      Ministry of Tourism

      Ministry of Tourism participates in three day long World Travel Market (WTM) in London
      
      Theme for India Pavilion at WTM 2019 is ‘Incredible India – Find the Incredible India’
      
      150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and Statue of Unity have been showcased prominently at the India Pavilion at WTM 2019 in London
      Posted On: 05 NOV 2019 6:20PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Tourism is participating in the three day long World Travel Market (WTM) from November 04-06, 2019 in London, UK. The theme for India Pavilion at WTM 2019 is ‘Incredible India – Find the Incredible India’. A total of 32 stakeholders, including State Governments, Union Territory Administrations, Air India, IRCTC, Hotels, Wellness resorts and tour operators are participating as co-exhibitors in the India Pavilion.


    A number of activities including cultural programmes, Yoga demonstration, Henna Application, Indian Food tasting, Turban tying, Saree tying, etc. are being organised in the India Pavilion. Besides, showcasing India’s various tourism products, this year, the 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and the Statue of Unity are also being promoted and publicized in the India Pavilion at WTM 2019.


    Secretary of Union Ministry of Tourism Shri Yogendra Tripathi is leading the official delegation at WTM 2019 which also includes Additional Director General (Tourism) Ms. Rupinder Brar. India Pavilion at WTM 2019 was inaugurated on 04 th November 2019 by the Secretary (Tourism) and High Commissioner of India to the UK Ms. Ruchi Ghanashyam.


    A Panel Discussion was organised yesterday (4-11-2019) on the theme ‘Incredible India – Find the Incredible You’ for showcasing India as an experiential destination and to make tourists realize the wider potential for experiences on offer in India. The Panel discussion was moderated by Ms. Nina Dos Santos, CNN Europe Editor.


    WTM is one of the must-attend business-to-business exhibition for the travel and tourism industry worldwide. In the last four decades, WTM has grown in to world’s largest Exhibition attracting over 5,000 exhibitors from 182 countries and regions and more than 51,000 participants. Participants includes, senior travel industry professionals, government ministers and international press, embark on ExCeL – London every November to network, negotiate and discover the latest industry opinion and trends at WTM London.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590501) Visitor Counter : 597
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Urdu , Hindi