      Ministry of Science & Technology

      German Minister for Education & Research calls on Dr Harsh Vardhan
      
      India and Germany to cooperate in Artificial intelligence

      Posted On: 01 NOV 2019 7:43PM by PIB Delhi

    The German Federal Minister for Education & Research, Ms. AnjaKarliczek called on the Union Minister for Science & Technology, Earth Sciences and Health &Family Welfare, Dr. Harsh Vardhanhere today to discuss various activities under Science and Technology and status of research – cooperation between both countries.


    Ms. Karliczek and Dr. Harsh Vardhan expressed their happiness on Joint Declaration Intent to launch dedicated research cooperation on Artificial Intelligence addressing several societal issues pertaining to cyber security.


    The interdisciplinary Cyber Physical Systems programme launched in India last year by the Department of Science and Technology (DST) encompasses all elements including Artificial Intelligence, Internet of things etc. This new initiative with Germany will be operated through existing Indo-German Science and Technology Centre at Gurugram.


    The visiting Minster and Dr. Harsh Vardhan expressed satisfaction on research Cooperation between the two countries for the past few decades through which 2,000 scientists, scholars and students from both countries have exchanged their knowledge through networking visits supported by the DST under Government of India and Ministry of Education and Research, Government of Germany.


    They also acknowledged the progress of Indo-German Science and Technology Centre jointly established by the two Governments since 2010 onwards. The Centre supports in 2+2 (involving industry and academia from both sides) mode for translation of research into products / processes and services, serving as unique model of research partnership for socioeconomic contribution through technological intervention. These projects have been on the themes of Advanced Manufacturing and Materials, Biotechnology / Bioeconomy, embedded system and ICT, biomedical technologies, sustainable energy / energy materials for storage, efficiency, environment, water and waste water management and Smart Cities – integrated water management and sanitation systems for urban settings technologies for waste utilisation.


    Indian and German scientists are also cooperating with other international community on Facility for Antiproton and Ion Research (FAIR) at Darmstadt, Germany. The FAIR facility is under development at present.


    Mr. Karliczekis on a visit to India as a part of the German delegation led by Chancellor Dr. Angela Merkel. The delegation also participated today in the 5 th edition of the Inter-Governmental Consultations between India and Germany. In the presence of the Indian and German high level delegations led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and German Chancellor, Dr. Angela Merkel, the Joint Declaration for cooperation in Artificial Intelligence was exchanged today.


    *****


    KSP/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1590055) Visitor Counter : 357
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi