      Ministry of Defence

      Air Marshal Amit Dev AVSM VrC VSM Charge as Air Officer in Charge Personnel
      Posted On: 01 NOV 2019 6:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Air Marshal Amit Dev, AVSMVSM, took over as Air Officer In Charge Personnel, Air Headquarters Vayu Bhawan on 01 November 2019.


    The Air Marshal graduated from National Defence Academy in December 1981 and was commissioned in the flying branch of Indian Air Force on 29 December 1982 as a fighter pilot. In a distinguished career spanning nearly 37 years, the Air Officer has flown wide variety of fighter and trainer aircraft in the inventory of IAF. He has a flying experience of more than 2500 hours, including operational flying on MiG- 21 and MiG-27 fighter aircrafts.


    During his career, the Air Officer has held numerous important appointments. He was Commanding Officer of a frontline fighter squadron and later on became the Station Commander of the Air Defence Direction Centre. He was Air Officer Commanding of an operational fighter base and Advance HQ, South Western Air Command. As an
    Air Vice Marshal he held the appointment of Assistant Chief of Air staff (Inspection) at
    Air Headquarters Vayu Bhawan. Prior to taking over as the Air Officer In Charge Personnel, he held the appointment of Director General Air (Operations) at Air HQ wherein he was responsible for the Operations of the IAF. He is an alumnus of Tactics and Air Combat Development Establishment, Defence Services Staff College, College of Air Warfare and National Defence College. He holds Masters in Defence Studies from Madras University and M Phil degree from Osmania and Madras University.


    In recognition of his distinguished service, the Air Marshal was awarded ‘VishishtSeva Medal’ by the president of India in 2010 and ‘AtiVishishtSevaMedal’ in 2019.


    The Air Marshal is married to Mrs Seema Dev and they are blessed with two sons.


    ***


    AB/THANGA/BSK/JAI

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590016) Visitor Counter : 209
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi