      Ministry of Home Affairs

      A delegation from Jammu & Kashmir meets MOS for Home Affairs, Shri G. Kishan Reddy
      Posted On: 04 NOV 2019 8:20PM by PIB Delhi


    A delegation from Jammu & Kashmir met Shri G. Kishan Reddy, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs here today. The delegation included Sarpanches, Moulvies, representatives of J&K Progressive People’s Front, Pahadi Youths Association, J&K Peace Foundation, All J&K State Pasmanda Sabka Development Welfare Society, All J&K Auto Union and Chairman, Block Development Council of Anantnag, Baramulla, Kulgam.


    During discussions, Shri G. Kishan Reddy explained to the representatives from J&K the steps taken by the Union Government to protect the people of the state from any incidents of violence in the aftermath of the abrogation of Article 370 and the plans to spur peace and prosperity in the region. It was mentioned that decision of the Union Government will enable the people to access and enjoy the same rights, same privileges and same facilities as their fellow citizens in the rest of the country. The people of Jammu & Kashmir will now have access to Central schemes and benefits. The decision will now lead to private investments in education, health and tourism that will give create jobs and bring economic prosperity for the State. Shri Reddy reassured the representatives that nobody’s land would be taken away and government will use its own land for the establishment of hospitals, educational institutions, industries etc. Shri Reddy also informed the delegation that now onwards the provisions of the 73 rd and 74 th Constitutional (Amendment) Acts would be applicable to Jammu & Kashmir and this would serve to empower local governance and Panchayati Raj institutions in J&K.


    Further, the people of the State will have access to progressive and egalitarian laws – access to public information through the Right to Information Act; reservations in education and employment and other facilities for traditionally deprived communities. The tourism potential of the State will be fully realized and investment in tourist infrastructure and hotels will create more jobs, he added.


    Shri Reddy urged the representatives that it would be their responsibility to ensure that the benefits of various government schemes would reach the correct beneficiaries and that an atmosphere of peace and prosperity is maintained.


    The representatives from J&K handed over a Memorandum to Union MOS (Home) seeking support for certain development projects for the UT of J&K. They also suggested certain Confidence Building Measures (CBMs) for restoration of normalcy. These include special employment package, promotion of sports as a process of peace building, including some cities of J&K under “Smart Cities Mission” of the Union Government, development of ring-road projects etc. Shri Reddy mentioned that the Government of India is fully committed towards the development of J&K and assured them that all their suggestions will be quickly examined in consultation with the concerned Ministries and all possible support will be extended so that people of J&K benefit from it.


    VG/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590374) Visitor Counter : 323
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi