      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Vigyanika-International Science Literature Festival to showcase Science Book Fair
      Posted On: 03 NOV 2019 5:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Vigyanika -International Science Literature Festival, being organised as part of the 5 th India International Science Festival (IISF) 2019 at Kolkata, will also feature a Science Book Fair where more than thirty publishers will display their scientific publications.


    IISF 2019 is an annual event organised jointly by the Ministry of Science & Technology and Earth Sciences and Vijnana Bharati (Vibha). The fifth edition of IISF this year is being held at Kolkata during November 5–8, 2019.


    Vigyanika -International Science Literature Festival is being coordinated by the CSIR-National Institute of Science Communication and Information Resources (CSIR-NISCAIR), Vigyan Prasar and Vigyan Bharati. The event would be held at the Biswa Bangla Convention Centre in Kolkata.


    T he International Science Literature Festival will be inaugurated on 5 th November 2019 by the Union Minister of Science & Technology, Earth Sciences and Health and Family Welfare, Dr Harsh Vardhan. Secretary, Department of Science & Technology, Govt. of India Prof. Ashutosh Sharma will deliver the keynote address while Dr Shekhar C. Mande, Secretary, Department of Scientific & Industrial Research and Director General, Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) will chair the session.


    Apart from panel discussions, invited talks, and paper presentations on themes related to science communication, public engagement with science, and science policy for science communication Vigyanika will also feature innovative formats of science communication such as drama, poetry, and magic. A Science Book Fair will also be a major attraction of Vigyanika.


    The Science Book Fair is expected to feature more than thirty renowned publishers of scientific literature from across the country. Apart from scientific publishers, several scientific institutes and departments will also display their scientific publications, which include popular science books, encyclopaedias, journals, science magazines and various other knowledge products – a unique opportunity for the lovers of scientific literature in Kolkata.


    Apart from a display of scientific literature, the Science Book Fair will be interspersed with exciting events such as release of new books, meetings with authors, and science storytelling sessions. Two competitions are also being organized as part of the Science Book Fair. These include a debate competition and a competition to draw the best cartoon on a scientific topic.


    Children, teachers, innovators, scientists, academicians, craftsmen and entrepreneurs are invited to this grand India International Science Festival. And those with an interest in science literature, popular science books and various other formats of science communication should not miss this opportunity to visit the Science Book Fair at the Biswa Bangla Convention Centre, Kolkata during November 5-7, 2019.


    *****


    KSP/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1590173) Visitor Counter : 628
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi