      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister Meets Japanese PM Shinzō Abe
      Posted On: 04 NOV 2019 11:10AM by PIB Delhi


      Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi met the Prime Minister of Japan, H.E. Mr. Shinzo Abe on the margins of India-ASEAN and East Asia Summit 2019 at Bangkok on 04 November 2019. The two leaders have met with each other thrice in the last about four months, and their previous meeting was in Vladivostok in September 2019.


      

      

      The Prime Minister congratulated Prime Minister Abe on the recent coronation of the Emperor of Japan. Prime Minister Abe recalled warmly the participation of the President of India in the ceremony.
      
      Prime Minister Modi said that he eagerly looked forward to welcoming Prime Minister Abe in India next month for India-Japan Annual Summit. He also said that he was convinced of the success of the forthcoming Annual Summit in further deepening the India-Japan Special Strategic and Global Partnership.
      
      The leaders welcomed the increasing economic engagement between the two countries, propelled by high-level exchanges. The leaders also reviewed the progress on Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail project and reaffirmed their commitment to advance mutual efforts to facilitate the smooth implementation of the project.
      
      The leaders welcomed that the inaugural 2+2 Foreign and Defence Ministerial Dialogue will take place later this month in India. They agreed that the Dialogue will help provide impetus to the bilateral security and defence cooperation between the two sides.
      
      The two Prime Ministers also reaffirmed their commitment towards a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region based on a rules-based order. They agreed to further strengthen the bilateral cooperation, including in thirdcountries, for achieving the shared objective of peace, prosperity and progress of the Indo-Pacific region.


      Greater momentum to cooperation with Japan.
      
      Prime Ministers @narendramodi and @AbeShinzo met in Bangkok. Their talks were extensive and productive. pic.twitter.com/l5FOc97uFf

      — PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 4, 2019

      ******


      VRRK/KP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1590230) Visitor Counter : 854
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada