      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      “Creation of UT of J&K and Ladakh historic, opened the flood gates of development and progress in the region”: Dr. Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 12 NOV 2019 7:49PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh has said the historic step of creating the two Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh has opened the flood gates of development and progress in the region. Addressing a delegation of teachers from Jammu and Kashmir UT here today, he said the Articles 370 and 35A were archaic and only served to impediments to the development of the erstwhile state of J&K. “The abrogation of these Articles also unleashed a war on corruption with the setting up of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, ACB in the UT Police,” he added.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh said since the UTs came into being the teachers have ceased to be state government employees and now are at a par with the Central Government employees. “Their salaries have been doubled and they can now draw several pecuniary benefits like CGHS healthcare cover, Education Allowance and Hostel reimbursement for Children’s Education and LTC,” he said.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh gave a patient hearing to the teachers’ demands for creation of autonomous independent Education Commission for the newly created UTs, transparent transfer policy and DPC of all cadres in the School Education Department besides regular payment of salary.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh said the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has promised a new dawn for the UT of J&K. “As many as eight Medical Colleges have been sanctioned for the UT at Kathua, Udhampur, Doda and two AIIMS in Jammu and Srinagar,” he said. “Panchayats have been granted Rupees One Crore each to undertake development works,” he said. “Besides, the Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah has assured the UT status is temporary and the State status will be restored in Jammu and Kashmir at an appropriate moment,” he added.


    ***


    NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591396) Visitor Counter : 430
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi