      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Tobacco Board Receives 2019 Golden Leaf Award
      Posted On: 14 NOV 2019 5:43PM by PIB Delhi


    Tobacco Board of India has been awarded the Golden Leaf Award in the Most Impressive Public Service Initiative category for the year 2019, for its efforts to initiate various sustainability (green) initiatives in Flue-Cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco cultivation in India. Executive Director of Tobacco Board, K. Sunitha, received the award at Tab Expo 2019 event in Amsterdam, The Netherlands yesterday.


    The awards under this category are given to a company or institution that introduced a public service programme or educational campaign of creativity, effectiveness to date and best use of resources. Awards are granted on an annual basis to companies that have achieved outstanding performance in five categories - most impressive public service initiative, most promising new product introduction, most exciting newcomer to the industry, most outstanding service to the industry and the BMJ most committed to quality award.


    The Golden Leaf Awards were created to recognize professional excellence and dedication in the tobacco industry by Tobacco Reporter, an international magazine in the year 2006. Tobacco Board got this award for its best outstanding public service in sustainability to the industry for its, initiatives on natural farming in tobacco cultivation for production of organic tobaccos, improving the soil health through green manuring, introduction of 365 days green cover in tobacco cultivation, promotion of advanced nursery technologies- Green Tech nurseries, elimination of Non-Tobacco Related Material (NTRM), elimination of pesticide residues in tobacco by encouraging residue free tobacco cultivation, energy conservation initiatives resulting in energy savings of 25%, development of greenery through mandatory planting of trees by tobacco farmers and tobacco trade and educating and guiding farmers on Good Agricultural Practices (GAP).


    Tobacco Board believes that these unique initiatives pioneered by Tobacco Board for the overall benefit of the farming community and sustenance of the tobacco industry as a whole are proving to be promising in achieving the ultimate goal of sustainability.


    In 2014, the Tobacco Board of India won a Golden Leaf Award in the Most Impressive Public Service Initiative category for its implementation of an electronic auction system, which has made the marketing of flue-cured tobacco in India more transparent and accountable.


    India is the world's fourth largest producer of FCV tobacco. About 88,000 FCV tobacco farmers and their families in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are dependent on this crop for their livelihood.


    In order to address the negative effects of tobacco cultivation that extend beyond those on health to economic problems and environmental degradation and to ensure sustainability, Tobacco Board has taken various initiatives relating to extension activities, Good Agricultural Practices (GAP), natural farming in tobacco cultivation for production of organic tobaccos(on the lines of ZBNF now being advocated by Government of India), 365 days green cover in tobacco cultivation, promotion of advanced nursery technologies, elimination of Non-Tobacco Related Material (NTRM) and elimination of pesticide residues, energy conservation initiatives and development of greenery with growers and trade and initiated a series of measures for achieving sustainability in the sector.


    Tobacco Board believes that these unique initiatives pioneered by Tobacco Board for the overall benefit of the farming community and sustenance of the tobacco industry as a whole are proving to be promising in achieving the ultimate goal of sustainability.


    Tobacco Board has promoted green manuring to improve soil health. In


    2019-2020 crop season, following a special drive, an area of 8,200 hectares was covered under green manure crops in the state of Andhra Pradesh.


    The Board introduced natural farming techniques for production of organic and residue free tobaccos. Trials were undertaken in each of the auction platform jurisdiction in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka in about 30 plots covering an area of 120 acres.


    Tobacco Board took up a campaign in the hot spot areas found to have higher Chemical Plant Protection Agent (CPA) residues and has put in place a very effective track and trace mechanism which has ultimately yielded positive test results which showed CPA residues well below the Guidance Residue Levels(GRL’s).


    The Board implemented Good Agricultural Practices (GAPs) in tobacco farming for improving yield and quality


    Energy conservation measures were taken up in a big way to sustain environment. 30000 barns in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are insulated resulting in energy savings of 25%.


    Tobacco Board has supplied 6,50,000 saplings through the forest department to the tobacco farmers for greenery development in tobacco producing areas.


    Tobacco Board is a statutory body established under Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The main functions of the Board include regulating the production and curing of Virginia tobacco in India, implementation of extension and developmental activities for improving the yields and quality of tobacco, facilitating sale of tobacco through e-auctions on the auction floors of the Board, undertaking various grower welfare measures and export promotion of tobacco and tobacco products.


    ***


    MM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591620) Visitor Counter : 1551
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi