      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      2-day Regional Conference on Replication of Good Governance Practices concludes today
      
      ‘Sushasan Sankalp: Jammu Ghoshana’ resolution adopted
      
      Various sessions on Good Governance, Digital Governance, Aspirational districts and Citizen Centric Governance held
      
      19 states and 4 UTs participated and shared their experience

      Posted On: 16 NOV 2019 1:19PM by PIB Delhi

    The two-day Regional Conference on ‘Replication of Good Governance Practices in UTs of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh being organised in Jammu concluded today. The Conference was inaugurated yesterday by the Union Minister (PP) Dr Jitendra Singh. The Lt. Gov. of J&K, Shri G.C. Murmu, The Secretary DoPT and DARPG, Dr C. Chandramouli, J&K Chief Secretary, Shri BVR Subrahmanyam, Additional Secretary, DARPG, Shri. V. Srinivas and other senior Officers were present during the inaugural session.


    During the Valedictory session held in Jammu today, the Conference has unanimously adopted the Sushasan Sankalp outlined below after intensive deliberations during the sessions held over two days. The Conference resolved that Government of India and the participating State Governments and the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh shall collaborate to:


     1. Develop the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh as models of administrative excellence using digital technologies in implementation of welfare Union Territory programs;

     2. To make sustained efforts to create a transparent, accountable and people-centric administration in the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh;
     3. Improve the Citizen’s interface with Government by promotion of digital governance, citizen centric governance, innovation and capacity building in the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh;
     4. Refine and consolidate the successful local Governance initiatives and upscale them across Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh to bring out the best outcomes of Governance and Public Policy to the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh;
     5. To improve the grievance redressal mechanisms by forging greater synergy between Awaaz e-Awam and the CPGRAMS;
     6. Promote the use of e-Office and move towards less paper Secretariats in the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh;
     7. Promote capacity building and personnel administration by formulating mid-career training programs and specific need-based training programs for officials in the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh;
     8. Replicate the innovations and the best practices in successful national governance initiatives including digital governance, citizen centric grievance redressal and aspirational districts so as to provide a clean, transparent and people centric governance to the UTs of J&K and Ladakh.

    The Advisor to Lt. Governor J&K, Shri K. K. Sharma, Additional Secretary, DARPG, Government of India Shri V. Srinivas, Principal Secrertary, AR, J&K, Shri Rohit Kansal, Secretary GAD, Shri Farookh Ahmad Lone, Joint Secretary, DARPG, Ms Jaya Dubey and other delegates were present during the Valedictory session.


    During the two-day event, various sessions were organized on the topics ranging from Digital Governance to Capacity Building and Personnel Administration.


    On the Inaugural Day, a session on 'Public Policy and Governance' was organised which was chaired by Shri Arun Kumar Mehta, the Financial Commissioner Finance Department, J&K. He said that good governance is about ensuring greater good for the people, specially poor people who don’t have a voice in the system. He emphasized upon the fast and efficient delivery of services. AS, DARPG, Shri V. Srinivas said that this is one of the important conferences as 19 states and 4 UTs are participating in it. He said that successful implementation of priority programmes is important for achieving PM's 'New India'. While quoting the examples of e-mitras, digital merchants, Shri Srinivas said that Digital transformation is very important part of good governance. For inclusive model of Governance, the digital divide needs to be reduced, he added. He mentioned about various initiatives across the country, which included Swacchh Bharat Abhiyan, Education and others. He quoted example of Banko Bikano of Bikaner, Ambikapur model- Foot soldiers in Chhattisgarh and Unnayan Banka model, among others.


    He also quoted examples of UPI, BHIM App, DBT, Common Service Centres and Aadhaar scheme with regard to implementation of Digital India.


    Speaking about e-Vidhaan Dr. Satya Prakash, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs, said that National e-Vidhan Application is an one nation one application which will be a huge and authentic knowledge pool for Members, researchers, media and citizens. All members will be linked through telephone and email. It will be cost effective model, he said. He added that it is a Digital legislature using digital tools for rule & role clarity. Quoting its features, Shri Prakash said that it leads to In house automation, responsive and responsible information and WiFi enabled Houses.


    Speaking about the factors influencing the public policy and governance, Smt Jaya Dubey, Joint Secretary, DARPG, said that up-gradation in technology requires some amendments in the laws. She added that reforms in public administration are essential for good governance. She emphasised that expertise in policy making, ethics and time bound decisions are important and extensive deliberations are required on it. She also spoke about the outcome budget and utilisation certificates should be issued on the basis of physical progress.


    During the session on ‘Digital Governance’, the Principal Secretary IT Nagaland Shri K. D. Vizo, chaired the session. Various presentations included GEM by Shri Talleen Kumar, CEO Government e-Market, UMANG by Shri Neeraj Kumar, Director (Project Appraisal & Finance & Projects), National e-Gov Division, MeITY and presentation on e-Office by Smt. Rachna Srivastava, DDG, NIC.


    The next session was held on Citizen Centric Governance, chaired by Principal Secretary to LG, J&K Shri Bipul Pathak. A presentation was made by Mrs Prisca Mathew, Deputy Secretary, DARPG on the CPGRAMS 7.0 and Grievance Redressal – systemic improvements. Shri D. Baskara Pandian, Special Officer, CM Grievance Cell made presentation on Grievance redressal – the Tamil Nadu experience. The Additional Secretary (Finance), Jammu, Dr Syed Abid Rasheed Shah made presentation on Delivery in challenging law and order circumstances. A presentation on Awaz e-Awam was made by Ms Azeeta Qureshi, Under Secretary, Government of J&K. During the session, Shri Shanbor Warjri, MCS, Shillong from Chief Minister’s Public Grievance Redressal Mechanism also made a presentation.


    The session on Aspirational Districts was chaired by the Additional Secretary, DARPG Shri V. Srinivas. Collector YSR Kadapa Shri C. Hari Kiran made presentation on Water conservation through Sub-Surface Dams. The Deputy Commissioner, Hazaribagh, Jharkhand, Dr Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh made presentation on BDO & Panchayat Score card. A presentation on Mission Indradhanush was made by Shri D. Krishna Bhaskar, District Collector Sidipet, Telangana and on Mission API-10 (malaria eradication) by Dr Arun Kumar Padhi, DPHO, Koraput, Odisha.


    On the second day of the conference today, presentations were made on ‘Select Innovations’ at the session chaired by Shri Atul Dulloo, Financial Commissioner, Health & Medical Education, J&K. A presentation on Jung-e-Azaadi by Shri Vinay Bublani, CEO Punjab Freedom Movement Memorial Foundation & DC, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. A presentation on NRLM was made by Shri Angrez Singh Rana, Collector, Kishtwar and on e-NAM by Shri Susheel Guleria, Secretary (APMC), Kullu, HP.


    The session on Capacity Building and Personnel Administration was chaired by Shri B.P. Acharya, DG, MCR HRD Hyderabad, Telangana, Dr Poonam Singh Associate Professor, NCGG made presentation on training. Dr Reva Sharma (Training), IMPARD, J&K made presentation on Training Programs in J&K.


    ********


    NK/SMA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591817) Visitor Counter : 654
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

8.