      Vice President's Secretariat

      Landmark 250th session of Rajya Sabha begins tomorrow
      
      Chairman Shri Venkaiah Naidu informs leaders of celebratory events
      
      Members to discuss ‘Role of Rajya Sabha in Indian Polity : Need for Reform’
      
      Coin, Postal Stamp, two publications to be released
      
      Rajya Sabha has come a long way towards nation building, but miles to go, says Shri Naidu
      
      Chairman expresses concern over absenteeism in Committee meetings
      Posted On: 17 NOV 2019 6:01PM by PIB Delhi


    Rajya Sabha Chairman Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu has said that the Upper House, since it’s inception in 1952 has come a long way contributing to the socio-economic transformation of the country but still has ‘miles to go’ towards proper functioning. He shared details of the accomplishments of the House and concerns over it’s functioning at a meeting of the leaders of various parties and groups at the official residence of the Vice President here today.


    Giving an account of the journey of the Upper House during the last 67 years, Shri Naidu said; “Rajya Sabha has been an integral part of the socio-economic transformation of our country since it came into being in 1952. From passing the Hindu Marriage and Divorce Bill in 1952 to the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill in 2019(Triple Talak Bill), from imposition of additional excise duty on dhotis in 1953 to introduction of GST in 2017, from passing the Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Bill in 1954 to the New Delhi International Arbitration Centre Bill in 2019, from the passage of the Andhra State Bill in 1953 to the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill in 2019, from clearing the All India Institute of Medical Sciences Bill in 1955 to the National Medical Council Bill in 2019, from setting up of the University Grants Commission in 1954 to empowering the Children with the Right to Free and Compulsory Education in 2009 and from passing the Preventive Detention (Second Amendment) Bill in 1952 to the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Bill in 2019, Rajya Sabha has come a long way in addressing the challenges faced and meeting the requirements of the nation from time to time. But we still have miles to go in letting our country realize it’s full potential by making up for the missed time and opportunities and in respect of the functioning of the House itself.”


    Referring to the highly productive last and the 249 th session, the best in several years, Shri Naidu urged the leaders to ensure that this positive momentum is sustained during this session so that a few more miles could be covered.


    Referring to the reports of absenteeism of members in the meetings of the Department Related Standing Committees, Shri Naidu urged the leaders to ensure proper attendance of MPs so that the Committees could effectively examine and report on various subjects selected and Bills referred in a bipartisan and detailed manner on behalf of the Parliament for which the Committees were envisaged.


    Shri Naidu informed the leaders of various events planned for celebrating the landmark 250 th session of Rajya Sabha beginning tomorrow. These include:

     1. Release of a publication, titled “Rajya Sabha: The Journey since 1952” providing glimpses of various aspects of functioning of the House and it’s Hindi version;
     2. Discussion in the House on the ‘Role of Rajya Sabha in Indian Polity: Need for Reform’ on the first working day;
     3. Release of a commemorative volume on the evolution of Rajya Sabha and it’s functioning with 44 articles in Hindi and English by the sitting and former members and those associated with the functioning of the House;
     4. Release of a Silver coin of Rs.250; and
     5. Release of Postal Stamp of Rs.5.00.

    Chairman Shri Naidu also informed the leaders that a Joint Sitting of Members of both the Houses of Parliament will be held in the Central Hall on the 26 th of this month marking the 70 th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of India by the Constituent Assembly on November 26, 1949.


    Shri Naidu also released a publication, titled “Rajya Sabha: The Journey since 1952” providing glimpses of various aspects of functioning of the House and it’s Hindi version.


    The following is the full text of the address:


    Respected Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Shri Prahlad Joshi ji, Leader of the House Shri Thawarchand Gehlot ji, Leader of the Opposition Shri Ghulam Nabi Azad ji, Ministers and honourable leaders of different parties and groups in Rajya Sabha !


    I extend a warm welcome to all of you for this meeting ahead of the landmark 250 th session of Rajya Sabha beginning tomorrow. On this historic occasion, it is expected of us to collectively reflect on the journey of the august House since it came into being in 1952. It is also required of us to collectively introspect on it’s functioning and focus on addressing the shortcomings that are in the public domain as a matter of concern.


    The last and the 249 th session of Rajya Sabha proved to be a turning point by being the best session in the last many years in several aspects of it’s functioning including the productivity, the quantum of legislative work transacted, the range of issues of public importance taken up, duration of the session etc.


    Given the wide appreciation received including from the media for the functioning of the House during the last session, it is expected of us to sustain with such positive momentum.


    The Department Related Standing Committees were reconstituted in September this year after receiving proposals from various parties. I am happy to know that these Committees have got into action soon thereafter by identifying various issues and subjects for examination and reporting thereon. The Committees are meeting regularly. One report has already been submitted to me by the Committee on Science and Technology. But I like to share my deep sense of concern over the reports of poor attendance at some of the meetings with the leaders of various parties assembled here today.


    DRSCs have been conceived as effective instruments of bipartisan and detailed examination of various issues identified by them and Bills referred to them by acting as mini-Parliament. We should not let the standards of functioning of these Committees drop. Proper attendance is an important feature of their functioning. I urge the leaders to take personal interest and ensure proper attendance of MPs in the committee meetings.


    To mark the 250 th session of Rajya Sabha, we have discussed and planned a few events befitting for the occasion. These include;


    1) Release of a publication on the ‘Journey of Rajya Sabha since 1952’ which gives a glimpse of the functioning of the House so far. This publication is the first such effort which I am sure would be found interesting.


    2. Discussion in the House on the ‘Role of Rajya Sabah in Indian Polity: Need for Reform’;


    3. Release of a commemorative volume on various aspects of functioning of the House with articles from the present and past members of the House and those associated with the functioning of the House;


    4. Release of Rs.250 silver coin;


    5. Release of Rs.5.00 postal stamp;


    In addition, marking the 70 th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of India by the Constituent Assembly on November 26, 1949, a special joint sitting of members of both the Houses of Parliament will be held in the Central Hall on the 26 th of this month.


    Respected Leaders !


    As all of you are aware, we have two parliamentary channels namely, the Rajya Sabha Television and the Lok Sabha Television. We are among the very few democracies to have such channels for live telecast of the proceedings of the Parliament.


    Further to the suggestions and feedback on the effectiveness of these two channels, I have had detailed discussions with the Lok Sabha Speaker on the issues related to operating two separate channels and exploring avenues for more effective functioning of these two channels through synergy and integrated single line of command.


    I have set up a Committee to examine and recommend on more effective functioning of parliamentary channels with the prime objective of increasing the viewership for the proceedings of Parliament through proper branding and content presentation.


    I am given to understand that the rapidly expanding mobile phones including smart phones and the ever increasing social media are proving to be more potent in amplifying the reach of the debates and discussions in the Parliament. The Committee will consider all these issues and submit a report for further consideration.


    While reminding all of you of the context and significance of the 250 th session beginning tomorrow, I would request all of you to ensure that the positive momentum of the last session is maintained during this session as well.


    As the historic 250th session of Rajya Sabha begins tomorrow, I thought it appropriate to release a publication, “Rajya Sabha : The Journey Since 1952” in the presence of leaders of various parties and groups. This publication has been brought out after extensive research on the volume and details of Bills so far passed by the Upper House, details of some major Bills passed sector-wise, membership details, Constitution amendments made with objectives, some unique events that occurred in the House etc. It also contains a statistical summary and some first moves by the House.


    Rajya Sabha held it’s first sitting on May 13, 1952 and held a total of 5,466 sittings till the end of the last 249th session. During the last 67 years, the Upper House passed a total of 3,817 Bills including 108 Constitution Amendment Bills. A total of 2,282 persons have had the honour of being the members of Rajya Sabha including 208 women and 137 nominated members.


    Rajya Sabha has been an integral part of the socio-economic transformation of our country since it came into being in 1952. From passing the Hindu Marriage and Divorce Bill in 1952 to the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill in 2019 (Triple Talak Bill), from imposition of additional excise duty on dhotis in 1953 to introduction of Goods and Services Tax in 2017, from passing the Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Bill in 1954 to the New Delhi International Arbitration Bill in 2019, from the passage of the Andhra State Bill in 1953 to the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill in 2019, from clearing the All India Institution of Medical Sciences Bill in 1955 to the National Medical Council Bill in 2019, from setting up of the University Grants Commission in 1954 to empowering the children with the Right to Free and Compulsory Education in 2009 and from passing the Preventive Detention (Second Amendment) Bill in 1952 to the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Bill in 2019, Rajya Sabha has come a long way in addressing the challenges faced and meeting the requirements of the nation from time to time. But we still have ‘miles to go’ in letting our country realize it’s full potential by making up for the missed time and opportunities and in respect of the functioning of the House itself.


    Let us cover a few more miles during the historic 250th session beginning tomorrow.


    Thank you all !


    *********


    RR/MS/MSY/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591872) Visitor Counter : 635
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi
    
    
    

5.