      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      DPIIT establishes Development Council for Bicycle
      Posted On: 15 NOV 2019 5:04PM by PIB Delhi


    Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India, has set up a Development Council for Bicycle for vision planning in design, engineering and manufacturing of lighter, smarter, value added, safe and faster premium bicycles which are comparable with global standards for exports and domestic market.


    A Twenty-three-member Council will be headed by Secretary DPIIT. The constitution of the Council is for a period of two years. Joint Secretary, Light Engineering Industry Division in DPIIT will be Member-Secretary. The Council will have 9 ex-officio members from DPIIT and Department of Commerce, Ministries of Housing and Urban Affairs, Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Health and Family Welfare, Road Transport and Highways, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and Bureau of Indian Standards. The Council will also have 7 expert domain members and 4 nominated. The terms of ex-officio members shall be co-terminus with their official posting. Others members may be co-opted, as required, by the Chairperson of the Council.


    The Council will stimulate value chain and fuel accelerated demand growth of Make-in-India through the following activities:


     1. To improve competitiveness and level of services.

     2. To transform Indian bicycle technology and its value chain.
     3. To ensure development of holistic eco-system through close, coordinated and continuous stakeholder persuasion.
     4. To undertake all possible measures for leveraging bicycle demand, it may inter-alia include ensuring enabling (safe and segregated) cycling infrastructure and operations.
     5. To enhance export competitiveness of bicycle through support of schemes and favourable trade policies.
     6. To popularize the incredible benefits of cycling through the campaigns piloted by the concerned Ministries/ Departments of Government of India such as Ministry of Health (health benefits), Ministry of Environment and Forest (air/ noise pollution free benefits), Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (energy saving benefits), Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs (decongestion benefits).
     7. Development of medium and small industries to usher in a new mind-set through innovative schemes in a structured and synergetic way.
     8. Development of skilled human resources development for bicycle manufacturing and repair shops.
     9. To identify and study best international practices and successful story to adopt for bicycle manufacturing, recycling and infrastructure development in India.

    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591753) Visitor Counter : 774
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi
    
    
    

9.