      Prime Minister's Office

      PM calls for peace and harmony on Ayodhya verdict
      
      Says verdict should not be seen as a win or loss

      Posted On: 09 NOV 2019 2:07PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called for peace and Harmony on the Ayodhya verdict today.


    The Prime Minister said, “The Honourable Supreme Court has given its verdict on the Ayodhya issue. This verdict shouldn’t be seen as a win or loss for anybody. Be it Ram Bhakti or Rahim Bhakti, it is imperative that we strengthen the spirit of Rashtra Bhakti. May peace and harmony prevail!


    SC’s Ayodhya Judgment is notable because: It highlights that any dispute can be amicably solved in the spirit of due process of law. It reaffirms the independence, transparency and farsightedness of our judiciary. It clearly illustrates everybody is equal before the law.


    The halls of justice have amicably concluded a matter going on for decades. Every side, every point of view was given adequate time and opportunity to express differing points of view. This verdict will further increase people’s faith in judicial processes.


    The calm and peace maintained by 130 crore Indians in the run-up to today’s verdict manifests India’s inherent commitment to peaceful coexistence. May this very spirit of unity and togetherness power the development trajectory of our nation. May every Indian be empowered.”


    The Honourable Supreme Court has given its verdict on the Ayodhya issue. This verdict shouldn’t be seen as a win or loss for anybody.
    
    Be it Ram Bhakti or Rahim Bhakti, it is imperative that we strengthen the spirit of Rashtra Bhakti.
    
    May peace and harmony prevail!

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 9, 2019

    SC’s Ayodhya Judgment is notable because:
    
    It highlights that any dispute can be amicably solved in the spirit of due process of law.
    
    It reaffirms the independence, transparency and farsightedness of our judiciary.
    
    It clearly illustrates everybody is equal before the law.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 9, 2019

    The halls of justice have amicably concluded a matter going on for decades. Every side, every point of view was given adequate time and opportunity to express differing points of view. This verdict will further increase people’s faith in judicial processes.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 9, 2019

    The calm and peace maintained by 130 crore Indians in the run-up to today’s verdict manifests India’s inherent commitment to peaceful coexistence.
    
    May this very spirit of unity and togetherness power the development trajectory of our nation. May every Indian be empowered.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 9, 2019

    ****


    VRRK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591101) Visitor Counter : 569
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada