      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Amendments proposed in Private Security Agencies Central Model Rules, 2006 to make Licensing Portal more useful
      
      Amendments will ensure more effective compliance of the Act in the digital era and promote ease of doing business
      
      Posted On: 08 NOV 2019 3:22PM by PIB Delhi


    Government of India recently launched Private Security Agency Licensing Portal, with features of single window system for licensing across the country, linked with Integrated Criminal Justice System(ICJS) for antecedents verification, online payment of licensing fees, along with facilities of e-sign and geo-tagging. For making this Portal more useful, certain amendments in model rules have become necessary.

      * The intent of the amendments sought to be brought in the Private Security Agencies Central Model Rules, 2006 are:
     1. Insertion of linkage with Integrated Criminal Justice System(ICJS) for antecedents verification digitally in place of manual verification.
     2. Aligning the Model Rules with National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) made mandatory w.e.f. 27.12.2018 by the Government of India.
     3. To digitize certain provisions that previously could be carried out by only offline methods.
     4. To enable electronic payment of the fee along with banker’s cheque or demand draft.
     5. To improve ease of doing business for private security agencies operating in more States than one by ironing out practical difficulties being faced by these agencies.

    T he Private Security Agencies Central Model Rules, 2006 were formulated to prescribe details of enforcement of the provisions of the principal Act. The States/UTs adopted these Rules by notifying their separate Rules . Government proposes to amend the Model Rules so as to ensure more effective compliance of the Act in the light of technological advancement in the digital era and promote ease of doing business.


    The private security industry is a crucial component of security and safety in society. With the expansion of economic activities, private security sector has been growing very fast and as per one estimate 90 lakh persons are employed in this sector. The Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, 2005 regulates functioning of the private security agencies through Controlling Authorities appointed by the State Governments and UT Administrations. The Ministry of Home Affairs administers this Act and formulates Model Rules thereunder.


    The Ministry of Home Affairs has published the proposed draft of the Private Security Agencies Central (Amendment) Model Rules, 2019 on 6.11.2019 at either of the following URLs:


    https://psara.gov.in/PDFs/commentsenglish.pdf


    https://mha.gov.in/sites/default/files/PrivateSecurityAgencies_07112019.pdf .


    Comments/suggestions may be sent to us-pm@nic.in i.e. us[hyphen]pm[at]nic[dot]in on or before 06th December, 2019.


    *****


    VG/SNC/VM/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591004) Visitor Counter : 595
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi
    
    
    

5.