      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh to inaugurate 2-day Regional Conference on “Replication of Good Governance Practices in UTs of J&K and Ladakh” in Jammu tomorrow
      
      Delegates from 19 States and 4 UTs to participate in the Conference
      
      ‘Sushasan Sankalp: Jammu Ghoshana’ Resolution to be adopted in the Valedictory Session
      
      Posted On: 14 NOV 2019 5:11PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), Government of India is organizing a Regional Conference on the theme: “Replication of Good Governance Practices in Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh” in collaboration with the Government of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh on November 15-16, 2019 at Jammu.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh, Minister of State (Independent charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DONER), Minister of State for PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions; Atomic Energy & Space, along with Shri G. C. Murmu, Lieutenant Governor of the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir will inaugurate the 2-day event in Jammu tomorrow. Shri B. V. R. Subrahmanyam, Administrator, J&K and Dr. C. Chandramouli Secretary DoPT & DARPG will also address the Inaugural Session.


    Shri Arun Kumar Mehta, Financial Commissioner Finance Department, J&K will chair the Pre-inaugural Session on the topic "Public Policy and Governance". In the post lunch session, presentations will be made on ‘Digital Governance’, ‘Citizen centric Governance’ and ‘Aspirational Districts’. The states of Tamil Nadu, Meghalaya and J&K will share their experiences of Grievance Redressal. On Day 2, Presentations will be made on ‘Select Initiatives’ and ‘Capacity building & Personnel Administration’. The ‘ Sushasan Sankalp: Jammu Ghoshana’ Resolution will be adopted in the Valedictory Session.


    The main objective of the Conference is to bring national and state level organizations on the same platform to share experiences in Digital Governance, Citizen Centric Governance and Capacity Building and Personnel Administration etc.


    Delegates from 19 States and 4 UnionTerritories will participate in the Conference. The Department has organized 31 Regional Conferences till date. This Conference is an effort to create a common platform to share experiences in the formulation and implementation of best practices in citizen centric governance, improved public service delivery through e-Governance, transparent, accountable and citizen-friendly effective administration.


    ********


    NK/NJ/AK/SMA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591604) Visitor Counter : 307
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi