      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      50th IFFI Audio-Visual Anthem representingthe origin of entertainment coming from India released
      
      Radio Jingle to mark the Golden Jubilee Edition of the Festival also released

      Posted On: 13 NOV 2019 6:23PM by PIB Delhi

    In the run up to the 50th International Film Festival of India (IFFI) to be held at Goa from 20th to 28th November, 2019,Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Shri Amit Khare released an enthrallingIFFI2019 Audio-Visual Anthem today at a Curtain Raiser in New Delhi.


    Secretary, @MIB_India Amit Khare releases #IFFI2019 Anthem; the anthem is a harmonious blend of clips from over 50 films beautifully knitted along the Nav Rasas pic.twitter.com/nIEWdEO0tV

    — PIB India (@PIB_India) November 13, 2019

    A radio jingle to mark the Golden Jubilee Edition of the Festival was also released.


    Secretary @MIB_India Amit Khare releases a radio jingle to mark #IFFIGoldenJubilee #IFFI2019 #IFFI50 pic.twitter.com/CTkMgGuGrm

    — PIB India (@PIB_India) November 13, 2019

    Speaking at the Press Conference, the Secretarystressed on how the Anthem highlighted the origin of entertainment, “The objective is to show that the origin of entertainment comes from India which can be traced to the NatyaShastra of India,written more than 2200 years ago”, said Shri Khare.


    The Audio-Visual Anthem of 50 th IFFI features Padma Shri. GeetaChandran, noted Bharatanatyam danceras one of the creative artists. She said that the conceptualisation of the Anthemincluded using the 9 Rasas (emotions) Barata Muni’s NatyaShastra and represents the ‘spirit of what India stands for’. The Anthem depicts the emotions through the clippings from IFFI movies that have either been commended or have been screened during IFFI in the last 50 years.


    The Anthem music has been composed by Ricky Kej, an Indian Composer who has won many accolades for his music including the Grammy Awards. The entire Anthem has been directed and produced by National Film Development Corporation of Indiafor the Directorate of Film Festivals.


    Amongst those present at the Press Conference were member of the Steering Committee of IFFI, Rahul Rawail and other senior officials from the Ministry.


    The 50th International Film Festival of India will screen around 200 best films from 76 countries, the highest so far in the history of IFFI. IFFI is India’s most prestigious festival and is also the first International Film Festival held anywhere in Asia. Details can be seen at: https://iffigoa.org/#home


    ***


    GK/LV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1591488) Visitor Counter : 464
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Bengali