      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister meets RWA office bearers and members of Unauthorised Colonies of Delhi
      
      PM-UDAY (PM Unauthorized Colonies in Delhi AwasAdhikar Yojana) to give ownership rights to more than 40 Lakh residents in Delhi
      
      Residents Felicitate Prime Minister for the historic decision
      
      Prime Minister reiterates Government’s resolve to provide a house for all by 2022
      Posted On: 08 NOV 2019 6:38PM by PIB Delhi


    Members of the Unauthorised Colonies and Office bearers of the Resident Welfare Associations of Delhi today felicitated the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the recent historic decision of the Union Cabinet to confer/ recognise the ownership or mortgage/ transfer rights to 40 lakh residents of unauthorized colonies in Delhi.


    Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri was present on the occasion along with MPs from Delhi Manoj Tiwari, Hans Raj Hans & Vijay Goel amongst other dignitaries.


    Addressing the gathering, Prime Minister said, that at the back of this decision was the motive of “Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas”. Prime Minister said the decision was above politics and is meant for every individual irrespective of their religion or political affiliations. He said the PM-UDAY scheme was launched after thorough consultations with people from all walks of life including the local MPs, MLAs and other residents of the colonies.


    Prime Minister described this as a victory of these residents of Delhi who tried to cooperate with every government in the past with the hope that they would bring about a change in their lives. He said the Government did not want the instability and uncertainty reigning in the lives of these residents, and hence decided to bring about the law to confer the ownership/transfer rights to them. He said this now brings an end to the decades of uncertainty and now gives them a chance to pursue the dreams of their lives in peace, without any threat of eviction or displacement. Prime Minister said, “This would change the fortune of entire Delhi. And till the fortune of Delhi changes, the country’s fortune will not change.”


    Describing the decades old decadence in the country, Prime Minister said that post - Independence the country developed a culture of abstaining from decisions, or stalling decisions, and diverting from the issues. This led to instability in our lives.


    Citing J&K, Prime Minister said the temporary provision of Article 370 led to instability and confusion in the region. Similarly, the issue of Triple Talaq, always made the lives of housewives miserable. Prime Minister said the Government had removed both these anomalies and similarly it worked towards removing the threat of eviction for over 40 Lakh residents of these colonies.


    Prime Minister also mentioned about the recent decision to revive the stalled housing projects for the middle-class citizens. He said the decision would help over 4.5 Lakh home buyers in the country and help them restart their lives in a peaceful manner.


    He said the PM-UDAY Yojana shall bring about a new dawn in the lives of all these beneficiaries in Delhi.


    Prime Minister reiterated his government’s resolve to provide a house for all by 2022.


    Background on PM-UDAY:


    Union Cabinet under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved the Conferring of Ownership/Transfer Rights to the Residents of Unauthorised Colonies on the 23rd of October 2019. A Regulation to this effect was notified on the 29th of October 2019.


    Union Cabinet has also approved the introduction of bill in the ensuing session of Parliament to recognise ownership of property based on General Power of Attorney (GPA), Will, Agreement to Sell, Payment and Possession Document etc.


    The Proposed bill will allow Registration Charge and Stamp Duty to be levied on nominal charge fixed by the Government instead of the prevailing circle rate as per the extant law. These reliefs are onetime measure for the residents of unauthorised colonies considering their special circumstances.


    Watch Live! https://t.co/DbUHCP0Tpa

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) November 8, 2019

    ****


    VRRK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591064) Visitor Counter : 1864
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil