      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Nityanand Rai addresses students from Manipur visiting Delhi-Agra on a National Integration Tour
      Posted On: 14 NOV 2019 2:02PM by PIB Delhi


    A National Integration tour for students from Kumbi (district Bishnupur), Manipur is being organized by Assam Rifles to Delhi and Agra from 8 th to 28 th November 2019. 24 members, including students, teaching staff and officers of Assam Rifles, called on the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Nityanand Rai, in New Delhi today.


    The purpose of the tour is to expose the students to rich culture and heritage of India and to interact with people of other states and develop a bond of friendship with them, thereby strengthening national integration.


    
    Addressing the students, Shri Rai welcomed them to the National Capital. He observed that students are the future of the country and must always endeavour to attain knowledge and education to succeed in life. “We all must know our country and take pride in its history, culture and tradition. From time immemorial, stalwarts from the North East have contributed in defending and building the country”, he added.


    Shri Rai said that the Government led by Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi is committed to holistic development of the North East and several measures have already been taken by the government in this direction. Shri Rai talked about Government of India schemes like Ujjwala and Swachh Bharat, among others, that are slowly but steadily transforming the lives of the people of the country, including the North East.


    
    Complimenting Assam Rifles for this initiative, the Minister said that this kind of educational tour that the students are being taken upon helps them in understanding the diversity present in the country, be it regional, religious, cultural, linguistic etc. This helps them to feel proud about the unity in diversity of the Nation. The Minister encouraged the students to share their experience in this tour with their near and dear ones, so that they may also get to know about diversity present in the country.


    Highlighting the role and importance of Assam Rifles, the Minister said that they are the sentinels of the borders and friends of the people in North East. He stressed that each student must be aware of their dedication in securing the eastern frontier of our Nation and establishing lasting peace there. They play a very important role in the implementation of development schemes of the government in North East, he added.


    
    Shri Rai interacted with the students and answered their questions. In the end, he gave them his blessings for a very bright future ahead.


    *****


    VG/SNC/VM/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591559) Visitor Counter : 316
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Urdu , Hindi