      AYUSH

      Two day International Conference on Yoga for Heart care to be organised at Mysuru, Karnataka
      Posted On: 13 NOV 2019 7:05PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of AYUSH is organizing the International Conference on Yoga on 15-16 November 2019 at Mysuru, Karnataka. The Chief Minister of Karnataka Shri B.S. Yediyurappa will inaugurate the two day conference on 15 th November, 2019 in the presence of Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH and Defence, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik. The theme of the conference is ‘Yoga for Heart Care’. More than 700 national and international delegates are expected to participate in the conference spread over ten technical sessions involving fifty resource persons & experts. The Governor of Karnataka Shri Vajubhai Vala will be the Chief Guest at the valedictory function of the conference.


    On the first day of the conference, technical sessions on ‘Yoga for heart care; emerging trends and researches’, ‘role of Yoga in preventive cardiology’, ‘Role of Yoga in the management of Hypertension’ and ‘Yoga for coronary artery disease’ will be delivered. During the second day of the conference, technical session on ‘physiology and integrative cardiology’, ‘Yoga for Cardiovascular health’ will be organized. A Symposium on ‘need for promotion of Yogasana as sports’ and presentation of research papers on ‘Yoga for heart care; emerging trends and researches’ will also be organised.


    The Pre-conference events such as Yoga walk, mass Yoga demonstration, CME programme etc are also planned to project the health benefits of Yoga and healthy lifestyle.


    This conference is fifth in the series to commemorate the unanimous adoption of Resolution by the United Nations General Assembly during its 69th Session for observing 21st June as International Day of Yoga. After the UN declaration of International Day of Yoga since 2014, overwhelming interest towards Yoga has been witnessed from the international communities across the globe. The tremendous success of the International Yoga Conferences organized by the Ministry of AYUSH during last four consecutive years is evident from the participation of increasing large number of Indian and foreign delegates.


    Indian Missions in the countries with whom the Ministry of AYUSH has some kind of cooperation such as MoUs, Academic Chairs, Information cells, etc. have been requested to nominate two prominent Yoga experts or enthusiasts from the country/countries under their jurisdiction, who would participate in the Conference to enable them capture and understand various dimensions of Yoga, and could help them to further propagate the same in their respective countries.


    ***


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591499) Visitor Counter : 647
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi