      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Centre and States to share & adopt best practices for welfare of women & children: Smriti Zubin Irani
      
      WCD Ministry holds two-day National Conference with States

      Posted On: 14 NOV 2019 5:47PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of Women and Child Development (WCD) and Textiles, Smriti Zubin Irani, announced that WCD Ministry along with NITI Aayog will prepare a framework for a national plan for States/ Union Territories by early next year for better implementation of all the Central and States policies and programmes for women and children. The Minister was speaking at the two-day national conference organized by the Ministry of WCD in New Delhi on 13th – 14th November 2019.


    Smriti Zubin Irani said that this national conference is a fine example of cooperative federalism where Centre and States have come together to share and adopt best practices/suggestions for the larger welfare of women and children of our Nation.


    WCD Minister also suggested that a protocol may be developed for ranking of states/ UTs doing commendable work for women and children and also ranking of child care institutions in the States/ UTs.


    The two-day national conference was attended by Secretary Ministry of WCD and all senior officials of the Ministry and Secretaries and representatives working with the Departments of Women and Children in States/ UTs. Various presentations were made at the two-day conference on Anganwadi Services, Skill Gaps and Entrepreneurship Issues for Women and Children, Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana (PMMVY), Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP) Mission and Child Protection Services and Safety and Security of Women and Children in India. Discussions were held on various issues like non-utilization of funds, Child Care Institutions (CCI), implementation of Central Schemes like Mid-Day Meal, Aganwadi, POSHAN, lack of gender specific data, feedback regarding implementation of Central Schemes for women and children and various constraints faced by WCD Departments in States and UTs.


    State Secretaries and officials also raised issues concerning their states and districts which require urgent attention of the WCD Ministry.


    During a presentation by advisor Health and Nutrition in NITI Aayog regarding strategy of New India at 75-Status of Women and Children, it was decided that the issues being faced by women and children cannot be contained only within the Ministry of WCD but other Ministries like food and public distribution, health, urban development, law and justice and home may also be actively involved.


    WCD Minister urged State Governments to ensure and involve officers from all departments for better implementation of legislation and Central and State Schemes related to women and children.


    ***


    MM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591622) Visitor Counter : 622
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi