      Ministry of Railways

      Collision of Train No. 47178 Lingampalli – Falaknuma suburban train with Train No. 17028 Kurnool City – Secunderabad Hundry Intercity Express occurred at Kacheguda Railway Station this morning
      
      Immediate Relief and restoration works were undertaken
      
      A high-level enquiry is being conducted

      Posted On: 11 NOV 2019 5:15PM by PIB Delhi

    A collision of Lingampalli – Falaknuma local train with Train No. 17028 Kurnool City – Secunderabad Hundry Intercity Express occurred at 10.30 hrs this morning i.e., 11 th November, 2019 at Kacheguda Railway Station towards Falaknuma side in Hyderabad Division of South Central Railway. Five coaches of MMTS (Suburban) train and three coaches of Hundry Express have been affected. Due to collision, 16 passengers were injured and they were immediately rushed to the hospital. Nine of the injured were immediately discharged.


    Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal expressed his deep concern over this accident. He immediately instructed the authorities for monitoring and extending assistance in arrangements for the treatment of the injured at the accident site.


    Senior Railway Officials including Addl. General Manager, Chief Security Commissioner, Divisional Railway Manager, Hyderabad, Chief Medical Director, Chief Safety Officer along with Medical Relief Van and Accident Relief Train rushed to the spot to undertake relief and restoration works. A high-level enquiry at the level of Commissioner, Railway Safety, South Central Circle has been ordered to investigate into the reasons for the incident.


    Local train services in Kacheguda – Falaknuma section have been affected and some local services have been cancelled. A few other long distance train services have been partially cancelled/ diverted in Secunderabad-Falaknuma- Kacheguda section.


    *****


    KSP/SG/MKV/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591295) Visitor Counter : 438
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi