      Prime Minister's Office

      PM inaugurates Integrated Check Post and flags off 1st batch of pilgrims at Kartarpur Sahib corridor
      Posted On: 09 NOV 2019 4:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated Integrated Check Post and flagged off first batch of pilgrims at Kartarpur Sahib corridor in Gurdaspur, Punjab today.


    Prime Minister took a guided tour of digital installation on life of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, and the Passenger Terminal Building prior to the inauguration of Kartarpur Corridor.


    He also interacted with the 1st batch of pilgrims just before their departure.

    Your browser does not support HTML5 video.

    📡LIVE Now
    
    PM @narendramodi inaugurates ICP, #KartarpurCorridor
    
    Watch on #PIB's
    YouTube: https://t.co/x72GAIK3vS
    Facebook: https://t.co/p9g0J6q6qvhttps://t.co/5MoZd9eKaB#GuruNanak550

    — PIB India (@PIB_India) November 9, 2019

    Integrated Check Post, Kartarpur Corridor


    Integrated Check Post would facilitate, Indian Piligrims to visit to Gurudwara Kartapur Sahib in Pakistan.


    India has signed the Agreement with Pakistan on the 24th of October 2019 on the modalities for operationalisation of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor at Zero Point, International Boundary, Dera Baba Nanak.


    It may be recalled, the Union Cabinet passed a resolution on 22 November 2018 to celebrate the historic occasion of 550th Birth Anniversary of Shri Guru Nanak Devji in a grand and befitting manner, throughout the country and across the globe.


    The Union Cabinet also approved the building and development of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor from Dera Baba Nanak to the International Boundary, to facilitate pilgrims from India to visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib Kartarpur, round the year, in a smooth and easy manner.


    Provisions made for facilitation of Pilgrims


    The 4.2 Km four lane highway connecting Dera Baba Nanak from Amritsar – Gurdaspur Highway is constructed at a cost of Rs 120 Cr.


    The state-of-the-art Passenger Terminal Building is on 15 acres land. The fully air conditioned building akin to an airport has over 50 immigration counters for facilitating about 5000 pilgrims a day.


    It has all the necessary public amenities like kiosks, washrooms, child care, first aid medical facilities, prayer room and snacks counters inside main building.


    Robust security infrastructure is put in place with CCTV surveillance and public address systems.


    A 300 ft. National Monumental Flag is also being hoisted at the International Border.


    The Agreement signed with Pakistan on the 24th of October provides a formal framework for operationalisation of the Kartarpur Sahib Corridor.


    The highlights of the Agreement are: -

      * Indian pilgrims of all faiths and persons of Indian origin can use the corridor;
      * The travel will be Visa Free;
      * Pilgrims need to carry only a valid passport;
      * Persons of Indian Origin need to carry OCI card along with the passport of their country;
      * The Corridor is open from dawn to dusk. Pilgrims travelling in the morning will have to return on the same day;
      * The Corridor will be operational throughout the year, except on notified days, to be informed in advance;
      * Pilgrims will have a choice to visit as individuals or in groups, and also to travel on foot;
      * India will send the list of pilgrims to Pakistan 10 days ahead of travel date. Confirmation will be sent to pilgrims 4 days before the travel date;
      * The Pakistan side has assured India on sufficient provision for ‘Langar’ and distribution of ‘Prasad’;

    Portal for Registration


    The pilgrims may have to necessarily register themselves online on the portal prakashpurb550.mha.gov.inand exercise their choice to travel on any day. Pilgrims will be informed by SMS and email of the confirmation of registration 3 to 4 days in advance of the date of travel. An Electronic Travel Authorization will also be generated. The pilgrims need to carry Electronic Travel Authorization, along with their passport, when they arrive at the Passenger Terminal Building.


    ****


    VRRK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591113) Visitor Counter : 804
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Kannada
    
    
    

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
*