      Prime Minister's Office

      The visit to Brazil will give me an opportunity to deepen the India-Brazil strategic partnership: PM
      Posted On: 12 NOV 2019 4:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi would be taking part in this year’s BRICS Summit in Brazil on 13th and 14th November. The Summit’s theme is ‘Economic growth for an innovative future.’


    “I look forward to holding discussions with BRICS leaders on greater cooperation in a wide range of areas. On the sidelines of this Summit, I would be addressing the BRICS Business Forum and interacting with BRICS Business Council as well as the New Development Bank. Improving economic linkages augur well for the BRICS nations. The visit to Brazil will give me an opportunity to hold talks with the President of Brazil on ways to deepen the India-Brazil strategic partnership. There is great potential in sectors like trade, defence, agriculture and energy.”, the PM said.


    I would be taking part in this year’s BRICS Summit being held in Brazil on 13th and 14th November. The Summit’s theme is ‘Economic growth for an innovative future.’ I look forward to holding discussions with BRICS leaders on greater cooperation in a wide range of areas.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 12, 2019

    On the sidelines of the BRICS Summit, I would be addressing the BRICS Business Forum and interacting with BRICS Business Council as well as the New Development Bank. Improving economic linkages augur well for the BRICS nations.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 12, 2019

    The visit to Brazil will give me an opportunity to hold talks with President @jairbolsonaro on ways to deepen the India-Brazil strategic partnership. There is great potential in sectors like trade, defence, agriculture and energy. https://t.co/48pMuQVYuc

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 12, 2019

    ***


    VRRK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591414) Visitor Counter : 483
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Kannada , Malayalam