      Ministry of Home Affairs

      1st Winter-Grade Diesel outlet for Ladakh inaugurated by Union Home Minister through video-conferencing
      
      The move will boost tourism in extreme weather conditions and help in the economic development of the region
      
      Abrogation of Article 370 brought a New Dawn for Ladakh Region, said Shri Amit Shah
      
      Modi Government committed to bring the people of Ladakh at par with the rest of the country, said Shri Amit Shah
      
      Completion of India’s largest Solar power project of 7500 MW with an outlay of Rs 50,000 crore will bring prosperity to the region, said Sh. Shah
      Posted On: 17 NOV 2019 4:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah today launched the the first Winter-Grade Diesel outlet for Ladakh region, which will help to address the problem faced by people due to loss of fluidity in Diesel fuel during extreme winter conditions. He said, the winter grade diesel produced by Panipat Refinery for the first time has a pour point of – 33degreeCelsius and does not lose its fluidity function even in the extreme winter weather of the region unlike the normal grade of Diesel which becomes exceedingly difficult to utilize.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Shah said that the government led by Shri Narendra Modi was committed since 2014 to bring the region of Ladakhat par with the rest of the country, which wasneglected for the last 70 years. He said that the abrogation of Article 370 was a step in that direction. He also said that by bringing change in the status of Ladakh and the enhanced budget, all round development of the region has been ensured. He added that the newly introduced provisions of local taxation will also augment their financial resources.


    Referring to a series of developmental measures taken by the Narendra Modi Government in the last 5 years including the Srinagar-Leh Transmission Line for electricity, 14 Solar projects for Leh and Kargil, Ladakh University, 2 new degree colleges, 5 new Tourist Circuits and Tracks for tourists and mountaineers, subsidised helicopter sewaand up gradation of District Hospital, Shri Shah said that people of Ladakh, Leh and Kargilnow enjoy same rights and will be an equal partner in the development of the country.


    Shri Shah said that besides 9 MW Hydro power project, India’s largestSolar project of 7500 MW with an outlay of Rs, 50,000 Crore will be completed in 4 years. This will not only bring development in the Ladakh region but will also create employment opportunities.


    The Home Minister said that this Winter-Grade Diesel will not only smoothen the travel and transportation during peak tourist season in extreme cold, but will also help in giving a boost to tourism and supply needs of the people of the region and helping in the overall economic development.


    Tour and Taxi operators and the common man linked through the video-conferencing from Leh thanked the Union Home Minister for taking this historic measure and said this new version of Diesel will bring a New Dawn in the region.


    Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Member of Parliament from Ladakh,JamyangTseringNamgyal and other senior officials of the Home Ministry and Petroleum Ministry were present on the occasion.


    <><><><>


    VG/SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591864) Visitor Counter : 577
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi