      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Skill Development Minister Dr. Mahendra Nath Pandey announces IndiaSkills 2020; invites registrations for the skill competition
      Posted On: 15 NOV 2019 5:39PM by PIB Delhi


    Dr. Mahendra Nath Pandey, Minister of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship has announced the opening of online registrations for IndiaSkills 2020, a biennial competition to scout talent from the country, offering them a platform to showcase their skills at national and international competitions.


    IndiaSkills 2020 provides a platform for skilled and talented Indian youngsters to showcase their abilities at regional and national level competitions in over 50 skills. Regional legs of the competitions are organized across four zones, culminating at the national competition in Delhi. Winners of IndiaSkills will then get a chance to represent the country at the WorldSkills International Competition to be held in China in 2021.


    Dr. Mahendra Nath Pandey, Minister of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship said, “In line with our commitment to make India the Skill Capital of the World, IndiaSkills aims at helping youth in India leverage the immense opportunities that this platform offers to showcase their talent in the best possible way. IndiaSkills 2018 witnessed incredible success and I am positive, we will witness more participation in IndiaSkills 2020 and will have a power packed team. I wish the candidates all the luck and hope we create more leaders in vocational training.”


    Interested candidates can register online- www.worldskillsindia.co.in . The age limit for the competition is for youth born on or after 1 January 1999. The youth can choose participation in over 50 skill trades such as mechatronics, manufacturing team challenge, aeronautical engineering, cloud computing, cyber security, baking, beauty therapy, hairdressing, carpentry, water technology and IT network cabling among others. Post the skill competitions held at district, state and regional level, IndiaSkills National Competition will be organized in 2020. The competitions will be organized by states and will be supported by National Skill Development Corporation, in partnership Sector Skill Councils, Industry Partners, Corporates and Academic Organizations. Alongside IndiaSkills Competitions, Abilympics, Olympics of Abilities will also be organized, specifically designed for specially-abled individuals to express their unique talents.


    The 22 winners of Indiaskills 2018 and their experts had represented the country with their outstanding performance at the WorldSkills International 2019 (WSK), held in Kazan, Russia. India won one gold, one silver, two bronze and 15 Medallions of Excellence at the biggest competition for skills. India ranked 13th among 63 countries that participated at WorldSkills International 2019, marking it to be the best finish for the country in the coveted skill championship. They were felicitated by the honorable minister with certificates and cash prizes for their remarkable performance.


    The last IndiaSkills competition was organized in 2018, wherein 22 states and more than 100 corporates participated, that gave 355 competitors a chance to display their skills across various skill competitions.


    Who can apply for IndiaSkills 2020?

     1. Interested and eligible candidates must be born on or after 1 January 1999 for all skills apart from mechatronics, manufacturing team challenge, aeronautical engineering, cloud computing, cyber security and water technology, IT network cabling where competitors must be born on or after 1 January 1996.
     2. Mobile robotics, cyber security, landscape gardening, concrete construction work, and mechatronics are team skill competitions where a team of 2 individuals is required for the competition.

    YB


    *****


    

    
    (Release ID: 1591759) Visitor Counter : 749
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

2.