      Ministry of Education

      Various initiatives of Ministry of HRD to promote Fit India Movement
      Posted On: 18 NOV 2019 4:13PM by PIB Delhi


    Department of Higher Education has prepared actionable points on Fit India Programme and forwarded to all its Institutions. The details of actionable points for implementation of Fit India in Higher Education Institutes are as follows:

     1. Implementation of policies and practices: Institutions to adopt and implement policies and practices that motivate students and staffs to participate actively in health and wellness activities. In this regard, following activities may be incorporated:

     1. Pledging by students, faculty and staff in all universities/institutions for making all efforts to maintain the physical and mental fitness and do some sports activities regularly.

     2. Encouraging and motivating students and staffs to spend at least one hour in physical activities viz. sports, game, running and walking etc.
     3. Encouraging students and staffs for using bi-cycle in the campus of the institutions/university.
     4. Encouragement of indoor games viz. Chess, Billiards, Caroms, Badminton etc in every hostel.
     5. Sensitizing students, faculty and staff to keep the campus of the institution clean and green.
     6. Encouraging students and staffs to follow and support healthy eating pattern
     7. Providing of healthy food in campus and taking measures to ban junk food in campus canteen. In this regard, students and staff need to be sensitized about the ill-effect of junk food and the consequences of obesity and overweight.
     8. Implementation of annual Yoga/mediation events.
     9. Yoga/mediation classes may be arranged for all on regular basis.
    10. Observance of fitness week for students and staffs.
    11. Implementation of annual walk/run event to engage students in physical activities.
    12. Incorporation of health and wellness activities in Institute’s major festivals and events.
    13. Institution with functional wellness centres.
    14. Organization of regular medical fitness and health-check up camps in collaboration with reputed local hospitals.
    15. Setting up fitness clubs in the institution
    16. Sharing activities on fitness, health and wellness undertaken/being undertaken in the institutions on social media and web platform.
    17. Organisation of seminar/talk/events on fitness, health and wellness programme.
    18. Promotion of research projects related to health and fitness promotions

     1. Physical Infrastructure :


    Every University/Institute shall have minimum infrastructure for their students and staff for indoor/outdoor sports activities. Open playgrounds should be maintained for running, jogging, walking and other sports activities.

     1. Promotion of Substance abuse free Campus:

     1. Implementation and achievement of tobacco and substance abuse free Campus status.

     2. There must be Zero Tolerance Policy in each and every university/institution with regard to tobacco and substance abuse.
     3. Providing of counselling services (through qualified consultants) for mental health, stress management and substance abuse.

    The above activities are suggestive and not elaborative; however, institutions can also initiate any activity which can support the idea of health and wellness of students and staffs.


    Department of School Education and Literacy in co-ordination with Department of Sports, had circulated advisory to States and UTs, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS), Navodaya Vidyalayas Samiti (NVS), Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) for making necessary arrangement for the Students to view/hear the Fitness Pledge programme and take the Fitness Pledge on 29 th August, 2019. Nearly, thirteen lakh schools and eleven Crore students all over the country attended/viewed the programme and took the fitness pledge.


    Further, guidelines on Fit India Plogging Run prepared by Department of Sports were issued by Department of School Education and Literacy to States, UTs, KVS, NVS and CBSE to organize Fit India Plogging Run on 2 nd October, 2019. Awareness on ‘No to single use Plastic’ and Collection of plastics garbage from homes, streets and open spaces was the main focus of the event.


    The information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591970) Visitor Counter : 541
    
    
    
    
    

3.