      Ministry of Defence

      Vice Chief of the Air Staff Launches
      
      Phase 2 (Multi Player Version) of
      
      The Upgraded 3d air Combat Mobile Game
      
      ‘Indian air Force: a Cut Above’
      Posted On: 08 NOV 2019 7:22PM by PIB Delhi


    TheVice Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal HS AroraAVSM, ADCtoday launched the multiplayer version of its upgraded3D Air Combat Mobile Game “ Indian Air Force: A Cut Above ” at the Air Force Bal Bharti School. The game was initially launched by the Indian Air Force to connect with the youthof the country and inspire them to join the Indian Air Force.


    The first version of the mobile game was launched on 31 May 19 and has been downloaded by more than 2.2 million online users since then. The single player version required the individuals to play with thein-built Artificial Intelligence of the application. The latest multiplayer version on the other hand will enable players to have a realistic engagement with the opponent anywhere across the globe.


    The mobile application has two modes named as “ Team Battle ” and “ Death Match ”. The user has option to choose from the diverse range of the aircraft in the inventory of the IAF, including Mig 21, Tejas and Mig 29 which were not available in the previous version. In the “Team Battle” the user forms a team and takes on adversaries in the virtual arena thus enabling a real feel of the aerial combat. In the “Death Match”, the user will join an Arena where the user is a part of eight opponents and the individual having the highest score at the end of the mission is the winner.


    This version also includes a feature of “Augmented Reality” wherein the user is able to have a 360 o view of the aircraft both from inside as well as outside. In addition, the user will be able to upload their achievements on Facebook, Twitter etc at the end of the session.


    “Indian Air Force: A Cut Above” will be available on Android and IOS platforms, it can be downloaded from their respective play stores.


    AB/THANGA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591085) Visitor Counter : 489
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi