      Ministry of Railways

      Steps taken by Railways for Safety and Security of Passengers
      Posted On: 20 NOV 2019 5:34PM by PIB Delhi


    Policing on Railways being a State subject, prevention of crime, registration of cases, their investigation and maintenance of law & order in Railway premises as well as on running trains are the statutory responsibility of the State Governments, which they discharge through Government Railway Police (GRP)/District Police. Cases of Indian Penal Code (IPC) crimes are registered and investigated by the concerned GRP. Railway Protection Force (RPF) supplements the efforts of GRP to provide better protection and security to passenger area & passengers and for matters connected therewith.


    However, the following steps are also being taken by the Railways in coordination with GRP for safety and security of passengers in trains and at stations:-


    1. On vulnerable and identified routes/sections, 2200 trains (on an average) are escorted by Railway Protection Force daily in addition to 2200 trains escorted by Government Railway Police of different States daily.


    2. Surveillance is kept through CCTV cameras, provided at about 473 stations over Indian Railways, to ensure safety and security of passengers.


    3. Security Help Line number 182 is operational over Indian Railways for security related assistance to passengers in distress.


    4. Through various social media platforms viz. twitter, facebook etc., Railways are in regular touch with passengers to enhance security and address their security concerns.


    5. An Integrated Security System (ISS) consisting of surveillance of vulnerable stations through Close Circuit Television (CCTV) Camera Network, Access Control etc. has been sanctioned to improve surveillance mechanism over 202 railway stations.


    6. Anti sabotage checks are undertaken with sniffer dogs at all major stations as well as in trains. Further baggage scanners are being used at entry points of major stations for checking of luggage of passengers and use of Door Frame Metal Detectors (DFMD) & Hand Held Metal Detectors (HHMD) are ensured.


    7. Time to time mock bomb blast drills are conducted at some major & sensitive Railways stations over Indian Railways by the Railway authorities in full coordination with sister agencies to check preparedness of the disaster management teams & equipments.


    8. Close liaison is made by the Railways with the State Police/GRP authorities, Central & State Intelligence agencies and Civil authorities at all levels for prevention of crime, registration of cases, their investigation and maintenance of law & order in Railway premises as well as on running trains.


    9. Frequent announcements are made through Public Address System to educate passengers to be alert and inform about unclaimed articles/bags/materials found at stations & in trains.


    10. RPF Special Task Force teams, Crime Prevention and Detection Squads etc. are functioning to curb passengers’ related offences. Surprise checks are conducted in night hours and staff are briefed to be extra vigilant & alert


    11. Drives are conducted from time to time against the entry of unauthorized persons in trains and railway premises.


    This information was given by the Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SG/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1592442) Visitor Counter : 201