      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Programmes/Schemes for Development of Sports
      Posted On: 21 NOV 2019 3:56PM by PIB Delhi


    The ‘Khelo India – National Programme for Development of Sports’ was launched in October, 2017 with the aim to strengthen the entire sports ecosystem to promote the twin objectives of mass participation and promotion of excellence in sports across the country. All the verticals of Khelo India Scheme focus on broad-basing of sports amongst the youth of the country. The 12 verticals under Khelo India Scheme are:


     1. Play Field Development

     2. Utilization and Creation/ Upgradation of Sports Infrastructure
      * Sports for Peace and Development
     1. State Level Khelo India Centers
     2. Annual Sports Competitions
     3. Talent Search and Development
      * Sports for Women
      * Support to National/Regional/State Sports Academies
     1. Promotion of Sports among persons with disabilities
     2. Promotion of rural and indigenous/tribal games
     3. Physical Fitness of School going Children
      * Community Coaching Development

    Khelo India Scheme was approved for three years i.e., from 2016-17 to 2019-20. Review of Khelo India scheme is scheduled on completion of the tenure of the scheme.


    The Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports (MYAS) is providing customised support to Olympic prospects athletes under the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS) for the 2020 Olympic Games and Paralympic Games. Monthly stipend of Rs. 50,000/- to each athlete is also provided under TOPS. TOPS is currently supporting 87 athletes across 12 sports disciplines.


    A total of 62 athletes (30 Individual athletes + 16 member Men’s Hockey Team +16 member Women’s Hockey Team) have already qualified for the TOKYO 2020 Olympics. In addition 23 Para-athletes have qualified for the TOKYO 2020 Paralympics.


    Under the scheme of ‘Assistance to National Sports Federations’, identified promising sportspersons/teams are provided with all the requisite facilities through respective National Sports Federation for their preparations, such as wholesome nutritious diet, food supplements, equipments, state-of-the-art infrastructure, lodging & travelling facilities, services of reputed Indian and Foreign Coaches/Supporting staff, Scientific & Medical supports, Sports Kit etc. besides financial assistance for their abroad training and participation in International Competitions in India and abroad.


    The Sports Authority of India (SAI) has 19 Coaches, including 2 Foreign Coaches, for Table Tennis.


    This Information was given by the Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports, Shri Kiren Rijiju in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    YKB/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1592781) Visitor Counter : 787
    
    
    
    
    

*