      Ministry of Finance

      Strategic disinvestment of State-owned companies
      Posted On: 19 NOV 2019 7:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government has given ‘in-principle’ approval for strategic disinvestment of 28 Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) including subsidiaries, Units and Joint Ventures with sale of majority stake of Government of India and transfer of management control. This was stated by Shri Anurag Singh Thakur, Union Minister of State for Finance & Corporate Affairs, in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    Besides, in certain other CPSEs, policy of minority stake sale without transfer of management control through various SEBI approved methods, are being followed in order to unlock the value, promote public ownership and higher degree of accountability.


    The Minister further stated that the Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs (CCEA) is mandated to approve strategic disinvestment of CPSEs. There is no approval yet of the CCEA with regard to strategic disinvestment of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL), Container Corporation and Shipping Corporation of India.


    Following is the list of 28 CPSEs, Subsidiaries, Units and Joint Ventures for which the Government has given ‘in-principle’ approval for strategic disinvestment:


    1. Project & Development India Ltd.


    2. Hindustan Prefab Limited (HPL).


    3. Hospital Services Consultancy Ltd. (HSCC)


    4. National Project construction corporation (NPCC)


    5. Engineering Project (India) Ltd.


    6. Bridge and Roof Co. India Ltd.


    7. Pawan Hans Ltd.


    8. Hindustan Newsprint Ltd(subsidiary)


    9. Scooters India Limited


    10. Bharat Pumps & Compressors Ltd


    11. Hindustan Fluorocarbon Ltd. (HFL) (sub.)


    12. Central Electronics Ltd


    13. Bharat Earth Movers Ltd. (BEML)


    14. Ferro Scrap Nigam Ltd.(sub.)


    15. Cement Corporation of India Ltd (CCI)


    16. Nagarnar Steel Plant of NMDC


    17. Alloy Steel Plant, Durgapur; Salem Steel Plant; Bhadrawati units of SAIL


    18. Air India and its five subsidiaries and one JV.


    19. Dredging Corporation of India


    20. HLL Life Care


    21. Indian Medicine & Pharmaceuticals Corporation Ltd. (IMPCL)


    22. Karnataka Antibiotics


    23. Kamrajar Port


    24. Indian Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC)


    25. Rural Electrification Corporation Limited (REC)


    26. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited


    27. Hindustan Antibiotics Ltd. (HAL)


    28. Bengal Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (BCPL)


    ****


    RM/KMN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1592280) Visitor Counter : 3743