      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      5TH Day of Celebration of “Aadi Mahotsav” at Dilli Haat, INA
      Posted On: 20 NOV 2019 8:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The 5 th day of National Tribal Festival “Aadi Mahotsav” was celebrated as the “Tourism Day” and Pt. Hari Prasad Chaurasia, Padma Shree and noted flute maestro was the Chief Guest at the Mahotsav organised by TRIFED in collaboration with Spicmacay.


    “Aadi Mahotsav”, a National Tribal Festival is being organised by TRIFED to celebrate and cherish the spirit of tribal culture, cuisine and commerce. The Mahotsav comprises of display and sale of tribal art and craft, tribal medicine & healers, tribal cuisine and tribal folk performances, in which around 1000 tribal artisans, chefs, folk dancers/musicians from 24 States of the country are participating, providing a glimpse of their rich traditional culture. The theme of the Mahotsav is: “A Celebration of the Spirit of Tribal Culture, Craft, Cuisine and Commerce”. The festival features exhibition-cum-sale of tribal handicrafts, art, paintings, fabric, jewellery and much more through 220 stalls. The Mahotsav also offers variety of special tribal cuisines made by tribal chefs of different States and a cultural evening everyday from 6.30 P.M. to 8.30 P.M.


    For the first time, the Aadi Mahotsav is showcasing a wide range of products of the tribal artisans from Leh (Ladakh). Apart from this special attraction a wide range of products from North Eastern States are on display and sale. In line with the national aspiration to go cashless, the tribal artisans have been trained in accepting payment through major credit/debit cards for which Point of Sale (POS) machines have been provided in each stall. A special training has been conducted by State Bank of India for smooth operations of this. The Mahotsav is displaying the rich digital commerce and e-commerce being promoted by Tribes India.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/SJ&E-20/11/2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1592814) Visitor Counter : 105
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi