      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Target Olympic Podium Scheme
      Posted On: 18 NOV 2019 5:13PM by PIB Delhi


    Target Olympic Podium (TOP) Scheme was formulated in July 2014 under overall ambit of National Sports Development Fund (NSDF) with the aim to identify, groom and prepare potential medal prospects for Olympic and Paralympic Games. About 54.40 % of total expenditure of National Sports Development Fund (NSDF) has been incurred on TOP Scheme.


    Till date, 352 athletes have received assistance under TOP Scheme in the sports disciplines of Archery, Athletics, Badminton, Boxing, Cycling, Fencing, Gymnastics, Hockey, Judo, Shooting, Squash, Swimming, Table Tennis, Tennis, Weightlifting, Wrestling, Winter Olympics, Wushu, Para Sports, Para Athletics, Para Shooting, and Para Badminton.


    High priority category has been created to put focus on and incentivize those sports disciplines played in the Olympics in which India has won medals in the last conducted Asian Games as well as Commonwealth Games or in which India has good chance of winning medals in Olympics. Presently, nine sports disciplines viz., (i) Athletics, (ii) Badminton (iii) Hockey (iv) Shooting (v) Tennis (vi) Weightlifting (vii) Wrestling, (viii) Archery and (ix) Boxing have been categorised as ‘High Priority’. At present, there is no proposal to expand the list of high priority sports.


    Under the Scheme of Assistance to National Sports Federations (NSFs), assistance is also provided to sports disciplines other than High Priority Sports disciplines. Assistance is given for participation in international sporting events, conduct of international events in India, conduct of National Championships and coaching camps. Further, identification and nurturing of identified talented sportspersons belonging to various sports disciplines is done under the promotional schemes of Sports Authority of India and Khelo India Scheme.


    This Information was given by the Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports, Shri Kiren Rijiju in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    YKB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1592009) Visitor Counter : 508