      Prime Minister's Office

      PM’s remarks during Special Discussion marking the 250th session of Rajya Sabha
      Posted On: 18 NOV 2019 7:13PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today spoke at a special discussion in the Upper House of Parliament marking the 250th session of Rajya Sabha.


    Addressing the historic session, Prime Minister said that Rajya Sabha made significant contribution to the history of the country and that the house has also seen history being made. He added that the vision of the makers of Indian Constitution in creating a bicameral legislative framework has enriched our democracy.


    Prime Minister said that Rajya Sabha is representative of India’s diversity and is a reflection of India’s federal structure. He said that Rajya Sabha never dissolves and its continuance in perpetuity makes the House eternal. Rajya Sabha provides an opportunity to those away from electoral politics to contribute to the nation and its development, PM added.


    Prime Minister emphasized the role of Rajya Sabha in furthering the spirit of cooperative federalism as envisioned by the Constitution of India.


    He said Rajya Sabha has always risen to the occasion in the interest of nation. In this context, he mentioned about the role of Rajya Sabha in the passage of various important legislations dealing with GST, Triple Talaq and Article 370.


    Recalling Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s words on the importance of Rajya Sabha, Prime Minister said that the Rajya Sabha must be a vibrant supportive house for national progress. He also recalled Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar and his contributions towards national progress and development through the Upper House of Parliament.


    Prime Minister appreciated the ethics displayed by certain Members of Parliament in adhering to parliamentary norms and effectively putting across their opinions without disrupting the functioning of the house. Much can be learnt from these practices, he added.


    Reminding that Rajya Sabha is vital for the effective functioning of our democracy, Prime Minister said that the checks and balances provided by the Upper House should not be misused for clogging and blocking.


    ****


    VRRK/AR/BM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1592068) Visitor Counter : 584
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada