      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Promotion of Sports through Fit India Movement
      Posted On: 21 NOV 2019 3:54PM by PIB Delhi


    The main objective of Fit India Movement is to create awareness amongst all the citizens of India about fitness and its importance in daily life through sports, yogasan, walking, cycling, dancing or any other physical activity.To preserve and promote Indigenous Sports in the country under Indigenous Games & Martial Arts (IGMA) Scheme [sub scheme of National Sports Talent Contest (NSTC)], Sports Authority of India (SAI) has adopted 10 schools to provide regular training to the talented sportspersons in the discipline of Kalaripayattu, Silambam, Kabaddi, Archery, Mallakhamb, Mukna, Thang-Ta, Khomlainai & Gatka. Presently, 128 trainees (73 Boys & 55 Girls) are being trained under these centres. Similarly, to promote wrestling the Indian traditional sports, SAI have also adopted 48 Akharas under NSTC Scheme across the country. Presently, 766 talented wrestlers (677 Boys & 89 Girls) are being trained in these Akharas.


    Further, a vertical ‘Promotion of Rural and Indigenous/ Tribal Games’ under Khelo India Scheme has been implemented by Govt. of India for promoting rural and indigenous/ tribal sports through identification of talent, provision of grant to meet expenditure on equipment, apparel, coaches training programme, infrastructure development, salary for National Sports Federation (NSF) appointed coaches and scholarships for meritorious trainees recommended by NSF. Presently, under the scheme Mallakhamb, Kalaripayattu, Gatka and Thang-Tasports disciplineshave been identified for support as per the decision taken by Government.


    For the promotion of rural and indigenous/tribal games, in the year 2018-19, 23 events were exclusively conducted in Rural and Indigenous Games at 23 different locations across the country as a part of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ programme. In these events about 1500 players participated. These disciplines included Sqay, Kho-Kho, Kalaripayattu, Mallakhamb and Roll Ball as under:


    Mallakhamb - Four Demonstration Events


    Sqay - Three Demonstration Events


    Kalaripayattu - Nine Demonstration Events


    Kho Kho - Six Competition events Roll Ball (Indigenous Sport)- One Competition Event


    Traditional rural and indigenous games generally exist in informal setup and do not have adequate leaders. Government’s emphasis on promotion of rural and indigenous games has encouraged leadership and formalization of the same.


    The following initiatives have been taken by the Government to promote the traditional rural and indigenous games in the country:


     1. Mallakhamb, Kalaripayattu, Gatka and Thang-Ta are being supported under the vertical of ‘Promotion of Rural and Indigenous/Tribal Games’ under the Khelo India Scheme.

     2. Total amount of Rs.10.85 crore have been sanctioned for the year 2019-20 for infrastructure development, equipment support, appointment of coaches, training of coaches and scholarships.
     3. 335 Medal Winners of Mallakhamb, Kalaripayattu, Gatka and Thang-Ta are being given scholarship of Rs.10,000/- per month, per athlete for a period of one year. At present, 185 athletes are receiving the Scholarships from October 1 st , 2019 as recommended by NSF.Kho-Kho and Kabaddi disciplines have also been included in Khelo India Youth Games 2020 to be held at Guwahati from 10th -20th January, 2020.

    Government has taken a number of steps to encourage participation of youth in sports. Upto 5% reservation is provided in direct requirement in Group C posts for meritorious sportspersons. Sports Authority of India recruits Olympians/ Para Olympians as Assistant Coach. Assistance is provided for training of athletes and their participation in exposures and completions including those held abroad. 14659 (8701 Residential and 5958 Non- residential) sports trainees are being imparted training across the country under the schemes of the Ministry and Sports Authority of India. Awards and recognition are also given to meritorious sportspersons. A decision has been taken to allow use of sports facilities of the Department of Sports free of cost to athletes and coaches.


    The University Grants Commission (UGC) vide its notification dated September 27 th , 2019 has notified Guidelines for an Institutional Fitness Plan in the Higher Educational Institutions for promoting fitness and well being in Universities and Colleges, as part of Fit India Movement.


    This Information was given by the Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports, Shri Kiren Rijiju in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    YKB/TFK


    
    

    
    (Release ID: 1592778) Visitor Counter : 678
    
    
    
    
    

3.