      Ministry of Railways

      Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal and Railway Board conducts a high level review meeting with GMs & DRMs of Zonal Railways
      Posted On: 21 NOV 2019 8:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of State of Railways, Shri Suresh C. Angadi and Chairman, Railway Board, Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav along with other Members of Railway Board and senior Railway officials held a high level review meeting with all General Managers of Zonal Railways/Production Units and Divisional Railway Managers through Video Conferencing in Rail Bhavan on 20.11.2019.


    The Agenda of the meeting covered performance review till Oct, 2019 including safety performance, punctuality, freight loading, earnings, expenditure, infrastructure creation and production of rolling stock.


    Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal complimented Zonal Railways for improving punctuality on Indian Railways. While reviewing Divisional Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), Shri Goyal appreciated the efforts of Divisions in improving performance in various areas. Shri Goyal emphasized to General Managers to take initiatives and interact with industry to increase freight loading by attracting new traffic. Shri Goyal also directed General Managers to explore new innovative ideas to increase earning through Non Fare Revenue (NFR) and other Coaching heads like parcel. Shri Goyal invited suggestions from officers on critical issues so as to further improve performance and efficiency of Railways. Shri Goyal further emphasized that all out efforts should be made to reduce expenditures. New technologies need to be adopted in different areas of railway working.


    Minister of State of Railways Shri Suresh C. Angadi emphasized that safety should be accorded the highest priority and aim should be to achieve ‘Zero accident’ on Indian Railways. Shri Angadi complimented the Zones and divisions for improving punctuality. Cleanliness in trains needs to be ensured. Shri Angadi directed Zonal Railways to ensure availability of First Aid Box in passenger trains. Shri Angadi further directed that all Zones and Divisions should work to increase earnings and reduce expenditures.


    While reviewing the performance of Zonal Railways in detail during the current year so far, Chairman, Railway Board, Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav gave directions to General Managers for ensuring safety in train operations. Shri Yadav also insisted that all accidents should be analysed in detail and remedial action must be taken immediately. Shri Yadav applauded the officers for bringing significant improvement in punctuality of mail/express trains which has increased to a level of 75% compared to 67% last year (April-October).


    Digital initiatives including approval of drawings should be adopted for speedy implementation of infrastructure works. GMs of Zonal railways should make all out efforts to improve earnings and reduce expenditures.Focus should be on reducing diesel fuel consumption. Organizational reform is top priority and ‘Delivery’ is sacrosanct.


    Chairman, Railway Board emphasized to GMs to take initiatives to increase freight loading. Focus should be on completing New Line Commissioning, Gauge conversion, Doubling and Electrification projects on priority within targeted time, so as to augment infrastructure and improve mobility. Shri Yadav urged the production units to increase production of locomotives and coaches in order to meet the need of increased rolling stock on Indian Railways.


    *****


    SG/MKV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1592989) Visitor Counter : 175
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali