      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Joint production of films will bring the spirit of India and Russia together: Russian Ambassador Nikolay Kudashev
      
      Great interest for Russian films among Indian people: Maria Lameshev

      Posted On: 21 NOV 2019 8:44PM by PIB Delhi

    Joint production of films and cultural exchange through films will bring the spirit of India and Russia together, said Russian Ambassador to India Mr. Nikolay Kudashev. A joint agreement was signed at Vladivostok in Russia during September 2019 for expanding cultural exchanges between the two countries. It is time to take advantage of the agreement by working together and reaching our common aims, he said. Mr. Nikolay Kudashev was addressing a media conference at the 50th International Film Festival of India today in Panaji, Goa.


    Replying to questions, Mr. Kudashev said that it is true that contemporary Russian literature is not adequately represented in India. “The government has got plans to bridge this gap by publishing ten of best Russian books in Hindi and ten of the best Indian books in Russian. Efforts are also on for more exchanges and co-operation in the field of education too, ”he said. Mr. Niklolay Kudashev added Russia is committed to the promotion of the bi-lateral ties between two countries


    The Ambassador thanked the Indian government and government of Goa for choosing Russia as a partner country in the 50th edition of IFFI.


    On the reach and popularity of Indian films in Russia, Mr. Kudashev said that there is an Indian channel in Russia which brings Bollywood films to viewers in the country on a daily basis.


    Head of Russian delegation in IFFI and Editor in Chief of Kinoreporter Ms. Maria Lameshev said that there is a great interest for Russian films among Indian people. “Diverse films from Russia which got international awards and acclaim have been brought to India for showcasing in IFFI. Films like ‘Abigail’ portrays the fantasy of youngsters”,she said.


    Maria Lemesheva added that according to the co-production agreement, 40 percent of budget of the film would be given back by the Ministry of culture. She extended her support in facilitating meetings for possible co-productions for future.


    Lead actress of ‘Beanpole’ which is one of the eight films being screened in the Country Focus Section and the recipient of many international awards Ms. Viktoria Miroshnichenko said that ‘Beanpole’ depicts a difficult time in the history of Russia. Actor in the Russian film ‘Abigail’ Peter Zekavica, said he grew up watching Ramayana on television as a child and recalled how it helped him to get in touch with the spiritual side of India. He also thanked the festival for bringing him upclose with some of his Indian heroes at the opening ceremony.


    Attending her third IFFI, actor Anfisa Chernickh said that she loved Indian cinema and even though none of her films were showcased at the festival, she was here to support her delegation.


    Actor in the Russian film ‘Abigail’ Glbe Bochkov also participated in the media conference. The actors also expressed their interest in acting in Indian movies in the future.


    Eight Russian films- Abigail, Acid, Andrei Tarkovsky: A Cinema Prayer, Beanpole, Great poetry , Once in trubchevsk , Why don’t you just die!, The Hero will be screened in the Country Focus section of IFFI this year.


    ***


    ED/NS/MR/BSN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1592969) Visitor Counter : 292
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali