      Ministry of Tourism

      Ministry of Tourism is promoting Buddhist Circuit to increase India’s share in global tourism market – Tourism Minister
      Posted On: 19 NOV 2019 7:22PM by PIB Delhi


    With a view to showcase and project the Buddhist Heritage in India and boost tourism to the Buddhist destinations in the country, Ministry of Tourism organises the International Buddhist Conclave biennially with participation of tour operators, Media, opinion makers etc. from overseas as well as Indian stakeholders .


    MoT has also produced two films viz. ‘India – The Land of Buddha’ and ‘Following the path of the Buddha’ which have been promoted on electronic and digital media, and at Road Shows and Know India Seminars etc. organised by the India Tourism Offices overseas. MoT also has a dedicated section for the promotion of Buddhist heritage and destinations on its promotional website.


    MoT has identified the Buddhist Circuit as one of the fifteen thematic circuits for development under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme. MoT has sanctioned five projects for Rs. 355.26 Crore under the Buddhist Circuit theme covering the States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh and work on all the projects is under implementation.


    Financial support is also extended under the Marketing Development Assistance Scheme to approved service providers and State Governments/Union Territory Administrations for promotional activities undertaken by them in the overseas markets such as Sales Tours, Participation in Travel Fairs/ Exhibitions and Road Shows.


    Ministry of Tourism (MoT) promotes India as a holistic destination in the tourism generating markets to promote various Indian tourism products and tourism destinations of the country including the Buddhist Circuit to increase India’s share of the global tourism market.


    The above objectives are met through an integrated marketing and promotional strategy, and a synergized campaign in association with the Travel Trade, State Governments/Union Territory Administrations and Indian Missions. The specific elements of promotional efforts undertaken overseas include advertising in Print, Electronic, Online, Outdoor and Social Media, participation in international Fairs & Exhibitions, organising Know India Seminars, Workshops, Road Shows and India Evenings, Brochure Support, Joint Advertising with Travel Agents / Tour Operators, organising and supporting Indian Food and cultural festivals, publication of brochures and inviting tour operators, media personalities, opinion makers etc. to visit the country under the Hospitality Programme of the Ministry.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (I/c) of Culture and Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    *******


    NB/AKJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1592283) Visitor Counter : 511
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu