      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Production of Bamboo in NES
      Posted On: 20 NOV 2019 6:24PM by PIB Delhi


    As per India State of Forest Report, 2017, total bamboo bearing area in the country is 156866 sq. km. and North Eastern States represents 54172 sq. km bamboo bearing area which is 34.53% of the country’s bamboo bearing area.


    The restructured National Bamboo Mission (NBM) has been launched in 2018-19 by the Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare. The National Bamboo Mission focuses on the development of complete value chain of bamboo sector to link growers with consumers starting from planting material, plantation, creation of facilities for collection, aggregation, processing, marketing, micro, small & medium enterprises, skill development and brand building initiative in a cluster approach mode. NBM interventions includes support to industries for establishment of bamboo treatment and seasoning plants, establishment of carbonisation plants and establishment of livelihood business incubators and establishment of processing units for value addition.


    Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises is implementing a scheme called ‘Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries (SFURTI) in seven districts of Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Tripura and Assam for need-based assistance, replacement of production equipment, setting up of Common Facility Centres (CFC), product development, quality improvement, improved marketing, training and capacity building.


    Cane and Bamboo Technology Centre (CBTC) of M/o Development of North Eastern Region creates avenues on cane and bamboo sector by training, technology transfer and market linkage. CBTC has formed 16 clusters, 2 in each State of North East, for training in various handicraft and utility products for the artisans of North East.


    This information was provided by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, DrJitendra Singh in written reply to a question in LokSabha today.


    ****


    VRRK/NK/JM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1592487) Visitor Counter : 356