      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Mental Health Awareness Initiatives
      Posted On: 19 NOV 2019 3:17PM by PIB Delhi


    To address the burden of mental disorders, the Government of India is implementing the National Mental Health Programme ( NMHP) since 1982. The Government is supporting implementation of the District Mental Health Programme (DMHP) under NMHP in 655 districts of the country for early detection, management and treatment of mental disorders/illnesses. With the objective to address the shortage of qualified mental health professionals in the country, the Government, under NMHP is implementing Manpower Development Schemes for establishment of Centres of Excellence and strengthening/ establishment of Post Graduate (PG) Departments in mental health specialties. Till date, support has been provided for establishment of 25 Centres of Excellence and strengthening/ establishment of 47 Post Graduate (PG) Departments in mental health specialties in the country. Tertiary level mental healthcare facilities are provided through dedicated Mental Health Institutions as well as Medical Colleges run by Central and State Governments. The Government has also enacted the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, which came into force w.e.f. 29/05/2018. The Act aims at protection and promotion of the rights of persons with mental illness during the delivery of health care in institutions and in the community. It also ensures health care, treatment and rehabilitation of persons with mental illness within a rights based framework to achieve the greatest public health good.


    During 2018-19, the total budget allocation for Central Mental Health Institutions and NMHP was Rs. 599.76 cr, out of which a total of Rs. 545.65 cr have been spent.


    To generate awareness among masses about mental illnesses Information, Education and Communication (IEC) activities are an integral part of the NMHP. At the District level, funds uptoRs. 4 lakh per annum are provided to each District under the DMHP under the Non-communicable Diseases flexi-pool of National Health Mission for IEC and awareness generation activities in the community, schools, workplaces, with community involvement. Under the DMHP various IEC activities such as awareness messages in local newspapers and radio, street plays, wall paintings etc. are undertaken by the States/UTs.


    As per the guidelines for implementation of DMHP, funds uptoRs. 12 lakhs per annum are provided to each district supported under the programme for targeted interventions with the following objectives:

     1. To provide class teachers with facilitative skill to promote life skill among their students.
     2. To provide the class teachers with knowledge and skills to identify emotional conduct, scholastic and substance use problems in their students
     3. To provide class teachers with a system of referral for students with psychological problems to the District Mental Health Team for inputs and treatment.
     4. To involve other stakeholders like parents, community leaders to enhance development of adolescents etc.

    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), ShAshwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1592166) Visitor Counter : 734
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

4.