      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Entrepreneurship Promotion in the Marginalized Section
      Posted On: 25 NOV 2019 4:46PM by PIB Delhi


    To create an enabling ecosystem for Entrepreneurship Development through entrepreneurship education and training across the Country, Pradhan Mantri Yuva Udyamita Vikas Abhiyaan (PM YUVA) was launched by the Government in 2016 for implementation through the Institutes of Higher Learning (Universities, Colleges and Premier Institutes), schools, Industrial Training Centers (ITIs) and Entrepreneurship Development Centers (EDCs) for a period of five years. During review of the PM YUVA project, the progress under the scheme was not found satisfactory and accordingly, it was decided to restructure the project and implement it through the Institutes in the Skill Ecosystem of the Ministry i.e. Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendras (PMKKs), Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs), Polytechnics, Jan Shikshan Sansthan (JSS) and Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) Training Centres. The pilot project on PM YUVA with the revised strategy is under implementation.


    Besides, with an aim to promote a culture of entrepreneurship among India’s youth and inspire them to set-up their own enterprise and create employment opportunities for others, Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, has instituted National Entrepreneurship Awards Scheme (NEAS) in 2016. Under the scheme, awards are conferred to the aspiring first generation entrepreneurs to recognize and honour their efforts and achievements and those individuals/organizations who are working as eco-system builder in the field of entrepreneurship development. The awards also seek to highlight model of excellence for others to emulate and improve upon. Under the scheme, there is special provision of 12 awards in sub-category under Enterprises Track exclusively for Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe, Women Entrepreneur, Entrepreneur from Persons with Disability (PwDs) and Entrepreneur from Difficult Areas.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri R.K. Singh in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    YB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593401) Visitor Counter : 453
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu