      Prime Minister's Office

      India has transformed from Nation wants to know to Nation First: PM
      
      When nation is first, country takes big decision: PM
      
      PM delivers keynote addresses in Republic Summit 2019
      Posted On: 26 NOV 2019 9:34PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi delivered keynote address in Republic Summit here today. Theme of this year’s summit is “India’s Moment Nation First”.


    Speaking on the occasion PM said that From Nation wants to know India has transformed to Nation First. He also said that things which were not solved for decades have been solved now. This happened due to two reasons - 130 Crore people’s thinking that India’s Moment and Nation First.


    On the abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir, PM said that India eliminated big reason behind terrorism. He added that Article 370 that gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir was a temporary provision in the Constitution but due to "some families", it was considered as permanent.


    He emphasized that when nation is first, country takes big decision. And when country accepts that decision nation moves forward. He also said that people went to the Supreme Court so that Aadhaar could not get legal recognition. These people put all their strength to malign Aadhaar. But Aadhaar helped a lot in revealing their truth. It has saved about Rs 1.5 lakh crores from falling into the wrong hands. He added that every year, almost the same amount was falling into the wrong hands and there was no one to stop it. We did the work to stop this huge leakage of the system, because India is first for us.


    Prime Minister said that GST could never have been implemented in the country earlier. Today, 99 percent of the things related to ordinary citizens are being taxed on an average of half as compared to before. There was a time when refrigerators - mixers, juicers, vacuum cleaners, geysers, mobile phones, washing machines, watches, all taxed more than 31 percent. Today, tax on all these things has been reduced to about 10 to 12 percent.


    On regularization of illegal colonies in Delhi, he said that for decades, there was a lot of uncertainty in the lives of millions of families. People used to buy houses here with their hard-earned money, but they could not completely own them. These problems remained always. Our government has decided to end it and now more than 50 lakh Delhiites have got the certainty/hope/confidence of their home and a better life. Certainly it will benefit our middle class and help in getting their dream home, he added.


    Prime Minister emphasized that the speed and Scale that is being worked on in India today is unprecedented. Toilet facilities to be provided to nearly 60 crore Indians in 60 months. These types of plans and programs can be planned and executed only when Nation is first.


    He added that when you get out of selfishness, make everyone's support - everyone's development and everyone's trust the basis of policy and politics. This thinking has left us behind in the race for development, learning how to work with new approaches on 112 aspirational districts of the country.


    PM said that it was the spirit of Nation First that opened more than 37 crore bank accounts to connect the poor with the banking system. It was this thinking of Nation First that started the water life mission. In the coming time, about Rs.3.5 lakh crore will be spent on this mission, so that people in remote areas of the country can get clean drinking water, water can reach every house.


    Prime Minister added that with the intention of increasing their income, the country has set a target of making the country's economy $ 5 trillion. He said that he believed that working with the spirit of Nation First, we will get the proper result of every decision and the country will achieve every goal. He hoped that in this spirit, there will be a detailed discussion on the new possibilities, new opportunities of new India.


    ***


    VRRK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593638) Visitor Counter : 515
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Assamese , Urdu , Urdu , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada