      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      The Industrial Relations Code Bill, 2019 Introduced in Lok Sabha today
      Posted On: 28 NOV 2019 3:32PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employment Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar introduced The Industrial Relations Code Bill, 2019 in the Lok Sabha today. While introducing the Bill Shri Gangwar said that the Code has been prepared after wide consultations with Trade union representatives, Employer’s organizations and State Governments.


    The Bill aims to consolidate and amend the laws relating to trade unions, conditions of employment in industrial establishment or undertaking, investigation and settlement of industrial disputes.


    The draft code on Industrial Relations has been prepared after amalgamating, simplifying and rationalizing the relevant provisions of following three Central Labour Acts viz: The Trade Unions Act, 1926, The Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946 and The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.


    The Union Cabinet approved the Industrial Relations Code, 2019 on November 20, 2019.


    Benefits:


    Setting up of two-member tribunal (in place of one member) introducing a concept that some of the important cases will be adjudicated jointly and the rest by a single member resulting speedier disposal of cases.


    To impart flexibility to the exit provisions (relating to retrenchment etc.), for which, the threshold for prior approval of appropriate Government has been kept unchanged at 100 employees, but added a provision for changing ‘such number of employees’ through notification.


    The re-skilling fund is to be utilised for crediting to workers in the manner to be prescribed.


    Definition of Fixed Term Employment and that it would not lead to any notice period and payment of compensation on retrenchment excluded.


    Vesting of powers with the government officers for adjudication of disputes involving penalty as fines thereby lessening the burden on tribunal.


    ***


    RCJ/SKP/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1593989) Visitor Counter : 831
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi