      Ministry of Railways

      Facilities at Railway Stations
      Posted On: 27 NOV 2019 6:55PM by PIB Delhi


    Upgradation/Modernisation of Railway stations is a continuous and on-going process undertaken from time to time through various schemes. At present, under the Adarsh Station Scheme, 1253 stations have been identified for development out of which 1149 stations have been developed so far and the remaining are to be developed by 2019-20. Various passenger amenities like improvement to facade of the station building, retiring room, waiting room (with bathing facilities), separate waiting room for ladies, landscaping of circulating area, earmarked parking, signages, Foot Over Bridge, ramps at entry to station etc. are provided at Railway stations under this scheme as per the respective category of the station. Further, upgradation works at railway stations are undertaken as per requirement, subject to inter-se priority and availability of funds.


    Railways undertake replacement of old and dilapidated quarters in railway colonies constructed for its officers and staff on regular basis, depending upon age and condition of quarters and availability of funds. Apart from that, Indian Railways has initiated colony redevelopment programme wherein funds generated from commercial exploitation of utilized Floor Area Ratio (FAR) to be used to redevelop old colonies at no cost to Railways. Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) has been entrusted with 84 railway colonies for redevelopment.


    Railways are also providing specialized Soft Skills Training to sensitize railway station staff to handle persons with disability, senior citizens, women and children.


    Policing on Railways being a State subject, prevention of crime, registration of cases, their investigation and maintenance of law & order in Railway premises as well as on running trains are the statutory responsibility of the State Governments, which they discharge through Government Railway Police (GRP)/District Police. Cases of Indian Penal Code (IPC) crimes are registered and investigated by the concerned Government Railway Police.


    However, the following steps are also being taken by the Railways in coordination with GRP for safety and security of all its passengers including poor labourers, women, children & senior citizens in trains and at stations:-

     1. On vulnerable and identified routes/sections, 2200 trains (on an average) are escorted by Railway Protection Force (RPF) daily in addition to 2200 trains escorted by Government Railway Police of different States daily.
     2. Surveillance is kept through CCTV cameras, provided at about 501 stations over Indian Railways, to ensure safety and security of passengers.
     3. Security Help Line number 182 is operational over Indian Railways for security related assistance to passengers in distress.
     4. An Integrated Security System (ISS) consisting of surveillance of vulnerable stations through Close Circuit Television (CCTV) Camera Network, Access Control, Personal & Baggage screening etc. has been sanctioned to improve surveillance mechanism over 202 railway stations.
     5. Drives are conducted from time to time against the entry of unauthorized persons in trains and railway premises.
     6. Ministry of Railways, in coordination with Ministry of Women and Child Development and National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, have issued a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) which includes a protocol for rescue of children found abandoned on railway stations or trafficked through trains.
     7. Ladies Special trains running in Metropolitan cities are being escorted by lady RPF personnel. In other trains, where escorts are provided, the train escorting parties are briefed to keep extra vigil on lady passengers travelling alone, ladies coaches en-route and at halting stations.
     8. State Level Security Committee of Railways (SLSCR) have been constituted for all State/Union Territories under the Chairmanship of respective Director General of Police/Commissioner of States/Union Territories for regular monitoring and review of security arrangements of the Railways.

    This information was given by the Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SG/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593900) Visitor Counter : 141
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali
    
    
    

8.