      Ministry of Textiles

      CCI procured around 4 Lakh Quintals kapas
      Posted On: 22 NOV 2019 1:49PM by PIB Delhi


    There is no specific complaint from cotton growers/organizations regarding procurement of cotton in the country. However, during the cotton season 2014-15, some irregularities took place in cotton purchase in Andhra Pradesh. Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) Limited undertook massive procurement operation under Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procured 86.97 lakh bales. Since, the procurement operation was the biggest ever, some lapses in identification of cotton farmers were noticed. In the investigation, it was established that the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) officials were responsible to certify the genuineness of farmers. However, for administrative lapses of CCI officials, necessary action had been taken.


    Further, to overcome such type of situation, Government of India had requested all major cotton producing states to devise procedure so that the officials from State Agriculture Department, District Collectors and Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) may ensure that only bonafide cotton farmers sell their produce to nodal agencies without any involvement of commission agents or middlemen or traders so that the benefit of MSP is received by cotton farmers. Thereafter, digital identification of farmers by State Government has been introduced Andhra Pradesh. Since then, there has been no complaint.


    In order to avoid distress sale of cotton by farmers and with a view to safeguard the interest of cotton farmers, the following steps have been taken:


     1. 610 procurement points including 367 procurement centers covering 125 districts in 12 cotton growing states have been opened in all the cotton growing States under 18 procurement & sales branches of Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) Ltd.

     2. Disseminating the necessary information regarding Minimum Support Price (MSP) rates to cotton farmers by displaying banners in APMCs, advertisements in newspapers, distribution of pamphlets to individual farmers, etc.
     3. To co-ordinate and monitor MSP operation, MSP cell constituted at Corporate Office, Zonal Office & Branch Office.
     4. Implemented 100% payment of cotton purchased under MSP to the cotton farmers directly in their account through online system within 72 hours.
     5. Established a farmer friendly mobile app ‘Cott-Ally’ to ensure direct interaction and outreach with the cotton farmers.
     6. Digitalized moisture meters, Micronaire testers and hand-held ginning machines to ensure quality based prices to cotton farmers.
     7. Laptops along with web-cams and printers for electronic generation of bills, with farmers’ photos on takpatti to ensure prompt payments directly in cotton farmer’s bank accounts.
     8. As on 18 th November 2019, CCI has procured around 4 lakh quintals kapas from the farmers mainly in the states of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Telangana and at some centres in the states of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.

    This information was given by the Union Minister of Textiles, Smriti Zubin Irani, in written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593025) Visitor Counter : 291
    
    
    
    
    

8.