      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Allocation of Targets to Training Partners Subject to Smart Accreditation
      
      E-Marketing Support to States for High Quality Products Made by Self Help Groups
      
      National Workshop on Accreditation of Training Centres for Providing Handholding Support to States Organised
      Posted On: 26 NOV 2019 2:18PM by PIB Delhi


    The Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana – National Urban Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NULM) organised a one day national workshop on accreditation of training centres on Skill Management & Accreditation of Training Centre (SMART) portal and stressed that from the next financial year, allocation of targets to trading partners would be subject to their SMART accreditation. The states were advised to start the process of accreditation immediately, if not already done so. The workshop was attended by representatives from the states, National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) and TPs. It aimed at providing handholding support to the states for streamlining the accreditation process on SMART and addressing any other specific query, especially in respect to Employment through Skill Training & Placement (EST&P) component of DAY-NULM. The technical session on SMART portal was conducted by representatives from National Skill Development Corporation.


    The state representatives were urged to take full benefit of this workshop so that they are able to provide further handholding support to other stakeholders in the statesand emphasised on delivery of quality training programmes on ground and role of TPs in ensuring the same.


    In the later part of the day, a dedicated session on e-marketing of high quality products made by Self Help Groups (SHGs) was also undertaken with the states. The session, which was also attended by representatives from various e-commerce portals, was important considering that DAY-NULM envisages facilitating on-boarding of SHG products on e- commerce platforms to provide them access to bigger and emerging markets. The salient features in the proposed MoU with these e-commerce portals were also discussed along with the expected roles of stakeholders involved.


    The deliberations in the workshop will be useful in effective implementation of the Mission on ground in line with the overall objective to create sustainable livelihoods for urban poor and addressing their social and occupational vulnerabilities.


    Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana – National Urban Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NULM) is one of the flagship schemes of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs that works towards alleviating urban poverty through strong community institutions, skill training, access to affordable credit for self-employment, support for street vendors and provision of shelters for the urban homeless.


    ***


    RJ/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593539) Visitor Counter : 351
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi