      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      30 Outlets Set Up For Popularizing Coir Products
      Posted On: 28 NOV 2019 1:00PM by PIB Delhi


    The Coir Industry in India is an export oriented industry. However, the reach of the coir products in India is increasing beyond Metros and major cities. Considering the vast geographical area available in India and the huge population, it is expected that the domestic market potential available in India is large enough to consume the entire coir production on annual basis. Government of India through Coir Board has set up 30 outlets throughout the Country for popularizing and selling coir products.


    The renovation of old Showrooms is taken up on need basis. The Coir Board has already taken up and completed renovation of its Showrooms at Indore, Navi Mumbai, Lucknow, Patna, Trivandrum and Varanasi. Further renovation work of Showrooms at Jammu, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Mumbai and Chennai has been initiated.


    Government has taken following steps to popularize, ensure availability of coir products throughout the country and create infrastructure:


    (i) It has opened showrooms throughout the country.


    (ii) BIS standards have been got approved for coir geo-textiles.


    (iii) Coir Board initiated action to join hands with KVIC for marketing coir products through KVIC Showrooms.


    (iv) Regular publicity of various coir products.


    (v) 41 numbers of SFURTI coir clusters have been approved and 16 coir clusters are functional.


    (vi) To modernize coir industry, youngsters and women artisans are being trained. In last three years 6474 number of women artisans have been trained.


    (vii) Coir Board organizes participation in important national and international exhibitions.


    This information was given by Shri Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593949) Visitor Counter : 309
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil