      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Development of Clusters Under MSMEs
      Posted On: 28 NOV 2019 1:01PM by PIB Delhi


    The Micro and Small Enterprises Cluster Development Programme (MSE-CDP) is implemented by Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and 35 clusters have been completed during financial year 2015-16 to 2018-19. State/UT-wise details are enclosed ( Annexure-I ).


    The turnover, production, job creation and exports of the clusters depend upon various factors like aggregate domestic and global demand, seasonality besides various other factors all of which may not be within the control of the units in the cluster. Moreover, existence of the cluster and facilities therein have several externalities which also have indirect impact on the turnover, production, job creation and exports of the units in and around the clusters.


    The MSMEs not covered under MSE-CDP scheme can avail benefits under other schemes of the Ministry such as Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries (SFURTI), A Scheme for Promoting Innovation, Rural Industry & Entrepreneurship (ASPIRE), Credit Linked Capital Subsidy and Technology Up-gradation Scheme (CLCS-TUS), Procurement and Marketing Support etc.


    Annexure-I


    (I) Clusters completed during 2015-16: Nil


    (II) Clusters completed during 2016-17: 5

                                                        
S. No.  State        Name of the cluster                
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
1       Maharashtra  Textile Cluster, Malegaon,         
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
2       Maharashtra  Mango Processing Cluster, Ratnagiri
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
3       Maharashtra  Readymade Garment Cluster, Nagpur  
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
4       Tamil Nadu   Ceramic Cluster, Vridhachalam,     
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
5       Tamil Nadu   Engineering Cluster, Hosur         
                                                        
                                                        

    (III) Clusters completed during 2017-18: 13

                                                                          
S. No.  State           Name of the cluster                               
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
1       Andhra Pradesh  Gold Jewellery Cluster, Vijayawada,               
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
2       Haryana         Printing and Packaging Cluster, Karnal            
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
3       Kerala          Wood Processing Cluster, Kollam                   
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
4       Maharashtra     Auto & Engineering Cluster, Ahmednagar            
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
5       Maharashtra     Turmeric Cluster, Sangli                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
6       Maharashtra     Garment Cluster, Ichalakaranji                    
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
7       Maharashtra     Dal Mill Cluster, Nagpur                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
8       Tamil Nadu      Rice Mill Cluster, Keelapavoor                    
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
9       Tamil Nadu      Rice Mill Cluster, Alangulam                      
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
10      Tamil Nadu      Plastic Woven Sacks Cluster, Chennai, Kancheepuram
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
11      Uttar Pradesh   Scissors Cluster, Meerut                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
12      West Bengal     Zari Embroidery Cluster, Budge Budge              
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
13      West Bengal     Fan Cluster, Kolkata                              
                                                                          
                                                                          

    

    (IV) Clusters completed during 2018-19: 17

                                                                  
S. No.  State        Name of the cluster                          
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
1       Karnataka    Electronic Cluster, Bangalore                
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
2       Karnataka    Raisin Processing Cluster, Athani            
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
3       Karnataka    Raisin Processing Cluster, Bijapur           
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
4       Karnataka    Heat Treatment and Engineering Cluster, Hubli
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
5       Karnataka    Auto Cluster, Bidar                          
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
6       Kerala       Kerala Printing Cluster, Kannur              
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
7       Maharashtra  Powerloom Cluster, Shirpur, Dhule            
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
8       Odisha       Cashew Cluster, Ganjam                       
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
9       Tamil Nadu   Engineering Cluster, Paramakudi              
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
10      Tamil Nadu   Printing Cluster, Sivakasi, Virudhnagar      
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
11      Tamil Nadu   Readymade Garment Cluster, Dhalviapuram      
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
12      Tamil Nadu   Steel Products Fabrication Cluster, Salem    
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
13      Tamil Nadu   Gold Jewellery Cluster, Madurai              
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
14      Tamil Nadu   Rice Mill Cluster, Thanjavur                 
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
15      Tamil Nadu   Engineering Cluster, Ambattur                
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
16      West Bengal  Plastic Product Cluster, Jalpaiguri          
                                                                  
                                                                  
                                                                  
17      West Bengal  Roofing Tiles Cluster, Murlu                 
                                                                  
                                                                  

    This information was given by Shri Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593952) Visitor Counter : 456
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu