      Ministry of Railways

      Onboard Housekeeing Services in Running Trains
      Posted On: 22 NOV 2019 5:36PM by PIB Delhi


    Cleanliness is a continuous process and every endeavour is made to keep the coaches including toilets in properly maintained and clean condition. Some of the major initiatives taken by Indian Railways towards improvement of cleanliness of trains are as follows:

     1. Cleaning of coaches including toilets of trains is done at both ends, including mechanized cleaning.
     2. Onboard Housekeeping Service (OBHS) has been provided in nearly 1090 pairs of trains including Rajdhani, Shatabdi and other important long distance Mail/Express trains for cleaning of coach toilets, doorways, aisles and passenger compartments during the run of the trains.
     3. ‘Coach Mitra’ service has been provided in around 1050 pairs of OBHS trains as a single window interface to register coach related requirements of passengers such as cleaning, disinfestation, linen, train lighting, air conditioning and watering of coaches.
     4. Clean Train Station (CTS) scheme has also been prescribed for limited mechanized cleaning attention to identified trains including cleaning of toilets during their scheduled stoppages enroute at nominated stations.
     5. Pest and rodent control of coaches is being done on a regular basis through authorised professional agencies. Fumigation is also done for pest control.
     6. Earlier, dustbins were provided in AC Coaches only. Now, provision of dustbin is also being done in Non-AC coaches.
     7. Indian Railways is proliferating bio-toilets on its coaching stock so that no human waste is discharged from coaches on to the track.
     8. Regular checks are conducted at officers / supervisors levels, and corrective action is taken wherever any deficiency is noticed.
     9. Cleanliness drives and awareness campaigns are also carried out from time to time.

    This information was given by the Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    SG/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593147) Visitor Counter : 165
    
    
    
    
    

9.