      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister Urges the Country to Uphold the Duties Enshrined in the Constitution
      
      Constitution is the Holy Book Which Provides Dignity to the Citizen and Upholds Unity of the Country
      
      Prime Minister Participates in the 70th Constitution Day Celebrations

      Posted On: 26 NOV 2019 1:57PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Narendra Modi today highlighted the strength of inclusivity in our Constitution and said that this has made us face of our challenges while upholding the integrity of the nation.


    He was today addressing a joint sitting of the both the houses to mark the 70th Year of Constitution in the Central Hall of Parliament.


    Referring to the Constitution day, the Prime Minister said, “ There are a few occasions and a few days that strengthen our relation with the past. They motivate us to works towards a better future. Today the 26th of November is a historical day. 70 years ago, we duly adopted our great Constitution. “


    Prime Minister described the Constitution as a product of several debates and deliberations of the Constituent Assembly. He paid tributes to all those who put in their effort in providing the country with its Constitution.


    “7 decades ago in this Central hall, every clause of Constitution was discussed, debated on our dreams, challenges and prospects. Dr Rajendra Prasad, Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Pandit Nehru, Acharya Kriplani, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad and several other senior leaders debated, discussed and gave us this heritage. I pay my tributes to all those who were responsible for giving us this constitution. “


    “The dreams of the members of the Constituent Assembly took shape in the form of the words and values enshrined in our Constitution.”, he said.


    Prime Minister said that Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkarji, in his last discourse on the Constitution on the 25th of November 1949 reminded the people that in the past “we have lost both our freedom and the republic nature of the country owing to our own mistakes”.


    Prime Minister said, “Ambedkar Ji warned the people and asked them if the country can now uphold its freedom and its democracy”


    Prime Minister said, “Had Babasaheb Ambedkar been alive today, he would have probably been the happiest. Not only India upheld its virtues but strengthened its democracy and freedom. “


    “And that is why I bow to the Legislature, Executive and Judicial wings of the Constitution which helped in preserving the values and ideals enshrined in it.”


    Prime Minister said he would also bow to the entire country for striving to uphold the constitution.


    “I humbly bow to the 130 Crore Indians whose faith in India’s democracy never diminished and who always revered the constitution as a holy book and a guiding light.


    The 70 years of our constitution brings us a feeling of happiness, supremacy and a sense of conclusion.


    The happiness is due to resolute sense of belongingness to the virtues and essence of the constitution. People of this country have rejected any attempt to the contrary.”


    He said, “The sense of supremacy is due to the ideals of the constitution that we could move towards Ek Bharat Shresth Bharat.


    The essence we arrive at is that Constitution is the only means through which this vast and diverse country can achieve its aspirations, dreams and progress.”


    Prime Minister Narendra Modi described the Constitution as our holy book.


    “Our Constitution is the most holy book for us which is a conglomeration of our life, our society, our traditions, our values and also a solution to all our challenges.”


    He said Constitution is based on the twin philosophy of dignity and unity. “Two mantras of Constitution are 'dignity for Indians' and 'unity for India' It held supreme the dignity of our citizens while keeping the Unity of India intact.”


    Prime Minister termed the Constitution as the best express of global democracy and that it keeps us aware not only of our rights but also of our duties.


    “The Constitution of India highlights both rights and duties of citizens. This is a special aspect of our Constitution. The relation and balance between the rights and duties were very well understood by the Father of our Nation Mahatma Gandhi ji. “


    He urged the people to develop the spirit to adhere to the Sense of duty enshrined in the constitution.


    “Let us think about how we can fulfil the duties enshrined in our Constitution.


    We should differentiate between service and duty. While Service is voluntary, that is you may help a needy on the street, but if you follow traffic rules rigorously while driving then you are fulfilling your duty.


    It should be our effort to emphasise on duties in our interactions with people.


    As proud citizens of India, let us think about how our actions will make our nation even stronger.”


    He said, “Our Constitution begins with “We the People of India”. Let us realise that We the People are its strength, its inspiration and its purpose”


    The Prime Minister also recalled this day as the day in which several people were killed in a terror attack in Mumbai in 2008 and paid tributes to those departed on that gruesome day.


    “But today also is a day that causes pain when on 26th November in Mumbai terrorists have tried to destroy the thousands of years of rich philosophy of Vasudaiva Kutumbakam (One World One Family). I pay my respects to the departed souls.”


    Speaking in Parliament on #ConstitutionDay. Watch https://t.co/snTemTIFze

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) November 26, 2019

    https://www.pscp.tv/w/1OwxWdEMRnwKQ


    ********


    VRRK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593534) Visitor Counter : 591
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Kannada