      Ministry of Power

      EESL and SDMC Comes Together to Enhance the EV Infrastructure in Delhi to Install Around 75 Charging Stations in SDMC Area
      Posted On: 27 NOV 2019 6:43PM by PIB Delhi


    Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), a joint venture under Ministry of Power, Government of India has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), a civic body under Municipal Corporation of Delhi, to establish infrastructure for Electric Vehicles (EV) in SDMC area over a 10-year period.


    Under the terms outlined in the Memorandum of Understanding, SDMC and EESL shall jointly work to fast-track the adoption of e-mobility in Delhi by installing around 75 public charging stations in South Delhi Municipal Corporation Area.


    Managing Director, EESL Shri Saurabh Kumar and Municipal Commissioner, SDMC Shri Gyanesh Bharti, signed the MoU in the august presence of Union Minister of Power Shri R. K. Singh and Lt. Governor, Government of NCT of Delhi Shri Anil Baijal.


    Speaking at the ceremony, Minister of Power and New & Renewable Energy, Shri R.K Singh said this initiative is part of Government’s vision to reduce carbon footprints. We will grow, but responsibly, he added elaborating efforts to achieve the target of 175 GW renewable energy capacity by 2022 and having 40 percent as RE capacity in total installed energy capacity by 2030. The Minister also said that government has taken a number of steps to promote environment friendly electric vehicles including revision in Electric Vehicle Charging Policy. Urging to promote use of electric vehicles, he said all of us should take it forward.


    Speaking on the occasion, Lt. Governor, Government of NCT of Delhi Shri Anil Baijal said that this is good beginning. He also assured all helps in resolving any issue that may arise in due course.


    The Government of India has embarked upon a very ambitious e-mobility plan, one in which the government plays a pivotal role in enabling e-mobility. Installation of public charging stations (PCS) would help in taking considerable strides in the creation of a sustainable EV ecosystem in the states across India. It’s a great stride by SDMC and EESL to come together for harnessing synergies and opportunities in this broader effort.


    The procurement of charging units, procurement of related infrastructure shall be borne by EESL along with the operation & maintenance of public charging infrastructure by qualified manpower, whereas, SDMC would be responsible for provision of space for setting up charging infrastructure in its area.


    In the first phase, EV charging station will be installed in 18 locations within 6 months from the effective date, selected through joint survey by both parties. The total number of finalized locations as per the location assessment will be 75 which may increase/decrease and include multi-level parking locations in Delhi as well.


    Installation of public charging stations would help these legislative efforts in creating a sustainable EV ecosystem in the states. With installation of public charging stations, the range anxiety among residents is expected to reduce, which would help in increasing the adoption of EVs in the city. This would help meet the state level targets of increasing EV adoption. With increasing penetration of EVs, the local emission of pollutants is also expected to reduce, leading to cleaner air providing several health beneﬁts to the public.


    For charging e-cars, till date, 300 AC & 170 DC captive chargers have been commissioned. Apart from this, 65 public charging stations have also been installed in NDMC area. EESL has signed agreements with various PSUs, Government departments, State Governments of Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Telangana.


    With the bulk procurement, EESL receives electric vehicles and electric chargers at a signiﬁcantly discounted rate vis-à-vis the actual market value. Further, with access to low cost funds, the overall cost of project becomes competitive. With this, EESL has established a sustainable business model which is affordable for end consumers.


    ************


    RCJ/RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593887) Visitor Counter : 224
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi