      Vice President's Secretariat

      Governance & public administration must serve as instruments to reach out to the deprived communities: Vice President
      
      Uplifting the poorest of the poor & empowering the marginalized sections of the society are crucial elements in national development.
      
      Vice Presidents pays tributes to Late Shri P S Krishnan, IAS (Rtd)
      
      Shri Krishnan ensured that constitutional provisions & people-centric policies were implemented for the welfare of the people

      Posted On: 23 NOV 2019 6:28PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President Shri M Venkaiah Naidu today said that g overnance and public administration must serve as instruments to reach out to the deprived communities. He stressed that uplifting the poorest of the poor and empowering the marginalized sections of society were crucial elements in national development.


    Speaking at the condolence meeting of late Shri P S Krishnan in New Delhi today, the Vice President said that civil servants such as Mr. Krishnan ensured that constitutional provisions and people-centric policies were implemented for the welfare of the people


    The Vice President described late PS Krishnan a firm believer in protecting fundamental rights, ensuring social justice and empowerment of women and said that the late bureaucrat’s unwavering commitment and zeal to empower people were inspirational.


    The Vice President lauded the efforts and contributions of Shri Krishnan in his long and distinguished career as an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) member in Andhra Pradesh cadre.


    “He relentlessly worked for the empowerment of depressed classes and underprivileged. His work is an elegant testimony of his single-minded devotion to the cause of the deprived and exploited,” VP said, adding that the biggest tribute to this great man would be follow his path and actions.


    On the occasion, the Vice President recollected Shri PS Krishnan’s role in crucial legislation such as Constitution (65th) Amendment Act, 1990, vesting constitutional status in the National Commission for SCs and STs and, the Employment of Manual Scavengers and Construction of Dry Latrines (Prohibition) Act, 1993 and others.


    The VP met Shri Krishnan’s wife and other family members and conveyed his condolences.


    ****


    VRRK/MS/MSY/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1593262) Visitor Counter : 353
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi