      Ministry of Railways

      Height of Railway Platforms
      Posted On: 27 NOV 2019 7:02PM by PIB Delhi


    Platforms of different levels viz. rail level, medium level and high level are provided as per prescribed schedule of dimensions at various categories of stations. It is Railways’ endeavor to provide platform of appropriate height conforming to the prescribed schedule of dimensions as per category of station. Gap between platforms and coach floor would not lead to accident if passengers board/de-board the train when it has come to halt. However, it causes inconvenience to passengers as when they try to board/de-board the moving train.


    The following steps have been taken by the Railways to minimize such incidents:-

     1. Considering the safety aspects, Ministry of Railways in April` 2018 have revised the norms of Minimum Essential Amenities and decided to provide with High Level Platforms irrespective of its category of station on Broad Gauge which was not the case earlier, as only erstwhile ‘A1’, ‘A’ & ‘C’ category stations were provided with High Level platforms. However, priority will be accorded to higher category of station over lower category of station while sanctioning and executing the work of raising the height of platforms and henceforth no work of raising the platform to medium level shall be taken up. All existing sanctioned work for raising the height of platforms from rail level/ low level shall be made to high level. In the financial year 2018-19, Ministry of Railways have also sanctioned umbrella works of Rs.6200/- crore for “Provision of Foot over Bridges and/or High level Platforms at stations” as a safety measure.
     2. Regular announcements are made through Passenger Address System at Railway Stations urging passengers not to board or de-board the moving trains.
     3. Various awareness campaigns are organized by Railways to sensitize the passengers about the dangers of boarding/de-boarding running trains and foot-board/roof-top travelling etc.
     4. Drives are conducted against persons travelling on foot-board and roof top of trains, boarding/de-boarding running trains. Persons apprehended are prosecuted under the relevant provisions of the Railways Act, 1989.
     5. Ministry of Railways had decided in the year 2014 to raise the height of passenger platforms in Mumbai Suburban section from 760-840 mm to 840-920 mm. Accordingly, the raising of the platforms has been done. In order to reduce the vertical gap between coach floor and platforms, passenger platforms in Mumbai Suburban section were identified for raising of the height which include 83 platforms on Central Railway and 168 platforms (145 platforms on Churchgate- Virar Section and 23 platforms on Virar – Dahanu Road Section) on Western Railway. All the platforms have been raised except for 4 platforms at Sion, Matunga and Mahim Railway stations which are not to be raised as these have been planned to be dismantled in connection with project of execution of 5th and 6th line.

    This information was given by the Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SG/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593908) Visitor Counter : 386
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali
    
    
    

5.