      Ministry Of Law & Justice

      Constitution Day
      
      Prime Minister mentions in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ broadcast
      
      Nation to read Preamble at 11.00 am on Constitution Day
      
      Department of Justice acts as a nodal department to coordinate various activities

      Posted On: 25 NOV 2019 5:09PM by PIB Delhi

    The yearlong nationwide activities on Constitution Day are being launched to mark the 70th anniversary of the adoption of the Indian Constitution by the Constituent Assembly, beginning November 26, 2019. The day 26th November is celebrated every year as Constitution Day (also known as ‘ Samvidhan Divas ’). These activities aim to reiterate and reorient the citizens towards the values and principles expressed in the Indian Constitution and encouraging all Indians to play their rightful role in strengthening the Indian Democracy.


    Various sections of the society will do a mass reading of the Preamble to the Constitution at 11:00 am on the Constitution Day. Like every year, each Ministry/ Department/ Organisation will take up a mass reading of Preamble of the Constitution to mark the occasion. Talks, discussions and seminars will also take place all over the country on the Constitution Day.


    The aim is to publicize the glorious and rich composite culture and diversity of our nation. Further, it aims to create awareness of Fundamental Duties as enshrined in the Indian Constitution. As citizens of our great nation, we believe firmly in Gandhian thought that ‘The true source of rights is duty. If we all discharge our duties, rights will not be far to seek’ and as said by Sardar Patel, ‘Every Indian should forget that he is a Rajput, a Sikh, or a Jaat. He must remember that he is an Indian and he has every right in his country but with certain duties’.


    The activities on Constitution Day will see participation and cooperation from all Ministries/ Departments at the Centre/State, Autonomous Bodies/Public Sector Undertakings, Armed Forces and Central Public Organisations etc. Further to make it a peoples’ movement, the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has interacted with the entire nation through ‘Mann ki Baat’ on November 24, 2019. The President of India, the Vice President of India, the Prime Minister, the Speaker of Lok Sabha, the Minister for Law & Justice and all Members of Parliament will participate in a special function being organized in the Central Hall of the Parliament on the Constitution Day. A Digital Photo Exhibition will be inaugurated and a Portal on Youth Parliament Scheme will also be launched on this occasion. As mark of solidarity and an appeal to citizens of India to exhort their contribution during the campaign, an electronically signed Pledge by the Prime Minister be rendered to the public at large.


    *****


    BN/SC/BK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593419) Visitor Counter : 3041
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali