      Ministry of Defence

      Passing Out Parade - Autumn Term 2019 held at INDIAN Naval Academy, Ezhimala
      Posted On: 30 NOV 2019 2:32PM by PIB Delhi

     1. In a spectacular Passing out Parade (POP) held at Indian Naval Academy (INA), Ezhimala, on Saturday, 30 November 2019, 301 trainees comprising Midshipmen and cadets of the Indian Navy, the Indian Coast Guard, and six international trainees passed out with flying colours, marking the culmination of their ab-initio training.

    2. The passing out trainees belong to four different courses of Autumn Term 2019, viz., 97 th Indian Naval Academy Course (B.Tech), 97 th Indian Naval Academy Course (M.Sc), 28 th Naval Orientation Course (Extended), 29 th Naval Orientation Course (Regular) and 29 th Naval Orientation Course (Coast Guard). The parade also saw 39 women trainees marching shoulder to shoulder with their male counterparts to join the ranks of the Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard. The six trainees from various friendly foreign countries include two trainees each from Maldives, Seychelles, and Sri Lanka.


    3. The parade was reviewed by Admiral Karambir Singh, PVSM, AVSM, ADC, Chief of the Naval Staff, who awarded medals to meritorious Midshipmen and cadets on completion of the ceremonial review. Vice Admiral Dinesh K Tripathi, AVSM, NM, Commandant, INA , senior officers of the station and other outstation dignitaries and proud parents of the passing out courses witnessed the momentous occasion.


    4. The ‘President’s Gold Medal’ for the Indian Naval Academy B.Tech course was awarded to Midshipman Aditya Jain . The ‘Chief of the Naval Staff Gold Medal’ for the Naval Orientation Course (Extended) was awarded to Cadet J Aravindha Krishnan . The ‘Chief of the Naval Staff Gold Medal’ for the Naval Orientation (Regular) Course was awarded to Cadet Srishti Sharma (Coast Guard trainee). The ‘Zamorin Trophy’ for the best women cadet was awarded to Cadet Suhani Rampal . The other medal winners were as follows:-


    (a) CNS Silver medal for INAC B.Tech Course - Midshipman Nitish Sahni .


    (b) FOC-in-C South Silver Medal for NOC (Extended) - Cadet S Varun Kumar.


    (c) FOC-in-C South Bronze Medal for INAC B.Tech Course - Midshipman Sathyanandh Prabhu B .


    (d) Commandant INA Silver Medal for NOC (Regular) - Cadet Suhani Rampal.


    (e) Commandant INA Bronze Medal for NOC (Extended) - Cadet C Pradeep.


    5. The glittering ceremony culminated with the successful trainees forming up in two columns and marching with their gleaming swords and rifles held in salute, past the Academy’s Quarterdeck, in Slow March, to the traditional notes of ‘ Auld Lang Syne’ - the poignant farewell tune played by Armed Forces around the world when bidding adieu to colleagues and comrades. The President’s Colour awarded to INA on 20 November 2019 was also paraded during this passing out parade for the first time.


    6. On completion of the parade, the proud parents and guardians of the Passing Out courses shipped the Naval and Coast Guard epaulettes, known as ‘Stripes’, on the shoulders of their wards, thus symbolising their transformation from ‘cadets’ into full-fledged Naval and Coast Guard Officers. The Reviewing Officer and other dignitaries shipped the stripes of the medal winners and congratulated all the trainees for their successful completion of the rigorous training. These officers will proceed to various Naval and Coast Guard ships and establishments to further consolidate their training in specialised fields.


    VM/DJ/AC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594347) Visitor Counter : 436
    
    
    
    
    

1.