      President's Secretariat

      President of India in Kanpur; Inaugurates the Conference on Recent Advancements in Computer, Communication and Information Technology and Addresses the First Alumni Meet of Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University
      Posted On: 30 NOV 2019 6:33PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, inaugurated the conference on recent advancements in computer, communication and information technology at PSIT College of Higher Education, Kanpur today (November 30, 2019).


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that technology has been a prime mover of social change. India’s journey from a poor nation at the time of independence to one of the fastest and biggest economies in the world has come about in part thanks to technology. As we aim to become a 5 trillion dollar economy by 2024-25, we again look forward to technology playing its role. Apart from giving us the economic might, new forms of knowledge have bettered the lives of people on the margins of society. Moreover, advances in information and communication technology have been a great equaliser in all walks of life.


    The President said that technology, however, is just an instrument. Be it fire or electricity, it is a great servant but a bad master. When we deliberate on the latest technological advancements, we should keep foremost in mind the implications for the humanity. Kanpur has an excellent example of using technology for humanity. Over the decades, Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India (ALIMCO) has helped countless persons with disabilities by manufacturing rehabilitation aids, with focus on continuous technology upgradation.


    Later in the day, the President graced and addressed the first alumni meet of Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University, Kanpur.


    Addressing the gathering, the President said that last month he had launched the Endowment Fund of IIT Delhi, created in collaboration with the alumni of the institute. While launching the Fund, the President said, he was thinking that all educational institutions should establish such Funds. These Funds can be used to provide scholarships to poor and meritorious students, develop the infrastructure of the institution and to raise advanced technology and resources for the institution. The President urged alumni of the Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University to take this initiative forward in this university as well. The President contributed rupees 1,11,000 to the Fund and requested others to cooperate in this work.


    Later in the evening, the President will attend a felicitation programme being organised by the Kanpur Nagar Nigam.


    *******


    VRRK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594374) Visitor Counter : 267