      Ministry of Defence

      Defence Acquisition Council, chaired by Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh, approves Capital Procurement for the Services amounting to over Rs 22,800 crore
      Posted On: 28 NOV 2019 6:01PM by PIB Delhi


    The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC), chaired by Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh, met today and accorded approval for Capital Procurement for the Services amounting to over Rs 22,800 crore. To boost the 'Make in India' initiative, the DAC accorded approval for indigenous design, development and manufacturing of 'Thermal Imaging Night Sights' for Assault Rifles. These sights will be manufactured by the Indian private industry and used by troops deployed on the frontline. 'Thermal Imaging Night Sights' would enable troops to undertake long range accurate engagements in dark and all weather conditions thereby enhancing the night fighting capabilities.


    As a follow up of the successful indigenous Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) programme, the DAC revalidated the Acceptance of Necessity for the procurement of additional Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) India aircraft. The mission system and sub-systems for these aircraft would be indigenously designed, developed and integrated onto the main platform by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). These platforms would provide on-board Command & Control and 'Early Warning' which would assist the Indian Air Force (IAF) in achieving effective air space dominance in the least possible time. Induction of these systems would increase the extent of coverage along our borders and greatly enhance both the Air Defence and Offensive capabilities of the IAF.


    The DAC also approved procurement of Long Range Maritime Reconnaissance (LRMR) Anti-Submarine Warfare P8I aircraft for the Indian Navy. . These aircraft would greatly strengthen the Navy's capabilities for maritime surveillance, Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) and Anti-Surface Vessel (ASV) strike.


    The DAC approved procurement of Twin Engine Heavy Helicopters (TEHH) for the Indian Coast Guard These aircraft would enable the Coast Guard to undertake missions to prevent maritime terrorism, infiltration of terrorists by sea routes as well as Search & Rescue operations.


    ABB/Nampi/DK/Savvy/MTJ/ADA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594075) Visitor Counter : 671
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi