      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      IVF & Fertility Centre at ESIC PGIMSR College & Hospital Inaugurated
      Posted On: 29 NOV 2019 4:15PM by PIB Delhi


    In-vitro Fertilization (IVF) & Fertility Centre at ESIC PGIMSR & Hospital, Basaidarapur, New Delhi was inaugurated by DG, ESIC Shri Raj Kumar today.


    IVF is a complex series of procedures used to help with fertility or prevent genetic problems and assist with the conception of a child. ESIC PGIMSR, Basaidarapur, New Delhi under the aegis of Ministry of Labour & Employment, is the first Institute to provide IVF services to its beneficiaries in Delhi-NCR region. The centre strictly follows ICMR guidelines and will provide quality treatment and value based services to the Insured Persons (IPs).


    Shri Raj Kumar informed that ESIC has initiated various systematic reforms for delivering improved social security benefits and medical services to ESI beneficiaries as well as for expansion of the coverage in the country.


    The other dignitaries to grace the occasion were Dr. R. K. Kataria, Medical Commissioner, Dr. P. L. Chaudhari, Medical Commissioner, Dr. Subhajeet Dey, Dean, ESIC PGIMSR College & Hospital, Basaidarapur, Dr. Deepak Kumar Sharma, Medical Superintendent, Dr. Sangeeta Gupta, H.O.D (Obstetrics and Gynaecology) and Dr. Leena Wadhwa, Incharge (IVF).


    ESI Scheme in India


    The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation is a pioneer Social Security organization providing comprehensive social security benefits like reasonable Medical Care and a range of Cash Benefits in times of need such as employment injury, sickness, death etc. The ESI Act applies to premises/precincts where 10 or more persons are employed. The employees drawing wages up to Rs.21,000/- a month are entitled to health insurance cover and other benefits, under the ESI Act. The Act now applies to over 12.11 lakh factories and establishments across the country, benefiting about 3.50 crores family units of workers. As of now, the total beneficiary population of ESI Scheme stands over 13.56 crores. Ever since its inception in 1952, the ESI Corporation has, so far, set up 155 Hospitals, 1500/148 Dispensaries / ISM Units, 815 Branch/Pay Offices and 63 Regional & Sub-Regional Offices.


    ****


    RCJ/SKP/JK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594230) Visitor Counter : 376
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi