      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Shri Faggan Singh Kulaste, Hon’ble Minister of State for Steel, Presides as Chief Guest on 15th Day of National Tribal Festival “Aadi Mahotsav” at a Function in Dilli Haat, INA, New Delhi (16th to 30th November, 2019)
      Posted On: 30 NOV 2019 8:51PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Faggan Singh Kulaste, Hon’ble Minister of State for Steel, was the Chief Guest on 15 th day of National Tribal Festival – AADI MAHOTSAV at a function at Dilli Haat, INA, New Delhi. This day was celebrated as Closing day of the AADI MAHOTSAV. The other dignitaries present on the closing day were Shri R.C.Meena, Chairman TRIFED, Shri Gopi Sharma, Sr. Journalist, Shri Abhay Mahajan, President DRI, Shri Syed Ansari, Sr. Journalist, AAJ-TAK and Managing Director TRIFED Shri Pravir Krishn. The 15 days’ festival (16 th to 30 th November, 2019) was the celebration of the spirit of Tribal Craft, Culture, Cuisine and Commerce.


    In his address Shri Faggan Singh Kulaste appreciated the efforts of TRIBES India/TRIFED in providing such marketing platforms to tribal community across the country to showcase and sale of Handloom, Handicraft and Natural organic food products developed/grown by them. He said that while whole country is worried about the global warming and environmental changes, it is the tribal community only who looks after the forests and thus contribute in controlling the climate change. He said the world is looking for naturally grown organic food products which the tribal community of country is growing and developing. There is assured global market for tribal products and TRIFED is providing such marketing platforms to them and also digitizing the system to connect their products to Global market through Amazon.com. Tribal artisans are very creative and enterprising and we need to promote them through such tribal festivals. He called upon people to purchase tribal products which are of good quality and will strengthen the tribal people. Tribal products are linked with traditional Indian culture.


    Chairman TRIFED, Shri R. C. Meena, in his speech said that TRIFED is doing significant work for the overall development and welfare of tribal people and events like Aadi Mahotsav are very important in this regard. The tribes of India have a wide range of handicrafts and the government seeks to promote interaction between tribal artisans and the people.


    The theme of the Mahotsav is: “A Celebration of the Spirit of Tribal Culture, Craft, Cuisine and Commerce”. The festival features exhibition-cum-sale of tribal handicrafts, art, paintings, fabric, jewellery and much more through 220 stalls. Over 1000 tribal artisans and artists from different States creating a Mini-India are participating in the festival.


    During the 15 days AADI MAHOTSAV festival a total sale of Rs.15.90 Crores (approx) was generated. The tribal artisans were very happy with the substantial flow of visitors to the venue during the 15 days event that resulted in substantial sale during the event.


    Post inauguration of event on 16 th November 2019, the balance days of the festival were been dedicated to All India Service Day, Diplomats Day, Tourism Day, Defence Day, Sports Day,


    Textile Day, IAS Officers Wive’s Association, Media Day, Cooperative Day, North East Day, TRIFED Partner/Tribal Entrepreneur Day with Closing Ceremony on last day i.e. 30 th November 2019.


    For the first time, this AADI MAHOTSAV has showcased a wide range of products from the tribal artisan from Leh (Ladaakh). Apart from this special attraction a wide range of products from North Easter States are on display and sale. The Tribal handicrafts are sold through more than 220 Stalls under the Tribes Banner by tribal Artisans.


    The Tribal artisans were awarded the 1 st , 2 nd & 3 rd prize for the highest sale in different categories of craft. The rest of the artisans were distributed “Certificate of Participation” on the closing day of event.


    In line with the national aspiration to go cashless, the tribal artisans are accepting payment through major credit/debit cards for which Point of Sale (POS) machines have been provided in each stall. A special training has been conducted by State Bank of India for smooth operations of this. The Mahotsav is displaying the rich digital commerce and e-commerce being promoted by Tribes India.


    ********


    

    
    (Release ID: 1594393) Visitor Counter : 366