      PIB Headquarters

      Juvenile pythons and Lizards seized by Customs at Chennai International Airport .Two detained.
      Posted On: 10 OCT 2019 6:30PM by PIB Chennai


    Based on information that wild animals are likely to be smuggled from Kualalumpur officers of Customs Air Intelligence Unit (AIU) maintained a special alert and vigil to catch the smugglers .


    On Thursday morning AIU officers noticed that two male passengers moving in a rather suspicious manner in the arrival area. A close watch was kept on their movement and after they had collected their checked in luggage, one stroller bag each, it was observed that they were walking in a rather hurried manner. They were intercepted at the exit. The passengers were identified as one Mohammad Parvaez,36, of Ramnad distict and Mohammad Akbar,28, of Sivaganga district of Tamil Nadu who had arrived from from Kualaumpur by Batik Airways flight ID 6018. On questioning they were evasive in their replies so their stroller bags were opened for further examination.On examination both the stroller bags were found to contain one big yellow plastic toy concealed in choclates, gift items and personal clothing. On opening the toys some cloth bags tied with rope were found inside in which some reptiles were concealed. On questioning they informed that these bags were given to them by someone outside Kualalumpur airport with instructions to handover the same to someone outside Chennai airport who would identify them. They were taken outside the airport but no one turned up to receive the bags even after waiting for a considerable time.


    To identify the reptile species, Forest officers of Wild Life division were called. Seven reptile species were identified 1. Green Tree python (Morelia viridis) One 2. Scrub Python (Morelia amethistina ) one. Both native of Australia and not covered under CITES. 3. Black Tree Monitor lizard( Varanus beccarii) Two 4. Emerald Tree Monitor Lizard (Varanus prasimus) Five 5. Blue spotted tree monitor lizard (Varanus macraei) Two 6. Reisinger tree Monitor (Varanus reisingeri) one 7. Sailfin Lizard ( Hydrosaurus specie) four . The lizards are native of Indonesia , Papua New Guinea and Phillipines and fall under CITES Appendix II .


    A team of Veterinary doctors were called from Arignar Anna Zoological Park who inspected and found the animals to be in healthy condition. The Animal Quarantine Officials recommended to deport the wild life species back to country of origin as the passenger did not have any NOC/ DGFT license for import into India.


    The wild life species were seized under the provisions of Customs Act 1962 read with FT( D&R) Act. Both the passengers were detained. The seized reptiles being exotic species will be sent back to Kualalumpur .


    Further investigations are under progress.


    ************


    

    
    (Release ID: 1587746) Visitor Counter : 31
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil