      PIB Headquarters

      India has become one of the most attractive and affordable “Education Hub” of the world Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi during 9th Convocation ceremony of B.S. Abdur Rahman Crescent Institute of Science & Technology at Vandalur in Chennai
      Posted On: 05 OCT 2019 5:37PM by PIB Chennai


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said here that due to efforts of the Modi Government, India has become one of the most attractive and affordable “Education Hub” of the world.


    While speaking at 9 th Convocation ceremony of B.S. Abdur Rahman Crescent Institute of Science & Technology at Vandalur in Chennai today, Shri Naqvi said that to provide affordable, accessible and quality education to all sections of the society is the priority of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi led Government. Our Government has been working effectively and honestly in this regard.


    Shri Naqvi said that the Modi Government has taken several measures to improve school education as well as higher education since 2014.


    Shri Naqvi said that the New Education Policy will lay foundation of empowered and strong India. After a period of about 30 years, a new education policy is going to be implemented in the country which will set the milestone of the development of the country. The new education policy, which will be presented soon, will be a revolutionary change in the education system. It will bring a huge transformation in the education sector of the country.


    Shri Naqvi said that while there were 16 Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) in the country before 2014; our Government has started 7 new IITs in the last 5 years. While there were 9 Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIITs) before 2014; our Government has started 15 new IIITs. While there were 13 Indian Institute of Management before 2014; our Government has started 7 new IIMs in the last 5 years. There were 7 All India Institute of Medical Sciences level institutes; the Modi Government has started/approved 15 new AIIMS in the last 5 years.


    Shri Naqvi said that in a major step to increase the availability of healthcare infrastructure and manpower in the country and affordable medical education, the Modi Government has approved establishment of 75 additional Government Medical Colleges by 2021-22 attached with existing district/referral hospitals. The establishment of new Medical Colleges attached with existing District/Referral Hospitals, would lead to an increase in the availability of qualified health professionals, improve tertiary care in Government sector, utilize existing infrastructure of districts hospitals and promote affordable medical education in the country.


    Shri Naqvi said that new medical colleges would be set up in under-served areas having no medical college; with at least 200 bedded District Hospital. Preference will be given to Aspirational Districts and District Hospital having 300 beds. This would also lead to addition of at least 15,700 MBBS seats in the country.


    Shri Naqvi said that during the last 5 years, scholarships had been provided to more than 3 crore 18 lakh students belonging to Minority communities which included about 60 per cent girl students. We will provide scholarships to 5 crore students in the next 5 years.


    Shri Naqvi said that thousands of Madrasas across the country have been provided “3T”- Teachers, Tiffin, Toilet to link them with formal education under our mission of “3E”- Education, Employment and Empowerment.


    ***********


    

    
    (Release ID: 1587315) Visitor Counter : 24
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil