      PIB Headquarters

      India's engineering exports to China sharply up; with policy support at highest level, trend augurs well: EEPC India
      Posted On: 10 OCT 2019 7:40PM by PIB Chennai


    As India and China seek to cement their economic engagement with a clear support at the level of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping, India's engineering exports to China have gone up by an annualised 58 per cent in August 2019, bucking the trend of drop in overall exports to the world market, an EEPC India, (an apex body of engineering exporters under Ministry of Commerce Govt. of India) analysis has shown.


    Led by items like iron and steel and their products, India's exports of engineering goods to China went up to USD 176.94 million in August 2019 from USD 112.20 million in the corresponding month last year with an exact increase of 57.70 per cent. The rise in shipments to China was contrarian to overall decline of 8.92 per cent in India's total engineering exports to the world market at USD 6.35 billion during August 2019 against USD 6.97 in the same month last year.


    "Though the base of engineering exports to China remains low, as compared to other major economies like the US, the rise in shipments to China is significant and needs to be built on. With the policy support at the highest level and easing of trade issues, this trade volume can be accelerated quite well. Given the slowdown in global trade, such increasing trends are of significance, '' said (a Government of India sponsored body) EEPC India Chairman Mr Ravi Sehgal.


    The analysis for the month of August showed that the acceleration in engineering exports to China was led by iron and steel and their products. These products form bulk of India's engineering exports to China. Iron and steel exports to China during August 2019 went up to USD 54.61 million from USD 22.73 million in the same month last year reflecting over 140 per cent increase. Other major exports to China included industrial machinery and non-ferrous metals.

     1. Sehgal said while steel and iron along with products form bulk of the engineering exports to China, ''we need to move up the value chain and find ground in sectors like automobile and auto parts. With increased engagements at the highest level, the policy and non-trade issues are expected to become easy''.

    ************

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587753) Visitor Counter : 30
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

1.