      PIB Headquarters

      IOB to E-auction 500 plus re-possessed properties worth more than Rs.800 crores on Magicbricks
      Posted On: 16 OCT 2019 5:23PM by PIB Chennai

      * E-auction will be held in two phases on Oct 21 & Oct 30,2019.
      * Properties spread across 12 cities like Chennai, Coimbatore, Mumbai and etc.

    India’s leading public sector bank, Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) has signed up with Magicbricks , India’s popular property site, for the e-auction of 500 plus re-possessed properties worth more than Rs.800 crores. The mega e-auction will be carried out in two phases on Oct 21, 2019 and Oct 30, 2019.

     1. properties are spread across seven centres comprising Chennai, Coimbatore, Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi, Bengaluru and Hyderabad . Out of the 500 plus properties , majority are in Chennai and Coimbatore , rest are spread across 12 major cities like Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Kolkata, Ranchi, Meerut, Lucknow, Ludhiana, Hyderabad and Bhopal .

    Property seekers need to log onto auctions.magicbricks.com/bank/event/IOB to register for the e-auction and can participate by depositing the earnest money with their nearest IOB branch. The properties put up for e-auction are on "as is, where is" basis


    Mr K Swaminathan, Indian Overseas Bank’s Executive Director , stated that "Online platforms have emerged as key driver for the real estate industry. The property buying process is now significantly impacted by digital engagement. With growing internet penetration, trend towards e-auctions of properties has picked up speed in India. We are excited to share a new partnership with Magicbricks and look forward to the success of this mega e-auction.”


    Commenting on the association, Mr. Sudhir Pai, CEO, Magicbricks , said: “Over the last couple of years, we have witnessed significant success on our e-auction platform. Ever since the launch, more than 1300 re-possessed assets owned by banks have been auctioned through our platform. The latest association with IOB yet again validates the reach and scale of our e-auction platform. The platform has helped PSU banks liquidate their re-possessed assets in an effective manner thereby reducing physical infrastructure or manpower and lessening their financial burden. It has also made the entire process transparent. Through the platform, property seekers can now also have access to a wide range property in tier-2 and 3 cities.”

    
    
    (Release ID: 1588282) Visitor Counter : 67
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

1.