      PIB Headquarters

      Exhibition on Quantity and Quality Check and Safe usage of Fuels organized by Ministry of Information & Broadcasting and IndianOil
      Posted On: 30 OCT 2019 6:59PM by PIB Chennai


    An exhibition on safety, quality and quantity checks of petroleum fuels was organized in Chennai today. Inaugurating the campaign on consumer awareness, Shri S. Pattabiraman, General Manager and State LPG Head of IndianOil, Tamil N adu said consumers have a right to ask for pre-delivery-checks when the LPG cylinders are being delivered. The pre-delivery checks include weighing the cylinder for proper weight, “o” ring check, valve leak check and also proper seal. A consumer can also ask for the cylinder to be connected to gas stove to ensure blue flame at the time of delivery, he added. Shri Pattabiraman said the consumers can book the cylinder online or by using Indane Mobile App and payments can be made digitally through credit/debit cards/UPI payments.


    Explaining the demonstration of quality and quantity checks of petrol and diesel, Shri Deepthinath, Chief Manager (Vigilance), IndianOil said consumers can always ask for any of the quality checks like, filter paper test, density check, quantity check by using a five litre measure or check by automation billing. Shri Varaprasada Rao, General Manager (Vigilance), IndianOil said the contact numbers of officials of oil marketing companies displayed in the petrol pumps can always be contacted by the customers, if any grievance is to be redressed. Customers can also use MOPNG-eSeva Portals and the oil companies websites for registering their grievance for immediate solution.


    Additional Director General, Press Information Bureau Shri E. Mariappan said the Exhibition was being jointly organized by IndianOil and Ministry of Information & Broadcasting as part of the Vigilance Awareness Week being observed by Central Government Organisations and Public Sector Undertakings across the country. He said, the theme for this year is Integrity – a way of life – which emphasizes the significance of probity and integrity in public life and is being observed from 28 th October to 2 nd November, 2019.


    ********


    GB/Radha

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589646) Visitor Counter : 57
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil