      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      5th National Summit on “Good & Replicable Practices & Innovations in Public Health Care System in India” to be held at Kaziranga
      Posted On: 29 OCT 2018 2:34PM by PIB Guwahati


    The 5 th National Summit on “Good & Replicable Practices & Innovations in Public Health Care System in India” is scheduled to be held from 30 th October, 2018 to 1 st November, 2018 at Kaziranga under the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Govt. of India.


    The Summit will be inaugurated by Shri Sarbananda Sonowal, Chief Minister of Assam and Shri J. P Nadda, Union Minister of Health & Family Welfare on 30 th October, 2018 at Borgos Resort, Kaziranga, Golaghat. Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Minister of State, Health & Family Welfare, Govt. of India, Smt. Anupriya Patel, Minister of State, Health & Family Welfare, Govt. of India, Dr. Himanta Biswa Sarma, Minister of State for Health & Family Welfare, Govt. of Assam and many other delegates from all over the country will participate in the Summit.


    Like every year, the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Govt. of India under the leadership of the Union Minister for Health & Family Welfare is organizing the National Summit on “Good & Replicable Practices & Innovations in Public Health Care System in India” to capture and share the best practices and innovations at various levels of health services delivery and programme implementation under the National Health Mission. These summits serve as a platform for integrating innovations into mainstream healthcare system and to bring about transformative improvements in healthcare delivery by accelerating the uptake of successful innovations of products, processes and programs by various stakeholders.


    The main objective of the consultation is to share and learn from the good practices and innovations implemented by different States/UTs and organizations for addressing various health challenges and managing public health programmes.


    Since the beginning, 4 Summits were held since 2013 (Srinagar 2013, Shimla 2015, Tirupati 2016, Indore 2017). Altogether, 300 practices and innovations have been showcased during these summits. Out of them, many have been scaled up as national initiatives under NHM and many others have been adopted by other States after customizing to their contexts.


    Since the conclusion of the last summit in July 2017, more than 250 entries were made by State/UT governments and various organizations on the National Health Innovation Portal. From them, a total of 120 practices and innovations are selected for showcase during the 5 th summit at Kaziranga this year. These include 39 oral presentations, 79 poster presentations and 2 products for display. These are from a total of 24 States and UTs, 2 national level institutes and 2 organizations.


    The summits are organized following a year-long process. States, organizations and individuals submit their innovative programme designs, practices, technology solutions and products that have either demonstrated abilities to address health systems challenges in specific contexts, or hold a promise for future on the National Health Innovation Portal. Then, the entries in the portal are assessed based on a pre-decided inclusion and exclusion criteria by a technical team at the National Health System Resource Centre. The entries which are selected based on the assessment are further evaluated by technical and programme divisions of MoHFW and National Health System Resource Centre, for inclusion in the Summit for sharing with other stakeholders. The selected entries are then disseminated during the National Summits through oral presentations or product display by concerned State or organization. Extensive discussions are held on these presentations among the stakeholders. A coffee table book with brief description of all practices and products selected for dissemination in the Summit, along with contact details for further information, is released and later uploaded on the National Health Innovation Portal for public information.


    These Summits are one platform where good practices and innovations in public health system are covered comprehensively. The practices and innovation presented in these summits span across programmatic areas ranging from RMNCH+A (Reproductive, Maternal, Neo-natal, Child Health and Adolescent Health) to communicable diseases (including Tuberculosis, Malaria and other vector borne diseases and Leprosy) to new areas of Non-Communicable Disease control programmes. They also include innovations that apply systems thinking to health problems such as the use of information technology to strengthen continuum of care, and to address human resource shortages and challenges in capacity building. Innovations that address the needs of vulnerable slum populations under the National Urban Heath Mission are also discussed in the summit.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551086) Visitor Counter : 164