      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Kahani Azadi Ki: 2- Days of Freedom Film Festival at Films Division
      Posted On: 13 AUG 2019 7:19PM by PIB Mumbai


    Mumbai, 13th August, 2019


    As part of 73rd Independence Day Celebrations, Films Division is organizing a specially curated two days Freedom Film Festival Kahani Azadi Ki showcasing films on freedom struggle and freedom fighters. The festival will be held on 14th and 15th August, 2019 at the Jahangir Bhownagary auditorium, Films Division Complex, Pedder Road, Mumbai. Noteworthy documentary films made by Films Division and films sourced from Gandhi Films Foundation will be screened during the festival.


    Kahani Azadi Ki will be inaugurated by Usha Thakkar, Hon. Director, Institute of Research on Gandhian Thought and Rural Development and Hon. Secretary, Mani Bhavan Gandhi Sangrahalaya, Mumbai on 14th August, 2018 at 3:00 PM Rama Khandwala, nonagenarian freedom fighter and the only living ‘Rani’ of the famed Jhansi Rani Regiment of Indian National Army led by Subhash Chandra Bose in erstwhile Rangoon will grace the event as Guest of Honour.


    Usha Thakkar, a Fullbright scholar known for her insightful academic pursuits leading to the seminal work, Understanding Gandhi co-authored with Jayshree Mehta, has served SNDT University as Professor and HoD of Political Science. As for Rama Khandwala, widely respected INA veteran and a National Award winning tourist guide, her biographical montage Elephants Do Remember produced by Films Division will be screened after the inaugural function.


    Students from various colleges in Mumbai have been specially invited to the film festival for inculcating in them patriotic fervor and craving to lead as architects of the modern India while taking inspiration from the great saga of Independence.


    Films Division cordially invites all to be part of the Independence Day celebration, and screenings. The schedule of the event, entry to which is free, is available on www.filmsdivision.org.


    Contact Details: Festival & Outreach Cell
    Films Division
    publicity@filmsdivision.org
    022-23551410. 23551411


    ***


    RT (Source - Films Division)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581891) Visitor Counter : 417