      Ministry of Education

      HRD Minister inaugurates new Kendriya Vidyalaya Nanded building via video conferencing
      Posted On: 10 AUG 2019 3:41PM by PIB Mumbai


    Union HRD Minister Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' inaugurated the newly constructed building of Kendriya Vidyalaya South-Central Railway Nanded Maharashtra, via video conferencing, at IIT Bombay today. Teachers and students of KV, IIT Powai were present on the occasion, while students and teachers of KV Nanded joined via video conferencing.


    Addressing the gathering, the Minister said that the new building will enhance the capacity of the school by more than 600. He extended wishes to KV Nanded, the district administration and residents and students of the Nanded district. He said that the students of KV Nanded will do very well and make the nation proud.


    The Minister exhorted the students to excel in academic and other spheres, to script history through their lives. He asked the students to resolve to do something significant, apart from excelling in studies. Stating that we have been born to serve the world, he asked the students to develop self-confidence and equip themselves to take the nation to greater heights.


    Followed by this, the Minister visited KVIIT Powai school and The KVS Regional Office at Powai and planted trees.


    Welcoming the Minister, KVS Commissioner, Shri Santosh Kumar Mall said that the new building will enable KV Nanded to expand classes till 12th standard, and will lead to more than 100 students passing out every year. He also said that KV IIT Powai has started doing admissions through the online mode, which has resulted in a simpler and more convenient process for children and their parents.


    The Minister was accompanied by political leaders Shri Prataprao Chikhalikar and Shri D P Sawant from Nanded district; Shri Subhasis Chaudhuri , Director, IIT Bombay; Shri T Rabha, DGM, Indian Railways Nanded and other dignitaries.


    ***


    DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581739) Visitor Counter : 708