      Department of Atomic Energy

      Scientists from the 13th Batch of BARC Training School Celebrate Golden Jubilee at Alma Mater
      Posted On: 19 AUG 2019 3:02PM by PIB Mumbai


      Senior scientists and engineers belonging to the 13th batch of BARC Training School, who played key roles in implementing various leading scientific programmes of the country, met at the Multi Purpose Hall in TSH Building in Anushakti Nagar Mumbai on 16th August 2019.


      Dr. R. Chidambaram, former Principal Scientific Advisor to Government of India and former Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission and Secretary, Department of Atomic Energy as well as Dr. Srikumar Banerjee, Chairman, BRNS; Chancellor, HBNI and former Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission and Secretary, Department of Atomic Energy addressed the scientific gathering on the occasion.


      Dr. Chidambaram brought out the importance of Knowledge Networking; the Role of relevance and excellence; advantage of the "Selecting and Training" method adopted by BARC over the "Training and Selecting" method adopted by other institutions; and Building Immunity Against Technology Denial. He said these are some of the essential aspects to be addressed in order to attain self-reliance for the nation.


      Dr. Srikumar Banerjee emphasized the importance of improving the quality of teaching and effectiveness of public outreach.


      Dr. Chandrachoodan welcomed the senior scientists, highlighting the enormous contributions they have made for national development in various sectors. Making a comparison with Ramayanam , Dr. Chandrachoodan termed Dr. Homi J. Bhabha's historic efforts in science and technology as "Bhabhaayanam", a highly important path for the progress of science and technology in India.


      Shri A K Singhal spoke on the genesis and importance of the meeting. Dr. Umesh Chandra elaborated on the specific contributions made by the gathering


      Dr. Tejen K. Basu of the 13th Batch shared the vivid experiences of his batch during the training period in 1969-'70. Many senior scientists also spoke on the occasion, giving a vivid recount of various key contributions made by them to the national development of India.


      DJM/Kor (Source - BARC)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1582304) Visitor Counter : 226
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi