      PIB Headquarters

      INDIAN COAST GUARD CELEBRATES 43 GLORIOUS YEARS OF COMMITTED SERVICE
      Posted On: 02 FEB 2020 7:39PM by PIB Chennai


    The Indian Coast Guard celebrated its 43 rd Anniversary on 01 Feb 2020. The Coast Guard Raising Day ceremony was held on 01 Feb 2020 at Headquarters, Coast Guard Region (East) at Chennai. Hon’ble Governor of Tamil Nadu Shri Banwarilal Purohit graced the occasion as the Chief Guest of the event.


    To commemorate, the Indian Coast Guard’s 43 years of yeoman service to the Nation, the Headquarters Coast Guard Region (East) is conducting a series of events. On 08 Dec 19, a Coast Guard Fitness challenge was conducted at VIT campus, Chennai wherein a series of fitness, adventure and sports competition for Corporate, College Students, Armed Forces Personnel and Individuals were organized. On 07 Jan 20 Inter School Painting Competition was organized at Coast Guard Air Station (Chennai), wherein students from various schools actively participated. A ‘Special Community Interaction Programme cum Special Coastal Cleanup’ was also conducted on 11 Jan 2020 at Kasimedu Fishing Harbour as part of CG Week Celebrations to create awareness amongst fishermen. Medical / Health Camps for fisher folk was conducted on 29 Jan 20 at Chennai. In addition, a Special Tree Plantation Drive was also organized to conserve the environment on 30 Jan 2020.


    In a major step towards empowering women and greater gender parity, the ICG has started employing Women Officers in the combatant & operational role. Coast Guard Women Officers are today operating ACV (Air Cushion Vessels) in sensitive waters of Palk Bay and Gulf of Mannar.


    As the fourth largest Coast Guard in the world, the Indian Coast Guard through its tireless pursuits of excellence has established itself as a reliable force that responds with alacrity to situations impinging on the Security of our Coastline, Safety of the Seafaring Community and Coastal Populace, Legitimate Economic Activities in the EEZ and the Protection of Maritime Environment. True to its motto “Vayam Rakshamah” meaning “We Protect”, the service has its credit of saving 9701 lives, 377 medical evacuations and apprehending 14,991 defaulters and law breakers since inception.


    The interim Coast Guard came into existence on 01 Feb 1977, with a fleet strength of Seven ships, for Surveillance of the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of India. The Indian Coast Guard fleet has grown into a formidable force with 62 aircraft and 144 surface units including18hovercrafts. The entire Coastline of India and National Maritime Zones have been divided into five Coast Guard Regions, so that the Indian Coast Guard effectively discharges its mandated roles at various locations through Coast Guard District Headquarters, Stations and Coast Guard Air Stations.


    *****


    

    

    
    (Release ID: 1601666) Visitor Counter : 39
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil