      PIB Headquarters

      Song and Drama Division of Regional Outreach Bureau, Ministry of I&B organizes Orientation-Cum-Workshop on Intensified Mission Indradhanush 2.0 in Chennai
      Posted On: 10 FEB 2020 3:00PM by PIB Chennai


    Song and Drama Division of Regional Outreach Bureau, Chennai, Ministry of I&B, Government Of India, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health & Family, Welfare, Govt. of India, New Delhi and Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Govt. of Tamil Nadu, Chennai jointly organised an Orientation-Cum-Workshop on “Intensified Mission Indradhanush (IMI) 2.0” in Chennai this morning for the folk artistes and drama troupes.


    Dr. R.Satheesh Kumar, Health Officer of Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Govt. of Tamil Nadu, V. Palanichamy, Director (News), AIR, M. Annadurai, Director (News), DDK, Sugata Roy, communication specialist from the UNICEF took part in the workshop and sensitized the folk artistes.


    The artistes will in turn, take the message to the rural areas of Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram Districts and disseminate the importance and benefits of IMI 2.0 to attain the target of 100% immunization.


    The Intensified Mission Indradhanush (IMI) 2.0 was launched across India on December 2, 2019. It is a successor to the Intensified Mission Indradhanush (IMI), which was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 8, 2017 to further intensify India’s immunisation programme. Under the mission, the Union Government aimed to reach all children aged below two years and pregnant women, who were left uncovered under the government’s routine immunisation programme.


    The key objective behind the launch of the intensified immunisation drive was to ensure that no child suffers from any vaccine-preventable diseases like tuberculosis, meningitis, measles, Hepatitis B, tetanus, whooping cough, poliomyelitis and diphtheria. The vaccines for two other diseases- Hemophilus influenza and Japanese encephalitis will also be provided under the programme in certain select areas.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1602705) Visitor Counter : 43
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil