      PIB Headquarters

      Union Finance Minister to hold interactive sessions on Budget 2020 in Chennai
      Posted On: 06 FEB 2020 5:15PM by PIB Chennai


    The Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs, Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman is visiting Chennai on February 8, 2020. The Finance Minister will meet with industry representatives, trade bodies, investment bankers and farmers’ organizations and interact with them on various themes and provisions in the Union Budget 2020-21, presented in Parliament on February 1, 2020. She will also hold another detailed interactive session with economists, tax practitioner associations, financial and accounting firms, professional bodies, academicians, policy makers and various other opinion leaders regarding the salient features of the Budget.


    The Finance Minister will be joined by Secretary (Expenditure), Secretary (Revenue), Secretary (Financial Services), Secretary (Economic Affairs) and Chairperson, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) and Chairperson, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT).


    The Finance Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman has already held such similar interactions in Mumbai. She is scheduled to hold in Kolkata and later in Bengaluru.


    ***


    Finance Minister Smt. @nsitharaman will be on three day official tour to Mumbai, Chennai & Kolkata on 7th, 8th & 9th Feb respectively.#JanJanKaBudget @nsitharamanoffc @PIB_India @PIBMumbai @pibchennai @PIBKolkata

    — Ministry of Finance (@FinMinIndia) February 5, 2020

    Finance Minister Smt. @nsitharaman will be holding detailed interactive sessions with various stakeholders on the different themes of #Budget2020.

    — Ministry of Finance (@FinMinIndia) February 5, 2020

    In first session, in each city , Finance Minister Smt. @nsitharaman will interact with representatives of Trade, Industry , Investment Banker, Farmers organizations etc.

    — Ministry of Finance (@FinMinIndia) February 5, 2020

    In Second session, Finance Minister Smt. @nsitharaman will meet Economists , Tax practitioners , Academia and policy makers .

    — Ministry of Finance (@FinMinIndia) February 5, 2020
    
    
    (Release ID: 1602247) Visitor Counter : 51
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil