      PIB Headquarters

      Saksham -2020 - a month long of Mass Awareness Campaign on Oil & Gas Conservation
      Posted On: 18 FEB 2020 12:43PM by PIB Chennai


    SAKSHAM 2020 – a month long Mass Awareness Campaign on Oil & Gas Conservation was observed in Tamil Nadu and the valedictory session of SAKSHAM was organized at IndianOil Bhavan, Chennai.


    Dr. Neeraj Mittal IAS, Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer , Guidance, Government of Tamilnadu distributed the prizes to the winners of various competitions held during SAKSHAM 2020 in the presence of Mr. P. Jayadevan, Executive Director & State Head– IndianOil& State Level Coordinator for Oil Industry, Tamil Nadu & Puducherry, Mr. M.K. Biswas, Chief Zonal General Manager, GAIL, Mr. S Dhanapal, Regional LPG Manager (South), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd, Mr. S. P. Selvam, Director & Chief Regional Coordinator, PCRA- Southern Region and Mr. R Srinivasan, Deputy General Manager(ARB & Branding), Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd.


    Addressing the gathering at the Valedictory Function of SAKSHAM 2020 Oil & Gas Conservation Mass Awareness Campaign and appreciating the efforts of the younger generation to drive in the message of conservation, Dr. Mittal said “The children are having more insights into how to save fuel for a better future and still we grown-ups are yet to pick up the essence of the same. It was really heartening to note how the visually challenged kids have through Braille script described their thoughts into artworks. We should be appreciative toward their efforts and moreover we should introspect on our actions also”. He appreciated IndianOil’s conservation efforts and was specifically thrilled to see the active participation of the youngsters, especially those of the special children. He shared his concern on climate change saying “Climate change is real and those who ignore it as fake news are blind”. He appealed to the youngsters to “Plant a tree each year”. Further he insisted on “Shared mobility” and encouraged all to start using mass transport like the metro.


    Mr. P. Jayadevan delivered the Welcome Address and said “The process of conservation is need of the hour. The energy has to be consumed judiciously for the future generations. It should start with one and emanate through that individual to the society and the nation at large. It is indeed promising that the budding generation is well aware of the role they have to play in conserving fuel and moreover saving the planet. The ideas put forth by the specially abled children who had participated with all their heart and soul to propagate the message of fuel conservation has touched a chord in all of us. We should not only encourage the kids to participate in this nation building process, but also walk with them hand in hand so that they could have a better world to live in”.


    The prize winning paintings exhibited at the venue, which were a visual treat as well as a thought provoking sight for the gathering. Two visually challenged students who won First and Second prize in the Painting Competition explained the concepts of their Braille Artworks and the Judge for the competition also shared her experience. STUs were also awarded based on their performances in fuel conservation and efficiency. The schools and colleges who participated in the mass awareness activities were also awarded with the Certificate of Appreciation.


    The month long Campaign in Tamil Nadu included various events like Public Addresses &Panel Discussions, Auto Emission check, Bi-Cycle Day, Cyclothon, Debates, Free PUC Checks, Fuel Saving Concerts, Group Talks, Hoardings / Digital Display of Conservation Messages, Mass Rally, Marathon etc, Mega Training (Pump Boys),Pollution Checks, Publication of Articles and Conservation Messages, Quiz, Essay, Painting, Article writing and Debate competitions for school and college students, Cooking Without Fire contest, Technical Meet for Industry, Training for LPG delivery boys, Walkathons, Workshops for Engineering Students, etc.


    The competitions aimed to raise awareness among the school students about practical conservation tips for the conservation of petroleum products in industrial, transport, agriculture and domestic sector, and how to practice such tips in their daily lives.


    The competitions aimed to raise awareness among the school students about practical conservation tips for the conservation of petroleum products in industrial, transport, agriculture and domestic sector, and how to practice such tips in their daily lives.


    ABOUT SAKSHAM 2020


    Under the aegis of Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoP&NG), Oil and Gas Conservation mass campaign is being observed from 16th Jan to 15th Feb every year by Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA) and the Oil Industry, to create awareness on efficient use of Petroleum products in the minds of consuming public.


    This one-month awareness campaign is christened as “SAKSHAM 2020” by MoP& NG. Various activities involving educational institutions, house wives, sector like transport, industry, agriculture were conducted to bring about renewed awareness on the theme of Oil & Gas conservation.


    Fuel Conservation Themed Cycle Rallies were organized to emphasize the masses on the need of cycle for better health, environment and fuel conservation. Cycle Rallies Witnessed participation from Cycle clubs, environmentalists, NGOs, schools, colleges, corporates etc, according to the Press Release issued by the Public Relation Officer, Indian Oil Corporation, Chennai.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603510) Visitor Counter : 73
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil