      PIB Headquarters

      6.8 Kg of Methaqualone worth Rs. 3.4 crore seized by Chennai Customs
      Posted On: 17 FEB 2020 6:55PM by PIB Chennai


    On Sunday based on information that a parcel containing some narcotics drugs is likely to be smuggled out of country through courier in guise of apparel accessories, the Courier Intelligence Unit of Air Customs detained one parcel at a courier warehouse in city. The consignor had declared parcel to contain ribbon rolls and other apparel accessories. On examination the parcel was found to contain items as per declaration but the ribbon rolls were found to be unusually heavy. On cut opening the ribbons rolls, a hallow cavity was found inside in which plastic pouches containing white crystalline powder were concealed. Total 57 plastics pouches were recovered from ribbons rolls containing a white crystalline powder. The powder was tested with narcotics testing kit and prima facie tested positive for Methaqualone. Total 6.815 kg of white crystalline powder suspected to be Methaqualone valued Rs. 3.4 crore was seized under the NDPS Act, 1985. The sample has been sent to laboratory for confirmatory test.


    The parcel was found to be booked by a city based person and was consigned to Australia. Searches were carried out at the address submitted by the consignor at the time of booking. The addresses were found to be fake. Efforts are being made to apprehend the consignor and to find the source of the seized drug.


    Methaqualone is a central nervous depressant that act as a sedative and hypnotic. The drug takes 30 minutes to kick-in and its effects can last up to 8 hours. The drug was made famous in 70’s by famous rock band Rolling Stones and also in the famous Hollywood movie The Wolf of Wall Street.


    Further investigations is in progress, according to a press release issued by Commissioner of Customs, Chennai International Airport.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603476) Visitor Counter : 90
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil