      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Government takes steps to generate Employment Opportunities
      Posted On: 05 APR 2017 3:16PM by PIB Delhi


    Government has taken various steps for generating employment in the country like encouraging private sector of economy, fast tracking various projects involving substantial investment and increasing public expenditure on schemes like Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP) run by Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA), Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY) run by Ministry of Rural Development and National Urban Livelihoods Mission (NULM) run by Ministry of Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation.


    In order to improve the employability of youth, around 20 Ministries run skill development schemes across 70 sectors. According to the data compiled by Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, the number of persons skilled across various sectors during 2015-16 were 1.04 crore.


    Government has implemented the National Career Service (NCS) Project comprises a digital portal which provides a nation-wide online platform for jobseekers and employers for job matching in a dynamic, efficient and responsive manner and has a repository of career content.


    A new Scheme Pradhan Mantri Rojgar Protsahan Yojana (PMRPY) has been initiated by the Ministry of Labour and Employment in the year 2016-17 for incentivising industry for promoting employment generation with the allocation of Rs. 1000 crore. Under this scheme employers would be provided an incentive to enhance employment where the Government will pay the employer’s contribution of 8.33% EPS for new employees. In textiles (apparel and made-ups) sector, the Government will also pay the 3.67% EPF contribution of employers in addition to paying the 8.33% EPS contribution. Government announced a booster package of Rs. 6000 crores for the textile sector which is an employment intensive sector.


    This information was given by Shri Bandaru Dattatreya, the Minister of State (IC) for Labour and Employment, in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    BCK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486709) Visitor Counter : 277