      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      Growth of Air Cargo
      Posted On: 06 APR 2017 4:30PM by PIB Delhi


    As per the statistics furnished by Airports Authority of India (AAI), total passenger traffic (both domestic and international) at all Indian Airports during 2016-17 (Apr’16-Feb’17) witnessed a growth rate of 18.9%. Total air cargo at all Indian Airports during 2016-17 (Apr’16-Feb’17) witnessed a growth rate of 9.3%.


    Main steps taken by Government for growth of air cargo are as follows:


    (i) The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) has got the Dwell-Time study conducted at six major airports in the recent past to identify the reasons for higher dwell time in Indian Airports and corrective action(s) required. The free period for air cargo has been reduced from 72 hours to 48 hours w.e.f. 1 st April, 2017.


    (ii) The concept of 24x7customs clearance of Import/Export Cargo has been initiated at 13 airports.


    (iii) The concept of ''Single Window'' has been launched by Customs w.e.f. 1 st April,2016 in phased manner which inter-alia ensures on-line clearance from various regulatory agencies.


    (iv) For handling International Cargo at its airports, AAI has provided Automatic Storage & Retrieval System (AS&RS) as well as Elevated Transfer Vehicle (ETV) facilities for handling both import and export cargo respectively at Chennai & Kolkata Airports.


    (v) All the International Air Cargo Terminals managed by AAI are well equipped with sufficient storage space, cargo handling equipment, cold rooms for perishable cargo and other basic facilities.


    (vi) The Common User Domestic Cargo Terminal (CUDCT) concept has been introduced for maximum utilization of facilities.


    (vii) AAI has prepared a road map to create cargo infrastructure and facilities at 24 AAI Airports initially provide impetus to economic growth and development on pan-India basis to ensure harmonious growth of all regions in India.


    This information was given by the Minister of State in the Ministry of Civil Aviation Shri Jayant Sinha in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ******


    NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486972) Visitor Counter : 103