      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Pollution abatement works under Namami Gange
      Posted On: 06 APR 2017 3:51PM by PIB Delhi


    The pollution abatement works under Namami Gange is proceeding as per plan. The pollution abatement schemes would yield the desired results once the schemes are implemented and commissioned.


    Water quality monitoring of river Ganga is carried out on monthly basis by respective State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs). The water quality assessment indicates that water quality does not meet the bathing water quality criteria at Down Stream (D/s) Haridwar in Uttarakhand, to downstream of Kanpur. There is a fluctuation in the water quality parameters over the years, however, the Biochemical Oxygen Demand, Total Coliform and Fecal Coliform values have declined invariably.


    Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has identified 764 Grossly Polluting Industries (GPIs) which discharge their effluent into River Ganga and its tributaries Ramganga river and Kali-East river. 583 units were found non-complying and have been issued directions under Section 5 of Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. CPCB also issued direction u/s 5 of Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 to Municipal authorities of Dehradun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Allahabad, Varanasi, Patna, Dhanbad, Kolkata for treatment and utilization of sewage for restoration of water quality of rivers.


    CPCB has identified five sectors, namely, Pulp & Paper, Distillery, Sugar, Textile and Tannery for priority action and sector specific action plan has been prepared for implementation by the concerned industrial units. Pulp & Paper units have been directed to reduce their fresh water consumption and effluent generation upto about 50 %-60 %. The mills have been asked to upgrade their Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) upto tertiary level to achieve quantum improvement in treated water quality. Distilleries have been directed to implement zero liquid discharge. Sugar sector has been directed to reduce the water consumption to 200 lit./tonne of cane crushed. Out of 764 units, 574 have installed Online Continuous Effluent Monitoring Systems and 266 have provided connectivity for data transmission. CPCB has periodically carried out drain monitoring to identify the polluting sources and to take concerted action.


    This information was given by Union Minister of State for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Vijay Goel in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    Samir/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486950) Visitor Counter : 45