      Ministry of Railways

      Initiatives by Indian Railways for Sanitation/Cleanliness
      Posted On: 05 APR 2017 4:06PM by PIB Delhi


    Under Swachh Bharat Campaign, regular intensive campaigns / drives have been organised over the Indian Railways with the sole objective of significant and sustainable improvements in cleanliness standards of Trains and Railway premises, including Railway stations. Some of the major initiatives taken by Indian Railways towards improvement of sanitation/cleanliness are as follows:


    (i) Pace of fitment of bio-toilets in coaches has been increased. More than 25000 bio-toilets were fitted in the last two years and target for this year is 30,000. Fitment of Bio-toilets in coaches will prevent discharge of human waste during train journeys directly onto the track.


    (ii) The facility of On-Board Cleaning has been extended to more than 800 trains which is being monitored through a closed loop ‘APP’ based passenger feedback system.


    (iii) Railways is resorting to SMS-based, web-based and APP-based complaint redressal system. Daily IVRS-based passenger feedback is randomly being taken from about 1 lakh passengers.


    (iv) To assess the impact of cleanliness efforts at major stations, a third party survey on cleanliness indicators has been done at 407 stations in 2016 involving feedback from 1.3 lac passengers.


    (v) Instructions exist for provision of suitable mobile toilets/eco-friendly toilets for use of encroachers in the Railway land, by local Government.


    (vi) Additional toilets at Railway Stations, including Pay & Use toilets, have been provided.


    (vii) Enforcement of Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at railway premises) Rules, 2012 has been intensified.


    (viii) Use of CCTVs extended for monitoring of cleanliness activities at major stations.


    (ix) Weekly intensive cleanliness drives have been undertaken at various Railway stations, by Zonal Railways.


    (x) Various theme-based drives have been undertaken from time to time with focus on cleanliness in different areas of Railways.


    This Press Release is based on the information given by the Minister of State for Railways Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha on 05.04.2017 (Wednesday).


    ****


    AKS/MKV/AK/SM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486715) Visitor Counter : 27