      Ministry of Defence

      CME on ‘Medical Logistics and Supply Chain Management’ and concurrent 75TH Depot Commanders’ Conference to be held from Tomorrow
      Posted On: 05 APR 2017 4:23PM by PIB Delhi


    A Continuing Medical Education (CME) programme on “Medical Logistics and Supply Chain Management”, in conjunction with the 75th Depot Commanders’ Conference, will be held in New Delhi from 06 April 2017. The two-day event is being conducted under the aegis of office of the Directorate General Armed Forces Medical Services (DGAFMS) with the theme ‘Medical Logistics for Armed Forces in Digital India – Transforming Logistics through Technology, Automation and Innovation’. The Armed Forces Medical Services is responsible for providing comprehensive health care services to its dependent clientele, from the three services, including its veteran fraternity.


    About 120 to 130 delegates, comprising stakeholders directly involved in procurement and provisioning of medical stores for the Armed Forces, as well as Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) and other dependent organizations will be participating in various scientific sessions of the CME. The conference will also give an opportunity to discuss issues related to medical logistics, supply chain management and medical stores inventory management, with special focus on synchronizing medical logistics in the Armed Forces with the ‘Digital India’ movement. It will provide a platform for brain storming on the rapidly evolving medical logistics front with contribution from the Armed Forces as well as prominent civilian authorities on the subject.


    The deliberations at the CME are expected to result in consensus on issues to upgrade the current systems for an enhanced efficiency and effectiveness, with ultimate aim of improving clientele satisfaction.


    The CME and the 75th Depot Commanders’ Conference will be inaugurated by DGAFMS & Senior Colonel Commandant, Army Medical Corps Lt. Gen. MK Unni. It will be attended by DGMS (Army) & Colonel Commandant Army Medical Corps Lt. Gen. Velu Nair, DGMS (Navy) Surgeon Vice Admiral Bipin Puri and DGMS (Air) Air Marshal Pawan Kapoor. The keynote address will be delivered by Financial Advisor (Defence Services) Shri SK Kohli. Experience on management of medical stores will also be shared by Professor & Medical Superintendent, Dr. RP Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences, AIIMS, New Delhi Dr. Shakti Kumar Gupta and by Medical Superintendent, BL Kapur Super Specialty Hospital, New Delhi Dr. Sanjay Mehta.


    NW/NAo/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486739) Visitor Counter : 84