      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Vacancies of IAS officers
      Posted On: 06 APR 2017 4:53PM by PIB Delhi


    The total sanctioned strength of Group ‘A’ officers as on 01.03.2015 is 1,13,279 out of which 16,970 posts are vacant. As per the IAS Civil List of 2016, the authorized strength of IAS officers as 01.01.2016 is 6,396 out of which 1,470 posts are vacant.
    
    The posts sanctioned in Government Ministries/ Departments are required to be filled as per the Recruitment Rules as and when vacancies arise. The filling up of posts is a continuous process depending on the vacancies arising across Ministries/Departments during the years and action calendars of the recruitment agencies. In this regard all Ministries/Departments have been requested to take advance action for reporting vacancy position with respect to Direct Recruitment Posts to Union Public Service Commission. All Ministries/ Department have also been requested for timely convening of the Departmental Promotion Committee meeting for filling up of promotional posts.
    
    The Government has increased annual intake of IAS officers to 180 during last four years. Further, in promotion quota prompt action has been taken for holding Selection Committee Meeting for appointment by promotion/selection of State Service officers in IAS.
    
    The Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) is currently conducting training of IAS Officer trainees as per the present requirements. Government has been providing all assistance to LBSNAA to augment the training infrastructure and pool of quality trainers.
    
    This was stated by the Minister of State in the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions and Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office Dr. Jitendra Singh in a written reply to a question by Dr. T. Subbarami Reddy and Smt. Ambika Soni in the Rajya Sabha today.

    ****


    
    
    KSD/NK/RS-3924

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486998) Visitor Counter : 58