      Ministry of Railways

      The Railway Protection Force (RPF) organized its Investiture Parade – 2017
      Posted On: 01 APR 2017 8:09PM by PIB Delhi

      

        The Railway Protection Force (RPF) organized its Investiture Parade – 2017 on 01.04.2017 at 6 th Bn. RPSF, Dayabasti, New Delhi. The Minister of Railways Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu was the Chief Guest. On this occasion Chairman, Railway Board Shri A.K.Mital, Member Staff Railway Board, other Board Members, senior Police officers of Central Police Organisations and senior officer of Government of India may also attend. Director General, RPF Shri S.K.Bhagat delivered the welcome address at the function.


        Minister of Railways presented awards to RPF officers / RPF personnel on this occasion. It is quite gratifying for the RPF, that 03 officers/ RPF personnel received the prestigious President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Services, and 43 with Police Medals for their Meritorious Service. Other awards like Railway Minister’s award for Best Investigation, and Railway Minister’s Award for Bravery were also given to the deserving RPF/ RPSF personnel.


        The Railway Minister inspected the parade and took salute.


        Speaking on the occasion, Minister of Railways Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu, appreciated the recipients of President’s Police Medal (PPM), President’s Medal (PM) and Bravery Award and told that it should be a motivation for others to perform meritorious work aspiring such medals.


        He said that RPF is also performing duties connected with aid to civil power such as bandobust for assembly and parliament elections in addition to providing security to Railway property, passenger and passenger area.


        Shri Suresh Prabhu said Railways being a lifeline of the nation the role of RPF is important in providing security to passengers and RPF is escorting 2500 Mail/ Express trains daily. RPF is conducting regular drives in Railway premises.


        He pointed out that a twitter handle and Security Helpline No. 182 is functional round the clock providing security related assistance to passengers. A total of 18,000 complaints have been promptly dealt in 2016.


        He said that RPF has been doing commendable work by extending special concern towards senior citizens, infirm, differently abled, women and children by rendering timely assistance.


        He said that in order to prevent crime against passengers, CCTV camera surveillance is being implemented at 983 at Railway stations by incurring 500 crore. Integrated Security System is implemented to strengthen the security. For ensuring security to lady passengers, different lady RPF escorting teams named viz: Bhairvi, Vaishali, Shakti, Nirbhaya and Tejaswini are functional. Mobile app specially for lady passengers is also operational.


        Shri Suresh Prabhu stated that in view of the recent incidents of track tampering, subversive activities, etc. frequent coordination is being maintained by RPF intelligence with other Central/ State intelligence agencies so that such incidents can be foreseen and thereby to take remedial action timely. RPF will also develop a intelligence cell of its own. I have also permitted to establish Forensic Science Lab to accelerate the enquiry on priority basis.


        Shri Suresh Prabhu said that I have sanctioned restructuring for the non gazetted cadre in RPF so that they will get promotion as well as motivation. The cadre review for gazetted cadre is being processed.


        Shri Suresh Prabhu said that the role of Dog Squad is vital in security matter and I approved in principle to establish a centralised dog training centre.


        He said that we will contiutue modernization of RPF and will create a special technology centre for this purpose.


        Shri Suresh Prabhu said that I am always concerned about the strengthening and improvements of RPF. I want RPF to perform their duties with utmost devotion and dedication. I sincerely thank RPF and their families for the scintillating parade performance and the meritorious service rendered to the nation. I firmly believe that RPF would elevate the reputation of Indian Railway by their meritorious service.


        In his welcome speech, Director General, RPF Shri S.K.Bhagat said that RPF is in the forefront of service to the nation. Our officers and staff have been decorated with awards. Three President’s Police Medal for Gallantry, 78 President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service, 735 Police Medals for Meritorious Service, 18 Police Medal for Gallantry, 31 Railway Minister’s Medal for Bravery, 32 Minister’s Medal for Best Investigation have been awarded to members of RPF so far. Shri Bhagat that for security of passengers, RPF is conducting regular drives in Railway premises and prosecuted 23,21,939 offender under various provisions of Railway Act to make Railway crime free. Also apprehended 5,856 criminals involved in theft of Railway properties with the recovery of Railway property worth 4.73 crores during 2016. Shri Bhagat said that to strengthen security of women passengers 12 Mahila Vahinis (women RPF companies) are deployed in major Zones for effective women security. All Ladies Special trains including certain women coaches are being escorted by RPF women Constables.


        BACKGROUNDER:


        Investiture Ceremony is an occasion to recognise and honour the meritorious, distinguished and gallant members of the Force for their deeds in the service of the Nation and in enhancing the image of the Force. The giving away of these honours on behalf of the President of India by Minister of Railways evokes a sense of pride and dignitary to the recipients and the Force personnel.


        The Railway Protection Force (RPF) has come a long way from the Watch & Ward era of 1882 to the present day wherein it is now entrusted with not only protection of Railway Property but also providing security to railway passengers, passenger area of the Indian Railways. The 76,563 strong Force working under the Ministry of Railways works tirelessly to serve 23 million passengers travelling daily apart from guarding huge Railway assets spread across the country. The award of the President’s Colour to the RPF in 2006 is an indication of the gowing stature of the Railway Protection Force.


        Having been vested with powers of investigation under the RP(UP) Act & Railways Act, the Railway Protection Force arrests & prosecutes offenders committing crime over the Railways. The Force faces diverse security challenges such as crime against railway property and passengers, extremist violence against railways, obstruction to train movement/ Rail Rokos due to political agitations, flash protests by daily commuters, rescue of runaway, lost and trafficked children, ticketless drives, drugging, narcotics, smuggling of contraband material and FICN, etc. A good number of unauthorized vendors, touts, males in ladies compartment, offenders at level crossing, offenders indulging in unauthorized chain pulling, carriers of dangerous goods, etc. are prosecuted in the best interest of the travelling passengers ensuring better security atmosphere in Indian Railways.


        CCTV surveillance cameras have been installed at major stations under Integrated Security System (ISS). Besides, Baggage Scanners, Door Frame Metal Detectors, Hand Held Metal Detectors & Bomb Detection equipment items have also been installed/ procured under ISS. The RPF Security Management System (RSMS) (developed by CRIS) has started functioning in 2013 for communication with Zonal Railways through ‘Railnet’ for taking prompt action on real time basis and to reduce the paper work. The increasing use of technology by RPF to ensure safety and security of rail passengers is evident in the launching of Security Apps on mobile phones of rail passengers, especially women, for alerting RPF has been initiated in Central Railway (M-Indicator), South Central Railway (RISSTA) and Eastern Railway (R-Mitra). Efforts are being made to standardize an App on an All India basis.


        An “All India Security Helpline” has been set up in Feb. 2015 over Zonal Railways by providing a common Helpline No. 182 for round the clock security related assistance to passengers. Calls related to offences under the Railways Act, theft of passenger belongings, for medical assistance, luggage left behind, nuisance mongers in trains / railway premises, etc. are received and suitable action initiated. A good number of passenger appreciation have been received in this front.


        A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) was issued in collaboration with Ministry of Women & Child Welfare for the care & protection of children on Railways. The work of RPF in rescue of children from traffickers was recognized by the Ministry of Home Affairs. The National Conference of Anti Human Trafficking held at New Delhi - 2015, the Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh presented Certificate of Excellence to RPF for commendable contribution of RPF during “Operation Smile” in the field of Anti Human Trafficking. RPF rescued more than 12,000 juveniles from trains and Railway stations during the last two years (2015 & 2016).


    

    
    (Release ID: 1486440) Visitor Counter : 76