      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Prime Minister is the biggest communicator for India’s Development Story Western Media needs to acknowledge path breaking changes taking place in Country
      -M Venkaiah Naidu
      Communication is a critical factor in the Governance Agenda
      I&B Minister addresses Conference on Communicating India

      Posted On: 05 APR 2017 6:57PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri M Venkaiah Naidu, Minister for Information & Broadcasting has said that the Development and Growth story of India was unparalleled in the World today. The dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has transformed the nation and put it on the fast road to development with the mantra Reform, Perform and Transform. MODI (Making of Developed India) movement was the story that is spreading all across the country. The story of India should focus on India as an Emerging Economy, Growing Superpower, Vibrant Democracy, Responsible Power and Largest & Youngest workforce in the World. The Minister stated this at the valedictory session of the Conference on Communicating India organised by Vivekananda International Foundation in association with University of Westminster, IIMC, Prasar Bharati and Nehru Memorial Museum here today.


    Highlighting the importance of traditional media and new forms of media like social media, Shri Naidu said that both forms of communication were necessary to ensure integrated and seamless connection with different sections of the society and varied target audiences. Citing the example of Prime Minister Shri Naidu said, the Prime Minister extensively used Twitter platform to communicate his thoughts and ideas and also innovatively used Radio for the Mann ki Baat program to reach out to the people.


    Emphasizing on the rising aspirations of youth in the country, Shri Naidu said that the current generation priorities were focussed on Growth and Development of the country and participated in the development processes through communicating their ideas and thoughts. With the changing technology paradigm, a new trend of citizen journalism has emerged in the communication domain where citizens themselves have become the writers, editors and publishers.


    Elaborating further, the Minister said that Communication was very critical in the governance agenda. He mentioned that communication had become the most important cog in the wheel of National Development which supported government’s priorities and helped deliver programmes and benefits thereon to the people. The Minister emphasized on the focused communication strategy for some of its major flagship schemes like Swachh Bharat, Skill India, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao and Make in India in the past three years.


    Citing the examples of path breaking flagship schemes of the Government such as Jan Dhan Yojana and Pahal (Give it Up), Shri Naidu said that western media should acknowledge the various developmental and path breaking initiatives taking place in the country that has transformed the lives of people.


    Commenting on the role of media, Shri Naidu said that there has to be a clear difference between News and Views else the narrative gets a biased push, thereby rendering the entire communication ecosystem worthy less.


    The Minister while speaking on the Media & Entertainment sector in India, said it is having tremendous potential to break all previous records. Elaborating further he said, India was the biggest producer of general entertainment combined with the advantage of the IT Sector and young workforce, was the right moment to give India’s soft power a big push. India was in the midst of an unprecedented revolution in regards to production, distribution and consumption of general entertainment, music, cinema, television programmes etc. The Government for one had taken many initiatives to transform the entire Government Machinery, converting Red Tapism to Red Carpet by providing opportunities and facilitating their participation.


    CP/GV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486808) Visitor Counter : 200