      President's Secretariat

      President of India Inaugurates the 44 Kms Deoghar - Basukinath Solar Street Light Project and Lays the Foundation Stone of STPI Centre; Employees State Insurance Corporation Hospital and Driver's Training Centres at Deoghar
      Posted On: 02 APR 2017 5:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee inaugurated the 44 Kms Deoghar - Basukinath Solar Street Light Project and laid the foundation stone of Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) Centre; Employees State Insurance Corporation Hospital and Driver's Training Centres at Deoghar, Jharkhand today (April 2, 2017).
    
    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that Jharkhand played a key role in India’s freedom struggle. The pain and sacrifices of Sidho Murmu, Kanho Murmu, Tilka Manjhi and Birsa Munda are always remembered. The state has made progress on many fronts since attaining statehood in 2000. Its rich deposits of mineral resources, forests and industrial infrastructure etc. have laid down the foundation for all-round development.
    
    The President said that he comes from Bengal. Indeed, Jharkhand, Bihar, undivided Bengal, Orissa and Assam were part of the same Bengal Presidency for a long period in the earlier part of the last century. The area has a shared past and heritage and its shaping in the post Independence era has also been similar.
    
    The President said that the problem of job creation cannot be solved unless people are imparted skills to increase their employability. India has a huge workforce and skill development can help in economic development of this vast country.
    
    The President said that he believes that initiatives launched today such as Deoghar - Basukinath Solar Street Light Project; Software Technology Parks of India Centre; Employees State Insurance Corporation Hospital and Driver's Training Centres will transform the employment landscape of this region.

    *****


    
    
    AKT/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486456) Visitor Counter : 73