      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Promotion of NIMZs
      Posted On: 05 APR 2017 2:35PM by PIB Delhi


        Government notified the National Manufacturing Policy (NMP) on 4 th November, 2011 with the objective of enhancing the share of manufacturing in GDP to 25% and creating 100 million jobs over a decade or so. National Investment and Manufacturing Zones (NIMZs) are one of the important instruments of the Policy to achieve its objectives. So far Government has granted ‘in-principle’ approval to the f ourteen NIMZs (outside the DMIC region). These are:


        i. Nagpur in Maharashtra


        ii. Prakasam in Andhra Pradesh


        iii. Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh


        iv. Medak in Telangana


        v. Hyderabad Pharma NIMZ at Rangareddy and Mahabubnagar Districts in Telangana.


        vi. Tumkur in Karnataka


        vii. Kolar in Karnataka


        viii. Bidar in Karnataka


        ix. Gulbarga in Karnataka


        x. Kalinganagar, Jajpur District in Odisha


        xi. Ramanathapuram District of Tamil Nadu


        xii. Ponneri Taluk, Thiruvallur District, Tamil Nadu


        xiii. Auraiya District in Uttar Pradesh and


        xiv. Jhansi District in Uttar Pradesh


        Of these, the NIMZ at Prakasam in Andhra Pradesh; Medak in Telangana and Kalinganagar, Jajpur district in Odisha have been granted final approval.


        Eight Investment Regions along the Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC) project have also been announced as NIMZs. The details are as under:


        i. Ahmedabad-Dholera Investment Region, Gujarat


        ii. Shendra-Bidkin Industrial Park city near Aurangabad, Maharashtra


        iii. Manesar-Bawal Investment Region, Haryana


        iv. Khushkhera-Bhiwadi-Neemrana Investment Region, Rajasthan


        v. Pithampur-Dhar-Mhow Investment Region, Madhya Pradesh


        vi. Dadri-Noida-Ghaziabad Investment Region, Uttar Pradesh


        vii. Dighi Port Industrial Area, Maharashtra ; and


        viii. Jodhpur-Pali-Marwar Region in Rajasthan


        This information was given by the Commerce and Industry Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


        *****


        MJPS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486703) Visitor Counter : 112