      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Government of India has taken a number of steps for the promotion as well as conservation of livestock extending benefits to the farmers
      It is a result of the initiative taken by the Government of India that country is enjoying the first rank in milk production in the world.

      Posted On: 01 APR 2017 8:03PM by PIB Delhi

        Apart from this, country has acquired third rank in egg production


        Orissa Agriculture and Technological University (OUAT) has established 31 KVKs with 100% financial assistance of ICAR


        Union Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Minister, Shri Radha Mohan Singh addressed the people on the inauguration of International Centre for FMD (ICFMD) in Arugul, Jatni, Bhubaneswar.


        Bhubneswar: Union Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Minister, Shri Radha Mohan Singh has said that Government of India has taken a number of steps for the promotion as well as conservation of livestock extending benefits to the farmers. He further said that healthy livestock is conducive for the welfare of the farmers. If livestock are healthy, the income of the farmers will increase. It is a result of the initiative taken by the Government of India that country is enjoying the first rank in milk production in the world. Apart from this country has acquired third rank in egg production. The Minister of Agriculture stated it on the inauguration of International Centre for FMD (ICFMD) in Arugul, Jatni, Bhubneswar.


        The Minister of Agriculture has narrated that for the first time in the country, a Pashudhan Sanjivani Nakul Swasth Patra Scheme has been launched for sustaining the health of livestock. Along with this UID is framing out the identity base of the livestock as well as a national data related thereof. For the first time in the country, a new initiative entitled as Rashtriya Gokul Mission along with the allocation of Rs. 500 crores has been initiated in December 2014 for the conservation as well promotion of domestic species under National Bovine Genetic and Dairy Development programme. Under this mission 14 gokul villages are being established and 41 livestock zones are being made sophisticated with more allocated funds for the improvement in bulls species. A National Bovine Genetic Centre has been established for the improvement in domestic species. For the first time in the country e-livestock portal has been launched.


        The Minister of Agriculture on this occasion realized that virus borne FMD as well as influenza like disorders pose serious challenges for the health of livestock. The bovines, buffaloes as well as pig species are mainly affected through these disorders. More than 50 crores livestock across the country are very much prone to these disorders. The Minister of Agriculture added that his government is doing his best for the prevention of FMD.


        The Minister of Agriculture while expressing his expectations said that this International Laboratory will play an important role for the management of this disorder along with the infrastructures of bio security and bio-control in the arena of global as well as SAARC partnership. The Minister also praised the scientists and officers associated with this laboratory for their mention worthy performance.


        The Minister of Agriculture laid the foundation of KVK in Orissa Agriculture and Technology University in Bhubaneswar. On this eve, Union Petroleum Minister Mr. Dharmendra Pradhan and VC, Orissa Agriculture & Technology University, Prof. S. Pasupalak were also present.


        On this juncture, the Minister of Agriculture opined that Orissa Agriculture & Technology University had been established so as to meet the necessities of the farmers in the state. This is the second largest university in the country and the only agriculture university in the state. He briefed that 31 KVKs have been set up with 100% financial assistance under ICAR which are working as on farm testing, frontline demonstration, skill oriented training, zonal day as well as farmers fair centres along with pioneering the multidimensional technological transfer to the required spots under Orissa Agriculture & Technology University, Bhubaneswar. He further said that farmer’s First programme being conducted in Khorda district aimed at bringing about an improvement in farm productivity as well as benefits by transforming the middle to high costing production systems with participation approach. A project named as Arya is being organized in Nayagarh district of the state with the objective for attracting the youth towards agriculture entrepreneurs innovation sector. The Minister further added that he is feeling a great sense of elation while laying the stone of administrative buildings in Puri, Bolangir, Brahmpur, Gangamscond and Joshipur Mayurbhanj as second project meant for four KVKs with the financial outlay of Rs. 144.38 lakhs for each centres on behalf of Government of India through Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi.


        The Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Minister, Shri Radha Mohan Singh participated 31 Foundation Day of ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, (CIFA) Bhubaneswar, Odisha thereafter.


        On this occasion the Minister of Agriculture congratulated the officers and employees of the institute for 31 foundation day. This institute ICAR-CIFA was established on 1 st April 1987 under the auspices of Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. He further added that this institute has earned a specific identity on national and international level in arena of freshwater creature culture due to hard work exercised out by the scientists, officers and employees.


        Thereafter, the Minister participated Utkal Chambers of Commerce and Industry (UCCI Expo 2017 in IDCO Exhibition Ground, Bhubaneswar. On this eve, Shri. Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of State for Petroleum and Natural Gas, GoI, Shri Devi Prasad Mishra, Minister for Industries, School and Mass Education, Government of Orissa were also present. On this occasion he said that National Agriculture Policy provides for utilizing the potentialities existed in Indian Agriculture sector in forthcoming two decades, strengthening rural grass root level infrastructure for expediting the development process in agricultural arena. He further added that National Agriculture Policy also provides for creating the opportunities of employment in rural areas, upliftment of the status for agricultural labourers and their households, discouraging their migration to the urban areas, economic liberalization and coping with the challenges emerging out of globalization.


        ****


        SS/MN/IM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486436) Visitor Counter : 139