      Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises

      Progress of Scheme on Enhancement of Gobal Competitiveness of Indian Capital Goods
      Posted On: 05 APR 2017 4:13PM by PIB Delhi

      
      The objective of the Scheme is to make Indian Goods Sector globally completive by addressing the issues of Technological depth creation in the capital goods sector besides creating common industrial facility center.
      
      With a view to achieve the above objectives the Scheme have provision for technological depth creation by way of setting up of Centre of Excellence (CoE) for technology development and by extending financial support for acquisition/ transfer of technology under Technology Acquisition Fund Programme (TAFP) component of the Scheme.
      
      As regards Common facilities for the industry, the Scheme has components for setting up Common Engineering Facility Centre, Integrated Industrial Facility and Test & Certification Centre.
      
      So far under the Scheme, four proposals have been approved under CoE component which includes (1) Development of hi- tech shuttle less loom by Central Manufacturing Technology Institute, (2) Development of 11 Machine Tools Technology by Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, (3) Development of 3 welding technologies by PSG College of Technology, Coimbatore and (4) Development of Smart submersible pumps by Scientific and Industrial Testing and Research Centre, Coimbatore. Financial support have been approved under TAFP for acquisition/. upgradation of technology for (1) two machine tools technology by HMT Machine Tools Limited (2) manufacturing high end specialized power cables by Allied Engineering Works, Delhi (3) Development & Commercialization of Titanium Casting with Ceramic Shelling Technology by PTC Industries and (4) Cutting Edge Robotic Laser Cladding Technology for Hydro Tarbines by IPM Pvt. Ltd.
      
      As regards Common facilities, an Integrated Machine Tools Park is being set up in Tumakuru in collaboration with the Government of Karnataka. Setting up of Common Engineering Facilities have been approved for (i) Dies, Moulds and Tools Industry in Chakan, (ii) Textile Machinery and other CG Sectors in Bardoli (iii) Training Centre for Machine Tools at HMT Machine Tools, Bangalore and (iv) High end specialized training centre with Russian collaboration in Metallurgy and Heavy Engineering in HEC, Ranchi.
      
      This information was given by Minister of State in the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises Shri Babul Supriyo in reply to a written question in the Rajya Sabha today.

      ***

      
      
      ST/IA
    
    
    (Release ID: 1486725) Visitor Counter : 103