      Ministry of Education

      Disbursement of fellowships under Direct Benefit Transfer (Dbt) Mode
      Posted On: 06 APR 2017 4:12PM by PIB Delhi


    The University Grants Commission (UGC) implements various fellowship schemes on behalf of Ministry of Human Resource Development, Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Ministry of Minority Affairs and Ministry of Tribal Affairs. UGC has intimated that it has brought all fellowship schemes under Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode with a view to ensure effective administration and smooth disbursement of fellowships to the students. Under the DBT disbursement process, the fellowship awardees are required to upload continuation certificates, HRA certificates on quarterly basis in designated bank branches. Payments are made into the Student Beneficiary Accounts through Public Financial Management System (PFMS).


    As informed by the UGC, it has taken following initiatives to address grievances, if any, of fellowship holders regarding delay in administration and disbursement of fellowships:


    1. a dedicated web portal ( https://scholarship.canarabank.in/AdminLogin.aspx ) has been created for migration of legacy cases on DBT platform.


    2. a fellowship tracking portal has been developed https://scholarship.canarabank.in/scholar/Login.aspx where the students can check the status of payment, date of upload of documents etc.


    3. a dedicated email-id ugcfellowships.ugc@gmail.com is created to facilitate the redressal of student grievances especially relating to disbursal of fellowship/ scholarships.


    4. a dedicated telephone number has been provided to attend to calls from students relating to grievances/complaints/ problems on disbursal of grants under various fellowship/ scholarship schemes.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Mahendra Nath Pandey today in a written reply to a Rajya Sabha question.


    *****


    GG/RK/DISBURSEMENT OF FELLOWSHIPS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486954) Visitor Counter : 1043