      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Water level of 91 major reservoirs of the country goes down by one per cent
      Posted On: 07 APR 2017 12:32PM by PIB Delhi


        The water storage available in 91 major reservoirs of the country for the week ending on April 06, 2017 was 50.435 BCM, which is 32% of total storage capacity of these reservoirs. This percentage was at 33 for the week ending on March 30, 2017. The level of April 06, 2017 was 129% of the storage of corresponding period of last year and 105% of storage of average of last ten years.


        The total storage capacity of these 91 reservoirs is 157.799 BCM which is about 62% of the total storage capacity of 253.388 BCM which is estimated to have been created in the country. 37 Reservoirs out of these 91 have hydropower benefit with installed capacity of more than 60 MW.


        REGION WISE STORAGE STATUS:-


        NORTHERN REGION


        The northern region includes States of Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan. There are six reservoirs under Central Water Commission (CWC) monitoring having total live storage capacity of 18.01 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 4.28 BCM which is 24% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 24% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 29% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is equal to the corresponding period of last year and is less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


        EASTERN REGION


        The Eastern region includes States of Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and Tripura. There are 15 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 18.83 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 9.74 BCM which is 52% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 42% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 37% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the corresponding period of last year and is also better than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


        WESTERN REGION


        The Western region includes States of Gujarat and Maharashtra. There are 27 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 27.07 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 11.07 BCM which is 41% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 21% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 40% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the storage of last year and is also better than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


        CENTRAL REGION


        The Central region includes States of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. There are 12 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 42.30 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 18.76 BCM which is 44% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 31% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 28% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the storage of last year and is also better than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


        SOUTHERN REGION


        The Southern region includes States of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, AP&TG (Two combined projects in both states) Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. There are 31 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 51.59 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 6.58 BCM which is 13% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 16% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 25% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the corresponding period of last year and is also less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


        States having better storage than last year for corresponding period are Punjab, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Telangana. States having equal storage than last year for corresponding period are Tripura and AP&TG (Two combined projects in both states). States having lesser storage than last year for corresponding period are Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu.


        Samir/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487107) Visitor Counter : 20