      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Promotion of AYUSH system of medicines
      Posted On: 07 APR 2017 1:19PM by PIB Delhi


    Every medicine whether synthetic or natural has a potential risk of causing health hazard, if it is not manufactured properly with assurance of quality, safety and efficacy and not consumed judiciously without adequate medical advice from a qualified medical practitioner. Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and rules thereunder have exclusive provisions for regulation and quality control of Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homeopathy medicines. It is mandatory as per the provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetic Rules 1945 to comply with the Goods Manufacturing Practices (GMP) and the quality standards of AYUSH medicines in terms of their identity, purity and strength as are laid down in the respective pharmacopoeia.


    Government has accorded exclusive policy support for the growth and development of AYUSH systems. In this direction, Government has implemented mainstreaming of AYUSH strategy under National Health Mission and National AYUSH Mission to support States for strengthening AYUSH infrastructure and services.


    Apart from the allopathic and the AYUSH systems of medicine, no other alternative systems of medicine have so far been recognized by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. Thus, no precise information with regard to the usage of such systems of medicine in the country is available. Government of India has put in place a mechanism to facilitate consideration of proposals with a view to identifying viable new systems of medicine, if any.


    Government of India approved and notified Centrally Sponsored Scheme of National AYUSH Mission (NAM) on 29.09.2014 which envisages better access to AYUSH services, strengthening of AYUSH educational institutions, facilitate the enforcement of quality control of Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani & Homoeopathy (ASU&H) drugs and sustainable availability of ASU&H raw-materials by promotion of medicinal plants in the States/UTs during 12 th Plan. Under NAM, Government of India provides financial assistance to the States/UTs to develop and promote AYUSH System of medicine in the country, State/UT wise through following activities:


    i. Co-location of AYUSH facilities at Primary Health Centers (PHCs), Community Health Centers (CHCs) and District Hospitals (DHs).


    ii. Upgradation of exclusive State Government AYUSH Hospitals and Dispensaries.


    iii. Setting up of up to 50 bedded integrated AYUSH Hospital.


    iv. Upgradation of State Government Educational Institutions.


    v. Setting up of new State Government AYUSH Educational Institutions in the States where it is not available.


    vi. Strengthening of State Government/Public Sector Undertakings (PSU) Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathy (ASU&H) Pharmacies and Drug Testing Laboratories (DTL).


    vii. Cultivation and promotion of Medicinal plants.


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Smt Anupriya Patel stated this in a written reply in the Lok Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487126) Visitor Counter : 29