      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Kiren Rijiju to inaugurate 2-day NDMA consultative workshop tomorrow
      NDMA to review National Disaster Management Plan

      Posted On: 11 APR 2017 4:34PM by PIB Delhi
      
      
      
      MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju will inaugurate a two-day consultative workshop to review the National Disaster Management Plan (NDMP) here tomorrow.
      
      The event, being organised by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), will bring together all stakeholders to deliberate upon the Plan and suggest ways to improve it.
      
      The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi launched the country's first-ever National Plan for Disaster Management in June last year. The Plan aimed to make India disaster resilient and significantly reduce the loss of lives and assets. With this, India became one of the first countries to align its national plan to the 'Sendai Framework' - adopted at the third UN World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction in Sendai, Japan, in March, 2015.
      
      While the Plan provides a framework for Disaster Management in the entire country, its execution involves all levels of Government right up to Panchayat and Urban Local Body level as well as Non-Governmental Organisations (NGO), civil society and vulnerable communities. It provides for periodic reviews of the Plan based on national experiences and emerging global practices. These reviews will help synchronise the Plan to the needs of the implementing agencies.
      
      Discussions at this workshop will feed into the deliberations at the upcoming National Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction (NPDRR), which will be held shortly.
      
      NDMA Members and officials, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), State Governments, early warning agencies such as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and Central Water Commission (CWC), Ministries/Departments of the Central Government, concerned NGOs, ex-Members and Advisory Committee members of NDMA, and educational institutions will participate in the meeting.

      ****

      
      
      KSD/NK/PK/KM
    
    
    (Release ID: 1487535) Visitor Counter : 35