      AYUSH

      626 AYUSH Colleges Imparting Education in AYUSH sytems of Medicine in the Country: Shri Shripad Naik
      Posted On: 11 APR 2017 5:10PM by PIB Delhi


    There are total 626 AYUSH Colleges in the country. The Central Government has established two National Institutes to impart education in Ayurveda namely (i) National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur for Under-graduate and Post-graduate education and (ii) Institute of Post-Graduate Training and Research in Ayurveda, Jamnagar for Post-graduate education. In addition the Government has established two new Ayurveda institutes during the academic session 2016-17 namely (i) All India Institute of Ayurveda, New Delhi for Post-graduate education and (ii) North Eastern Institute of Ayurveda & Homoeopathy, Shillong for Under-graduate education in Ayurveda.


    The Government has setup 05 Central Councils for Research in Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani, Yoga & Naturopathy and Homoeopathy for undertaking, coordinating, formulating, developing and promoting research on scientific lines. The activities are carried out through 82 peripheral institute/Centres/Units located all over India and also through collaborative studies with various universities, hospitals and institutes. The research activities of the councils include medicinal plant research (Medico-ethno botanical survey, pharmacognosy and tissue culture), Drug Standardization Pharmacological Research, Clinical Research, Literary Research & Documentation, and other outreach activities. Further, Ministry of AYUSH runs Extra Mural Research (EMR) scheme to conduct the research on various aspects of AYUSH systems.


    The Government of India has approved and notified Centrally Sponsored Scheme of National AYUSH Mission (NAM) on 29 th September 2014 which envisages better access to AYUSH services; strengthening of AYUSH educational institutions, facilitate the enforcement of quality control of Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathy (ASU&H) drugs and sustainable availability of ASU&H raw materials by promotion of medicinal plants in the States/UTs during 12 th Plan. Under NAM, the Government of India provides financial assistance to the States/UTs to develop and promote AYUSH systems of medicine including Ayurveda in the country through different activities.


    Under the Information, Education and Communication (IEC) Scheme, the Ministry of AYUSH takes up initiatives for propagation and promotion of AYUSH systems of medicine by organizing Arogya fairs/Melas, Conferences, Exhibitions, Seminars, Workshops, Symposium and also undertaking publicity through electronic multimedia, print media campaigning for awareness amongst the citizens all over the country.


    Activities under Centrally Sponsored Scheme of National AYUSH Mission (NAM) to provide financial assistance to the States/UTs to develop and promote AYUSH systems of medicine including Ayurveda in the country


    i. Co-location of AYUSH facilities at Primary Health Centers (PHCs), Community Health Centers (CHCs) and District Hospitals (DHs).


    ii. Up gradation of exclusive State Government AYUSH Hospitals and Dispensaries.


    iii. Setting up of up to 50 bedded integrated AYUSH Hospital.


    iv. Up gradation of State Government Educational Institutions.


    v. Setting up of new State Government AYUSH Educational Institutions in the State where it is not available.


    vi. Strengthening of State Government/ Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathy (ASU&H) Pharmacies and Drug Testing Laboratories (DTL).


    vii. Cultivation and Promotion of Medicinal Plants


    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    NB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487546) Visitor Counter : 55