      Ministry of Power

      Delegation of Senior Editors and Journalists from Bangladesh calls on Union Power Minister
      India and Bangladesh are more than just Neighbours, have shared interests and experiences: Shri Piyush Goyal
      Posted On: 06 APR 2017 5:06PM by PIB Delhi


    A delegation of senior editors and journalists from Bangladesh called on Union Minister of State (IC) for Power, Coal, New & Renewable Energy and Mines, Shri Piyush Goyal here today. The members of delegation were apprised about the series of reform measures that have been taken by the government to bring about transparency and accountability in the power sector and to achieve the mission of Affordable, Quality, 24x7 Power for All.


    The interaction was organised by the Ministry of External Affairs as a familiarisation initiative for the delegation learning about the turnaround that has been achieved in India’s Power sector. A presentation was given to the delegation informing them about the transparency initiatives taken by the government like various mobile apps and web portals in the power sector and the change that the transparency and accountability has brought about in the governance in the sector.


    Addressing the delegation, Shri Goyal said that India and Bangladesh have expanded the scope of engagement to an unprecedented scale, which has built a great level of mutual trust between the two Nations. The Minister noted that both countries have a lot to learn from each other and cooperate on a number of issues of regional and global importance. Shri Goyal commended the neighbouring Nation on its achievements like the Grameen Bank, revolution in the textile sector, on which India looks up to Bangladesh. India and Bangladesh are neighbours, more than just neighbours, he added.


    Shri Goyal also expressed confidence of receiving greater cooperation from Bangladesh in areas like developing intra-regional power and transport corridors, maintaining peace and security in the South Asian region by putting up a consolidated front against regional and global terrorism, among others. This would enrich and strengthen the engagement between the two countries in the areas of mutual and shared interests, he added.


    Talking about the future prospects of engagements between the Nations, Shri Goyal expressed willingness in supporting Bangladesh in the Renewable Energy sector and Energy Efficiency initiatives, in which India has achieved huge success. The scale at which the RE sector has expanded, would surely help Bangladesh learn from India’s experiences and help the Nation in transition towards Clean Energy in the future, the Minister added.


    ****


    RM/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487001) Visitor Counter : 42