      Ministry of Education

      Prakash Jvadekar to Launch Own Portal and Mobile App of RUSA Tomorrow
      Posted On: 16 APR 2017 4:30PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA), under the aegis of the Ministry of Human Resource Development, is going to launch its own portal and mobile app tomorrow (the April 17, 2017) by Union HRD Minister Shri. Prakash Javadekar here in New Delhi.

    
    The portal is a one-stop for States’ Higher Education Plans, decision of the States’ Higher Education Councils and details of the resources under this scheme. Also, the gallery is a rich repository of the projects initiated under RUSA.
    
    Present on the occasion will be 12 State Education Ministers, Secretaries, RUSA Nodal officers, apart from those who will be present for the launch here; others will witness the launch through digital telecast.
    
    Seventeen RUSA projects will also be launched tomorrow digitally. They include a cluster university in Jammu and Kashmir, micro ATM facility at the RUSA centre for intelligent systems in Pune University, solar power facility in Shree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady, Kerala; language laboratories in Ghatsila College, Jharkhand, among others.
    
    Mr. Javadekar will also launch the Fund and Reform Tracker for this centrally sponsored scheme. The mobile application will ensure that all projects under RUSA are tracked 24x7.
    
    States and UTs have responded very well to this scheme; 29 States and 6 UTs are participating in RUSA. Over 2000 State Universities and Colleges have been supported so far. The National GER prior to the launch of RUSA was 20.8 (2012), with Male GER at 22.1 and Female GER at 19.4. RUSA assistance has been critical in witnessing a growth in the GER. A substantial increase in the National GER has been recorded at 24.5, with male GER at 25.4 and female GER at 23.5 in 2015-16 (Source: AISHE 2015-16).
    
    Inside thousands of classrooms across India, teaching-learning has once again been revived. Given the commitments made by the States under RUSA on removal of ban on recruitment and filling up of vacant positions, many States have started the process of filling faculty positions.
    
    States are also planning their education outlays in a better way. Prior to the formation of RUSA, 9 State Higher Education Councils were created by an Act of the legislature. The States joined RUSA with a commitment to create State Higher Education Councils within a stipulated time indicated by them. To date, 21 more States/UTs have already created State Higher Education Councils through an executive order and 5 more States have established State Higher Education Councils through an Act of the legislature. Till date, out of 36 States and UTs, 34 States and UTs except Delhi and Lakshadweep have submitted their Higher Education Plan. Each State has to prepare a State Higher Education Plan through a bottom-up approach in consultation with their key stakeholders.
    
    RUSA is the Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS) of the Department of Higher Education, MHRD which aims to provide strategic central funding to State Higher Education Departments and Institutions and achieve the broad objectives of access, equity and excellence. The State Higher Education Departments and Institutions undertake certain governance, academic and administrative reforms as a pre-requisite to be entitled for RUSA grants. The implementation of RUSA in its right earnest began after May 2014.

    ****


    GG/ST/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487986) Visitor Counter : 241