      Ministry of Railways

      Conference on Digitization of Railway Supply Chain
      Posted On: 11 APR 2017 6:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Railways Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu inaugurated the Conference on "Digitization of Railway Supply Chain - A Leap forward in Ease of Doing Business" organized by Ministry of Railways in association with The Associated Chambers of Commerce of India (ASSOCHAM) and Indian Railway Institute of Material Management (IRLMM)
    
    Chairman, Railway Board, Shri A. K. Mital and other Railway Board Members and senior officials of Railway Board and representatives from ASSOCHAM were also present on the occasion.
    
    While speaking on the occasion, Minister of Railways Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu said that Indian Railways is also heading towards Digital Age. He also said that Ministry of Railways is working on Enterprise Resource Programme - a software which shall benefit Railways immensely. In the procurements, transparency has to be maintained throughout the process and ensure participation of everyone. While inaugurating Pan India Digitization of Railway Supply Chain, he stressed on optimum asset utilization and laid focus on framing tech specifications of all rly items for real time benefit of vendors as well as Indian Railways.
    
    Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu also added that Indian Railway is trendsetter among ministries to start E-Procurement in the year 2005-06. Digitisation of Railway Supply Chain is a Leap Forward in Ease of Doing Business & Transparency. Integrated Materials Management System is helpful in Optimum Asset Utilization, Efficiency in transaction, reducing cost of Doing Business. Integrated Materials Management System would eliminate barriers by Supply Chain Digitisation. He also said that Indian Railways has taken initiatives in E-tender, E-auction, E-procurements, E-scrap.
    
    Shri Sunil Kanoria, President ASSOCHAM said that ASSOCHAM feels proud to be partner in organizing Digitization of Railway Supply Chain- A leap forward in Ease of Doing Business & Transparency. World class infrastructure is the key to a globally competitive economy and India’s objective of sustained double digit growth can only be achieved through a quantum growth in the infrastructure sector. As the backbone of transport infrastructure in the country, Indian Railways has stepped up their efforts to meet the growing needs of the economy. Indian Railways is poised to become the world’s biggest potential market for the introduction of modern state-of-the-art technologies and solutions for optimally harnessing the existing resources and deploying new technology solutions.

    *****


    AKS/MKV/AK/EN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487592) Visitor Counter : 52