      AYUSH

      Government provides subsidies to farmers for cultivation of Medicinal Plants as per guidelines: AYUSH Minister
      Posted On: 11 APR 2017 5:12PM by PIB Delhi


      As per information of the Botanical Survey of India (BSI), an organization under Ministry of Environment, Forests & Climate Change, Government of India, estimated more than 8,000 species of herbs / medicinal plants are found in India.


      The National Medicinal Plants Board (NMPB), Ministry of AYUSH is presently implementing following schemes to encourage farming / cultivation, conservation and promotion of medicinal & herbal plants throughout the country:


      1. Centrally Sponsored Scheme of National AYUSH Mission (NAM). Under ‘Medicinal


      Plants’ component of the NAM scheme the large scale farming / cultivation of medicinal plants is being supported. As per the scheme guidelines, the support is being provided for:


      (i) Cultivation of prioritized medicinal plants on farmer’s land


      (ii) Establishment of nurseries for supply of quality planting material


      (iii) Post-harvest management


      (iv) Primary processing, marketing infrastructure etc.


      (v) Providing subsidy to farmers @ 30%, 50% and 75% based on cost of cultivation.


      2. Central Sector Scheme on “Conservation, Development and Sustainable Management of


      Medicinal Plants”. Under the scheme, the project based support is being provided for:


      (i) In-situ conservation through development of Medicinal Plants Conservation and Development Areas (MPCDAs)


      (ii) Ex-situ conservation through establishment of herbal gardens


      (iii) Linkages with Joint Forest Management Committees (JFMCs) / Panchayats / Van Panchayats / Biodiversity Management Committees (BMCs) / Self Help Groups (SHGs)


      (iv) IEC activities (Training / workshops and Seminars etc.)


      (v) Research & Development etc.


      This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


      NB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487548) Visitor Counter : 69