      Ministry of Railways

      Waste Management Policy in Railways
      Posted On: 12 APR 2017 4:28PM by PIB Delhi


      Policy guidelines have been issued from time to time regarding Waste Management on Indian Railways including the following aspects:


      (i) Handling and disposal of Municipal Solid Waste arising in the railway station area.


      (ii) Handling and disposal of garbage arising from catering services.


      (iii) Segregation of biodegradable and non-biodegradable wastes.


      (iv) Disposal of hazardous waste such as batteries and e-waste.


      (v) Prohibition of open burning of waste.


      Garbage collected from different points is disposed off to the places nominated by local bodies like Municipal Corporation / Nagarpalika. Final disposal of garbage is done by these local bodies.


      Railways have also proposed a pilot project for disposal of Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) being generated at major railway terminals in an environment friendly manner including segregation of waste and conversion of bio-degradable waste to energy.


      Detailed instructions have been issued for provision of separate dustbins for biodegradable (wet) and non-biodegradable (dry) at major railway stations. Apart from vending stalls, separate dustbins for collection of biodegradable (wet) waste and non-biodegradable (dry) waste are to be provided on the platforms and all passenger interface areas. Railways have to provide different coloured dustbins and polythene liner bags for biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste.


      As informed by the zonal railways, segregation of biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste is being done at some major stations of railways such as ER, NCR, SR, SCR, SECR and WCR. However, segregation is generally not done at collection and final disposal stage by the local Municipal bodies.


      The effluent treatment plant at stations data is maintained by the concerned Zonal Railways. As informed by the zonal railways, effluent treatment plants are installed at 06 stations in CR, 02 stations in ER, 04 stations in SCR, 03 stations in WCR and 01 station each in NFR and SR. In addition, effluent treatment plants are also installed in other railway establishments such as Production Units, Workshops and Diesel Locomotive Sheds.


      This Press Release is based on the information given by the Minister of State for Railways Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha on 12.04.2017 (Wednesday).


      ****


      AKS/MKV/AK/SM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487675) Visitor Counter : 37