      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      'Making New India' to be theme of Civil Services Day 2017: Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 11 APR 2017 7:25PM by PIB Delhi


    

    "Making New India” will be the theme for Civil Services Day, 2017 scheduled to be held on 20th and 21st of this month in New Delhi. This was disclosed here today by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh after the conclusion of a high level meeting to review the preparations for the two-day event which is expected to have the largest ever participation to compete for Prime Minister's Awards for Excellence. The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will give away the awards for excellence in implementation of priority programmes on the occasion of Civil Services Day. On the occasion, three films will be shown respectively on, award winning initiatives, citations of the award winning achievements and the entire process of initiating, selecting and finalizing the awards as well as conceptualizing and holding of the event.

    
    A unique feature of this year’s event, Dr Jitendra Singh said, that on the advice of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, young IAS Collectors and probationers of the last four years from 2013 to 2016, were engaged to send their responses as feedback. Out of a total of 691 IAS officers across the country from these four batches, he said, as many as 615 put in their responses. This year’s awards, Dr Jitendra Singh said, will be based primarily on excellence in implementation of five priority programmes of Government of India, which include (i) Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY), (ii) Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), (iii) Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana (DDUGJY), (iv) e-National Agriculture Market (eNAM) and (v) “Start Up India, Stand Up India”. In addition, he said, awards shall also be presented for innovation work done in areas of environment, conservation, disaster management, education, health, women and child initiatives, etc.
    
    Of the 2,345 entries received for the awards, Dr Jitendra Singh informed, 1515 have been received from 599 districts under the priority programmes category and 830 from various organizations and Government agencies under innovation category.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh said that under the inspiration of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, the entire concept and format of Civil Services Day has evolved in the last two years and transformed from being a mere ritual to an elaborate stimulating academic event inspiring a sense of healthy competition among the different districts and States of the country to excel each other in implementing the various public welfare schemes and programmes of Government of India. In addition, he said, it has also inculcated a spirit of healthy competition among young Collectors and Deputy Commissioners across the country to showcase their work and to share it with the rest of the fraternity across the country.
    
    While the event will be spread over two days and into different sessions touching upon different areas, Dr Jitendra Singh said, an effort is also being made to have some of the most distinguished resource-persons to deliver keynote addresses during different sessions.
    
    The Secretary, Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) Shri C. Viswanath and senior officers of the Ministry of Personnel were present at the meeting.

    *****


    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487599) Visitor Counter : 83