      Ministry of Finance

      Shri Pranab Mukherjee Presented Scope awards to CPSEs
      India is a Fast Growing Economy and Many More Glorious Chapters Will be Added to the Credit of Pses in the Future Too- Pranab Mukherjee

      Posted On: 11 APR 2017 6:27PM by PIB Delhi

        PSES are The Engines of Our Growth and Have Played A Catalytic Role in Ensuring The Economic and Industrial Development of Our Country Anant Geete.


        The 8 th Public Sector Day was marked today with the presentation of SCOPE Awards to Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) by President Shri Pranab Mukherjee here in Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. Speaking on the occasion, the President said that celebrating this Day is an acknowledgement of the invaluable contribution made by our Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) since independence when PSEs had been chosen as the vehicle of industrialization in our country. He said that he was a firm believer in the continued relevance and importance of the Public Sector in our economy. He was confident that CPSEs will continue to do well in the future and meet new challenges. The Award function was organized jointly by SCOPE and Department of Public Enterprises (DPE).


        The President said that in our country we started with only five PSEs with an investment of 29 crore. However, their growth over the years is very substantial. Their overall net profit increased by 12.5 percent during 2015-16. This is appreciable since they have continued to perform well despite the fact that the global fiscal and economic scenario and industrial climate is not very encouraging. He said that India is a fast growing economy and many more glorious chapters will be added to the credit of PSEs in the future too.


        The President said that he had been associated with SCOPE functions on many occasions. He congratulated the awardees and wished them further success.


        Speaking on the occasion Shri Anant G. Geete, Union Minister of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises said that PSEs are the engines of our growth and have played a catalytic role in ensuring the economic and industrial development of our country. He said our PSEs have successfully faced the international challenges and have proved their worth. It is important to note that at present there are 320 CPSEs having investment amounting to nearly Rs. 11.62 lakh crore with a business worth about 18.55 lakh crore. In year 2015-16 the net profit of CPSEs stood nearly 1.16 lakh crore. Currently there are about 12 lakh employees in our CPSEs. He said we should feel proud that our PSEs are continuously striving for setting the bar of excellence at highest level.


        Shri Geete said that necessary guidelines have been issued for the revival and reorganisation of sick and loss making PSEs.


        Shri Babul Supriyo, Minister of State for Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises highlighted the role of CPSEs in the economic growth of the country. He lauded the role of standing Conference of Public Enterprises (SCOPE) in becoming the voice of CPSEs in the recent years and is busy in promoting excellence levels in PSEs.


        The Secretary Department of Public Enterprises, Ms. Seema Bahuguna in her address said that her department will continue to act as a facilitator for the smooth development of public sector.


        Chairman SCOPE Shri Ved Prakash on this occasion said that PSEs have achieved a fair measure of success in developing industrial infrastructure promoting regional balances and creating employment opportunities. He said demonetisation drive was one of measure reform to combat corruption adding that Public Sector Enterprises have excelled the best practices in corporate governance and are working towards creating a digital infrastructure for promoting cashless economy.


        In his address DG SCOPE Dr. UD Choubey said that PSEs have adopted best practices in coorporatwe governance and are making significant contribution towards CSR, Make in India, Swacch Bharat, Digital India and Skill India. He re-affirmed PSEs commitment to socio-economic development of the country.


        The Winners of the SCOPE Excellence Awards (Individual Leadership Category) for the year 2014-15 are Dr. Anoop Kumar Mittal, CMD, NBCC, Mr. B. Ashok, Chairman, IOCL, Mr.A.K. Jain, MD, REIL, Mr. K.S. Popli, CMD, IREDA, Ms. Pooja Kapoor, Head (|Business Development), WAPCOS (Outstanding Woman Manager in PSEs). REC, NALCO, MECL, ONGC Videsh Ltd, ECIL and GSL have been awarded in the Institutional Category. EIL, WAPCOS and Ms. Seema Gupta, ED, PGCIL have been given Special Commendation Award. SCOPE Excellence Awards recognizes the outstanding contribution of CPSEs and leaders for promoting organizational growth.


        The Winners of SCOPE Meritorious Awards are HPCL, PFC, HAL, WAPCOS, NALCO, REIL, SAIL, REC, GAIL & NTPC. SCOPE Meritorious Awards recognizes significant achievements of CPSEs in various fields leading to business excellence and competitive advantage. The function will be attended by Chief Executives/Directors of CPSEs besides Ministers, Secretaries and other senior government officials.


        SCOPE Meritorious Awards recognizes significant achievements of CPSEs in various fields leading to business excellence and competitive advantage. The function will be attended by Chief Executives/Directors of CPSEs besides Ministers, Secretaries and other senior government officials.


        *****


        ST/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487591) Visitor Counter : 68