      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      1110 PMBJP Kendras functional in the country
      Posted On: 11 APR 2017 6:29PM by PIB Delhi

      Government focusing upon Multi modal publicity campaign to spread awareness about the use of generic drugs in the country

      Minister of State for Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, Shipping and Chemicals and Fertilizers, Shri Mansukh L. Mandaviya, while giving a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today on steps taken by the Government to spread awareness about the use of and increase access to generic drugs in the country, said that as on 05.04.2017, 1110 Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana (PMBJP) Kendras are functional in the country.


      Further, the Minister informed the House that in order to promote the use of generic drugs in the country and with the objective of making available quality generic drugs at affordable prices to all, a countrywide campaign in the name of PMBJP has been started. However, to ensure coverage across the entire country, especially in rural areas, various steps have been taken by the Government such as:


      路 In order to spread awareness about the use of generic drugs in the country, BPPI has initiated publicity campaigns around PMBJP Kendras through hoardings, bulk SMS, mobile exhibitions, distribution of pamphlets, etc. for spreading awareness about the scheme and its objective of providing affordable and quality generic medicines. Also, a 15 days Radio/FM campaign was also launched in various States of the country.


      路 Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India (BPPI), the implementing agency of PMBJP, has released advertisements in various newspapers in the country during December 2016 inviting applications from private individuals for opening of PMBJP Kendras. The response has been overwhelmingly encouraging and as on 05.04.2017, 28,301 applications have been received out of which in-principle approval has been given to 24,049 applications .


      路 Memorandum of Understandings ( MoUs ) have been signed with various State Government/Organisations/NGOs to promote opening of PMBJP Kendras across the country.


      路 The scheme guidelines have been amended to enable opening of PMBJP Kendras in various Government owned buildings like Municipalities/Panchayati Raj Institutions/Post Offices, etc. and incentivizing of weaker sections to participate in the scheme.


      The PMBJP scheme provides more than 600 medicines and 154 surgicals and consumables at affordable prices in all therapeutic categories such as Anti-infectives, Anti-diabetics, Cardiovasculars, Anti-cancers, Gastro-intestinal medicines, etc. For impeccable quality assurance, each batch of drug supply to PMBJP Kendras is tested at National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) accredited laboratories empanelled by the BPPI.


      The Minister also stated that Public Health being a State subject, the primary responsibility of supply of medicines including lifesaving medicines free of cost to the patients in public/Government Healthcare Centres primarily lies with the State/UT Governments. Under the National Health Mission (NHM), support is provided to the States/UTs for strengthening their healthcare delivery system including for provision of free essential drugs to those who access public health facilities, based on the requirement posed by the States/UTs in their Programme Implementation Plans.


      *****


      VM/LU-6013

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487593) Visitor Counter : 67