      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Indo-Canadian Science Programme on Clean Water Technology
      Posted On: 12 APR 2017 6:37PM by PIB Delhi

        The Department of Biotechnology and Department of Science and Technology, Ministry of Science and Technology are collaborating with The India-Canada Centre for Innovation Multidisciplinary Partnerships to Accelerate Community Transformation and Sustainability (IC-IMPACTS), to promote multidisciplinary research partnerships. Five projects addressing the issue of Clean Water Technologies are being implemented by the Departments at the total cost of Rs. 572 lakhs with matched funding from Canada.
        The following technologies are being developed and envisaged as outcomes:

        i) Biosensors for detection of toxins:- impedance-based handheld biosensors for assessment of the water quality and a nanoparticle based water treatment system to eliminate toxins and microorganisms in water. Toxins which will be detected are cyanotoxin (microcystins, anatoxins) and microorganisms ( Enterococcus , Salmonella , Staphylococcus ).
        ii) Heavy metal detection and removal :
        P lastic cartridges for color based test monitoring kit for detection of multiplex heavy metal
        Developing fixed bed biochar columns to remove heavy metals from waste water
        iii) Biorecovery fr om waste water ( waste to wealth) :- Integrated pilot-scale 915 MHz MW-AOP for advanced anaerobic digestion system for resource recovery
        iv) Survey to identify and explore alternatives in domestic water management:- technology and financial appropriateness of water and wastewater infrastructure in selected cities of India
        These Technologies are currently being developed with the aim that these technologies will be implemented in India. Prior art is available for the technologies being developed. The technologies are being adapted and modified for Indian conditions. Technologies developed will be taken for feasibility studies and shall be implemented on pilot scale within two years.
        This information was given by Minister of State for Ministry of Science & Technology and Ministry of Earth Sciences Shri Y.S.Chowdary in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.
        ***
        RDS/nb
    
    
    (Release ID: 1487716) Visitor Counter : 73