      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      HUPA Minister Inaugurates two-day National Review of PMAY (Urban) Mission
      Posted On: 12 APR 2017 6:33PM by PIB Delhi

      Shri Naidu urges States/UTs for wider publicity of PMAY and organise loan melas
      The Union Minister for Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation, Urban Development and Information & Broadcasting, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu inaugurated the two-day National review of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) Mission here today. NITI Aayog, CEO, Shri Amitabh Kant, Secretary, Ministry of HUPA, Dr. Nandita Chatterjee and Mission Directorate officials at the State/UT level were present on the occasion.
      
      Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu urged the State Governments and UT administrations to ensure wider publicity of various components of PMAY (U) and organise loan melas to facilitate interest subsidy to the beneficiaries. He also asked to involve private sector in a big way to promote Affordable Housing in Partnership, by having synergetic PPP Models.
      
      The Minister said that the modification of guidelines, innovations and procedural simplification have been given the top priority in implementation of the PMAY (U) Mission and many innovations, such as Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme (CLSS) for Middle Income Groups, Geo-tagging for monitoring the progress of construction of houses, Public Financial Management System (PFMS) to ensure electronic fund flow and Technology Sub-Mission to implement new construction technologies, have been introduced.
      
      Shri Naidu appreciated the efforts put in by various stakeholders for steering the Mission in the respective States/UTs and said that some States have done quite well in a systematic manner to sanction houses under the Mission, while pointing out that the performance in certain other states is not satisfactory.
      
      During the occasion, Shri Naidu released three booklets on Technology Sub-Mission, Capacity Building and Social Audit and also launched three TV commercials.
      
      The two-day National Review to include various sessions to discuss upon Demand Survey, Status of Housing For All Plan of Action (PoA) and Annual Implementation Plan (AIP), Grounding and progress of projects, MIS and Geo tagging, Technology Sub-Mission and CLSS for Economically Weaker section and Low Income Group.

      *****

      KM
    
    
    (Release ID: 1487712) Visitor Counter : 46