      President's Secretariat

      Prime Minister of Bangladesh calls on President
      Posted On: 10 APR 2017 7:48PM by PIB Delhi


    HE Sheikh Hasina, the Prime Minister of Bangladesh called on President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee at Rashtrapati Bhavan yesterday (April 9, 2017).

    
    Welcoming the Bangladeshi Prime Minister to India, the President fondly remembered his visit to Bangladesh in March 2013. He also appreciated the Prime Minister’s visit in August 2015 to attend the last rites of his late wife.
    
    The President said Government of Bangladesh’s gesture of honouring the Indian soldiers martyred during the 1971 Liberation War is highly appreciated in India. India considers it a demonstration of solidarity and a symbol of the unique history of bilateral ties. There is much that unites the two countries - a shared history and common heritage, linguistic and cultural ties, passion for music, literature and the arts.
    
    The President said India deeply appreciates Bangladeshi Prime Minister’s role in giving a new direction to the India-Bangladesh relationship and making it what it is today – a strong, vibrant and exemplary partnership between two neighbours. He said that under the leadership of the Bangladesh Prime Minister, the country has made tremendous progress.
    
    The President said Bangladesh’s commitment to strengthening democracy, rule of law, pluralism and human dignity and to ensuring peace, security and stability in the country is commendable. He congratulated Bangladesh on successfully hosting the 136th Inter-Parliamentary Union Assembly in Dhaka last week and also the 9th Global Forum on Migration and Development in December 2016.
    
    The President said India-Bangladesh relations are growing from strength to strength. Cooperation is the field of connectivity, power, energy, trade, capacity building and infrastructure development is especially praiseworthy. India is fully committed to be a partner in Bangladesh’s economic development. Geographical proximity and connectivity are advantages that must be leveraged to mutual benefit. He hoped that the announcement of over USD 5 billion of Indian concessionary financing for infrastructure projects in Bangladesh over the next couple of years will usher in more development for Bangladesh.

    ***


    
    
    AKT/NT/VK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487444) Visitor Counter : 50