      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister reviewed development projects of A&N Islands at Port Blair
      Shri Rajnath Singh directed MHA officials to take up important issues related to A&N Islands with other Central Ministries for early solution
      
      Home Minister lays foundation stone for 2 Solar Power Plants in South Andaman

      Posted On: 07 APR 2017 7:08PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh, who is on a three day visit to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, laid the foundation stone for the Solar Power Plants of 17 MW capacity (Manglutan) and 8MW (Chidiyatapu), at Guptapara Village in South Andaman District today.
    
    Later, at Car Nicobar, the Home Minister visited the Mus Church and laid wreath at the Memorial of Late Bishop John Richardson. He also visited the Tsunami Memorial and laid wreath there. The Home Minister thereafter inaugurated the new building of Senior Secondary School at Malacca village and interacted with the Captains of Tribal Council and other tribal leaders.
    
    Yesterday, upon his arrival at Port Blair, Shri Rajnath Singh was accorded a warm welcome. On his arrival at the Veer Savarkar International Airport, the Home Minister was received by the Lt Governor, A&N Islands, Prof. Jagdish Mukhi, Member of Parliament, Shri Bishnu Pada Ray, Chief Secretary, Shri Anindo Majumdar and CINCAN, A&N Command, Vice Admiral Bimal Verma.
    
    Soon after his arrival, Shri Rajnath Singh visited the National Memorial, Cellular Jail and paid tribute to the freedom fighters by placing a wreath at the Martyrs’ Column there. The Home Minister also visited the Veer Savarkar Cell in the Cellular Jail.
    
    Later in the evening, the Home Minister held a meeting with the Lt. Governor, Member of Parliament and Senior Officers of the A&N Administration at Raj Niwas. Important issues pertaining to the development of A&N Islands were discussed and status of implementation of various schemes and projects was reviewed during the meeting. The Home Minister directed the officials of Ministry of Home Affairs to take up important issues related to A&N Islands with the other Central Ministries for early solution of the issues.
    
    Tomorrow, the Union Home Minister is scheduled to visit Havelock Island. After returning from Havelock, Shri Rajnath Singh will meet various social groups at Raj Niwas before returning New Delhi.

    ***


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487210) Visitor Counter : 33