      AYUSH

      Rs.166.255 lakhs spent for Yoga training of 11428 Physical Education Teachers during 2016-17
      Posted On: 07 APR 2017 4:40PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of School Education & Literacy, Ministry of Human Resource Development has spent Rs.166.255 lakhs during 2016-17 under Rashriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA) for Yoga training of 11428 Physical Education Teachers of Government Secondary Schools.
    
    National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) 2005 recommended Yoga as an Integral Part of Health and Physical Education as part of National Curriculum Framework (NCF). Health and Physical Education is a compulsory subject from Class I to Class X and optional from Classes XI to XII. According to National Curriculum Framework 2005, “the entire group Health and Physical Education and Yoga must be taken together as a comprehensive Health and Physical Education Curriculum, replacing the fragmentary approach current in schools today. As a core part of the curriculum, time allocated for games and for yoga must not be reduced or taken away under any circumstances”. Further, they have already developed integrated syllabi on Health and Physical Education from Class I to Class X. The content of Yoga has been included from Class VI onward. It also prepared separate syllabus on Yoga from Upper Primary to Secondary Stage.
    
    NCERT has brought out the following two textual materials for Upper Primary (VI to VIII) and Secondary Stages (IX & X):
    
    (i) Yoga: A Healthy Way of Living (Upper Primary stage) and
    
    (ii) Yoga: A Healthy Way of Living (Secondary Stage)
    
    NCERT organised Yoga Olympiad from school to National Level from 18th to 20thJune, 2016.
    
    CCRYN under Ministry of AYUSH has been conducting one hour Yoga Classes for Government employees in few Government Offices/Ministries n Delhi
    
    MDNIY is creating awareness about healthy food habits and concept of Yogic Diet through its courses /programmes.
    
    There are 9 universities offering Higher education in Yoga; and 2 universities offering higher education in ‘Yoga and Naturopathy’ in the country.
    
    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri ShripadYesso Naik in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.

    *****


    
    
    NB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487143) Visitor Counter : 41