      Ministry of Science & Technology

      “nakshe” Portal launched by Dr. Harsh Vardhan on 250th Anniversary of Survey of India
      Posted On: 10 APR 2017 5:58PM by PIB Delhi


    A new web portal “nakshe” was launched by the Union Minister for Science & Technology and Earth Sciences, Dr. Harsh Vardhan in New Delhi today, on the occasion of 250th anniversary of Survey of India(SoI).
    
    Topographic maps or Open Series Maps (OSM) containing natural and man-made geographical features including terrain or topography are prepared by the SoI since its inception in 1767 and is in conformity with the National Map Policy-2005. These OSM maps have been made available for free download from “nakshe” web portal in pdf format on 1:50,000 scale through Aaadhar enabled user authentication process, in line with Digital India programme of the Government of India.
    
    The Survey of India, the principal mapping agency of the country is celebrating its 250th anniversary this year. Origin of the Survey of India is traced back to Year 1767. It is the oldest scientific department in India and one of the oldest survey establishments in the world. Foundation for the scientific survey and mapping of the country was laid with The Great Trignometric Survey (GTS) in 19th century on this day i.e. 10th April, 1802, by noted surveyors Col. Lambton and Sir George Everest. SoI has surveyed and mapped each and every part of the country and these maps have played an invaluable role in the saga of India’s nation building and were pivotal in the foundation of almost all major developmental activities of modern India.
    
    The launch of the portal was followed with a curtain raiser of SoI Geo-portal and Web Services Platform and a panel discussion on Geospatial Paradigm in India that deals with the users’ perspective on Geospatial Policy Framework in India. A technical presentation on development of the Geoid model for country was also made.
    
    Minister of State for the Ministry of Science & Technology and Earth Sciences, Shri Y.S. Chowdary, Secretary, Department of Science & Technology, Dr. Ashutosh Sharma, Surveyor General of India Dr. Swarna Subba Rao and several other scientists and professionals of Geospatial Industry were present on the occasion.
    
    RDS/nb

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487420) Visitor Counter : 66