      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Blue Revolution
      Posted On: 11 APR 2017 6:00PM by PIB Delhi


    

    Realizing the immense scope for development of fisheries and aquaculture, the Government of India has restructured the Central Plan Scheme under an umbrella of Blue Revolution. The restructured Central Sector Scheme on Blue Revolution: Integrated Development and Management of Fisheries (CSS) approved by the Government provides for a focused development and management of the fisheries sector to increase both fish production and fish productivity from aquaculture and fisheries resources of the inland and marine fisheries sector including deep sea fishing.

    
    The scheme has the following components:
    i. National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) and its activities.
    ii. Development of Inland Fisheries and Aquaculture.
    iii. Development of Marine Fisheries, Infrastructure and Post-Harvest Operations.
    iv. Strengthening of Database & Geographical Information System of the Fisheries Sector.
    v. Institutional Arrangement for Fisheries Sector.
    vi. Monitoring, Control and Surveillance (MCS) and other need-based Interventions.
    vii. National Scheme on Welfare of Fishermen.
    The Scheme Blue Revolution: Integrated Development and Management of Fisheries is being implemented in consultation with all States & UTs. Besides the activities undertaken under both the marine and inland sectors, no specific role for the coastal states has been defined.
    
    The Blue Revolution is being implemented to achieve economic prosperity of fishermen and fish farmers and to contribute towards food and nutritional security through optimum utilization of water resources for fisheries development in a sustainable manner, keeping in view the bio-security and environmental concerns.
    
    Under the scheme, it has been targeted to enhance the fish production from 107.95 lakh tonnes in 2015-16 to about 150 lakh tonnes by the end of the financial year 2019-20. It is also expected to augment the export earnings with a focus on increased benefit flow to the fishers and fish farmers to attain the target of doubling their income.
    
    The Department has prepared a detailed National Fisheries Action Plan-2020(NFAP) for the next 5 years with an aim of enhancing fish production and productivity and to achieve the concept of Blue Revolution. The approach was initiated considering the various fisheries resources available in the country like ponds & tanks, wetlands, brackish water, cold water, lakes & reservoirs, rivers and canals and the marine sector.
    
    This information was given by the Minister of State for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Shri Sudarshan Bhagat, in reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.

    *****


    SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487558) Visitor Counter : 109