      Ministry of Defence

      Scheme for Re-Skilling Ex-Servicemen
      Posted On: 07 APR 2017 4:49PM by PIB Delhi


    Re-settlement training courses are being conducted for retiring personnel of Armed Forces since more than four decades. A Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Defence and Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship has been signed on 13 th July, 2015. Resettlement training of Directorate General Resettlement


    (DGR) has now been linked to:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
(i)    National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) based skill training for Ex-servicemen.                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
(ii)   Assessment and certification by National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) – NSDC Certification will equip Ex-servicemen with required standards and better certification which would help them in securing suitable jobs in Government / Private sector.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
(iii)  Placement linked training – with NSQF skill based training and Common Norms, placement of trainees is expected to improve substantially.                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

    Resettlement courses are being conducted in Government as well as private training institutes that are certified by NSDC.


    55 private training institutes were engaged for skill training in Financial Year 2016-17.


    There is no such proposal at present.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Defence Dr. Subhash Bhamre in a written reply to Shri Ramsinh Rathwa in Lok Sabha today.


    NAMPI/DK/Ranjan

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487150) Visitor Counter : 65