      Ministry of Tourism

      Comprehensive Sustainable Tourism Criteria for India (STCI)
      Posted On: 10 APR 2017 6:00PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The Comprehensive Sustainable Tourism Criteria for India (STCI) for Accommodation, Tour Operators and Beaches, Backwaters, Lakes & Rivers sectors were launched in August 2014 and has been accepted by the stakeholders. No issues/problem in this regard have surfaced.

    
    Further, the Ministry has guidelines for approval of Hotel Projects at the implementation stage and also guidelines for classification/re-classification of operational hotels under various categories. As per these guidelines, hotels at the project stage itself are required to incorporate various eco-friendly measures like Sewage Treatment Plant (STP), Rain Water Harvesting System, waste management system, pollution control, introduction of non-Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) equipment for refrigeration and air conditioning, measures for energy and water conservation etc. Under the guidelines for project level & classification/re-classification of operational hotels, it has been prescribed that the architecture of the hotel buildings in hilly and ecologically fragile areas should be sustainable and energy efficient and as far as possible be in conformity with the local ethos and make use of local designs and material.
    
    The tour operators approved by Ministry of Tourism have to sign a pledge for commitment towards Safe & Honourable Tourism and Sustainable Tourism to fully implement Sustainable Tourism practices, consistent with the best environment and heritage protection standards, such that the present tourism resource requirements optimize both local community benefit and future sustainable uses.
    
    This information was given by Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State for Tourism and Culture (Independent Charge) in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.

    ****


    
    
    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Parl. No. 1/10-04-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487422) Visitor Counter : 142