      Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises

      Investment in Industrial Sector
      Posted On: 12 APR 2017 5:09PM by PIB Delhi


    The role of DHI is confined to the administration of the Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) under its administrative control. Any centralized data on investment made in industrial sector is not maintained in DHI. Further, Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP) under the Ministry of Commerce & Industry has also not reported any such data.


    DIPP has reported that Government of India has been working towards adopting international best practices and has made significant advancement over the years. Government has taken vigorous measures to make it easier to invest or to do business in India by undertaking various reforms. Major national initiatives have been designed to facilitate investment; foster innovation and enhance skill development. The goodwill generated by the Government’s hard work and efforts has yielded an unprecedented level of interest among investors, both foreign and domestic.


    A 98-Point Action Plan for improving the regulatory framework for business as part of easing the doing business in the country was shared in December 2014. Subsequently, a report titled “Assessment of State Implementation of Business Reforms” was released in September 2015 capturing the findings after taking the stock of reforms implemented by States. The assessment, first of its kind, promoted both competitive and cooperative federalism among the States and Union Territories (UTs).


    The first 98-point Action Plan created a wave of regulatory improvement measures and the need to sustain the momentum of the regulatory reform; a 340-Point Business Reform Action Plan for States and Union Territories (UTs) was circulated by Government to all States/UT Governments in the year 2015-16.


    In order to ensure that all information is readily available to an entrepreneur intending to set up a business, a comprehensive single window system is envisaged with an online common application form for various clearances to industry/businesses.


    Various States have created a dedicated Single Window body as a one-stop online system for State level regulatory and fiscal incentive approvals. It has provisions for filing applications, payment, status tracking, online scrutiny and application approvals.


    As part of the 340-point Business Reform Action Plan 2016, all States/UTs were recommended to: Design and implement an online single window system with functionality for online application, payment and approvals.


    16 States/UTs implemented this reform in 2016: Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.


    This information was given by Minister of State in the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises Shri Babul Supriyo in reply to a written question in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ******


    ST/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487822) Visitor Counter : 50