      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Minister of State (IC), Labour & Employmentto Give Away NSCI Safety Awards
      Posted On: 19 APR 2017 11:55AM by PIB Delhi


    National Safety Council is a self-supporting non-profit autonomous society, set up by the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Govt. of India on 4th March, 1966. Its aim is strengthening a national movement on Safety, Health & Environment to prevent and mitigate loss of life, human suffering & economic losses and provide support services.
    
    As part of the Council’s services, it has been operating Safety Awards Scheme at the national level for three sectors viz. industrial undertakings (Manufacturing Sector), Construction Projects (Construction Sector) and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME Sector). The main objective of the scheme is to provide national recognition to the organizations which have achieved and sustained a meritorious performance in Occupational Safety & Health (OSH) and for implementing effective OSH management systems, practices and procedures.
    
    The ‘NSCI Safety Awards’ for the year 2016 will be presented by the Minister of State (Independent Charge), Labour & Employment Shri Bandaru Dattatreya at 11.00 am on Thursday, the 20th April, 2016 in the Auditorium, SCOPE Convention Centre, Lodi Road, New Delhi. Dr. Satish Reddy, Chairman, National Safety Council will preside the function.
    
    The NSCI Safety Awards are coveted national level awards in the field of Workplace Safety, Health and Environment and given in recognition of establishing effective Safety Management System and excellent safety & health performance by the organizations in Manufacturing, Construction and MSME Sectors during the relevant assessment periods. These Awards are adjudged and declared every year by the National Safety Council. For the Awards- 2016, total 434 organisations comprising 307 factories from manufacturing sector; 87 establishments from construction sector and 40 MSME units participated in the contest. Altogether 70 organisations have been selected for the award in four categories – Sarva Shreshtha Suraksha Puraskar, Shreshtha Suraksha Puraskar, Suraksha Puraskar and Prashansa Patra. Besides, 12 client organizations from Construction Sector will also be awarded.
    
    IOCL - Digboi Refinery; National Fertilizers Ltd., Panipat and NPCIL, Kaiga Generating Station 3 & 4, Kaiga, Karnataka under Group A, Group B and Group C respectively in Manufacturing Sector; L&T Ltd., Rawatbhata, Chittorgarh for NPCIL Atomic Power Project, Rajasthan in Construction Sector and Godrej & Boyce Mfg. Co. Ltd., Electricals & Electronics, Thane, Maharashtra in MSME Sector have won the top level Sarva Shreshtha Suraksha Puraskar for the year 2016.


    
    ******


    
    BCK/AK
    

    
    (Release ID: 1488181) Visitor Counter : 13