      NITI Aayog

      EESL collaborates with NITI Aayog for energy efficiency
      Retrofits energy efficient appliances in the NITI Aayog premises

      Posted On: 28 APR 2017 7:47PM by PIB Delhi
      Thursday, April 27, 2017 : Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) collaborated with NITI Aayog to retrofit LED lights, energy efficient ACs, Ceiling fans, Energy saver ACs, energy efficient Water Pumps and also installed chiller system in the NITI Aayog premises. This has resulted in an annual energy savings of 11.4 lakh kVAh, an annual monetary savings of Rs 1.02 crore and led to an annual CO2 reduction of 966 tons.

        The total cost of the project is Rs 2.67 crore. EESL has retrofitted 3061 LED lighting, 591 energy efficient fans, 415 energy efficient air conditioners and installed 2 energy efficient chillers. Additionally, other energy efficient appliances such as energy efficient water pumps, APFC control and CEMS (Central Energy Management Systems), which tracks the buildings energy consumption has also been installed. With these interventions, BEE has certified NITI Aayog building with 5-star rating with Energy Performance Index of 72 (kWh/Sqm/annum).


        NITI Aayog initiated the energy efficiency interventions in March 2014 in consultation with EESL. EESL analysed the connected load of NITI Aayog building and based on the highest components of energy utilization, target areas for interventions were identified. Additionally, monitoring and verification of the interventions was also carried out through physical verification of the replaced energy systems with wattage and operating hours by EESL.


        The retrofitting and installation is executed in two phases with different models of implementation process.


        Phase-I was done through PMC (Project Management Consultancy) mode in which entire capital cost was paid upfront by NITI Aayog and entire savings arising out of lower electricity bills accrue to NITI Aayog.


        The chiller systems which is already installed in NITI Aayog under Phase-II, where EESL has implemented the project in ESCO shared saving model through collaboration with CPWD (Central Public Works Department). Under ESCO model, the upfront capital cost is borne by EESL and the resultant savings from projects are been used to repay for EESL investments on deemed basis. The highlight of features of the NITI Aayog building based on interventions is a follows:





        ****


        AKT/NT

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488864) Visitor Counter : 92