      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot inaugurates photo Exhibition “The Paths We Walk”
      Posted On: 24 APR 2017 7:39PM by PIB Delhi


    

    Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Union Minister for Social Justice & Empowerment inaugurated a Documentary Photo exhibition “The Paths We Walk” here today. The exhibition has been organized by The National Trust under Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment in collaboration with Society for Child Development, New Delhi. Shri Ramdas Athawale, Minister of State for Social Justice and Employment graced the occasion as Guest of Honour. The Divyangjan artists presented their creative art works to the guests on the occasion.

    
    Addressing on the occasion, Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot praised the creative art works of the persons with disabilities and said that we should help them to showcase their hidden talents. He said that the National Handicapped Finance Development Corporation (NHFDC) under Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has many schemes for the Divyangjans. He applauded the dedication and efforts of the parents of these Divyangjans in making them become responsible persons. He wished all the participants grand success in their life ahead.
    
    Shri Ramdas Athawale in his address said the Divyangjans can also play a creative role and no discrimination should be made to them.
    
    The Documentary photo exhibition is intended to tackle negative myths of disability and employment of persons with Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Intellectual Disability and Multiple Disabilities. The photo exhibition is just a glimpse of the vast capabilities of persons with Disabilities. It has been a joint collaborative effort of NGOs working for the welfare of persons with disabilities.
    
    The month of April is celebrated across the World as the World Autism Awareness Month. The National Trust has been organizing conferences and events during the months to create awareness and celebrate diversity.

    ******


    
    
    Sanjay Kumar/jk/M/o-SJ&E

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488512) Visitor Counter : 173