      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Joint Review Meeting held for revival of closed Fertilizer Plants
      Rs 50,000 Crore to be invested for revival of closed fertilizer plants; Setting up of gas pipeline network to connect Eastern India to National Gas Grid
      
      
      
      Investments in Eastern India to give fillip to Second Green Revolution in the Region
      
      
      
      Talcher Fertilizer Plant to be revived with an investment of Rs 8,000 Cr
      
      
      
      Rs 20,000 Cr investment for revival of Fertilizer Plants in Gorakhpur; Barauni & Sindri
      
      
      
      Rs 13,000 Cr investment for 2650 KM Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga Pipeline Project
      
      
      
      LNG terminal at Dhamra with an investment of Rs 6,000 Cr

      Posted On: 27 APR 2017 4:16PM by PIB Delhi

    Minister of State (I/C) for Petroleum and Natural Gas, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan attended a joint meeting in the Chairmanship of Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers and Parliamentary Affairs, Shri Ananthkumar on revival plans of closed fertilizers plants under Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers today. The meeting was also attended by Minister of State (IC) for Power, Coal, New & Renewable Energy and Mines, Shri Piyush Goyal and Shri, MoS for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping, Chemical & Fertilizer, Shri Mansukh Mandaviya.


    Addressing the media during a press conference, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan emphasized on Hon’ble Prime Minister’s vision for fast paced development of Eastern India which is a prerequisite for the overall development of India. He said that for fast pace development in Eastern India, massive infrastructure investment in an agri focused Eastern India will give a fillip to the Second Green Revolution in the region. Shri Pradhan said that massive investment to the tune of Rs 50,000 Crore is being undertaken for revival of closed fertilizer plants and setting up of gas pipeline network to connect Eastern India to the National Gas Grid.


    Petroleum Minister informed that the key components of this infrastructure investment will be revival of Fertilizer Plants at Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh), Barauni (Bihar) and Sindri (Jharkhand), and Talcher (Odisha); Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga pipeline of 2650 Km and setting up of LNG terminal at Dhamra (Odisha).


    Shri Pradhan elaborated that Rs 20,000 Cr would be invested to revive Fertilizer Plants at Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh), Barauni (Bihar) and Sindri (Jharkhand).


    Petroleum Minister said that the Talcher Fertilizer Plant in Odisha is being revived with an investment of Rs 8000 Cr by a consortium comprising FCI, GAIL, Rashtriya Chemical and Fertilizer Limited and Coal India Limited. This would be the first time a Fertilizer plant in India will be operated based on Coal Gasification technology.


    Production from these four major Fertilizer plants will ensure enhanced domestic fertilizer production and availability which will give an impetus to the vital agricultural sector there by aiding the Second Green Revolution. The ground work for these Plants is scheduled to commence in FY 2017-18.


    Shri Pradhan informed that 2,650 km Jagdishpur-Haldia & Bokaro-Dhamra Natural Gas Pipeline (JHBDPL) Project, popularly known as ‘Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga’, at a total investment of about Rs. 13,000 Crore is being implemented by GAIL (India) Ltd. The Pipeline passes through Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha. Construction work of this Pipeline Project in the state of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar has started.


    An LNG terminal is also being set up at Dhamra in Odisha with an investment of Rs 6,000 Crore, Shri Pradhan added.


    *****


    RG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488769) Visitor Counter : 18