      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Minister of State (IC)for Labour & Employment Presents NSCI Safety Awards – 2016 to 70 Organisations
      Government Committed toSafety, Health and Welfare of Working Calss: Shri BandaruDattatreya.

      Posted On: 20 APR 2017 3:26PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Government is committed to the safety, health and welfare of the working calss,said the Minister of State (Independent charge)for Labour and Employment, Shri BandaruDattatreya. He was speaking at a function after presenting National Safety Council’s ‘NSCI Safety Awards’ for the year 2016 in New Delhi today.
    
    Altogether 70 organisations have been awarded in four categories – SarvaShreshtha Suraksha Puraskar, Shreshtha Suraksha Puraskar, Suraksha Puraskar and PrashansaPatra. Besides, 12 client organizations from Construction Sector have also been awarded.In Manufacturing Sector,IOCL- Digboi Refinery; National Fertilizers Ltd., Panipat and NPCIL, Kaiga Generating Station 3 & 4, Kaiga, Karnataka under Group A, Group B and Group C respectively; in Construction Sector,L&T Ltd., Rawatbhata, Chittorgarh for NPCIL Atomic Power Project, Rajasthan and Godrej & Boyce Mfg. Co. Ltd.and in MSME Sector,Electricals & Electronics, Thane, Maharashtra have won SarvaShreshtha Suraksha Puraskar for the year 2016
    
    Shri BandaruDattatyeya said that as a part of legislative reforms of labour laws, the Centre has started a process of codification and amalgamation of 44 Central Labour Laws into four Codes in order to simplify them. They are: Code on Wages, Code on Industrial Relations, Code on Social security & Welfare, and Code on Safety & working conditions. He said that as a founder member of the International Labour Organization India has contributed immensely in formulation and implementation of labour standards. So far India hasratified 45 Conventions and 1 protocol of ILO.
    The Government declared the National Policy on Occupational Safety, Health and Environment at Workplace in the year 2009, Since then a number of developments have taken place in national as well as international arena in the field of science and technology, trade and commerce, economy and environment. Therefore,to review the National Policyan Inter-Ministerial Committee has been constituted.
    Congratulating the winners of the Safety awards Shri BandaruDattatreya said that none of the winners had a fatal accident during the 3-year assessment period while 41 of them did not have a single reportable accident.National Fertilizers Ltd. Panipat achieved 49.67 million accident-free man-hours spread over 11 years and 5 months which is an impressive achievement.


    
    ******


    
    BCK/AK
    
    
    
    
    

    
    (Release ID: 1488299) Visitor Counter : 13