      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Government is committed to bring path breaking changes to Transform India
      Scripting of New India by bringing disruptive changes is the firm belief of Government Venkaiah Naidu

      Posted On: 20 APR 2017 2:04PM by PIB Delhi
      I&B Minister addresses MindMine Summit

        Minister for Information & Broadcasting, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that scripting of New India by bringing disruptive changes in governance had resulted in removing deficiencies, catalysing proficiencies and reaping efficiencies. The transformational initiatives brought out by the Government aimed at initiating change and altering the status quo thus positioning India as a Global Leader. The Demonetisation initiative was one of the most disruptive changes that targeted black money, counterfeit currency and corruption, which overhauled India’s economic system removing tainted currency from circulation. The Minister stated this while addressing the Mind Mine Summit here today. Shri Suresh Prabhu, Minister for Railways was also present on the occasion.


        Elaborating further, Shri Naidu said that, it has become a New Normal for the Government to bring path breaking changes to transform the country, latest being the ban on the usage of Red Beacons. The process of reform in every sector was evident in the current approach to Governance.


        Listing out the various initiatives taken by the Government that impacted people’s life, Shri Naidu said that change was inevitable and any change that brought incremental benefits to people would fail in transforming people’s life. Behavioural change to encourage people use less cash and turn towards digital payments would not only require change in mind set but also require the institutional mechanism that will support this change. The BHIM app launched by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi provided latest features that is helping people shift from using less cash towards digital payments. The use of technology has enabled providing better governance to people. The JAM trinity which uses the Jan Dhan, Aadhar and Mobile connection has revolutionised the transfer of subsidies to the people by removing the middle men from the link.


        Shri Naidu mentioned the historic passage of GST bill in parliament which would transform the Indirect Tax structure in the country by unifying the country into a single market and thus simplifying the current complex and opaque tax administration. The Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan has been hailed as the biggest Behavioural Change program launched by the Government that aims to build a Clean India, dismantling age old behaviours and social practices of the people.


        CP/GV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488260) Visitor Counter : 107