      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Various sessions to be held on Civil Services Day 2017 function
      Feedback obtained from 533 District Collectors on "Creating Value through Human Capital Management in Government"
      
      615 IAS officers of 2013-16 batches submit their suggestions on implementation of priority programmes

      Posted On: 18 APR 2017 4:52PM by PIB Delhi

    The Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions will observe Civil Services Day 2017 on April 20-21, 2017. The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Sigh will be the Chief Guest in the Inaugural Session on April 20, 2017. The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will present the awards for Excellence in Public Administration on Civil Services Day 2017 i.e. April 21, 2017.
    
    On the inaugural day, on 20th April, a Plenary Session will be held on the topic of "Creating Value through Human Capital Management in Government". The session will be chaired by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh. The other panellists who will participate in the session will be Shri B. P. Sharma, Secretary, DoPT, Ms Aruna Sundararajan, Secretary, Electronics and Information Technology, Shri Sandeep Chaudhary, CEO, Aon Hewitt and Ms Roopa Kudva, MD, Omidyar Network India Advisors. The discussion will be held on Identifying human capital related challenges, Leveraging technology to improve processes and Maximizing potential and fostering creativity and innovation.
    
    The DARPG has obtained Feedback from the District Collectors on the topic of "Creating Value through Human Capital Management in Government" and responses on questionnaire on shortlisted initiatives of Priority. The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, during the meeting held on March 10, 2017, directed that a paper may be sought from the District Collectors/Magistrates of all States/ UTs on the optimum utilization of human resources and building a competent and well-functioning administrative structure which is geared to adapt to the changing needs and aspirations of the citizens of the country. The papers need to focus on meeting human capital related challenges and suggest workable solutions. In pursuance to the directions of the Prime Minister, DCs/DMs of all States/ UTs were requested to submit their views and suggestion on the topic on PM Awards portal, developed by DAR&PG. DCs/DMs from across the country were reached out and sensitized by sharing a background note on 'Creating value through Human Capital Management in Government' and through letters, call center, social media, video-conferences etc. Inputs have been received from 533 DCs/DMs. Some of the key issues and the solutions have been suggested by the DMs and DCs along the lines of resource optimization, process simplification, technology enablement, and fostering innovation.
    
    A committee consisting of Secretary DAR&PG, Secretary DoP&T and Director, MeitY, assisted by Additional Secretary DAR&PG and Joint Secretary DAR&PG, scrutinized the views and suggestions received from the DCs/DMs. These issues and suggestions will be discussed in the session on 'Creating value through Human Capital Management in Government' to be held on 20th April, 2017.
    
    During the assessment process of 'Prime Minister's Awards for Excellence in Public Administration 2017' Screening Committees, chaired by Additional Secretaries, shortlisted 55 initiatives on the basis of parameters identified in consultation with line Ministries/ Departments, presentations made by the applicants and citizen feedback sought through call center.
    
    The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi had also directed to share the shortlisted initiatives with the IAS batches of 2013-16, as these initiatives demonstrate good practices undertaken in various Districts/States for effective implementation of the priority programmes of Government and innovations in public governance. The objective was to make them go through these case studies to imbibe the learnings so that they may channelize their thoughts and approaches while understanding programmes in their respective areas of work. Pursuant to the directions of the Prime Minister, the shortlisted initiatives were shared with IAS batches of 2013-16 through the DARPG web-portal (link: http://darpg.gov.in and http://darpg.wooaer.com/).They were requested to go through all the case studies, discuss with District Collectors/Magistrates or field officers and submit their suggestions on implementation of programmes through an online questionnaire. DAR&PG reached out to all the officers, through multiple calls, social media and video-conferences, to sensitize and provide handholding support for undertaking the exercise. A total of 615 officers undertook this exercise and submitted their suggestions online. A total of 2,150 hours were spent by the young IAS officers in reviewing the case studies and submitting their responses. From the responses, it came out that agriculture-related priority programmes are better understood by the officers, e-National Agriculture Market (e-NAM) being the best understood programme. The overwhelming response reflects the enthusiasm and motivation amongst the young officers. These would also be discussed in the three breakaway sessions to be held on 20th April 2017. The breakaway sessions will be held on the topics: Agriculture, Energy and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, following the Inaugural Session.
    
    In the agriculture sector, three priority programmes, namely Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY), Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) and e- National Agriculture Market (eNAM), were identified under Prime Minister's Awards for Excellence in Public Administration 2017. The young officers have given their inputs on major challenges faced by the farmers such as lack of knowledge of good practices of irrigation and non-availability of the state-of-the-art equipment. Other issues faced by farmers include complicated process for claiming insurance, difficulty in conducting crop cutting experiments and inadequate information related to crop insurance and weather forecast and dependency on local traders/commission agents for selling the produce. In the Skill Development and Entrepreneurship sector, two priority programmes, namely Stand-Up India and Startup India were identified under Prime Minister's Awards for Excellence in Public Administration 2017. In the Energy sector, one priority programmes, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana was identified under Prime Minister's Awards for Excellence in Public Administration 2017. The young officers have submitted their inputs for the implementation of these schemes.
    
    On the breakaway session on Agriculture, Prof. Ramesh Chand, Member, NITI Aayog will chair the session and Shri Rabi Narayan Das, Director, NCDEX, Shri Anil B. Jain, Vice Chairman & MD, Jain Irrigation System Ltd., Shri R. B. Singh, Eminent Agriculture Scientist, Shri Genabhai Dargabhai Patel, Farmer and Shri Pravesh Sharma, Co-founder and CEO of Subziwala.com will participate in the session. In the breakaway session on Energy, Shri Bibek Debroy, Member, NITI Aayog will chair the session and Prof. Ashok Jhunjhunwala, Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT, Madras, Dr Arunabha Ghosh, CEO, Council of Energy, Environment and Water and Dr Harish Hande, MD of SELCO-India will participate in the session. In the breakaway session on Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Shri Arvind Panagariya, Vice-Chairman, NITI Aayog will chair the session and Shri Manish Sabharwal, Chairman, Teamlease, Shri RCM Reddy, MD&CEO, IL&FS Education & Technology Services Ltd., Prof Mukti Mishra, Co-founder and President, Centurion University of Technology and Management, Shri T. Muralidharan, MD, TMI Network and Shri Milind Kamble, Chairman, Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industries (DICCI) will participate in the session.

    ******


    
    
    KSD/NK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488126) Visitor Counter : 102