      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      4th National Standards Conclave
      Posted On: 28 APR 2017 1:10PM by PIB Delhi


      Department of Commerce, Government of India in collaboration with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) and the National Accreditation Board for Certification Bodies (NABCB) and other knowledge partners is organizing the 4 th National Standards Conclave on 1-2 May 2017 at New Delhi.


      The objective of the two day Conclave is to bring awareness and prepare Industries, Central Government Ministries, State Governments, regulatory/standards setting and conformity assessment bodies on the growing importance of “Standards” in the changing scenario of global trade.


      The Standards Conclave is being held in the backdrop of diminishing importance of tariffs and rising influence of standards and regulation both in goods and services trade.


      It must be recognized that the days of differential standards – low for domestic market and high for exports - are over and if the Indian industry has to survive and thrive, it has to adopt global standards. The Ministries/regulators/state governments have to also realize that their initiatives and schemes have to be built around global standards if they have to succeed in their objectives.


      A good standards regime shall fulfill the vision of Hon’ble Prime Minister for “Make in India” campaign. It would also help in preventing flooding of domestic market with unsafe/sub-standard imports at the expense of our domestic industry as well as consumers.


      Our collective endeavor has to be in creating an ecosystem where adoption of appropriate standards leads to a sense of pride and has in-built incentive for the Industry. The Conclave would also aim at preparing an Indian National Strategy for Standardization (INSS) document to enable the development of a harmonized, dynamic, and mature standards ecosystem in India


      The conclave will have 9 sessions spread over 2 days:


      i. Inaugural session


      ii. Session 1: Theme paper on National Strategy on Standards


      iii. Session 2: Standards as drivers/disruptors of international trade


      iv. Session 3: MSME’s and Standards – gap analysis for an Indian National Standards Strategy


      v. Session 4: Standards in goods: Addressing issues in a policy framework


      vi. Session 5: Risk assessment in agri-food trade and policy options


      vii. Session 6: Services Sector: A robust standards ecosystem and conformity assessment within a policy framework: (Tourism, Medical Value Travel, and Education)


      viii. Session 7: Digital and IT standards: Meeting Future Challenges


      ix. Session 8: Standards for Skills and skills based services


      x. Session 9: Way Forward


      *****


      MJPS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1488826) Visitor Counter : 42