      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Sports Minister Vijay Goel Presides over consultation meeting to consider Legislation against Doping
      Posted On: 27 APR 2017 5:51PM by PIB Delhi


    

    Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel has said that there is Zero Tolerance for doping and there is a need to encourage clean sports. In his inaugural address at the Consultation Meeting to consider a legislation against doping at Vigyan Bhawan here today, the Sports Minister said that towards this end, there is a need to discuss the necessary preventive and curative measures to be put in place for necessary deterrence, to get rid of the menace of doping. Shri Vijay Goel assured all support in taking appropriate measures towards this end.

    
    In his keynote address, Secretary, Department of Sports, Shri Injeti Srinivas, highlighted the need for appropriate safeguards for clean athletes and desired that improvement in sports eco-system is the need of the hour. He added that while the athlete is taken to task if a prohibited substance is found in his body, there is a need to regulate the activities of the athlete’s support personnel, as well some of whom, are at times responsible for inducing dope in the athletes.
    
    The Consultative Committee meeting was convened by National Anti Doping Agency (NADA). NADA has an ambitious plan to significantly increase the number of tests during the current year. The quality of tests has shown an increase in the detection rate from 2.25 per cent to 3.50 per cent.
    
    In recent years, NADA has taken a number of steps to increase education and awareness against doping, not only in Sports Authority of India (SAI) SAI training centres, but also at various university games and events conducted above state-level by various federations. In all national competitions, an undertaking is being taken from the athletes that they know the ill-effects of doping and will not indulge in doping.
    
    Director General, NADA, Shri Navin Agarwal, highlighted that the nutritional supplements presently available in the market do not carry any label, which may help the athlete in making an informed choice. The easy availability of drugs in the market without prescription is another issue. He highlighted the challenge of physically unfit candidates getting recruited in the Armed Forces and Police by clearing physical proficiency test by resorting to doping.
    
    Detailed discussions were held by various stakeholders at today’s meeting, which included officers from Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Institute of Criminology and Forensic Sciences, Food Safety Standards Authority of India and representatives from various Federations and sports bodies, athletes, medical professionals and sports administrators.

    ****


    
    
    HK/MB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488787) Visitor Counter : 15