      President's Secretariat

      President of India addresses the annual convocation of Goa university
      Posted On: 25 APR 2017 7:59PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee graced the Annual Convocation of Goa University today (April 25, 2017) in Goa. The Goa University also conferred the Honorary D. Litt. degree on the President on the occasion.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that to prepare graduates for a competitive global economy, we have to impart quality education in our institutions. This will call for adoption of global best practices for world-class academic management. Our institutions have to work relentlessly towards excellence. They have to provide the best of amenities to their academic community. Models of teaching have to be adaptive to the latest trends and also the changing learner profile. There has to be an alliance between the IT-enabled platforms like MOOCs and knowledge networks, and pedagogy. As concepts and understanding evolve, our faculty has to be better prepared with up-dated knowledge. A strong research eco-system has to be built on the plank of institutional collaborations, research parks, and talented researchers. There also have to be close link between Indian universities and industries.
    
    The President said that recognizing that no institution can excel in isolation, they have to provide students and faculty international exposure, introduce industry relevant matter in course work, and share academic resources. A mechanism is needed in our higher education system that promotes competitiveness. NIRF is a valuable initiative and he was sure that with greater and more involved participation, this indicator will provide impetus to our institutions to do better in the coming years.
    
    The President said that our centres of higher learning are social institutions too. They have to carry out their responsibilities as a social entity. A strong connection with the society will provide the edifice for value-oriented learning in them. This will instill in the students a sensitivity that will inspire them to search for solutions to vexed socio-economic problems in the environment in which they are living. The onus is on our institutions to produce men and women of substance and character, not merely competent professionals.

    ******


    
    
    AKT/SH/SBP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488625) Visitor Counter : 41