      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Smt. Anita Kapur, Member, Competition Appellate Tribunal delivers 18th CVC lecture on “Tax Regime for Countering Corruption”
      Posted On: 26 APR 2017 7:34PM by PIB Delhi


    

    Smt. Anita Kapur, Member, Competition Appellate Tribunal delivered CVC lecture on the topic “Tax Regime for countering Corruption” here today. This was the 18th lecture of the “Lecture Series” organised by the Central Vigilance Commission.

    
    In her address, Smt. Kapur drew attention to the relationship between transparency, development and corruption in various countries. The provisions of various international tax agreements as well as the United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) were explained and implications for tax enforcement as well as the concerns of investigative agencies other than tax authorities were explained. The broader shift from request based sharing of information between countries to automatic exchange of information in respect of financial transactions was highlighted in the lecture. The address was followed by a question and answer session with the audience.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, the Central Vigilance Commissioner Shri KV Chowdary said that corruption and black money are affecting a large number of people in the country. Shri Chowdary said with an amendment to the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, the CVC has been empowered, since 2015, as a Notified Authority to receive information relating to suspicious transactions. Vigilance Commissioner Dr. T M Bhasin, besides Chief Vigilance Officers (CVOs) of Government Departments based in Delhi NCR as well as CMDs, Directors and other officers of Government Ministries / Departments, Central Public Sector Enterprises, Nationalized Banks, and other Organizations were present. Senior Officers of the CBI and Enforcement Directorate also participated.
    
    The proceedings of the session may be viewed online as it was webcast live through NIC and is available on the website of the Commission.

    ******


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488700) Visitor Counter : 72