      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Major steps taken by Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries (DAHDF) to discourage the Adulteration of Milk and Milk products in coming summer season, 2017
      
      
      DAHDF is regularly reviewing the availability of milk situation in the country with National Dairy Development Board

      Posted On: 21 APR 2017 6:26PM by PIB Delhi

    

    Adulteration in Milk is harmful to health even while it is an unfair trade practices. Further, it is a market fraud and affects the honest efforts of the milk producers. Government of India has enacted Food Safety and Standards (FSS) Act -2006 in August 2006 to consolidate the laws relating to food and to establish the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) for laying down science based standards for articles of food and to regulate their manufacture, storage, distribution, sale and import, to ensure availability of safe and wholesome food for human consumption and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006 is implemented by the Food Safety & Standards Authority of India through the State Food Safety Commissioners in each State. The State Government machinery is equally responsible in controlling the menace of sale of adulterated/synthetic milk.

    
    Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries is regularly reviewing the availability of milk situation in the country with National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) and State Milk Federations. The Department is observed that due to increase in the international and domestic prices there will be less availability of milk and milk products in the ensuing summer season which may effect the quality of milk and milk products. The issue of adulteration of milk have been discussed in the meetings held on 23.03.2017 and 31.03.2017, under the chairmanship of Secretary(ADF) with the officers from M/o Health& Family Welfare, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India(FSSAI), and National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, Haryana, which have discussed about the measures/steps to be taken for effective enforcement of the provision of Food Safety and Standard Act (FSS Act) 2006 and to ensure availability of safe & quality Milk and Milk Products to the consumers in products in coming summer season, 2017.
    
    Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries vide letter dated 31st March, 2017 have requested Chief Secretary, Government of Uttar Pradesh to take the stock of the situation and ensure immediate drive to check sale of adulterated milk in the State especially in the Western District of Uttar Pradesh. DAHDF vide letters dated 14th Oct 2016 and 5th April 2017 have also requested FSSAI and all Chief Secretaries of States to ensure strict enforcement of provisions of FSS Act 2006 for ensuring the supply of safe and quality milk and milk products to the consumers especially children in the country.

    *****


    
    
    SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488379) Visitor Counter : 114