      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Statement of Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu, Minister for I&B - Why Human Rights activists silent on dastardly killing of CRPF Jawans in Sukma?
      Posted On: 25 APR 2017 4:11PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The dastardly killing of a large number of CRPF Jawans on April 24, 2017 who were clearing roads for development works in Sukma district of Chattisgarh has shocked the nation. Several others were injured. This kind of cowardly acts of violence by the underground extremist elements is highly deplorable.

    
    CRPF Jawans killed and injured were serving the cause of the people of the country and they paid with their precious lives while doing so. This is the highest sacrifice for the country. The families of dedicated Jawans who were killed and injured while in uniform would get the highest consideration from Central and State Governments. Both the Governments would work with renewed commitment to bring such mindless acts of violence to an end.
    
    While the nation was shocked by this killing and violence, the so called sympathizers and proponents of Human Rights have maintained baffling silence since yesterday. These activists raise voice and react violently if an extremist or a terrorist is killed by the Police but take shelter in silence when large number of Jawans and innocent people get killed by those who operate underground, kill and run.
    
    Are Human Rights only meant for those who chose violence in furtherance of their outdated ideologies and not for security personnel and common people?
    
    Why are the Human Right activists silent when such inhuman acts are mindlessly committed by outlawed elements?
    
    I am constrained to infer that such motivated acts of violence are being resorted to with tacit support from the so called Human Rights advocates in desperation to derail the positive narrative emerging from the ongoing efforts by the Central and State Governments to ensure that fruits of development reach the last of the poor there by enabling rapid economic development.
    
    There is an urgent need to build strong public opinion against such violent acts by outlawed elements and the so called Human Rights activists who have double standards and don’t uphold similar rights of security personnel, their families and the innocent people who fall victim to such anti-national activities.
    
    CP/GV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488582) Visitor Counter : 184