      Ministry of Finance

      The Union Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley to leave on a five day official visit to United States tomorrow evening to participate in the Spring Meetings of the World Bank & IMF; To Meet President, World Bank and US Treasury Secretary during his stay in Washington; To meet Institutional Investors during his New York visit among others.
      Posted On: 18 APR 2017 1:52PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The Union Minister for Finance, Defence and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley will leave on a five day official visit to USA tomorrow to participate in the Spring Meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF). The Finance Minister will leave tomorrow evening i.e., 19th April, 2017 and will arrive at Washington, USA on early morning on 20th April, 2017. On his arrival, the Finance Minister will be briefed by the Executive Director (Indian Constituency) of World Bank and Executive Director (Indian Constituency) of IMF. In the evening, the Finance Minister is proposed to hold a Meeting with the Editorial Board of Washington Post and later in the evening, he would participate in the dinner hosted by the Heritage Foundation.

    
    The Official Delegation led by the Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley includes among others, Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs (DEA), Mr. Shaktikanta Das, Chief Economic Adviser (CEA), Dr. Arvind Subramanian and will also be joined by a team of RBI officials led by RBI Governor, Dr. Urijit Patel.
    
    The next day, 21st April, 2017, the Union Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley and RBI Governor, Dr. Urijit Patel will participate in the G-20 Meeting on Financial Sector Development and Regulations and other issues. The Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Shri Shaktikanta Das will also participate in the said meeting. In the afternoon, the Finance Minister along with Governor RBI and Secretary (Economic Affairs) will participate in IMFC Introductory Session on Global Development and Prospects. Thereafter, the Finance Minister and RBI Governor will participate in IMFC Session on Early Warning Exercise. In the evening, the Finance Minister along with Secretary (Economic Affairs) will hold a meeting with the CEOs. Thereafter, the Finance Minister will attend a dinner hosted in his reception by the Ambassador of India in USA.
    
    On 22nd April, 2017, the Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley will participate in IMFC restricted Breakfast Session and thereafter, will participate in the IMFC Plenary Session along with Governor RBI and Secretary (Economic Affairs) among others. Thereafter, the Finance Minister will hold a meeting with his US counterpart and US Secretary of Treasury. In the afternoon, the Finance Minister will participate in the Development Committee Plenary Meeting of the World Bank. In the evening, the Finance Minister will hold meetings with his Bangladesh counterpart and will also have a meeting with the President, World Bank.
    
    On Sunday, 23rd April, 2017 the Finance Minister and Secretary ((Economic Affairs) will leave for New York and later in the evening, will participate in the dinner hosted by the President FICCI. On Monday, 24th April, 2017, the Finance Minister will hold interaction with Council for Foreign Relations in the morning, followed by a meeting with Institutional Investors and a luncheon meeting with Long Term Investors. The Finance Minister is supposed to meet the Editorial Board of New York Times before leaving for Moscow in the evening on 24th April, 2017.

    ********


    
    
    DSM/VPM/KA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488090) Visitor Counter : 45