      Ministry of Defence

      Chief of Naval staff honours Naval Gallantry and non Gallantry Award winners at Naval Investiture Ceremony
      Posted On: 20 APR 2017 3:57PM by PIB Delhi


    Naval Investiture Ceremony, an annual event for the Indian Navy, was held at Command Parade Ground, Eastern Naval Command Visakhapatnam today, 20 April 2017. Admiral Sunil Lanba PVSM, AVSM, ADC, Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS), conferred Gallantry and non Gallantry Awards to their recipients on behalf of the President of India at an impressive ceremonial parade.
    
    Admiral Sunil Lanba was received at the parade ground by Vice Admiral HCS Bisht, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command. The CNS inspected a 50 men Armed Guard and reviewed the platoons of Naval and DSC personnel drawn from various ships and establishments of the ENC.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, Admiral Lanba said that the occasion is of special significance, as it allows us to formally acknowledge commendable gallantry as well as devotion to duty of the fellow shipmates. He also thanked the family members of the award winners for their support to the service personnel in their performance of duty. He added that the core values - Duty, Honour and Courage forms the fundamental traits expected from all naval personnel. The award winners have displayed these and many more qualities such as patriotism, courage, fighting spirit, integrity sincerity, perseverance, discipline humility and selflessness that would have come to define our fine service. He also said that he firmly believed that it is the team work and never say die attitude of naval personnel that has made the Indian navy a strong and capable maritime force in the world today. The leadership, foresight and devotion to duty displayed by naval personnel has enabled a steady growth of our service and transformed us into a blue water navy.
    
    Lt Cdr Vikash Kumar Narwal, Lt Cdr Neeraj Kumar, Veer Singh Chief Petty Officer Clearance Diver I and Rakesh Kumar Hull Artificer-4 (posthumously) were awarded Nao Sena Medals (Gallantry) for their indomitable courage, conspicuous gallantry and outstanding professionalism. Other awards presented included eight Nao Sena Medals for Devotion to Duty, sixteen Vishisht Seva Medals, Sarvottam Jeeven Rakshak Padak awarded to Cdr Shishir Kumar Yadavannavar (posthumous), Jeeven Rakshak Padak to Lt Cdr Kapil Kumar Shishodia and Shri Neelkant Ramesh Harikantra LASCAR-1. Captain Ravi Dhir Medal was awarded to Aravind Marisamy Master Chief Air Artificer II and Lieutenant VK Jain Memorial Gold Medal was awarded to Commander Ravi Kumar Singh.
    
    The CNS also presented unit citation to two afloat units and six shore establishments who have delivered exceptional performance over the past one year. These include IN Ships Trikand, Sunayna, IN Air Squadron 312A, Command Clearance Diving Team, Mumbai, INS Eksila at Visakhapatnam, Naval Ship Repair Yard, Karwar, Base Victualling Yard, Kochi and INS Kardip in the Andaman & Nicobar Islands. Naval Dockyard, Mumbai and INS Shivaji at Lonavala, Maharastra were awarded with the ‘CNS Trophy for Best Green Practices’ for the environment friendly / green initiatives.
    
    Apart from the relatives of the award winners, the Ceremonial parade was also attended by Flag Officers, Commanding Officers of various ships, submarines and establishments and a large number of service and civilian personnel and their families.

    *****


    
    
    CGR/VZ/39-17

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488289) Visitor Counter : 86