      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Meritorious SC & ST students awarded with Dr. Ambedkar National Merit Awards
      Posted On: 18 APR 2017 2:58PM by PIB Delhi


      Meritorious Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes students of Secondary and Senior School examination of year 2016 were awarded with “Dr. Ambedkar National Merit Awards” at a function here today. Ministers of State for Social Justice & Empowerment Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar, Shri Vijay Sampla and Shri Ramdas Athawale presented the Awards to the SC & ST students who have topped the 10 th and 12 th standards examination of year 2016. New printed version of ‘Collected Works of Babasaheb Ambedkar (CWBA)’ and a set of Audio CDs on CWBA were released on the occasion. The function was organized by Dr. Ambedkar Foundation (DAF) under Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.


      The awards have been distributed in two categories - in the first category, those SC & ST students who has excelled in the Secondary School Examination in the year 2016. As there is no female student in First, Second and Third rank, hence special awards have been announced to the highest scoring girl students to encourage the girl child education. In the second category of awards, the top graded SC & ST students of Senior Secondary School Examination 2016 have been awarded. Total Awardees in 10 th Class and 12 th Class are 79 & 105. The prize money of First Prize is Rs. 60,000/-, Second Prize is Rs. 50,000/- and Third Prize is Rs. 40,000/-.


      In his message, Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Minister for Social Justice & Empowerment and Chairman, Dr. Ambedkar Foundation stated that Education is a very powerful tool to which every student needs to have access. He called upon the students to dedicate themselves purely in their studies so that the society and the nation at large gets benefitted. He wished them grand success in their career ahead.


      Shri Vijay Sampla in his address said that Dr. Ambedkar played a very important role in the progress of Scheduled Castes and he was a symbol of knowledge. We should learn Art of Living from his life.


      Shri Ramdas Athawale said that Dr. Ambedkar taught us to live with pride and he is an inspiration for us. He believed that Education is very important for our progress. He opined that the students should not focus on getting jobs only but should start their own ventures and the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has a scheme of Venture Capital Fund for SCs to help them.


      Addressing on the occasion, Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar congratulated the meritorious students and said that they are the future of our country. It is a matter of great honour that these awards are given in the name of Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar, who fought for equality. He informed that the Government of India has declared the five places related to Dr. Ambedkar as Panchtirath. He called upon students to set a goal for themselves to achieve.


      *****


      Sanjay Kumar/jk/M/o-SJ&E/18-04-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488106) Visitor Counter : 59