      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Terrorism, Insurgency are anti-development: Venkaiah Naidu
      
      
      I&B Minister conducts Review Meeting of Programmes & Policies in North East

      Posted On: 18 APR 2017 1:27PM by PIB Delhi
      

        Minister for Information & Broadcasting, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu has said that the Skill development would be a priority area for the Ministry of I&B in the overall communication approach for the North Eastern Region. This would complement the Government’s Act East Policy launched by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi last year as it would facilitate the nurturing of talent in the field of Media & Entertainment. The proposed Film & Television Institute of India in Arunachal Pradesh and the setting up of permanent campus of Indian Institute of Mass Communication (IIMC) at Aizawal would provide quality training to the young population catering to their needs and aspirations thereby acting as Talent Creators and Talent Hubs in the region. The Minister stated this while conducting Review Meeting of Programmes & Policies in North East with the officers of the Ministry in Guwahati today. Shri Sarbananda Sonowal, Chief Minister of Assam, senior officials of the Ministry along with officers of the North Eastern Region were present on the occasion.


        Shri Naidu further mentioned that, the Film & Television Institute of India in Arunachal Pradesh would be setup on a campus of more than 50 acres and at a cost of Rs 200 Crores, as an extended campus of Satyajit Ray Film & Television Institute, Kolkata. This would act as a catalyst to promote talent in different aspects of film making in the region. The Minister also mentioned the setting up of permanent campus of Indian Institute of Mass Communication (IIMC) at Aizawal which would be developed as media training hub for North East Region & South East Asian countries. The institute would be developed at an estimated cost of Rs. 25 Crores.


        Regarding the roles and responsibilities of the Public Broadcaster, Shri Naidu mentioned that it was critical in spreading the Development story of the Government especially the programmes and policies specific to the North Eastern Region. The Minister mentioned that only way for development in the region was peace and that Terrorism and Insurgency was anti-development. He mentioned that it was essential to develop programmes in local dialects and languages in order to reach out to diverse sections of the society. He mentioned that currently AIR broadcasts in 28 dialects belonging to the North Eastern Region in order to bring a better connect with the people.


        The Minister while talking about Community Radio said that recently the Ministry increased the subsidy level to 90% for setting up Community Radio stations in the North East Region. Community Radio Stations broadcasted programmes on issues which are of immediate relevance to the community and there by facilitated development by disseminating information regarding education, rural development, agriculture, health, nutrition environmental, social welfare, Panchayati Raj issues and cultural needs.


        Highlighting the various Film Festivals that the Ministry has conducted in the North Eastern Region, Shri Naidu mentioned that the medium of Cinema was powerful to send across the message of peace and development in the region. The National Children’s Film Festival (NCFF), which recently concluded in Guwahati showcased value based award winning movies from the Children’s Film Society of India’s catalogue. The special edition of Fragrances from North East also showcased movies from the North Eastern Region throughout the country in order to raise awareness and thereby enhance people to people contact.


        CP/GV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1488086) Visitor Counter : 217