      Ministry of Urban Development

      Urban Housing Mission now set for implementation in NCT of Delhi
      Issues resolved at a meeting chaired by LG of Delhi
      Posted On: 28 APR 2017 7:15PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of HUPA Shri Venkaiah Naidu grants exemption from Mission Guidelines


    DDA and DUSIB to sign MoA with Ministry of HUPA for implementation of PMAY(Urban) in Delhi


    Issues that held back implementation of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban)-Housing for All Mission in the National Capital Territory of Delhi for 22 months have now been resolved.


    Minister of Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu approved signing of Memorandum of Agreement between the Ministry of HUPA, Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) enabling implementation of the Urban Housing Mission in NCT of Delhi.


    The issues were resolved at a meeting taken by the Lt.Governor of Delhi Shri Anil Baijal last month.


    Keeping in view the uniqueness of jurisdiction of land ownership in NCT of Delhi, it was decided in the meeting taken by LG of Delhi that DDA and DUSIB will sign the Memorandum of Agreement as required under the PMAY(Urban) Mission Guidelines. As per the Guidelines, Government of NCT of Delhi was to sign the MoA. However, Minister of HUPA Shri Venkaiah Naidu now granted exemption in this regard.


    The MoA requires the State Governments to commit to comply with six mandatory conditions including amending the Master Plan earmarking land for affordable housing, removing requirement of separate Non-Agricultural Permission if the land falls in the residential zone, putting in place a single window time bound clearance system for layout approvals and building permissions, providing additional FAR/FSI/ Transferable Development Rights and relaxing density norms for slum redevelopment and low cost housing etc.


    DDA and DUSIB will be the State Level Nodal Agencies as required under the Guidelines for implementing the In-Situ Slum Redevelopment component of PMAY (Urban) while DDA will be the agency for other components viz., Credit Linked Subsidy component, Affordable Housing in Partnership with Public and Private sectors and Beneficiary Led Construction.


    Under PMAY(Urban), central assistance of up to Rs.1.00 lakh per beneficiary under ISSR, Rs.1.50 lakh under AHP and BLC, interest subsidy of 3% to 6.50% on housing loans of Rs.6.00 lakhs to Rs.12.00 lakhs under Credit Linked Subsidy component is provided.


    Ministry of HUPA has so far approved construction of 18,75,389 affordable houses for urban poor in the country with an investment of Rs.1,00,466 cr and central assistance of Rs.29,409 cr.


    AAR/KM/April 28, 2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488855) Visitor Counter : 64