      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Vijay Goel Interacts with Youth of Jammu & Kashmir in Interactive “SAMVAD” Programme
      
      
      ‘Our youth is equipped with Skills and Ideas, I welcome the youth from J&K to Engage in activities that Empower them & India’ : Goel
      
      Students from J&K Interact by Presenting Songs

      Posted On: 27 APR 2017 6:49PM by PIB Delhi

    

    Union Minister of Youth Affairs & Sports Shri Vijay Goel today interacted with youngsters from Jammu and Kashmir in a programme named “Samvad”. The objective of the interactive session was to initiate a conversation on a host of issues ranging from culture, sports, youth affairs, to various other social issues. The students got a unique platform to share their thoughts and ideas directly with the Youth Affairs & Sports Minister. Shri Goel said that the youngsters of the Valley are multi-talented and must use their skills to gain maximum exposure to gather knowledge and work for nation-building.

    
    The students shared various issues in terms of social problems, issues pertaining to sports and education. Shri Goel promised them full support and said that the government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi believes in the mantra of “Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas”.
    
    The Minister further added that the youngsters are welcome to participate in any activity, be it sports or youth affairs and the Ministry will ensure that they get the best facilities. Shri Goel added that a Rs.200 crore package has already been sanctioned for the Valley and as per his interaction with J&K CM Mehbooba Mufti, it will be utilized to create better sporting facilities and infrastructure, so that more players from the Valley come to the mainstream.
    
    The Minister also inspired the youngsters with a song and on their part, the students could not stop themselves from showcasing their singing talent. Shaista from Kupwara shared a Kashmiri song, while Stanzin from Ladakh came up with a Ladakhi song and even Hilal and Faisal joined the fun, while the officials and other students clapped and sang together.
    
    Renowned poet Surendra Sharma regaled the gathering with his brand of humour and anecdotes.
    
    The interactive programme had been organized by the Nehru Yuva Kendra under the aegis of the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports.

    ****


    
    
    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488795) Visitor Counter : 103