      Ministry of Railways

      The mobility in Train Operations on the busiest route of Delhi Howrah section of Indian Railway network gets a boost with the commissioning of Electronic Interlocking & massive Yard Remodeling commissioned at Dadri
      
      Electronic Interlocking - Yard Remodeling commissioned in record time of only 150 minutes.

      Posted On: 18 APR 2017 2:48PM by PIB Delhi

    
    

    In a significant move for high tech infrastructure with the view to improve mobility in train operations on the busiest route of Delhi Howrah section of Indian Railway network, Electronic Interlocking & massive Yard Remodeling has been commissioned at Dadri Railway Station in Uttar Pradesh which falls under Allahabad Division of North Central Railway. This project is part of ongoing process of modernization of Indian Railway network.

    
    This Electronic Interlocking involves 318 routes adopting most Modern Signalling System with Centralized Operation controlling 45 Signals, 74 Points and 176 Track Circuits with massive yard remodeling. The another significant point is that this work has been commissioned in record time of only 150 minutes on 16th April 2017. This work has been successfully planned, executed and commissioned in the leadership and guidance of Shri M.C. Chauhan, General Manager North Central Railway.
    
    Dadri is a complex yard in North Central Railway spread over six kilometers on busiest route of Delhi-Howrah Section of Indian Railways and also having connectivity with National Thermal Power Corporation Power Plant and Container Depot.
    
    With Commissioning of this, 3rd line between Aligarh-Ghaziabad section is made through Dadri Yard improving mobility in train operation which was earlier not available. This has also facilitated extension of platform No. 1, 2 & 3 and addition of new platform No. 4 at Dadri Station. All these four platforms have also been connected with new foot over bridge improving passenger amenity facilities at this station.


    ****


    
    
    AKS/MKV/AK/EN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488103) Visitor Counter : 83
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi