      Ministry of Urban Development

      Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu to review progress of Urban Development and Housing schemes in Haryana
      Haryana Chief Minister and concerned State Ministers to attend review in Chandigarh

      Posted On: 27 APR 2017 6:09PM by PIB Delhi

    
    
    

    Implementation and progress of various new urban development and housing missions launched by the central government in Haryana will be reviewed tomorrow i.e April 28, 2017 at a high level meeting.

    
    Union Minister of Urban Development and Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu will chair the review meeting in Chandigarh. Chief Minister of Haryana Shri Manoharlal Khattar, concerned Ministers of the State Government, Secretaries of the two urban ministries, Chief Secretary of Haryana and National and state Level Mission Directors of new urban missions and other senior officials will be attending the review meeting.
    
    The central government launched Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban), Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), Smart City Mission and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) to enable inclusive and sustainable urban development and to address infrastructure deficit in urban areas of the country. Progress under these schemes and implementation issues will be reviewed tomorrow.
    
    Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) is being implemented in all the 80 statutory cities and towns of Haryana. So far, 24,986 Individual Household Toilets have built in Haryana out of the target of 1,06,373 besides 1,679 Community and Public Toilets out of the target of 10,394. Out of the total 1,449 urban wards in the State, 412 wards have reported 100% door to door collection of Municipal Solid Waste. While 3,490 tonnes of solid waste is being generated every day in Haryana, 25% of this is being currently processed against the mission target of 100% by October, 2019.
    
    In Haryana, 10 of the 80 mission towns have so far been declared and certified as Open Defecation Free. These are: Panipat, Sirsa, Mandi Dabwali, Thanesar, Pehowa, Ladwa, Shahbad, Kalanwali, Ellenabad and Rania.
    
    Ministry of Urban Development has so far released Rs.75 cr to Haryana under Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban).
    
    Under AMRUT, 20 cities and towns are included in the Mission. A total investment of Rs.2,544 cr has been approved under this mission for providing water taps to all urban households in mission cities as first priority besides improving sewerage and drainage networks, non-motorised urban transport and providing open spaces. Total central assistance of Rs.764 cr has been approved for Haryana under Atal Mission.
    
    AMRUT cities in Haryana are: Panipat, Sonipat, Ambala, Ambala Sadar, Bahadurgarh, Hissar, Karnal, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Jagadhari, Palwal, Sirsa, Faridabad, Jind, Panchkukla, Thanesar, Gurgaon, Kaithal, Rewari and Yamuna Nagar.
    
    Faridabd and Karnal have been included in Smart City Mission. While Faridabad got selected for funding under this mission under Fast Track Round of competition, Karnal is to compete in the third round of completion in progress. An investment of Rs.2,600 cr has been approved under the Smart City Plan of Faridabad.
    
    Under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban)- Housing for All, construction of 4,299 houses at a cost of Rs.338 cr as proposed by the Haryana Government has been approved by the Ministry of Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation. Central assistance of Rs.224 has been approved for this and Rs.119 cr has been released to the State. Construction of 958 houses for urban poor has so far been completed.
    
    AAR/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488788) Visitor Counter : 89