      PIB Headquarters

      Success Story: Agriculture unstopped in Mandya District
      Posted On: 19 APR 2020 5:41PM by PIB Bengaluru


    Mandya District is one of the agriculturally leading districts in Karnataka. The total geographical area of the district is 4,98,244 hectares, more than half of it is used for agricultural purpose. The total irrigated area is 1,16,901 hectares with support of K.R.Sagar and Hemavathy reservoirs. The rest of the land is irrigated by other sources like rains, tanks, wells and borewells. In its 7 taluks, viz., Mandya, Pandavapura Maddur, Malavalli, Srirangapatna, Nagamangala and Krishnaraj Pete, Paddy and Sugarcane are the primary crops, and Dicots, oil seeds, Coconut, Vegetables and fruits, Flowers too are grown.


    One need not be under the impression that owing to the under current of COVID 19 the farmers in Mandya district would not step out and take up agriculture work. Whereas the ploughing and sowing activities have already started in several parts of the district. Paddy is already sown, pulse seeds and manure are being bought by the farmers for further sowing. For these activities farmers are making best use of the advance payment of Rs. 2000/- under Krishi Samman Yojana. Sri Siddegowda of Arakere village in Srirangapatna expressed his gratitude towards the Prime Minister by saying that let Sri. Narendra Modi be blessed for his act of humanity showering on us, and getting us a sigh of relief in these hard days of Corona hit and lockdown. He is using Rs. 2000/- collected in advance from his Kissan Samman Yojana for starting off the agricultural activities, for taking his regular medication etc.


    Farmers in various parts of the district are purchasing seeds, manures. They are grateful to the Union Government and Particularly the Prime Minister for providing Rs. 2000/- in advance under kissan samman yojana, which has come handy for them to start their work. In the Raitha Samparka Kendra in Akkihebbal block of K.R.Pet tq, purchase is going on, of course by maintaining social distance, and covering their T zone.


    On the other hand, in several parts of the district sugarcane harvesting is going on uninterupted. In spite of the threat of COVID 19 and related lockdown, farmers are busy cutting their grown up crop. Rs. 2000/- given in advance under PMGKY scheme has encouraged the farmer to take up a risk and harvest their crop. Many of the farmers have not even been able to visit their bank due to non availability of transport as part of the lockdown effect. Still, No work is stopped. Sri. Umapathy of Mandya taluk says that he has not got any transport facility to go to the bank to see and collect the advance amount, but still hopeful that he will definitely has received the amount credited to his bank account. He has complete trust on the Government and he would collect the amount once he gets time and facility to visit the bank.


    Smt. Nandini jairam, a prosperous farmer women endorses that the farmers wouldn’t stop their work despite any event of disasters. She strongly feels that the agriculture produce needs a good and methodical marketing system that would build a strong livelyhood for the farmer, who is contributing for a strong food security system for the Nation. She also quoted few sentences from a phrase of National Poet Sri. Kuvempu written in his poem which is the State anthem now.


    However, The Department of Agriculture in Mandya is supporting the farmers in fullest for their agriculture related works during this monsoon, says Sri. Chandrashekhar, Joint Director.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1616094) Visitor Counter : 48