      PIB Headquarters

      Success Story: Amidst COVID 19 fear MGNREGA activities took off in Mysore District
      Posted On: 24 APR 2020 8:05PM by PIB Bengaluru


    The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) aims at enhancing the livelihood security of people in rural areas by guaranteeing hundred days of wage-employment in a financial year to a rural household whose adult members volunteer to do unskilled manual labour.


    In several parts of the Mysore District, after a month’s lockdown due to COVID 19 the Zilla Panchayath started with the MGNREG activities. Workers came out in small numbers with masks on. Absolute social distancing was maintained by the working groups.


    In a village called Madapura in Heggadevana Kote block of the district workers have begun construction work of cattle shed under MGNREG. Shri Raghavendra, team leader explains that personal construction work is taken up and the labourers are paid the wages according to the norms. In spite of the prevailing Corona virus atmosphere the District Administration has permitted to go ahead with personal construction activities under the scheme which is a boon to the labourers amidst the anxiety for daily bread. He thanks the Government for guaranteeing labour under this noble scheme.


    The same way in Hunsur town the construction labourers are happy to earn their daily bread. At Uyigondana Hally, the lake development and De silting works started under the supervision of Sri. Girish, Executive Officer, Taluk Panchayath, Hunsur. The workers with masks on, took pledge of being free of any disease, particularly the symptoms that of Corona virus attack. Sri. Lokesh, Assistant Director administered the pledge.


    In Padukote village, Heggada DevanaKote block road construction work is underway. The workers pledged that they neither have the symptoms of Corona virus attack nor they recently visited any COVID 19 supected person. Sri. Avinash, Assistant Engineer is supervising the road construction work.


    Dr. Krishnaraju, Deputy Secretary, Zilla Panchayath Mysore explains that the MGNREG workers are given awareness on the precautionary measures to be taken at work place, like wearing masks, maintaining social distance, hand wash using soaps, and finally to inform the officials if they happen to get symptoms of fever, cold, caugh etc.


    With this spirit of work Mysore district which is a red zone of COVID 19, gearing up with its routine activities of MGNREG projects.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1618050) Visitor Counter : 71