      PIB Headquarters

      WORKSHOP ON AYUSHMAN BHARAT AND SWACHH BHARAT MISSION(URBAN) ORGANISED BY ROB OF MINISTRY OF I & B
      Posted On: 07 SEP 2018 6:40PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Dr. K. Laxman, BJP State President, said that Ayushman Bharat Health Insurance Scheme which is going to the launched by the Prime Minister, this month, is meant for providing comprehensive healthcare to the people. He said the scheme aims to provide an annual health cover up to Rs. 5 lakh to about 10 crore vulnerable families. He urged the state governments to come forward in the implementation of the scheme. Dr. Laxman we speaks after inaugurating a Regional Workshop on ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’ and ‘Ayushman Bharat’ here today. The workshop is being organized by the Regional Outreach Bureau (ROB) under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. He said there is a need to spread awareness among the people about this scheme. Welfare schemes will succeed if people,s participation is ensured, he said. Dr. Laxman said that, the centre has made health services accessible to the poor and is providing generic medicines through ‘Jan Aushadhi’ stores. He said that there is an urgent need to implement Swachh Bharat programmes and ensure that open defecation is completely stopped. Toilets have to be provided as a mark or respect for our women folk, he said. He said over 7 crore toilets have been constructed in the last four years. Dr. Laxman congratulated the ROB officials and S&DD artistes ROB for their efforts in this direction.


    Earlier, in his welcome address, Shri TVK Reddy, ADG (Region) Press Information Bureau (PIB) said that, the artistes of 45 PRTs (Private Registered Troops) will travel extensively in the state in the next six months and spread awareness about ‘Ayushman Bharat and Swachh Bharat Mission’.


    Dr. M. Anuradha, Director, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, said that, ‘Ayushman Bharat’ provides insurance cover for about 1,345 medical treatments. She said the Government of Andhra Pradesh has already signed an MOU with the Government of India for its implementation, and Telangana too will soon sign the MOU. She said Ayushman Bharat provides insurance cover to more illnesses than private insurance companies.


    Shri John Babu, Joint Director, Leprosy Mission said that government aimed to eradicate leprosy totally by 2019.


    Dr. Sukruta Reddy, Joint Director, Family Welfare, Government of Telangana also spoke. Shri Devendra, Joint Director, ROB, Hyderabad proposed vote of thanks.


    Officials of the Ministry of I&B, ROB and artistes in large numbers attended the workshop.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1545363) Visitor Counter : 104
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu