      Ministry of Defence

      HQ EASTERN COMMAND CELEBRATES RAISING DAY
      Posted On: 01 NOV 2019 5:39PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata: November 01, 2019


    

    Headquarters Eastern Command celebrated its Raising day today. The Command was raised at Nainital under General Sir H Hudson, with territorial jurisdiction over Delhi, UP, Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Assam. Thereafter owing to operational commitments the Command Headquarters shifted to Barrackpore, Ranchi and Lucknow before permanently settling down in Fort William, Kolkata in the immediate wake of the Sino-Indian Conflict.


    

    On this momentous occasion, a wreath laying ceremony was organised wherein Lt Gen Anil Chauhan, GOC-in-C Eastern Command paid homage to the fallen braves at Vijay Smarak, the War Memorial and wished all ranks & Defence civilian employees on the occasion of Command Raising Day and called upon everyone to continue working with dedication and devotion in the true traditions of the Indian Army. A spectacular display by the Army band was organised at the Fort Willam stadium for all ranks and their families commemorating the occasion. Eastern Command covers the largest geographical area spread over eight states overseeing 8350 Kms of the land borders of the country. The Command is responsible for guarding the borders with five countries, a task that it has carried out with distinction.


    
    This Command has actively participated in all major wars fought by the country. However its crowning glory was 1971 War which led to the creation of a new nation “Bangladesh”. Over the years the “Warriors of The East” have time and again proved themselves as a formidable professional force capable of safeguarding the territorial integrity of the nation and leading a highly successful counter insurgency operation in the volatile regions of the North East.


    

    The Command as the guardians of the East has been involved at every level to bring in meaningful changes in the lives of the people through Operation Sadbhavana and Operation Samaritan schemes which have left an indelible impact on the lives of the local population. A large number of such projects encompassing all spheres of welfare activities like construction of infrastructure, creating awareness and educating the common masses on various issues including imparting training on skill development have been undertaken this year.


    
    Eastern Command has also been at the forefront of all humanitarian assistance and disaster relief operations which have aided thousands of affected people in this part of the country. Be it humanitarian assistance and disaster relief operations or as the last bastion to restore law and order, the Command has acquitted itself in an exemplary manner reinforcing the Nation’s faith in the Army.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589996) Visitor Counter : 2