      Ministry of Railways

      S E RAILWAY TAKING INITIATIVES FOR ZERO DISCHARGE OF UNTREATED WASTE WATER FROM ITS STATIONS
      Posted On: 06 NOV 2019 3:50PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 5th November, 2019


    South Eastern Railway has taken up 21 stations in its jurisdiction for development as Environment Friendly Stations in the first phase. Out of these 21 stations, significant progress has been achieved at Digha and Ranchi stations towards developing them as Eco Smart Stations fulfilling the requisite criteria.


    To declare a station as Eco Smart, it is the foremost requisite to make arrangements where there should be Zero Discharge of Untreated Waste Water to keep the station as well as surrounding areas clean. Keeping this in view, it has been decided to install Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) and Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) at all Eco Smart Stations for Zero Discharge of Untreated Waste Water. These plants have already been commissioned at Digha Station and work is nearing completion at Ranchi Station. Work is also going on in full swing at Bokaro Steel City, Adra, Tatanagar and Hatia stations.


    Water Audit by third party certification bodies are being arranged for conservation of water. For this purpose, tanks will be constructed for collection of treated waste water to reuse. The treated water from ETP and STP will be collected in the collection tank and not discharged. This grey water will be used for gardening, afforestation and coach washing purpose. Work in this regard has been commissioned at Digha Station and is in full swing at Ranchi Station. Work is also in progress at Purulia, Bankura, Bokaro Steel City, Adra, Tatanagar, Chakradharpur, Rourkela and Jharsuguda.


    It has also been decided to convert all conventional toilets to Eco Friendly or Green Toilets at different Eco Smart Stations. Measures are being taken to prevent open defecation near railway track and surrounding areas. Work in this regard has been completed at Digha Station and is in progress at Ranchi Station. Environment polluters are being identified and fine has been imposed at several stations in this regard.


    Apart from Digha and Ranchi, remaining 19 stations which are being developed as Eco Smart Stations are Kharagpur, Bankura, Bishnupur, Purulia, Mecheda, Santragachi, Bagnan, Panskura, Shalimar, Jhargram, Midnapur, Adra, Balasore, Hatia, Tatanagar, Jharsuguda, Rourkela, Bokaro Steel City and Chakradharpur. Ranchi and Digha stations have been awarded with ISO 14001:2015 certification for Environment Management System.


    CG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590615) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali