      Ministry of Coal

      Shri Pralhad Joshi, Minister of Coal and Mines inaugurates 8th International Mining & Metals Exhibition at the Eco Park, Rajarhat today
      Posted On: 06 NOV 2019 4:59PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, November 06, 2019.


    "India's policy to open up Coal Mining shall support coal-based power generation capacity in India, which currently stands at 192 GW, is expected to reach 330-441 GW by 2040", said Shri Pralhad Joshi, Hon'ble Minister of Coal&Mines Government of India. Today he inaugurated the 8th International Mining & Metals Exhibition at Eco Park, Rajarhat. In captive mining for coal, companies are permitted to set up coal processing plants such as washeries of coal that are for specified end users, including the setting up of power plant, fertilizers and steel units, he added.


    There are more than 250 exhibitors displaying their equipment, products, technologies innovative applications and R&D. Interactive Buyer-Seller Meet is providing the industry leaders take innovation to next level - students to showcase their projects under 'Innovation/Start up Pavilion'. The 4 day exhibition shall focus on display of mining, minerals, machinery and metallurgical latest technologies and their applications, research & development, logistics, safety & health aspects of the mining and allied industry.


    This institutionalized event has been envisaged as a catalyst for the development of Mining, Mineral, Metal and allied sectors in India. This prestigious biennial international event of the sector, is one of the largest shows of its kind in this part of the world. It is an ideal platform for the global Mining, Mineral and Metal producers, and other stakeholders of these industries to congregate, display products, exchange technology, negotiate business for mutual busincss development.


    Mr. Hossein Modares Khiabani, Acting Minister in Trade Affairs, Iran, Milan Hovorka, Ambassador, Czeck Republic, Mr Andrew Ford, Consul Genral of Australia in Kolkata were also present there. The Exhibition has attracted participants from Mining, Machinery, Minerals, Metallurgical and allied sectors and participation from mineral and iron ore rich states of lndia such as Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Rajasthan, West Bengal.


    CC/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590634) Visitor Counter : 25
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali