      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      SRFTI to organise 5th ISFFI
      Posted On: 03 NOV 2019 11:09PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, November 2, 2019


    Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute (SRFTI) under the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting is going host the 5 th International Science Film Festival of India (ISFFI)from November 6 to 8 ,2019 at the four auditoriums of the institute in the city . Internationally acclaimed award winning Indian and foreign films on science, heath and environment will be screened during festival. Besides, two feature films ' Mission Mangal' and 'Parmanu: The story of Pokhran' will also be screened. This apart, there will be a special screening of films on first Indian scientific South Pole expedition 2019, followed by discussion with scientists. A day long symposium tillted ' Packaging of Science for Public Interest' along with panel discussion on various aspects of Cinema and Science Communication wilk be part of the ISFFI.


    Eminent film- makers from India and abroad like Shri Buddhadeb Dasgupta, Shri R.Balki, Shri A.K.Bir, Shri Kaushik Ganguly, Mr Piere Oliver Francois, Shri Abhishek Sharma, Shri Partha Ghose, Smt Rama Marinov Cohen, Shri Bikash Sinha, Ms. Kornetzky Brigitte Ute, Mr. Andreas Van De Lar, Shri Kartik Sharma, Mr Chris Godwin, Mr Li- Yu-Fu , and Ms Lovita J R Morang .


    The festival will be partnered with High Commission of Canada, Millennium Institute of Oceanography, Chile, Embassy of Denmark, Embassy of Israel, Science Foundation Ireland , Media Service Nepal, Embassy of Spain, Embassy of Sweden and different organisations from Switzerland, Germany, UK, USA and Taiwan. The SRFTI will screen 200 entries of films from different parts of the world including India .


    The dignitaries who were present on the occasion included Dr.Debamitra Mitra, Director , SRFTI, Dr.Nakul Parashar, Director, Vigyan Prasar, Shri Nimish Kapoor , Scientist and Coordinator and Executor of National Science Film Festival and Competition and Shri Sougata Bhattacharya, Film Coordinator, SRFTI.


    SSS/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590213) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali