      Ministry of Science & Technology

      National Social Organization and Institute Meet emphasizes on need to create awareness on rural issues and its solutions
      Posted On: 07 NOV 2019 1:09PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, November 7, 2019


    The National Social Organization and Institution Meet (NSOIM) was inaugurated by Dr. K. Muraleedharan, Director of CSIR- Central Glass & Ceramic Research Institute (CSIR-CGCRI) as part of the India International India Science festival here today. The programme highlighted the need for capacity building, Institutional Collaborations and Knowledge-sharing by social organizations by finding solutions to the rural issues by application of technologies for their betterment.


    In his inaugural address, Dr K. Muraleedharan elaborated on the role of CGCRI in the context of technology and for creating awareness about its usage. Shri A. Jayakumar, Special Advisor, Vijnana Bharati, in his address, said that India has a diverse population with varied mindsets and therefore national social organization has a responsibility in playing a pivotal role and to have initiatives for positive transformations.


    The objective of NSOIM Meet is to engage the science-oriented organisations and institutions, especially grassroots voluntary developmental organizations, in nation building through the intervention of science and technology. This three-day meet is with the objective of deliberating on innovative ideas and technologies, methodologies and products developed by Research and Development institutions that are beneficial for common people.


    Discussing on the topic ‘UN-SDGs in Indian Context: Vision 2022, 75th Year of Indian Independence’. Dr Anil Rajvanashi from the Nimbkar Agricultural Research Institute (NARI), Maharashtra, deliberated on the lack of facilities for common people such as electricity, drinking water facilities and sanitation in rural India. While elaborating on NARI’s efforts to overcome these challenges he mentioned about the technologies such as an environment friendly cooking stove, solar water purifiers, motor assisted cycle rickshaw and battery powered small farm machines, among others.


    Dr JP Sharma, Joint Director, ICAR-IARI, who chaired the session, said that food production is sufficient however, it is important that a farmer be trained in areas for create enabling environment for increasing income for rural prosperity. Dr. SP Gon Chaudhary, NB Institute of Rural technology, Kolkata discussed about the role of the Institute in providing the rural communities access to sustainable light, cooking fuel options, clean water and banking utilising solar technologies.


    Shri Krishna Bhalchandra, UNDP in his address on SDG’s and last mile connectivity and explained the importance of adhering and working towards sustainable development goals for the progress of the country. Dr HS Tripathi, CSIR-CGCRI talked about technology in rural pottery sector and ceramics which has helped increase the income of rural population in this sector.


    SB/PK/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590787) Visitor Counter : 19
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali