      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      INAUGURATION OF ‘JOINT RESEARCH CLUSTER’ BETWEEN INDIAN STATISTICAL INSTITUTE AND UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY, SYDNEY
      Posted On: 14 NOV 2019 5:16PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, November 14, 2019.


    Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, Government of India has been engaged in pioneering research and training programme in the frontiers of statistics, mathematics, computer science and allied science. As a part of this programme, ISI in collaboration with University of Technology, Sydney, Australia today launched a joint research cluster in Kolkata. Andrew Ford, Australian Consul General and Prof. Sanghamitra Bandyopadhyay, Director, ISI, jointly inaugurated this event.


    The joint research cluster will mainly focus on the research of the artificial intelligence and machine learning like spotting crocodile and shark using drones for safety of human beings and conservation of animals, automatic keyboard or keypad less writing for mobile and computer, non-invasive Electroencephalogram (EEG) based brain computer interface for automatic car driving assistance and structural health monitoring on bridge, monument, building using computer vision and drone.


    On this occasion a two-day international workshop on machine learning and its application to pattern recognition (IWMLAPR) was also organized. In the inaugural session of this workshop Prof. Sanghamitra Bandyopadhyay, Director, ISI said that exchange of science and technology between the two countries would be possible through this joint research cluster programme. She said that there is so much data with the help of which we can be aware of the issue like decreasing ground water level, detection of arsenic contamination in ground water and water conservation.


    Andrew Ford, Australian Consul General congratulated and wished success of this joint research cluster (JRC). He also said that this JRC will help in developing the area related with economics, industry, science and education.


    Prof. Umapada Paul, Head, CVPR Unit, ISI emphasized that this joint research will develop technologies on the research area. He also informed how to drive a car by EEG or to recognize different hand writing with the help of ML technology.


    Prof. Michael Blumenstein, Associate Dean, University of Technology, Sydney highlighted that they are running the research and academic activities since long and now the fund will be provided jointly by department of Science and Technology, Govenrment of India and the Federal Government of Australia. He said that University of Technology, Sydney already had succeeded in detecting arsenic element from drinking water and also purified the same in Vietnam and now they are performing the same in India.


    Dr. Kirsten Murray, Director, International University of Technology, Sydney and Prof. Bhabatosh Chanda, Prof. In Charge, Computer and Communication Science Division, ISI were also present in this programme.


    CC/CG/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591613) Visitor Counter : 40
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali