      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Three-day-long Integrated Outreach Programme on Swachh Bharat, Plastic Free India organized at Naxalbari, W. B.
      Posted On: 18 NOV 2019 12:09PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, November 18, 2019.


    Regional Outreach Bureau, Siliguri organized a three-day long Integrated Outreach Programme from November 16, 2019 at Naxalbari, West Bengal. On its maiden day, the programme was correlated with Swachh Bharat, Plastic Free India, 550th Birth Anniversary of Guru Nanak Ji. The Programme was coordinated with the State ICDS Department, State Health department, local Panchayats, ASHA, Anganwadi Workers and the School authorities. As a package of the programme the Bureau organized a Public Meeting, Photo Exhibition on Swachh Bharat, Plastic Free India, 550th Birth Anniversary of Guru Nanak along with the cut out models of Mahatma Gandhi and on Swachh Bharat Mission.


    During the IOP as a Chief Guest Shri Sunil Tirkey, MLA, Phansidewa, inaugurated the Stalls of various Departments along with the Photo Exhibition and various cutouts related to Swachh Bharat and Plastic Free India.


    Among the Speaker as a resource Person Sh. Dalvinder Singh, Secretary, Guruduwara Prabandhak Committee, Siliguri, delivered his speech on Guru Nanak Ji and he opined that Guru Nanak, also referred to as Baba Nanak, who was the founder of Sikhism and the First of the Ten Sikh Gurus.


    Appreciating the programme Shri Sunil Tirki, MLA, Phansidewa, in his speech urges to organize more such awareness campaign in his places in near future. For the gatherings the competitions like Sit and Draw was organized for the school Students. During the Programme as a live Performance the Registered Troupe from Song & Drama and the Magic show was organized as an entertainment for the gathering, which witnessed a huge enthusiasm among the masses.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591914) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali