      Cabinet

      Cabinet Secretary chairs NCMC meeting to review Very Severe cyclone Bulbul over West Bengal and Odisha
      Posted On: 09 NOV 2019 7:31PM by PIB Kolkata


    New Delhi, Nov. 9, 2019


    The second meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC), chaired by the Cabinet Secretary, Shri Rajiv Gauba, was held today to review the situation and preparedness to deal with Very Severe Cyclone Bulbul over the Bay of Bengal and likely to affect coastal districts of West Bengal and Odisha.


    IMD informed that the Cyclone, has now intensified and is likely to cross the West Bengal coast by the late evening of 9th Nov. Heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, accompanied by winds reaching upto 120 Kmph and tidal waves up 1 to 2 meter are expected. The Cyclone is expected to make a landfall at the West Bengal Coast at about 2000 to 2200 hrs.


    Chief Secretaries of West Bengal and Odisha informed that necessary preparations have been made by them and SDRF and Fire Service teams have been positioned. Fishing operations have been suspended and people in low lying areas being evacuated to shelter homes. 16 teams of NDRF and SDRF have been positioned in West Bengal and additional teams are being deployed at the request of states. Officials of Ministry of Defence intimated that requisite number of ships, aircrafts and specialized teams of Coast Guard, Indian Navy, Army and Air Force are on standby.


    At the same time, all out efforts for timely restoration of power and telecommunication facilities are in place. In wake of present situation fight operations at Kolkata airport may need to be temporarily suspended.


    Cabinet Secretary took stock of the current situation and preparedness for rescue and relief operations and assured that assistance, as required, will be provided. While noting that about 59000 people have been evacuated by West Bengal Government, he directed that all efforts to be made to evacuated persons left behind in the areas likely to be affected. He also stressed on the suspension of fishing operations until the situation became normal.


    Senior officials of the Ministries of Home, Defence, Power, Telecommunication and Civil Aviation as well as those from IMD and NDRF, NDMA attended the meeting. Chief Secretaries from West Bengal and Orissa participated in the meeting through Video Conference.


    VG/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591137) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali