      Ministry of Communications

      India Post Opts for Road Transport to Handle Increased Parcel Traffic
      Posted On: 15 NOV 2019 4:53PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, November 14, 2019


    Due to the increased parcel traffic in the country, the Department of Posts is opting for road transport for inter-circle movement. This was informed by the Chief Postmaster General, Shri Gautam Bhattacharya, today in the city, in an interactive session titled ‘India Post: The Road Ahead’. Shri Bhattacharya said, this service has already started on November 1, this year in Kolkata - Guwahati, Kolkata – Bhubaneswar and Kolkata – Patna circuit. The service between Kolkata & Ranchi is going to commence soon, most likely on January 1, 2020. According to Shri Bhattacharya, as Railways is giving more priority on passenger freight, they are not in position to spare space for parcels. In such a situation, Department of Posts has opted for inter-circular movement of parcels by road transport. He added that, his department is emphasising on financial inclusion of unbanked rural areas of West Bengal through India Post Payment banks (IPPB) and even encouraging digital payment and drawing of money in unbanked rural areas. The Department of Post is also putting thrust on delivering core Governmental services like issuing of passports through Post Office Passport Seva Kendras and as on date there are 424 such kendras working in the country, establishing AADHAR Seva Kendras in post offices (1100 such post offices are there in West Bengal) for updating, enrolment and correction of AADHAR Cards. Shri Bhattacharya also briefed about the department’s vision for 2024 as he pointed out that the aim is to reach the last mile of the comprehensive financial inclusion in rural areas as well as to create infrastructure for parcel handling capacity in Tier II and Tier III cities. India Post is also aiming to strengthen the last mile delivery system, achieving 10 per cent of the market share by 2024, trying to ease the system of e-commerce exports through post offices and strengthening its network for citizen-centric services.


    CC/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591749) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali