      Ministry of Communications

      9th West Bengal State-level Philatelic exhibition “Ekla Chalo Re” inaugurated in Kolkata.
      Posted On: 16 NOV 2019 6:05PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, November 16, 2019.


    To commemorate the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the 9 th state-level philatelic exhibition named “Ekla Chalo Re” was inaugurated by Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar, the governor of West Bengal here at Academy of Fine Arts in Kolkata today. The exhibition, organized by West Bengal Postal Circle, will continue till November, 21, 2019. Nearly half of the exhibits are on Gandhi Ji under invited category and rest are under general philatelic category in competitive class.


    The governor also released special cover on Mahatma Gandhi on the occasion. A Stamp Show exclusively on life and works of Mahatma Gandhi was also organized. Gandhi Gallery was inaugurated and Gandhi portrait was unveiled at General Post Office (GPO), Kolkata. Jacket with Gandhi badge was also released.


    The Ekla Chalo Re exhibits rare and exclusive stamps of various collectors and Philatelists. The six day-long programme includes several events. One Special Philatelic Cover will be released on each day highlighting different aspects of life and works of Mahatma Gandhi. Also there will be Special Philatelic Covers on other matters viz. “Poets of Bengal”, “Sports Legends”, “Writers of Bengal”, “Melodies of Bengal” and two Covers on two legendary film personalities of Bengal. The events also include Sit & Draw competition for children, Philatelic Quiz contest for School children, Letter Box painting competition for children, Children’s Khadi Fashion Show, etc. One special Cover will be released on board of a local Tram. Apart from these, a “Gandhi Corner” was also inaugurated in the Postal Museum of Kolkata General Post Office (GPO) today.


    Shri Gautam Bhattacharjee, Chief Post Master General was also present at the exhibition.


    CC/CG/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591833) Visitor Counter : 12
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali