      Ministry of Finance

      Central GST, Kolkata South Commissionerate Unearths Racket
      
      Engaged in Procuring Fake GST Invoices

      Posted On: 20 NOV 2019 10:14PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, November 20, 2019


    

    
    The officers of Central GST, Kolkata South Commissionerate on last Friday (November 15,2019), busted a racket engaged in procuring and supplying fake GST invoices without actual supply of goods and arrested four persons, namely (i) Shri Pankaj Kumar Bagla, (ii) Shri Vishnu Kumar Singhania, (iii) Shri Rajiv Kyal & (iv) Sh. Sandip Kyal.


    
    The officers of CGST detected that these persons were allegedly involved in issuance of fake invoices which have caused a loss of Rs 500 crores (approximate) to the government exchequer.


    
    Investigations by the officers have also revealed that the above-menrioned unscrupulous persons set up fictitious companies by misusing the KYC details of laymen offering them interest free loan and other financial benefits in lieu of the latter's KYC details. These KYC details formed the basis of fake entities so created for issuance of fake invoices.


    
    The role of other persons engaged in such activity is also being investigated, with a targeted focus on beneficiaries of such fake tax credit. According to the Commissioner of Kolkata South Central GST, Mr, D. Nagvenkar, the estimated scale of fraud is likely to increase as more detections come to light.


    
    The Commissioner emphasized that a common man should not part with his/her KYC details to unknown persons for small gain or financial benefits. The accused were produced in the Court of CJM, Alipore Court and the Court ordered departmental custody for accused No. (i) and judicial custody for accused Nos. (ii), (iii) & (iv) till November 30, 2019. The Commissioner informed that further investigation is being carried out by the officers.


    

    
    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1592538) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali