      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      DG (Ministry of I & B ), Eastern Region Inaugurates Seminar on the Observation of ‘Constitution Day’
      Posted On: 26 NOV 2019 4:56PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, November 26, 2019


    

    
    Indian Constitution is one of the most unique documents having very special characteristics, said Shri Rabindra Nath Mishra, Director General (Eastern zone), Ministry of Information & Broadcasting who is in the charge of the functioning of the offices of both Press Information Bureau and Regional Outreach Bureau, eastern region, today. He inaugurated a special seminar on Indian Constitution as a part of observation of ‘Constitution Day’ today by Regional Outreach Bureau at Birla Industrial and Technological Museum (BITM). He added that, the Constitution has shaped the destiny of our nation and it will continue to guide us in the future too, as a modern, progressive society.


    
    Professor Chanchal Chakraborty, who was one of the speakers of the seminar, said, everybody should know some basic features of Indian Constitution, so that they may become aware about their rights, more particularly, the fundamental rights the Constitution has given to all the citizens of the country. He added that the Indian Constitution framed the fundamental political principles, procedures, practices, rights, powers, and duties of the government. It imparts constitutional supremacy and not parliamentary supremacy, as it is not created by the Parliament but, by a constituent assembly, and adopted by the people, with a declaration in its preamble. Parliament cannot override it.
    
    Present on the occasion were Miss Jane Namchu, Additional Director General (Eastern region), Ministry of Information & Broadcasting and the Director of BITM, Shri V S Ramachandran.
    
    The Registered troupes of Song and Drama Division also participated in the programme which was followed by quiz completion on the Indian Constitution for the school children gathered there. The students who gave right answers were awarded with a copy of the Preamble of the Constitution as well as a book on Mahatma Gandhi authored by Joseph J
    Doke.


    
    Publications Division put up a book exhibition there as a part of observation of the Constitution Day.
    
    At another event Shri Mishra inaugurated a photographic exhibition on Plastic-free India and Swachhata put up by Directorate of Advertising & Visual Publicity (DAVP) also and presented a copy of the Indian Constitution to the BITM Director.


    

    
    CC/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593573) Visitor Counter : 7
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali