      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Parshottam Rupala emphasizes on organic farming in the country.
      
      The Minister urges to promote Gir cow, a high-milk producing creed.

      Posted On: 24 NOV 2019 10:32PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, November, 24, 2019


    
    
    
    
    The Union Minister of State for Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Shri Parshottam Rupala emphasized on organic farming in the country saying that there is a demand for organic food products in the world and India has the capacity to meet it. The roadmap laid down for the farm sector by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is being implemented successfully. The Minister was speaking at the special session on “Agriculture and Rural Development-Challenges and Possibilities” organized by Calcutta Chamber of Commerce here in Kolkata today. Government has initiated a number of steps to encourage the use of bio-fertilizers in place of chemical fertilizers by providing subsidy for its production, the Minister added.


    

    
    The Minister mentioned several schemes initiated by the government to enhance and double the income of farmers including Soil Health Card, Neem Coated Urea, Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana to promote organic farming, Pradhanmantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana, Pradhanmantri Fasal Bima Yojana, Crop Insurance, Chain Supply, etc. and urged business communities to come forward and help farmers in reducing cost of production and providing market support to them.
    
    The Minister also stated that the government has started pension scheme for farmers. Under the scheme, a farmer has to deposit from Rs. 50 to Rs. 200 per month. The government will also contribute an equal amount. It will continue till he attains the age of 60. After 60, the farmer will receive a fixed amount monthly as pension, the Minister added.


    
    The Minister also emphasized on promoting Gir cow which is high-milk producing creed in the country and urged to build hostels for stray cows.
    
    Shri Madhav Prasad Sureka, President, Calcutta Chamber of Commerce; Shri Jitendra Lohia, President, ACAE; Shri Rajeev Maheshwari and Shri Jinesh S. Vanzara from the Chamber among others were also president on the occasion.


    

    
    CC/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593341) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali