      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      10th Regional Quality Conclave inaugurated in the city
      Posted On: 29 NOV 2019 4:44PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, November 29, 2019.


    

    
    10th Regional Quality Conclave (RQC) organized jointly by Quality Council of India (QCI) and Federation of Small and Medium Industries (FOSMI), West Bengal on the theme “Quality and Manufacturing Excellence for Sustainable Growth” was inaugurated here in the city today. The Conclave had 4 sessions on Leadership and Quality impacting the profitability of an enterprise, Evolving manufacturing trends for competitiveness, Lean & Smart Manufacturing and Accreditation and Training.


    

    Speaking on at the inaugural session, Shri Biswanath Bhattacharya, President, FOSMI said that the success of a structured manufacturing excellence program rests on key drivers or enablers in any organisation. Manufacturing excellence is the need of the hour to ensure continuous improvement of management systems and business processes for superior business performance across industries, Shri Bhattacharya added.


    
    Shri C.K.Biswas, CEO, National Board of Quality Promotion (NBQP), Quality Council of Inida (QCI) said that the objective of the Regional Quality Conclave is to effectively sensitize the masses in the Industrial sectors and tell them that Quality including Technology and Innovations are vital for the growth and sustainability of the organisations.
    
    Shri Sadhan Pande, Minister-in- charge, Consumer Affairs and Self Help Group, Government of West Bengal in his address said, MSMEs were in a very bad shape in the state earlier but now it is gaining shape through our continuous efforts. QCI and FOSMI together should come forward to help us grow better. We strive to give our best to improve the condition of MSMEs by arranging for trainings to the youth of the state. The role of QCI and FOSMI in this regard will play a pivotal role, Shri Pande added.
    
    Around 200 delegates from different sectors of the Manufacturing Industry participated in the the Conclave.
    

    

    
    CC/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594246) Visitor Counter : 14
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali