      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Water level of 91 major reservoirs of the country goes down by two per cent
      Posted On: 12 MAY 2017 4:39PM by PIB Mumbai


    New Delhi: 12 May, 2017


    The water storage available in 91 major reservoirs of the country for the week ending on May 11, 2017 was 37.718 BCM, which is 24% of total storage capacity of these reservoirs. This percentage was at 26 for the week ending on May 04, 2017. The level of May 11, 2017 was 125% of the storage of corresponding period of last year and 103% of storage of average of last ten years.


    The total storage capacity of these 91 reservoirs is 157.799 BCM which is about 62% of the total storage capacity of 253.388 BCM which is estimated to have been created in the country. 37 Reservoirs out of these 91 have hydropower benefit with installed capacity of more than 60 MW.


    REGION WISE STORAGE STATUS:-


    NORTHERN REGION


    The northern region includes States of Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan. There are 6 reservoirs under Central Water Commission (CWC) monitoring having total live storage capacity of 18.01 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 4.34 BCM which is 24% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 20% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 29% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the corresponding period of last year but is less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    EASTERN REGION


    The Eastern region includes States of Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and Tripura. There are 15 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 18.83 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 6.92 BCM which is 37% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 27% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 23% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the corresponding period of last year and is also better than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    WESTERN REGION


    The Western region includes States of Gujarat and Maharashtra. There are 27 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 27.07 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 7.78 BCM which is 29% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 16% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 29% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the storage of last year and is equal to the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    CENTRAL REGION


    The Central region includes States of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. There are 12 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 42.30 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 14.36 BCM which is 34% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 25% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 22% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the storage of last year and is also better than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    SOUTHERN REGION


    The Southern region includes States of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, AP&TG (Two combined projects in both states) Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. There are 31 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 51.59 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 4.32BCM which is 8 % of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 12% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 19% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the corresponding period of last year and is also less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    States having better storage than last year for corresponding period are Punjab, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, and Telangana. States having equal storage than last year for corresponding period is AP&TG (Two combined projects in both states). States having lesser storage than last year for corresponding period are Himachal Pradesh, Tripura, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu.


    ****


    PIB Release/APS/MG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489727) Visitor Counter : 216