      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Annual Conference of Relief Commissioners and Secretaries of Departments of Disaster Management of States and UTs held
      Posted On: 17 MAY 2017 5:26PM by PIB Mumbai


    The Ministry of Home Affairs organized the Annual Conference of Relief Commissioners and Secretaries of the Departments of Disaster Management of States and Union Territories here today. The Conference was convened primarily to review the status of preparedness for dealing with any natural disaster that may arise due to South West Monsoon 2017.
    
    The Conference was inaugurated by the Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Mehrishi. Representatives of 28 States, 2 Union Territories, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Central Ministries, Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), India Meteorological Department (IMD), Central Water Commission (CWC), DRDO, GSI, ISRO and other Scientific Organisations, along with Armed Forces participated in the Conference. Issues connected with disaster preparedness, early warning systems, flood management, disaster management plans of the States and Union Territories were discussed. Checking the readiness of the equipment & communication systems, advance procurement of necessary relief material, community based disaster management and coordinated approach for disaster response at the district level were highlighted.
    
    During the conference, it was noted that the concerted efforts of all concerned have helped in minimizing the loss of precious human lives. The need for coordination among all the Central and State Government agencies was re-emphasized.
    
    The IMD, National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), CWC, NDRF, Snow & Avalanches Study Establishment (SASE), Ministry of Defence, and NRSC/ ISRO, Department of Space made presentations on their respective field of forecasting, warning & dissemination mechanism and their future plans for enhancing capability in the field of disaster management. The Conference also discussed the measures and good practices being adopted by the State Government and Government of India to address disaster management related issues in the country.

    ***


    PIB-Mumbai/APS/MG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490060) Visitor Counter : 221