      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Countdown to FIFA U-17 Football World Cup begins, Mini-Football Fest in capital tomorrow
      VIJAY GOEL, Biren Singh, Vijender Singh to attend event
      
      India’s biggest-ever football to be unveiled
      Posted On: 17 MAY 2017 5:28PM by PIB Mumbai

      The countdown to FIFA U-17 Football World Cup has already begun and even as the football fever rises, ticket sales are already on in the presence of legendary footballer Carles Puyol. The football mega-event is all set to reach yet another milestone, with a Mini Football Fest to be hosted in the heart of the national capital, tomorrow.
      The Mini Football Fest will be organized in Delhi’s Connaught Place in the presence of Union Minister of Youth Affairs & Sports Vijay Goel, Chief Minister of Manipur, Shri Biren Singh and renowned boxer, Shri Vijender Singh. A large football will also be unveiled during the event that will create a buzz for the upcoming World Cup in October this year.
      Shri Biren Singh has been a footballer himself and is excited to be a part of this event. Shri Goel, on the other hand, has undertaken extensive tours across the venues that will host the World Cup to ensure that preparations are taken care of in a swift manner, with the best facilities for the players, as well as fans. The Sports Minister has visited Kochi, Kolkata and Mumbai. He will also visit Guwahati soon, to take stock of the preparations.
      FIFA Under-17 World Cup will commence on October 6 and the final will be played on October 28 at Kolkata’s Salt Lake Stadium. It is for the first time that India is set to host a FIFA World Cup, in any form.
      The Government has already kicked off Mission 11 Million to push the football frenzy further and take football to 11 million kids across India. This move will enable the creation of a sports culture, as well as nurture and train budding young talent.
      ***

    PIB-Mumbai/APS/MG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490061) Visitor Counter : 256