      Ministry of Communications

      India Post receives appreciations galore from Twitterati!
      Posted On: 17 MAY 2017 5:21PM by PIB Mumbai


      India Post has garnered immense appreciation from its customers on Twitter. In the last couple of months, India Post has started leveraging the potential of this channel for making instant communication with its customers. The main area where twitter is being used is in redressal of customer grievances. This Journey of grievances redressal started on 2 nd August 2016 when the Ministry of Communications launched its Twitter Seva. Since then India Post has handled around 31,000 tweets with 100 % resolution.


      Customers of the India Post have been approaching the Twitter profiles of India Post, Sh. Manoj Sinha, Minister of Communication (I/C) & Railways (@manojsinhabjp) and India Post CMD to share their feedback and grievances.


      A well defined and systemic process deployed by India Post ensures that the complainants grievance with complete information is responded to within a couple of hours and sent to the respective for a time bound and effective resolution. For example, Sh. Niraj Kumar Singh tweeted on 27 th April, 2017 that he had sent medicines for his father who is a cancer patient but status is not updated on tracking website. Bihar Circle promptly took action and got the medicines delivered on the day of receipt of the complaint itself. Overwhelmed by this gesture of the Department, Sh. Niraj Kumar Singh expressed his gratitude to India Post and became a loyal customer of the Department.


      Similarly, that concerns of the customers are promptly addressed by providing them with information on the delivery of their articles containing PAN Cards, Roll numbers, medicines etc. issues relating to repairs of Post Office buildings, technical issues with saving banks accounts are also sorted out quickly. The public in general perceives a whiff of freshness in the manner in which the Government Department responds and cares for its citizens. Twitter Seva of India Post has truly touched the lives of the common man.


      Monthly Twitter Report

                                                                                                
Date                      Total tickets  Open  closed  In-process  Awaiting response  Percentage
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                      %         
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
01.03.2017 to 31.03.2017  4721           0     4721    00          0                  100       
                                                                                                
                                                                                                

      PIB-Mumbai/APS/MG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490057) Visitor Counter : 227