      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      5th India Morocco Joint Commission Meeting (JCM)
      Posted On: 29 MAY 2017 2:02PM by PIB Mumbai


    The 5th India Morocco Joint Commission Meeting (JCM) was held in Rabat on 25 and 26 May 2017. The JCM was anchored by Smt Nirmala Sitharaman, Commerce and Industry Minister.
    
    On 25 May 2017, the Minister was the keynote speaker at the Industry Day of Morocco in Casablanca, organised by the Ministry of Industry, Investment, Trade and Digital Economy of the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco. She visited the Centre for Excellence in Information Technology in Casablanca, a collaboration of Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC), India and Institut National des Postes et Télécommunications (INPT), Morocco. She called on Dr Saad Eddine El Othmani, Head of Government of the Kingdom of Morocco and had bilateral discussions with Mr. Abdelkader Amara, Minister of Equipment, Transport, Logistics and Water, and Mr. Mohamed Boussaid, Minister of Economy and Finance. On 26 May 2017, she met with Mr. Moulay Hafid El Alamy, Minister of Industry, Investment, Trade and Digital Economy. In all the interactions, the key element of excellent political relations that underpinned the economic context of the bilateral relations, was highlighted.
    
    On 26 May 2017, the 5th India Morocco JCM was convened in Rabat during which a Memorandum of Understanding was signed for Cooperation on Broadcasting between Prasar Bharati, India and Société Nationale de Radiodiffusion et de Télévision (SNRT), Morocco. The MoU was signed by Dr Kheya Bhattacharya, Ambassador of India on behalf of Prasar Bharati and Mr Fayçal Laraichi, Chief Executive Officer of SNRT.
    
    The visit of Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Commerce and Industry, Government of India to Morocco and the proceedings of the 5th India Morocco JCM have intensified the strong bilateral relations between India and Morocco, and provided an impetus for closer cooperation between the two countries in the political, commercial, cultural, and trade sectors.

    *****


    APS/SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1491111) Visitor Counter : 252