      Prime Minister's Office

      PM holds talks with President Mariano Rajoy in Madrid. Seven agreements exchanged between India and Spain
      Posted On: 31 MAY 2017 5:30PM by PIB Mumbai


    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today held talks with the President of the Spanish Government, Mariano Rajoy, in Madrid.
    
    During his opening remarks, the Prime Minister said that today's talks will go a long way in furthering ties between the two countries. The Prime Minister said that in an interconnected and interdependent world - Spain and India can work together both for mutual benefit, and for the benefit of the world at large. He described President Rajoy as a visionary leader.
    
    The Prime Minister said India and Spain have both faced the scourge of terrorism, and will both focus on fighting it.
    
    The Prime Minister said both India and Spain are engaging in vigorous economic reform. He said there is immense scope for cooperation in infrastructure, railways and smart cities.
    
    The Prime Minister said that the vision of "New India" will be enhanced through the "New Momentum" in relations between India and Spain.
    
    Seven agreements were exchanged between the two countries, covering subjects such as energy, security and civil aviation.
    
    Prime Minister Modi later met with Spanish CEOs. He said during the meeting that there is immense potential for further growth of Spanish investments in India. He mentioned in particular, sectors such as infrastructure, renewable energy, food processing, auto, chemicals and textiles. He invited Spanish participation in the Smart Cities initiative. He also gave a broad overview of the economic reforms undertaken in India, including GST. He asserted that initiatives like Make in India, Digital India and Start up India have become global magnets for investment.
    
    The Prime Minister also called on His Majesty King Felipe VI.

    ***


    APS/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491434) Visitor Counter : 303