      Ministry of Shipping

      V.O. Chidambaranar Port Trust organizes ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas Sammelan’ at Tenkasi in Tamil Nadu
      Posted On: 15 JUN 2017 6:12PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State for Road Transport & Highways and Shipping Shri Pon. Radhakrishnan has said that during the last three years, the centre has implemented various schemes like Ujwala, Jan Dhan Yojana and Skill Development for the benefit of the weaker sections of the society. These schemes, he said, have helped achieve the goal of inclusive growth. The Minister was speaking at the ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas Sammelan’ organized by V.O. Chidambaranar Port Trust at Esakki Mahal in Tenkasi in Tirunelveli district of Tamil Nadu today. Shri Pon. Radhakrishnan said that the vision of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has led the country to excel in all sectors in the past three years.


    Talking about the shipping sector Shri Pon. Radhakrishnan said that India is registering a positive growth even as the shipping sector worldwide is seeing a downward trend. The Sagarmala programme launched by the Prime minister last year aims to increase the capacity of Major and Non-Major Ports to 3000 MTPA from the present 1054 MTPA, he said. Major ports have been consistently increasing their capacity and making profits over the last few years.


    Lauding the performance of V.O. Chidambaranar Port Trust, the Minister said that the port is rapidly increasing its handling capacity, and is consistently handling increased volume of cargo. The Port handled 38.46 MTPA in 2016-17 as compared to 36.84 MTPA in 2015-16,” he said. Shri Pon. Radhakrishnan further said that when the Enayam Port Project is implemented Tamil Nadu become the first state to have four Major Ports. He also listed out the measures taken by his Ministry in building highways and informed that Rs.50,000 crore has been allocated to implement various road infrastructure projects in Tamil Nadu.


    Shri S. Anantha Chandra Bose, Chairman, V.O. Chidambaranar Port Trust said this was the first time in the last few decades, or perhaps since independence, that the shipping and logistics industry is getting so much focus.


    Welfare measures under Ujwala scheme, farm loan and cash incentives to students were also distributed to beneficiaries during the programme. V.O. Chidambaranar Port Trust, Enayam Port, India Post, Co-optex, National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), Indian Coast Guard and Housing and Urban Development Corporation had set up stalls at the programme. Attractive visual displays and pamphlets informed the visitors about the various projects and the initiatives taken by the government for the benefits of the people.


    ***


    UM/NP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492936) Visitor Counter : 99