      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister to launch ‘Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Abhiyan ‘on Friday 26th June
      Posted On: 25 JUN 2020 2:49PM by PIB Delhi


      COVID-19 pandemic has had an adverse impact on workforce in general and migrant workers in particular. A large number of migrant workers returned to several states. The challenge of containing Covid-19 was compounded by the need to provide basic amenities and means of livelihood to migrants and rural workers. Government of India announced the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Package to stimulate various sectors. In order to generate employment with thrust towards creating infrastructure in backward regions of the country Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan was launched on 20 th June 2020.


      In Uttar Pradesh, nearly 30 lakh migrant workers returned. 31 districts of Uttar Pradesh have more than 25,000 returnee migrant workers. These include 5 aspirational districts. The Government of Uttar Pradesh envisaged a unique initiative “Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Abhiyan” which dovetails programs of Government of India and the State government while creating partnerships with Industry and other organizations. This Abhiyan is intensely focused towards providing employment, promote local entrepreneurship and create partnership with Industrial associations and other organizations to provide employment opportunities.


      Prime Minister will launch this Abhiyan on 26 th June, 2020 at 11 am through Video-Conference in presence of the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh. Further, Ministers of concerned Ministries of Uttar Pradesh will also participate in the virtual launch. Prime Minister will interact with villagers from six districts of Uttar Pradesh. Villages across all districts of Uttar Pradesh will join this program through the Common Service Centers and Krishi Vigyan Kendras, maintaining the norms of social distancing in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.


      ****


      VRRK/KP


    --

    
    
    (Release ID: 1634226) Visitor Counter : 1799
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam