      Ministry of Culture

      Photo Exhibition on Boddh Saint Ven. Kushok Bakula Rinpoche from December 20-31, 2017 at IGNCA
      Posted On: 21 DEC 2017 2:36PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Kiren Rijiju Minister of State for Home Affairs inaugurated the p hoto exhibition on Visionary Boddh Saint Ven. Kushok Bakula Rinpoche at Indira Gandhi National Center for the Art (IGNCA) in the presence of Gonchig Ganbold Ambassador of Mongolia to India on 20 th December 2017. The exhibition is organized by East Asia Programme Unit of Indira Gandhi National Center for the Art to celebrate the birth centenary of Venerable Kushok Bakula, he was the architect of modern Ladakh. The exhibition will be open for public from 20 th December – 31 st December 2017.


    In the inaugural function Shri Kiren Rijiju said that Ven. Bakula Rinpoche was a monk-activist, and helped the cause of peace and spread of the teaching of Lord Buddha in different parts of the world. He was associated with many national and international organizations working for world peace, environmental conservation and inter-faith dialogue. The Minister further said that his role was pivotal in reigniting the light of Dharma among people in different countries who were denied their spiritual freedom by authoritarian communist regimes. Shri Rijiju said that his contributions in the revival of Buddhism in many countries including Mongolia, Russia and China speak volumes of his great personality.


    Shri Arun Kumar, Expert on Jammu Kashmir, Former, Convener Jammu & Kashmir Studies, Ven. Lama Lobzang, Ashoka Mission, Shri Geshe Dorji Damdul, Director, Tibet House, Shri Tenpa Tsering, Spl. Re-preventative of HH the Dalai Lama, Shri Thapstan Chhewang, Member of Parliament, (Ladakh), Dr Sachchidanand Joshi, Member Secretary, IGNCA were also present on this occassion.


    Shri Sachchidanand Joshi, recalling the works of Rinpoche, said “the IGNCA expressing its tributes to the work done by him through this exhibition, we are planning to bring their work through this exhibition to the masses across the country”.


    Shri Arun Kumar said "Shradhey Rimpoche Ji was a spiritual figure, great social reformer”. He said that the kinds of people who are gathered in this program today are proof of their contribution to this country and society.


    SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513580) Visitor Counter : 978