      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      NIT develops multipurpose UV-sanitizing cabin
      Disinfects food items and currency notes too
      Posted On: 10 JUL 2020 11:09AM by PIB Chandigarh


    Chandigarh, 10 July 2020


    Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT), Jalandhar has invented a multipurpose timer-fitted sanitizing cabin that can even sanitize packed food items. It disinfects currency notes and credit cards too besides sanitizing papers, files, used masks and gloves, keys etc.


    This portable box-shaped sanitizer or disinfectant is fitted with Ultra-violet lights on top and bottom within the cabin. Its UV radiation kills microbial pathogens like virus, bacteria or fungus deposited on surfaces of any article when they were kept inside its drawer for sanitizing.


    UV-C radiation is a known disinfectant for air, water and surfaces that can help mitigate the risk of acquiring an infection and has been used extensively for more than 40 years. All bacteria and viruses tested to respond to UV-C disinfection. At present UV light is used in many food industry applications as it is completely safe, low maintenance and does not require the use of any chemicals or pesticides. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has already determined conditions of use for UV radiation as a surface antimicrobial treatment for food. When UV radiation sources consist of low-pressure mercury lamps, it can be safely used as a surface antimicrobial treatment.


    Designed by Director, NIT, Dr LK Awasthi and Associate Professor, Department of Instrumentation and Control Engineering, Dr Kuldeep Singh Nagla, this device is “completely safe for humans and children”. Dr Awasthi said that although there are some other such UV-gadgets available in the market but this compatible sanitizer has some additional features which makes it more human friendly.


    Dr Nagla said that the device is safe for the users because there is no exposure to them. When the drawer is opened, the UV light automatically gets switched-off. The perforated, acrylic sheets and lights are fitted in such a manner that items kept in it get disinfected from all angles.


    Besides being safe for use in homes and offices, it can be helpful for bankers too. They can protect themselves from viruses while handling currency notes which can also be carriers of various virus infections.


    The user can set the timer as per the item and its size. For example, in banks, cashier can place the currency note and can set the timer for 120 seconds, the device will be automatically switched off after 120 seconds. Similarly, in case of packed food items, bottles etc. it can be set up to 300 seconds and sometimes above too. There is large variety of bacteria and virus. For killing of few bacteria's such as Bacillus, Anthracis, Spores, the exposer time may be required more. An inbuilt fan regulates the temperature for safety.


    Dr Awasthi said that this has already been sent for patent and NIT is tying up with a private company for commercial production. This is the fourth innovation by NIT out of 10 as committed by the institution in this year for keeping the society safe from bacteria, viruses and fungus during the ongoing Covid-pandemic situation.


    https://twitter.com/robchandigarh/status/1281072103622492161?s=12


    Multipurpose timer-fitted sanitizing cabin


    ****


    DPS/PS/RB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1637684) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi