      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      1000 immunity booster kits given to BSF by Ministry of I&B's Field Unit and Ayurvedic Dept.
      Posted On: 14 JUL 2020 6:20PM by PIB Chandigarh


    Chandigarh, 14 July, 2020


    In an effort to boost the immunity of Border Security Force (BSF) personnel deployed on India-Pakistan border in Punjab, Field Outreach Bureau (FOB) of the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Jalandhar facilitated to provide 1000 Ayurvedic immunity booster kits to the BSF through Punjab Ayurvedic Department.


    The idea to provide the natural immunity boosters was especially conceptualised by the FOB keeping in view the present Covid-19 situation in the country. Since the personnel of BSF, the first line of defence, are manning the Punjab border round the clock, these herbal boosters would help them in enhancing their body’s natural defence system that plays an important role in maintaining optimum health.


    Field Publicity Officer Rajesh Bali along with Jalandhar District Ayurvedic Officer Dr Joginder Pal presented one thousand kits of immunity boosters to Sh. Mahipal Yadav, IPS, Inspector General, BSF, Punjab Frontier, at the BSF campus, today.


    Dr Rakesh Sharma Director, Ayurvedic Department, Punjab, said that it’s a proud moment for his department to extend the services to BSF which is securing our borders so we can live peacefully without any fear. He said the immunity booster, which is especially made for frontline workers, is in the form of decoction (Kadha). It is made from Tulsi (Basil), Dalchini (Cinnamon), Kalimirch (Black pepper) and Saunth (Dry Ginger). It may be taken once or twice a day after boiling in water or tea. He also assured to provide more such kits at regular intervals.


    (District Ayurvedic Officer, Dr Joginder Pal and FPO, Rajesh Bali presenting Immunity Booster Kits to IG, BSF, Punjab Frontier, today)


    Sh. Mahipal Yadav, IPS, IG BSF Punjab appreciated the efforts of Ayurvedic department and Field Outreach Bureau for providing herbal kits.


    In the past also, Chandigarh-based Regional Outreach Bureau of the ministry has organised cultural evenings for the troops of the Border Security Force which is manning 553-kms long Punjab border with Pakistan. Medical camps and awareness campaigns had also been jointly organised by FOB and BSF for border populace.


    *****


    DS/PS/RB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1638586) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi