      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      EduCare App - A boon for students across India in testing times
      Posted On: 23 JUL 2020 6:55PM by PIB Chandigarh


    Jalandhar, July 23, 2020


    Although Covid-19 pandemic has affected the society as a whole, it has failed to dampen the spirits of teachers from Punjab. Taking the present situation as a challenge to teach the students, Jalandhar-based government school teachers have developed a mobile application ‘EduCare App’ which was recently launched by the Punjab Government. The App has proved to be a boon not only for students from Punjab but across many states because of its easy accessibility and handling. It is providing study material from pre-primary to 12th standard in Arts, Science and Commerce streams. It has become so popular that it has been seen by about 3 crore people till date.


    Riya, a 10th standard student of Government Model Co-education Sr. Sec. School, Jalandhar was happy to use the application. She says that she and her younger brother are studying with the help of EduCare while enjoying other activities at home. “The best part of the app is that lectures and videos of all the presently uploaded subjects are available anytime. So one can study at any given time even if they have missed daily assignments” she says. Palakdeep Kaur and Sukhminder Kaur, 10+2 students of Government Sr. Sec. School, Chhehrata of the border city Amritsar also said that the App has made study easier in times when it is not clear when schools will open.


    (Riya, School Student)


    https://twitter.com/PIBChandigarh/status/1286254679404326912 (Riya, School Student)


    Kanchan Sharma, a Science teacher in Govt. Middle School, Village Kangniwal, Jalandhar said that it is like opening up your school bag. All the material is available in the form of e-books and videos. Any student up to 12th standard can directly go to the academic material of her class without opening all the subjects of all the classes. She informed that the lectures telecast on Doordarshan are also being uploaded in the app for access to those students who have not attended classes on television. She said that the less privileged students are more-happy with this innovative software.


    (Kanchan Sharma, Science Teacher, Jalandhar)


    https://twitter.com/PIBChandigarh/status/1286258668573356032


    (Kanchan Sharma, Science Teacher, Jalandhar)


    This app has already been downloaded by about 3,00,000 students from GoogleApp Store “not only in Punjab but also in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Uttarakhand and Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir”, says Sh. Krishan Kumar, Secretary Education, Punjab. He said since the syllabus of NCERT and Punjab and some other states is common so students from other states are also taking its benefit. Sh. Kumar said that those students who have returned to their native places in Bihar because of lockdown, are also taking its help to continue their studies so that they should not lag behind on their to Punjab.


    (Sh. Krishan Kumar, Secretary Education, Punjab)


    https://twitter.com/PIBChandigarh/status/1286261651138736129


    (Sh. Krishan Kumar, Secretary Education, Punjab)


    Developed as Padho Punjab-Padhao Punjab App by four Jalandhar-based government school teachers, Chander Shekhar, Jaswinder Singh, Deepak Kumar and Harjit Bawa, it caught the attention of Punjab Education Secretary, Sh. Krishan Kumar who persuaded them to make it of state level. Deepak Kumar said that the whole material in the form of written and videos loaded on the app is NCERT approved. “The main motto of the team was to bring teachers and students on one platform to create mutual understanding for better education during the pandemic time”, he added.


    *****


    DS/PS/RB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1640755) Visitor Counter : 7
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi