      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PM congratulates Haryana girl for performance in board examination results
      Posted On: 26 JUL 2020 7:00PM by PIB Chandigarh


    Chandigarh, July 26, 2020


    In a live interaction during his monthly Mann Ki Baat address to the nation, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today congratulated Kritika Nandal from Panipat, Haryana for her performance in the recently declared board examination results. During the interaction Ms. Nandal said she is aspiring to be a doctor. The life of a doctor is dedicated to the society and it is a 24×7, 365 days on job dedicated in service of the people, said the PM in his reply. Talking about Haryana, Shri Modi said it has always been an inspiring, encouraging state in the arena of sports in entire India. On Saturday, Haryana has been announced as the host state for the fourth edition of Khelo India Youth Games which is currently scheduled to take place after Tokyo Olympics. The Games will be held in Panchkula in Haryana.


    Our youth are coming forward from villages, from small towns and from ordinary families, said PM Shri Narendra Modi. Today, on Kargil Vijay Diwas, the PM also said on behalf of all countrymen he salutes the brave soldier and along with them the brave mothers who gave rise to the real heroes, sons of Mother India. Further, he observed that there was a time, when whether in sports or other sectors, most people were either from big cities or from famous families or from well-known schools or colleges. Now, the country is changing. New heights of success are being scaled. These people are moving forward in the midst of crises, fostering new dreams.


    The honourable PM also had interaction with students from the states of Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu; asked them about their aspirations and wished them best of luck for the future.


    ****


    DS/PS/HR


    

    
    (Release ID: 1642493) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi