      Ministry of Shipping

      SMP, Kolkata Commissions Outer Mooring Terminal at its HDC Complex with Berthing of M. T. Qian Tai 1
      Posted On: 02 JUL 2020 7:49PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 02 July, 2020


    The Outer Mooring terminal at the Haldia Dock Complex (HDC) of Shyama Prasad Mookerjee Port (SMP), Kolkata was commissioned with the berthing of the Chemical/Oil Products Tanker M. T. Qian Tai 1 today in the morning. The vessel carried 12000 MT of crude Palm oil. In order to achieve exponential growth in cargo throughput as well as to optimise Lock operation window, an Off-Shore Mooring and Cargo Handling Facility has been constructed North of Berth-18 (O) (erstwhile HOJ-III) at a cost of Rs.3.8 crores.


    This jetty will be able to handle around 1 MMT of cargo which otherwise would have been handled inside the Dock. This diversion of cargo will free up infrastructure by means of lock operation windows, availability of berths and reduction of movements inside the Impounded Dock, which will be utilized for handling additional Dry Bulk Cargo vessels carrying higher parcel load as well as achieving higher productivity. It is expected that through this freeing up of infrastructure, an additional 1.5 MMT of cargo can be handled inside the Impounded Dock. Besides, edible oil vessels, which were being handled at Berth No.18 (O) will shift to this facility once LPG handling is started there because edible oil is an unclassified product and ranks much lower in calling / sailing priority w.r.t. LPG. Thus, not only alternate infrastructure has been created for edible oil tankers, there would be significant reduction in TRT of such tankers since they will not be required to travel through the lock gate for berthing and un-berthing.


    Shri Vinit Kumar, Chairman, SMP, Kolkata thanked specially the marine and the engineering team of HDC and Traffic led by Dy. Chairman, SMP, Kolkata for their excellent support and hard work put in this endeavour. Shri Kumar further stated that despite all odds and challenges in the trade, Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port, Kolkata including KDS and HDC could be sustained by unflinching customer support, owned over the years through strategic planning and marketing drive.


    So far as the ship is concerned, its International Maritime Organisation or IMO number is 9531727 and was built in 2016. The ship carried the flag of Liberia and is 135 metres long.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1635967) Visitor Counter : 3