      Ministry of Railways

      SER MANUFACTURES 1.17 LAKHS OF FACE MASKS AND MORE THAN 10 THOUSAND LITRES OF SANITISER TO COMBAT COVID-19 PANDEMIC
      Posted On: 03 JUL 2020 5:32PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 03 July, 2020


    South Eastern Railway (SER) has taken adequate measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic by making all out efforts to supplement the healthcare initiatives by producing huge face masks and sanitisers. SER has utilised these face masks and sanitisers for safety and protection of its employees and the RPF personnel. Reusable face masks and sanitisers are produced mainly at its four divisions namely Kharagpur, Adra, Ranchi and Chakradharpur in addition to the Kharagpur Workshop. The masks and sanitiser are prepared under the strict supervision and guidance of the Medical Department of SER.


    All the divisional units of SER and Kharagapur Workshop have taken major initiatives to gear up their machineries and produced 1,17,945 reusable face masks and 10,338 litres of hand sanitiser so far.


    To provide extensive support to its employees, SER distributed reusable face masks and hand sanitiser amongst the frontline staff like loco pilots, guards and concerned staff engaged in running of the freight, parcel and special trains for ensuring their protection from the pandemic. It was planned to distribute masks and hand sanitiser to all the employees of SER also.


    This apart, masks and sanitiser are also sent to the health units and hospitals lying under SER jurisdiction. During this situation, wearing face masks and use of hand sanitiser became compulsory across the country. The masks are largely made using cotton material with straps for adjustment and can be reused after proper washing. Hand sanitiser is generally used to decrease infectious agents on the hands. In-house production of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Kits also started at Kharagpur Workshop and Kharagpur Divisional Unit of SER for supporting the doctors, nurses and other healthcare personnel during the treatment of COVID-19 infected people.


    SER’s in-house production not only ensures timely supply of the masks, sanitiser and PPEs to the frontline staff and healthcare personnel but also results in substantial cost savings.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1636183) Visitor Counter : 2