      Ministry of Education

      IN A UNIQUE GESTURE AN ORGANISATION OF KRISHNANAGAR PROVIDING FREE EDUCATION TO THE STUDENTS OF HIGHER CLASSES DURING LOCKDOWN
      Posted On: 03 JUL 2020 2:24PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 03 July, 2020


    The story of Tapas Mullick and his Biswa Banchao Samity can be considered as a unique illustration of humanity where they are doing their best to provide education to the needy students at the time of lockdown.


    Time and again during his addresses to the nation, the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has always requested the communities, the villagers, the neighbours and others to band together and support each other in this extraordinary and unprecedented situation. It is deeply inspiring to see, thousands of acts of compassion, sympathy and kindness, all around us. Farmers distributed their produce free of cost to vulnerable families in their townships and villages, neighbours, who had hardly enough to feed their own families, shared whatever they had. Hundreds of social organizations stepped forward to support the ill-fated people with essential commodities. It was seen in Sundarban that an NGO had dedicated his entire guest house to accommodate number of medicos and paramedics, so that they didn’t have to travel long distances to attend their duties by putting their life at risk of infection.


    Such is the story of Biswa Banchao Samiti, but in a different way. Tapas Mullick is a trader in Krishnanagar, a cultured and sophisticated town in Nadia district of West Bengal. The gloomy atmosphere prevailing around motivated Tapas and his co-warriors to jump into the humanitarian activities. As Tapas puts ‘Actually I got thoroughly depressed seeing the people all around me losing their source of income and somehow managing to survive. Interestingly the farmers and the self-employed people tried to manage with the government’s package and other sources of sustenance but the people who used to work in small organizations lost their jobs and were in deep misery. In this situation I requested my friends and neighbors to come forward with whatever they could provide to save these people, mainly the students who were studying in higher classes, i.e. from class nine to twelve’. Slowly and steadily, the local people started contributing in the best possible way. ‘Initially I started alone but now I have around 70 people with me’ said Tapas, one of the main person behind the formation of Biswa Banchao Samity. The organization inculcated a noble idea of providing education to the local poor students who could not afford to attend the online classes. He and his team requested Bindubasini Primary School management to provide their classrooms during the lock down period to help them to start free coaching classes, after adhering to all stipulated guidelines and protocol issued by the government, for the poor and needy students who had to give up their studies due to cash crunch. The management promptly accepted their request and permitted them to start classes.


    Now, around 120 students from different schools take coaching from the renowned teachers like Biplab Mazumdar, Sukamal Biswas, Achintya Mazumdar and others. Around 35 teachers from Bhaluka Uchchya Vidyalaya, Belpukur Uchchya Vidyalaya, Surya Sen Uchchya Vidyalaya and other schools have come forward with all available teaching resources to provide voluntary service to the students. The centre runs from 11 a.m to 2 p.m to teach the students from class nine to twelve in different batches. The students have been provided with the exercise books, pens, masks and essentially the soaps and the sanitizers. Tapas informed that they have also organized blood donation camp for the thalassemia patients, provided cooked food during lockdown, organized health camp for the mother and child and hoping to do lot more in future.


    SDG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1636115) Visitor Counter : 15
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali