      Ministry of Railways

      SER DEPLOYS DRONES & SNIFFER DOGS TO GUARD RAILWAY ASSETS AMID LOCKDOWNS
      Posted On: 10 JUL 2020 5:04PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 10 July, 2020


    Railway Protection Force (RPF) of South Eastern Railway (SER) has played a significant role in providing security to railway passengers as well as in guarding its property and vast installations. In the wake of COVID-19 pandemic followed by lockdowns, the movement of passenger trains remained suspended but the movement of Time Tabled Parcel Express Trains for transportation of essential commodities is still continuing. RPF Personnel of SER, during the lockdowns were engaged on duty for protecting the Railway assets. In such a situation, RPF personnel performed their duties round the clock with a view to guard and protect all the railway properties spreading over four divisions viz Kharagpur, Adra, Chakradharpur and Ranchi in the States of West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. Since physical surveillance was somehow difficult, SER’s RPF personnel deployed Drones for the security of the huge railway assets. The drones kept watchful eyes day and night in the entire network of SER. These drones were used mainly at Yard Signalling Infrastructures, Wagon Stocks, Good Sheds, Station Relay Rooms and the like. Keeping overall surveillance round the clock on the fixed and moving railway assets was a challenging task during the lockdowns. RPF Personnel deployed the drones to optimise the Security Personnel’s effectiveness and proactivity. With the help of the drone cameras, the images of railway areas were captured to give the clear view of the area within a radius of 2 kilometres from the suitable heights. This apart, Sniffer dogs were also deployed to detect the explosives, theft, criminal activities and security of the railway assets during the lockdowns.


    


    Along with this, SER’s RPF Personnel performed their multifarious duties. They turned Samaritans to provide meals and food packets to the needy and helpless people in the vicinity of railway areas. To prevent the spread of Coronavirus, RPF personnel manufactured face masks and sanitisers as in-house production. These face masks and sanitisers were distributed amongst the RPF constables and their wards and who in turn raised awareness about the threat of the Covid-19 and the relevance of social distancing. Shramik Specials were run to transport the migrant workers from various parts of the country. These Shramik Special trains were escorted by RPF Personnel over the SER during the lockdowns. Some special trains are running towards different cities of the country also. There are provisions of Thermal Screening at all the entry points of the stations. SER’s Security personnel manned the entry points and permitted the passengers to entry and exit. They also awared the passengers for inculcating amongst themselves the habit of wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing as precautionary measures to contain the spread of COVID-19.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1637773) Visitor Counter : 16