      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      ‘Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge’ to encourage Business Ecosystem and Enable Startups to Harness Technology for Competitive Advantage opines Experts
      Posted On: 12 JUL 2020 3:28PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 12 July, 2020


    Apps Startups sector will get an encouragement towards infrastructural development of technology ecosystem to innovate, develop and promote homegrown apps by the Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge . In a Webinar organised by Press Information Bureau, Kolkata on the topics today, experts from Technology, Industry along with academicians deliberated and discussed about the potential of Indian Apps and the future of these apps from the economic, technology and policy perspective.


    Recently, with an objective to support and build a strong ecosystem for Indian Apps, MeitY in partnership with Atal Innovation Mission – Niti Aayog had announced a Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge for Indian tech entrepreneurs and Startups.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri K Ramchand, Member(Technology), Department of Telecommunications, Ministry of Communication said that the Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge is one of the initiatives of the Central Government to encourage development of Apps in the country. He said that it would usher in a infrastructure development in technology sector, in synergy with other initiatives such as Make in India, Start Up India and Stand Up India, Digital India, Atal Tinkering Lab among others.


    Shri YGSC Kishore Babu, DDG, Department of Telecommunications, Ministry of Communication emphasised that Indian Apps has the potential to be a Game Changer and competitive in global market place with the development of these robust and technology apps. He said that potential of these apps are in multiple sectors be it - Office Productivity and Work from Home Apps, Social Networking, E-Learning, Entertainment, Health and Wellness, Business including Agritech and Fin-tech, News and Games, among others.


    Shri Devendra V Nagavenkar, Commissioner Kolkata(South) Commissionerate, said just as GST has been a Game Changer in the economic parlance with various reforms, he emphasised that E-Commerce and Apps has huge potential and these would open a portal for economic development. He said that the GST department would provide help and facilitate the startup companies so that young entrepreneurs are encouraged in this sector. He said recent initiatives of E-invoicing are endeavours in that direction.


    Shri K Surya Teja, Additional Commissioner, CGST, Principal Chief Commissioner’s office, Kolkata said that the tax reforms are a constant endeavour to encourage the business ecosystem for development of the country.


    Dr. Raja Datta, Professor, Electronics and Electrical Communication Engineering, IIT Kharagpur said that the initiative of the Central Government in this sector is a WIN-WIN scenario for technology value chain stakeholders. Speaking with optimism on the Competitive advantage in technology arena and India’s Strengthens in Apps Market, he said that educational institutes such as Indian Institute of Technology have the Human Resources potential and the talent for development of Apps.


    Dr. Pulak Mishra, Professor of Economics, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences,IIT Kharagpur said that Indian app market has an economic dimension too. He said that the decision of development of apps in Indian market would encourage a competitive atmosphere for the Indian technology professionals to develop Apps for each market segment and all age groups. Dr Mishra said that it would be of Economic and Social Advantage for the development for Indian market. He said that India has the potential to be a global leader in Apps Market also.


    Dr. Ajit Phadnis, Assistant Professor in Policy, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences Area, IIM Indore, delved into the Macro-economic scenario of the country and said that management and policy developments should be dovetailed for the growth and development of the country. He said that the scope of Apps is immense in India, for example Health and Wellness sector, Infotainment and E-learning, among others. He said development of Indian Apps with the decision of Government on Apps, should address the requirements and demand of youth and citizens of the country so that all are benefitted.


    Dr. Mrinal Chatterjee, Professor, IIMC Dhenkanal said that the media and its role is always evolving and demanding- so the apps have to be technological versatile and address the issues of fake news and disinformation. He said that proliferation of apps has effect on quality of news and performance of apps. For effective and efficacious news and media communication, technology and media-savvy professionals have to be constantly trained of latest technology so that information is timely and accurate.


    Providing an industry perspective, Shri Saurav Chakrabarti, VP, Tata Teleservices Ltd., said that Quality and better resilient Apps would be a game changer and provide the competitive advantage for the Indian start-ups to perform in global market. He said that quality of services would also be important for the Indian players to be competitive.


    The entire webinar was planned and coordinated by Shri Samrat Bandyopadhyay, Deputy Director (M & C), PIB, Kolkata. Along with eminent journalists, Shri Arimardan Singh, Additional Director General, PIB Ranchi as well as Smt. Srijata Saha Sahoo, Media and Communication Officer, PIB, Kolkata were also present on the occasion.


    SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1638134) Visitor Counter : 146
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali