      Ministry of Railways

      SER BHARAT SCOUTS & GUIDES PROVIDES FOOD AND RATION TO NEEDY PEOPLE IN & AROUND ITS STATIONS
      Posted On: 12 JUL 2020 5:12PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 12 July, 2020


    South Eastern Railway (SER) Bharat Scouts & Guides played a crucial role in services to the needy community people during the lockdowns in the wake of the national crisis due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. SER Bharat Scouts & Guides, the disciplined voluntary organisation with full of patriotism for serving the nation delivered their yeoman’s service in this difficult situation to save the lives of the starving people spread over its network in its four Divisions viz. Kharagpur, Adra, Chakradharpur, Ranchi along with the other units.


    Ever since the lockdown was imposed due to the outbreak of the Novel Coronavirus, SER Bharat Scouts & Guides distributed 76,821 cooked meals with variety of items in veg and non-veg and 3,16,084 dry ration packets comprising rice, pulses, spices, onions, potatoes, soya beans, garlic, edible oil etc. to the helpless, needy & wretched community people in the vicinity of railway areas all over its jurisdiction. The too badly affected people are mainly daily wage workers, rickshaw pullers, coolies and their families and also slum dwellers, beggars, vagabonds etc. When people dared not to come outside their homes, the Rangers, Rovers and other young Scouts & Guides of SER assisted the downtrodden and poorer sections of the society.


    Apart from this, SER Bharat Scouts & Guides produced and distributed 25,876 face masks amongst the helpless and poor people to contain the spread of COVID-19. SER Scouters conducted many mass awareness campaigns regarding wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing amongst the surrounding community people. SER Bharat Scouts & Scouts also arranged Blood Donation Camps for the needy and serious patients of the State. That was done to uplift the morale of the poorer sections of the society.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1638165) Visitor Counter : 34