      Ministry of Communications

      DEPARTMENT OF POSTS CONDUCTS PHOTOGRAPHY COMPETITION FOR ISSUING STAMPS ON INDEPENDENCE DAY
      Posted On: 14 JUL 2020 10:12PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 14 July, 2020


    Philately Division, of the Department of Posts is conducting a national level Photography Competition to mark the Independence Day 2020. The theme for the Competition is “UNESCO World Heritage sites in India (cultural)”. The Competition which is open to all the Indian citizens is being organized for issuing commemorative stamps on the occasion of the Independence Day based on the best entry. The first prize will be a cash award of Rs. 50,000/-. Last date of submission of the entry is 27 th July, 2020.


    The department has set the following terms and conditions for participating in the competition:-


    1. Each participant has to click one photograph on the related theme and soft copy (JPG file) of that may be uploaded at MyGov portal.


    2. The photo should be clicked by the participant himself/ herself and it should not have been previously published in any print or digital media.


    3. Competition is open to all Indian Citizens/Institutions residing within and outside India.


    4. All entries are governed by the provisions of Emblems and Names (Prevention of improper use) Act, 1950 and any violation of the said Act will result in disqualification.


    5. In case of any copyright issues or any other similar issues, the participant/applicant will be responsible to settle any legal proceedings arising out of it at his/her end. DoP and MyGov will not be responsible for any such issues.


    6. Plagiarism of any nature is not allowed. Anyone found infringing upon others’ copyright would be disqualified from the contest.


    7. The participant should make sure that his / her MyGov profile is accurate and updated for further communication. This includes details such as name, latest photo, country declaration, complete postal address, email ID and phone number. Entries with incomplete profiles would not be considered.


    8. There will be no notification to participants of rejected entries.


    9. DoP reserves the right to cancel or amend all or any part of this Contest and/ or Terms and Conditions/ Technical Parameters/ Evaluation Criteria. However, any changes to the Terms and Conditions/ Technical Parameters/ Evaluation Criteria, or the cancellation of the Contest, will be updated/ posted on the MyGov platform. It would be the responsibility of the participant to keep himself/herself informed of any changes in the Terms and Conditions/ Technical Parameters/ Evaluation Criteria stated for this Contest.


    10. DoP if it so decides, reserves the right not to proceed with the competition at any stage.


    11. Result will be announced by 15.08.2020 at www.indiapost.gov.in and postagestamps.gov.in


    Technical Parameters for Stamp


    1. The entry must be accompanied by a very brief write up of 50-60 words describing the subject of the photograph.


    2. A signed undertaking stating that “The photograph submitted by me is original and no copyright issues are involved” must be uploaded along with the entry. Department of Posts will not be liable for the same.


    3. Any citizen of India of any age group can participate in this contest. The entry should be such as it can be depicted on the stamps in a visually appealing manner so as to be of interest to philatelists/collectors. Participants are free to use any model of camera for clicking the picture.


    4. The following particulars are mandatory and must be uploaded on MyGov portal along with his/ her entry.


    • Name of the participant


    • Gender


    • Age


    • Nationality


    • Full and complete residential address


    • with PIN Code


    • Phone/Mobile Number


    • E-mail ID


    • Date and details of the image clicked


    • Equipment details though which photograph clicked viz camera model


    SDG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1638651) Visitor Counter : 5