      Ministry of Finance

      NABARD, WB Promotes 300 FPOs in WB, Sanctions Rs 276 crore to Govt. of WB under Micro-irrigation Fund
      
      NABARD, WBRO Considers WB Government’s Proposal for Reconstruction of Rural Infrastructure Damaged by Amphan

      Posted On: 14 JUL 2020 7:23PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, 14 July, 2020


    In the last three years, the size of business of West Bengal regional Office (WBRO) has grown from Rs 3,383 crore in 2017-18 to Rs 12,094 crore in 2019-20, registering a whopping four-fold growth. NABARD, each year sanctions more than Rs 1,200 crore to the West Bengal Government for development of rural infrastructure under its Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF). During this fiscal, NABARD has disbursed Rs 143 crore under RIDF. This was stated by Chief General Manager of NABARD Shri Subrata Mandal today, while delivering on the occasion of the 39 th Foundation Day of the Bank.


    Shri Mandal further stated that NABARD is considering the proposal of Rs 1028 crore package received from the Government of West Bengal towards reconstruction of rural infrastructure damaged by super Cyclone Amphan.


    According to Shri Mandal, in order to overcome the liquidity problem faced by the rural financial institutions due to the COVID-19 pandemic, NABARD WBRO has extended special liquidity support of Rs 1,070 crore to the financial institutions for providing credit to the farmers and self-help groups ahead of the Kharif showing, besides extending special such support of Rs 30 thousand crore to enhance the liquidity of cooperative banks, RRBs and other micro-finance institutions. Such an effort is going to benefit 3 crore farmers. Besides, the Bank in association with other banks and the State Government has initiated a drive to bring in 20 lakh non-loanee farmers under the fold of Kissan Credit Card (KCC) while implementing the programme of providing concessional credit of Rs 2 lakh crore to 25 million farmers under KCC, added.


    Shri Mandal also spoke about the NABARD’s attempt to promote Farmers Producers Organisation (FPO) for collectivisation of agri-inputs and aggregation of outputs and linking with the market, to help the farmers realise better prices and make farming profitable. Out of 7000 FPOs of the country, 300 have been promoted by NABARD in West Bengal. Shri Mandal opined that the reversed migrant workers can be engaged in FPOs for marketing farmers’ produce by giving proper training to them. At the end, he dealt with the NABARD’s initiative in helping in irrigation of the State and mentioned that the West Bengal Regional Office has sanctioned Rs 276 crore to WB under the micro irrigation fund for installation of drip and sprinkler in drought prone rain-fed areas of the State.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1638581) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali