      Ministry of Railways

      SER UNDERTAKES MASSIVE CLEANLINESS & SANITISATION DRIVE TO PREVENT THE SPREAD OF COVID-19
      Posted On: 15 JUL 2020 5:49PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 15 July, 2020


    Keeping in view of the rapid spread of COVID-19 infection, South Eastern Railway (SER) has undertaken massive cleanliness & sanitisation drive at railway offices, trains, station premises and other railway establishments. Every possible precautionary measure has been adopted by SER to provide disinfected infrastructures and clean environment to the employees for performing their regular duties.


    Cleaning staff have been engaged to spray disinfectant within the office premises, other establishments particularly on the platforms and railway surroundings. Arrangements have also been made to clean the coaches using disinfectant during the sanitization activities. Regular cleaning, sanitisation & disinfection of all the offices, stations, depots, colonies, control offices etc have been made mandatory over SER’s jurisdiction. This intensive cleanliness and sanitisation drive is being monitored at the apex level. The employees who are engaged in this mission are advised to maintain social distancing and use face covers. Thermal screening of all staff is being carried out daily and they are also counseled to adopt health safety measures. Mass awareness campaigns are conducted following the Covid-19 guidelines.


    The frontline staff including Loco Pilots, Guards, Station Managers, Yard Masters, Controllers, Traffic Inspectors etc are on round the clock duty for maintaining uninterrupted supply of essential commodities to different parts of the country through Parcel Express trains and Freight trains. They are also involved in running of the Special trains transporting passengers on different routes. These frontline staffs are provided with face masks, sanitisers, soaps and gloves to safeguard themselves from the deadly pandemic. Doctors, nurses, paramedics and other healthcare personnel are also provided with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) produced in-house. Employees and other stakeholders without face covers are not allowed to enter the railway offices and premises. SER is determined to continue with regular cleaning and sanitisation process and ready to combat any adverse situation during the pandemic.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1638796) Visitor Counter : 17