      Ministry of Shipping

      SYAMA PRASAD MOOKERJEE PORT, KOLKATA (ERSTWHILE KOLKATA PORT TRUST)
      Posted On: 16 JUL 2020 8:59PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, July 16, 2020


    Today i.e. 16.7.2020 is a historic day in the maritime relations of India and Bangladesh. Aligning with the Hon’ble Prime Minister’s Look East policy, India signed an MoU with Bangladesh in 2015 for the movement of Indian goods in Bangladesh through waterways, rail, road or multimodal transport. Under the dynamic leadership of Shri Mansukh Mandaviya, Hon’ble Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Ministry of Shipping and Minister of State for Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, Govt.of India and guidance of Dr. Sanjeev Ranjan, Secretary, Ministry of Shipping, Govt. of India, the agreement in 2018 and SOP in 2019 has permitted today I.e. 16.7.2020, the first movement of containers from Kolkata to Tripura through Chattogram Port in Bangladesh.


    Hon'ble Union Minister of State ( Independent Charge) for Ministry of Shipping and Minister of State for Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, Shri Mansukh Mandaviya Flagged off the journey through Web VC. Shri Vinit Kumar, Chairman, SMP, Kolkata and other senior officers were present at the function at Kolkata Dock System.


    Opening of this route strengthens the long-standing friendship between India and Bangladesh. This multimodal route is a win-win situation for both the countries. For India, the route would reduce distance, time and logistic cost for transportation of goods to and from North-East. Job creation, boosting investment in logistics sector, integration of supply chain facilities and promotion of business services such as transport, insurance are the major advantages for Bangladesh.


    Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port, Kolkata is proud to be part of this first movement of transit goods to Tripura. The port is coordinating this movement with the help of High Commission of India at Dhaka and Chattogram Port Authority at Bangladesh. Customs authorities, Govt. of Tripura, and Land Port Authority are also providing necessary help in the matter.


    The vessel MV Shejyoti, operated by CJ-Darcl and Pennon Shipping will carry four transit containers laden with TMT steel bars from Tata Steel and pulses from ETC Agro Processing. At Chattogram Port, the containers will be offloaded and loaded on trailers. From Chattogram Port, the containers will travel through road and cover the distance of 200 Km to reach Agartala.


    In future, a substantial quantity of rice, wheat, pulses, steel and project cargo is expected to be transported to North-East region using this multimodal route.


    CG/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1639180) Visitor Counter : 4