      Ministry of Railways

      SER UNDERTAKES MASSIVE ASSET MAINTENANCE WORKS DURING LOCKDOWNS
      Posted On: 23 JUL 2020 7:20PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 22 July, 2020


    South Eastern Railway (SER) has taken major steps for Assets Maintenance works during the lockdowns in several areas like, in train movement, maintenance works of rail tracks, minor and major railway bridges, level crossing overhauling, renewal of sleepers, painting of rails in corroded areas, greasing of joints, raising of lines, railway bridge rehabilitation works, renewal of crossings, road safety works and the like.


    The rail routes of SER have high density of freight and passenger trains. A large number of Mail/Express, Passenger and Goods trains are running over them daily. Monitoring and assets maintenance is a continuous process. SER is taking all possible steps in the asset maintenance works in every area of its jurisdiction. The maintenance work of as many as 58 major bridges has been completed. Altogether 1578 numbers of points and crossings and 767 curves have been thoroughly inspected by the railway engineers. Considering the on-going monsoon season, the monitoring and maintenance of Railway Bridges has been taken special care of.


    The other works like level crossing gates overhauling, renewal of sleepers, raising of platforms, road safety works, Foot Over Bridge girdering, renovations of stations toilets etc have been done during the lockdowns. The teams of railway engineers are working round the clock to keep safe, secured and well-maintained railway track.


    The Engineering Department of SER has laid emphasis on railway track maintenance and renewal works. These lengthy and massive railway assets maintenance works are supervised and maintained by engineers, section engineers, track-men having vast experience of keeping tracks in good and safe condition. In the wake of COVID-19 pandemic resulting lockdowns, SER has been running a number of Parcel Express Trains for uninterrupted supply of essential commodities and pharmaceuticals to the people across the country. In this situation, SER men and engineers engaged in maintenance works are wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing for smooth and safe running of SER’s Parcel Express Trains, Special Trains and for the readiness to run more trains.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1640723) Visitor Counter : 3