      Ministry of Railways

      ER’S RPF CONTINUES TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO THE PASSENGERS AND DISTRESSED PERSONS
      Posted On: 22 JUL 2020 7:37PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 22 July, 2020


    As a part of Eastern Railway (ER)’s initiatives to extend helping hands and security for the passengers, ER’s Railway Protection Force (RPF) is keeping on providing assistance to the passengers in distress as well as maintaining safety of the passengers. Besides, ER’s RPF is continuing their vigilance to stop crime against women and children and rescued many teenage girls.


    Moreover, ER’s RPF has distributed food among innumerable needy people during the lockdown period as a part of ER’s effort to provide square meals to the destitute persons. During the lockdown period ER’s RPF distributed cooked food & food grains to 2,00,522 persons at different places over its network, till June, 2020.


    Some of the recent incidents where RPF appeared as a saviour are detailed as under:


    i) On July 9, 2020, RPF Post/Asansol West rescued and rendered assistance to an expectant mother, suffering with labour pain & delivered a baby in the circulating area of Asansol Railway station. She was shifted to S.D. Hospital/ASN for medical aid & treatment.


    ii) Acting on information shared by local PS with photograph of a teenage girl reported abducted & registration of case, RPF escort official of RPF Post/Bhagalpur conducted through search of special train and rescued the girl from a person in coach of the said train. The rescued girl and the detained person as suspected accused were handed over to Local Police.


    iii) On July 16, 2020, acting on information of train escort officials of Train No. 02307 UP (Howrah-Jodhpur Special Train) regarding separation of a teenage girl from her family at Howrah Railway station, RPF Howrah North searched and rescued the girl from North Portico of Howrah Railway station. Later she was handed over safely to her mother after proper verification and documentation.


    iv) On July 20, 2020, acting on information of a person, RPF Personnel rescued a runaway teenage girl aged about 19 years at Jamtara Railway station. The rescued girl was handed over to her father after due verification and documentation.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1640479) Visitor Counter : 2