      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      AAI Informs its Stand on Fake Recruitment Advertisements Published in its Name
      Posted On: 27 JUL 2020 8:39PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 27 July, 2020


    Airport Authority of India (AAI) has noticed that some unscrupulous agencies or persons are fraudulently offering false employment opportunities in Airports Authority of India (AAI) by using its logo. These agencies have been conducting telephonic interviews and receiving money from the candidates as caution deposit by making false promises of securing a job in AAI.


    AAI has cautioned all the job aspirants to remain aware when these persons ask for sensitive personal or financial information and seek payments for job offers.


    AAI has also noticed that certain unidentified websites are showing AAI's vacancy position on their website. AAI would like to bring to the notice of all job aspirants and the general public that recruitment in AAI is carried out through a well - established selection procedure consisting of written test, personal interview, medical fitness, GATE score etc. The authority has clarified that no website or agency has been authorized by AAI either to show vacancy positions on its site or to accept any application for recruitment. All the vacancies & recruitment in AAI are notified on AAI's website only and also in Employment News/Rojgar Samachar and other leading Indian dailies. The link to apply for AAI vacancies is available only on AAI's official website www.aai.aero and not on any other website. The application fee is payable at the time of Online Registration and no other payments are sought at any stages of recruitment by AAI.


    In this situation, AAI has informed all concerned to exercise caution and not to be misled by false advertisements. AAI has also made a clear statement that it will not remain responsible to the person duped in any way for any loss and /or damage caused by the action of unscrupulous elements and advised to inform the nearest Police Station so that police authority may take appropriate action.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1641640) Visitor Counter : 1