      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Consumer Protection Act, 2019 to empower consumers and help them in protecting their rights, says Shri Raosaheb Patil Danve
      Posted On: 26 JUL 2020 1:50PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 26 July, 2020


    Consumer Protection Act 2019 would be a vital tool in protecting consumer rights, as it provides for simplifying the consumer dispute adjudication process, Union Minister of State for Consumer Affairs and Food and Public Distribution, Shri Raosaheb Patil Danve, said this while inaugurating a knowledge session cum Webinar organised by Press Information Bureau, Kolkata today. Shri Danve said that with the passage of the Consumer Protection Act 2019 in the Indian Parliament and a notification by the central government, the Act has come into force from July 2020. Now it is the collective responsibility of the Centre and the State to ensure that the Act is enforced in an appropriate manner, he said. Shri Danve urged the West Bengal State Government and its Chief Minister to facilitate the implementation of the Act in West Bengal.


    Speaking on the occasion, a senior official of Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution explaining the provision of the Act, Shri G.C. Rout said that advantages are multi-dimensional for the stakeholders in the value chain with emphasis on Consumers. The Act has the additional advantage of providing protection to buyers not only from traditional sellers but also from the e-commerce retailers/platforms, he said.


    With optimism, Shri Taranjit Singh, MD JIS Group, said that the Act would be a Win-Win scenario for the industry sector too, in addition to the advantages for Consumers. He said that the Act would encourage industry manufacturers and service providers, among others to upgrade their Quality standards and better product/services, eventually adding to their competence in global market arena.


    A knowledge session cum Webinar organised by Press Information Bureau, Kolkata today


    Providing a judicial perspective, with emphasis on the added provisions of Product Liability in Consumer Protection Act,2019, Shri Sanyuk Banerjee, Advocate, District Judges Court, Purbo Bardhamaan, mentioned that the provisions in the Act are pertinent to the E-Commerce issues of new age consumers, which would enable them to make a more informed decision while buying products/services.


    Along with journalists and officials of Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution and Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Shri Rabindra Nath Mishra, DG(East), PIB Kolkata and Shri Arimardan Singh, Additional Director General, PIB Ranchi were also present on the occasion .


    Adding another dimension to the discussion, Dr. BT Kaul, former Chairperson, Delhi Judicial Academy (High Court of Delhi) and Former Prof. In-Charge Law Centre-II, Faculty of Law, New Delhi, said that the Consumer Protection Act,2019 is an important tool for Timely and Speedy justice to aggrieved Consumers.


    Dr. Ajay Sonawane, Assistant Professor, Faculty of Law, University of Delhi, said that the facility of Video conferring for hearing in the Act is a welcome initiative with the advancement of technology.


    A senior official of Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution explaining the provision of the Act, Shri G.C. Rout on the occasion.


    Talking about Central Consumer Protection Authority, Abdur Rahman Mallick, Advocate, Delhi High Court, said the role of Mediation and simplification of the adjudication process are some of other vital aspects of the Consumer Protection Act,2019.


    The entire webinar was planned and coordinated by Shri Samrat Bandyopadhyay, Deputy Director (M & C), PIB, Kolkata. Along with journalists and officials of Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution and Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Shri Rabindra Nath Mishra, DG(East), PIB Kolkata and Shri Arimardan Singh, Additional Director General, PIB Ranchi were also present on the occasion.


    The entire webinar was planned and coordinated by Shri Samrat Bandyopadhyay, Deputy Director (M & C), PIB, Kolkata.


    SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1641344) Visitor Counter : 140
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali