      Ministry of Railways

      SER TAKES INITIATIVES TO ENHANCE RAILWAY SAFETY
      Posted On: 29 JUL 2020 5:21PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 29 July, 2020


    South Eastern Railway (SER) has taken all out efforts to improve the safety performance in all respects. The utmost vigil in train operations and security of the travelling passengers are the basic principles of railway safety, informs the SER authority.


    Of late, several corrective measures have been adopted by SER for the safety improvement, such as, massive renewal of the railway tracks all over its jurisdiction, stringent monitoring of the safety aspects, use of modern technology for safety works, effective track maintenance, improvement of signalling systems, proper training of railway staff, switching over to the modern and safe LHB coaches in place of the conventional coaches etc.


    These apart, all unmanned level crossings have been eliminated in SER. Fifty manned level crossings have also been eliminated for the safety of road-users. Eighteen manned level crossings have been interlocked and provided with the gate stop signals to improve the confidence of the loco pilots and discipline the gateman responsible for the timely closing of gates against the road traffic. Critical OHE Mast Implantations at 642 locations have been removed to eliminate the OHE Mast hitting and improve the safety of the passenger as well as the freight trains. Thick web switches have been provided in 122 points and crossings to improve the robustness of the track in the most vulnerable areas. Block Proving Axle Counter (BPAC) has been provided in 39 block sections to ensure the closure of block sections without human element intervention. Smoke Detection System and Fire Extinguishers have been provided in 33 AC and 506 Non AC Coaches and the like.


    Besides, mock exercises, mandatory safety audit, safety seminars, counselling of the safety related staff are done in regular measures. With round the clock activities, it has been possible for SER to neutralise the railway accidents and to improve the safety performance.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1642045) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali