      PIB Headquarters

      MSME sector is the backbone of Indian Economy- G.Kishan Reddy Skills should be basic part of education-Minister The Minister attended the valedictory function of International Executive Development Programme in ni-MSME
      Posted On: 14 NOV 2019 6:14PM by PIB Hyderabad


    The Minister of state for Home Affairs Shri G. Kishan Reddy said , “MSME sector is the backbone of Indian Economy” , he also said the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi is the reason behind Skill India and his contributions towards the MSME sector are immense. The minister was the chief guest at the valedictory function of Phase I of International Executive Development Programme, 2019-20 was held today. 70 International Delegates from 28 Countries derived the benefit of Indian MSME experience in the past 6 week intensive training. He congratulated all the participants who have completed their training and officials of MSME for to ensure the participants become self reliant.


    The minister said that the courses offered in MSME : Empowerment of women through enterprises, promotion and development of micro small and medium enterprises and promoting micro enterprise are in tune with the need of the time.


    The phase of development has changed during the last five and half years. Our Honourable Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi specially addresses on skill development and we have a dedicated ministry for skill development, the minister added.


    Organizations like MSME working silently and continuously for up gradation of skills and understanding of the markets, and able to provide employment for lakhs of youth in each year, the minister said. MSME sector which is vibrant and dynamic is making good strides towards promotion of entrepreneurship contributing majorly towards country’s economy.


    MSME not only played a crucial role in providing ample employment opportunities but also helped in industrialization of the rural and backward areas thereby reducing regional imbalances assuring more equitable distribution of national income and wealth.


    The minister is of the opinion that the skills should be basic part of education; every child should acquire one or more skill. The new education policy in India has understood this issue positively. Education to become holistic we need to have better integration with skills driven by technological changes. The world is witnessing rapid progress. The issue here is not employment but employability which depends on knowledge in the core demand skill invasion.


    There are 63.4 million MSMEs in India which contributes around 29% of India’s GDP, 49 % of exports, MSME sector is considered as the backbone of Indian economy, as it provides employment to 111 million people, said Shri Reddy.


    He lauded the measures taken in regard to the MSME sector mentioning a few: Atal innovation Centre for technology support, MUDRA Bank to provide funding support, aspire to improve social and economic life in rural India, 25% procurement of MSME by Public sector enterprises E-Biz Portal for Marketing support and new portal sanctioning 1 crore loan in 59 mins etc.. Govt has taken measures to help social security for MSME and unrecognised sectors.


    The minister said the Government organisations not only alone impart skills but also corporate sector also become an active part of developing skills and should become a source of employment generation. We welcome and support all the entrepreneurs to do business in India, he added.


    Shri Hemendra K Sharma, Director, Ministry of external affairs, Sri Chandrasekhar, Director General, MSME and other officials of MSME were present on the occasion.


    ***


    

    
    (Release ID: 1591650) Visitor Counter : 352
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu