      PIB Headquarters

      CONSTITUTION DAY - PHOTO EXHIBITION ORGANISED BY ROB AT ARTS COLLEGE
      Posted On: 26 NOV 2019 7:19PM by PIB Hyderabad


    A three day photo exhibition on the Indian Constitution has been organised today by Regional Outreach Bureau, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, at Arts College, Osmania University, on the occasion of Constitution Day.


    
    Dr.Ch. Gopal Reddy, Registrar , Osmania University, lighted the lamp and inaugurated the exhibition. Dr.Ch. Gopal Reddy read out the Preamble of the Constitution, which was repeated by the people present.


    
    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Reddy said that, our Constitution keeps us united despite the diversity in culture, language, and regions.He said that the Constitution has provided stable government to our country, and India is about to becomes a 5 trillion dollar economy soon.


    Pro Vice Chancellor of Western Sydney University, Ms.Linda, who was a guest at the function, said the progress, any country has achieved is built on the principles laid out in the Constitution. India has a lot to celebrate, she said, 70 years of Democracy, Growth, Freedom and Partnerships.India is a fine example of a country, united amidst its diversities, she said.


    Shri S.Venkateshwar, Director General, Press Information Bureau, Hyderabad, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, said that our founding fathers have enshrined the principles of equality, justice, and liberty, fraternity for the people in our Constitution.


    Prof K.Nageshwar, Department of Communication and Journalism, Osmania University, Hyderabad said that despite the apprehensions of the leaders of many countries, our constitution has stood the test of time. He said our Constitution was considered too large, too wide, too rigid and too superfluous, to survive.


    Contrary to these beliefs, ours is one of the 192 Constitutions in the world, which has survived for 70 years. A study of Constitutions of 792 countries, framed between 1786-2006, has shown that the average life of a Constitution is 17 years. Unlike those, our Constitution framed by the likes of Dr.B.R.Ambedkar, a legal luminary par excellence, is particularly significant for both it's longevity and durability.


    Prizes were distributed to the winners of the Essay Writing competition conducted by ROB o this occasion. Artistes of the Song & Drama Division of ROB, presented a cultural programme.


    The photo exhibition show cases rare black and white photographs of Dr Ambedkar, his teachings, and his works.


    Prof D.Ravinder,Principal, Arts College, Osmania University ,.Prof Stevenson, Head,Dept of Journalism, Shri P.Ratnakar,Dy Director,PIB, Dr Manas Krishnakant, Asst Director, ROB, Shri G.Koteswara Rao,FPO,ROB, Shri Ardha Srinivas,FPO,ROB also participated


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593623) Visitor Counter : 81
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu