      Ministry of Communications

      The Governor of Maharashtra inaugurates a two-day philately exhibition ‘Mumbaipex 2019’ on the theme ‘Gandhi and Mumbai’
      Posted On: 06 NOV 2019 5:25PM by PIB Mumbai


    A two-day district level philately exhibition – ‘Mumbaipex 2019’ was inaugurated by the Governor of Maharashtra, Shri Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Shree Sunderbai Hall, Churchgate in Mumbai today. The exhibition being a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his 150th birth anniversary, the main theme of the exhibition is ‘Gandhi and Mumbai’. On this occasion, the Governor and Chief Post Master General, Maharashtra and Goa Circle, Shri Harish Chandra Agarwal released a special cover made exclusively from dry leaves that signifies Gandhi’s philosophy and approach to environment. Shri Koshiyari was presented one inland card on the occasion.


    Paying tributes to Gandhiji, the Governor said, Mahatma Gandhi’s ideals were rooted in the glorious past, but he lived in the present and thought of the future. Congratulating the Department of Posts for promoting the idea of writing at least one post card or letter by November 30, the Governor said he will write one post card himself. He said, the arrival of mobile phones and internet has led people to forget the pleasure of writing a letter.


    This apart, renowned chef Shri Sanjeev Kapoor, who was present amongst the dignitaries on the occasion, released another special cover on traditional Maharashtrian cuisine. Shri Kapoor said, Maharashtra has a very rich food culture with wide variety of food.


    Speaking on the occasion, Post Master of Mumbai Region, Smt. Swati Pandey said, this Philately Exhibition has 192 frames from different groups. She said, postal department aims to raise awareness amongst the younger generations about the relevance and significance of philately.


    A Special Cover dedicated to Shri Shriram Velankar, the Father of Pincode System will be released tomorrow (7th November).


    Eminent Gandhian Dhirubhai Mehta and Honorary Secretary of Mani Bhavan Gandhi Sangrahalaya Dr. Usha Thakker were also present amongst the dignitaries.


    ***


    RT/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1590639) Visitor Counter : 174