      Ministry of Shipping

      Cruise tourism has huge potential for development and generating employment: Shri Mansukh L. Mandaviya
      Posted On: 08 NOV 2019 5:57PM by PIB Mumbai


    Huge potential for further development of cruise tourism exists in the country, said Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Shipping Shri Mansukh L. Mandaviya, here today. The Minister was briefing mediapersons onboard the Costa Victoria, a foreign cruise ship having capacity of carrying 2400 passengers, that has arrived at the Mumbai port today. The Minister said, cruise tourism can become a major source of employment because of its labour-intensive nature. Shri Mandaviya remarked that, today 2.30 lakh Indian seafarers are serving in the global shipping industry. Hence, the Centre is facilitating growth in this sector by way of creating synergy between the various stakeholders of this industry like cruise companies, tour operators immigration and customs department and so on, said the Minister.


    Stating that the number of foreign cruises home-porting in India has significantly gone up in the past few years, Shri Mandaviya added, the Union Government has taken measures to attract foreign cruises to the country. Guaranteed berths to cruise ships, removal of ousting charges, e-visa and visa on arrival facilities, exemption of biometrics for 3 years for ease of travel, single e-landing card, upgradation and modernization of all cruise terminals have boosted the industry.


    The Minister said, the Centre is focusing on developing both coastal as well as inland waterways so that cruise tourism can thrive well. The Government has also identified tourist circuits for this purpose. In Maharashtra, Tarkarli, Murud Janjira and Ganpatipule are being seen as major destinations for development of cruise tourism.


    The Chairman of Mumbai Port Trust, Shri Sanjay Bhatia was also present on the occasion. Shri Bhatia informed, coastal traffic in Indian ports have significantly increased in the last four years.


    ***


    RT/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591049) Visitor Counter : 121
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi