      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Need to focus on new technologies and innovations for sustainable development in agriculture, tribal and rural sectors: Shri Nitin Gadkari
      Posted On: 15 NOV 2019 4:52PM by PIB Mumbai

        At a time when the cities are growing at a rapid pace, we need to have decentralization of development with focus on agriculture, tribal and rural development sectors stated Union Minister of Road Transport & Highways, Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises , Shri Nitin Gadkari at Pune today. He was speaking at the inaugural session of the second edition of Innovation Conclave organised by Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) in collaboration with the Union Ministry of MSME and Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH.

            The Minister further said, we need technologies and innovation for sustainable development of all these sectors. There is a need to have satellite centers around the cities with decentralization of industrial development, he added. He urged that industry bodies like MCCIA can play an important role in this work.


            Shri Gadkari also mentioned that the Centre is taking various initiatives like lowering the costs of logistics, power and capital to boost MSME growth in the country.


            Additional Secretary & Development Commissioner- MSME in the Union Ministry of MSME, Shri Ram Mohan Mishra said, innovation is not a choice but a necessity in present times. Businesses need to have a network of businesses to use the opportunities available as they go forward, he opined.


            The Chairman of RGSTC, Govt. of Maharashtra, Dr. Anil Kakodkar, who was present among the dignitaries, said that there are huge opportunities for creating economic wealth in rural areas for which capacity building of rural youth should be focused upon. The three segments of the economy viz agriculture, manufacturing and services, can be leveraged by rural areas and knowledge technologies which are known to support decentralization can play a vital role in this process, Dr. Kakodkar further stated.


            The dignitaries present on the occasion included the Head Private sector development –GIZ Dr. Anil Kakodkar; President MCCIA, Dr Pradeep Bhargawa among others. The conference consisted of four sessions including- Smart Manufacturing Practices, Digital Technologies, Building an Inclusive Innovation Ecosystem in India and Transformative Mobility: The Road Ahead.


            *****


            Source: Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), Pune.


    
    
    (Release ID: 1591750) Visitor Counter : 124
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi