      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Union Minister Shri Prakash Javdekar inaugurates Multimedia Exhibition at Nanded, on Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji
      Exhibition tells the story and teachings of Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji, using Virtual Reality and Projection Mapping
      
      Union Minister visits Takhat Sachkhand Sri Hazur Abchal Nagar Sahib

      Posted On: 12 NOV 2019 7:48PM by PIB Mumbai

    The Union Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar today inaugurated a ‘Multimedia Exhibition” organized at Nanded, on the occasion of the 550th birth anniversary of Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji. The exhibition is being organized at the premises of Multipurpose High School, Vazirabad, Nanded.


    Offering his tributes to Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji after inaugurating the exhibition, the Union minister said, “Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji has enlightened the world through his mantra, “One Omkar - One Truth. He has given the message of oneness. Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji's work and philosophy is a great contribution to society. Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji worked against various forms of discrimination in society.” Shri Javadekar further said that we should work together on the path of truth and honesty, espoused by Guru Nanak Dev Ji.


    After the inauguration, Mr. Javadekar offered tributes to Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji through the LED screen and took Darshan of Gurudwaras of Kartarpur Sahib and Nankana Sahib through the digital medium. He also took information about the ‘Shabad’ and ‘Four Udaasi” through the LED screen. The light-and-sound show based on the life of Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji and the mantras chanted by school students at the beginning of the main event won the hearts of all.


    Director General (West Zone), Ministry of Information Broadcasting, Shri R. N. Mishra addressed the gathering and gave information about the multimedia exhibition. The exhibition depicting the life and work of Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji will be open from 11 AM to 8.30 PM till November 18, 2019. The exhibition provides information about Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji through Virtual Reality and wireless headphones. Such an exhibition is being held for the first time in the city of Nanded. With the help of technology, the Gurudwaras of Kartarpur Saheb and Nankana Sahib can be seen in this exhibition.


    In another event, the Union Minister took Darshan of Guru Granth Sahib at Takhat Sachkhand Sri Hazur Abchal Nagar Sahib. Shri Javadekar was felicitated in the traditional manner, by giving him Kesari Chola , turban and headband.


    After the visit of Shri Guru Granth Sahib, Shri Javdekar also served at Langar. The Union Minister also planted a sapling on this occasion. A total of 550 saplings would be planted in Nanded to mark the 550 th birth anniversary of Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji.


    MP Shri Pratap Patil Chikhlikar; MLA Shri Rajesh Pawar; Mayor Mrs. Dikhsha Dhabale; Director General (West Zone), Ministry of Information Broadcasting, Shri R. N. Mishra; Additional Director General (Western Region), Ministry of Information Broadcasting, Shri D. J. Narain; Director, Regional Outreach Bureau, Pune, Shri Santosh Ajmera; District Superintendent Shri Arun Dongre; Superintendent of Police Shri Vijaykumar Magar; Takht Sachkhand Shri Gurudwara Board Superintendent Shri Gurwinder Singh Waghwa; and Zilla Parishad member Smt. Punam Pawar were also present on the occasion.


    DJM/Radhika Agor (Source – ROB Pune)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591397) Visitor Counter : 269