      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      “Monsters” speaks about things which society considers monstrous: Director Mareaus Oltaenu
      Posted On: 23 NOV 2019 4:00PM by PIB Mumbai


    Goa : 23rd Nov. 2019


    “There are many things which society considers monstrous, like homosexuality and a woman who doesn’t want to have kids, and I wanted to explore these things.” Said Mareaus Oltaenu while speaking to to the media on 23rd November at a press conference at IFFI Goa.


    Talking about his movie Monsters which is a story about relationships, tolerance and acceptance, Oltanenu said, “I wanted to explore what happens in a relationship after sometime, especially when two people are not very compatible.”


    Talking about casting for the main actors, he said, “I wanted an actress who would have the strength and vulnerability both. For the part of the man it was complicated because homosexuality is still a touchy topic and lot of actors were uncomfortable.”


    Speaking about how the film was shot in an unusual format, Oltaenu said, “I and my cinematographer Luchian Ciobanu discussed how he wanted audience to understand stuff outside the screen. The sound when they are dancing, they are happy together all forms an important part.”


    Director of Photography Lucian Ciobanu who too represented the film at the press conference, spoke about the aspect ratio. “The film was shot in full format but framing was done during editing. Everything was planned.”


    “Because I have never been in a relationship for long enough, I spoke to lot of married couples but individually and a lot of inspiration came from there, Oltaenu said while talking about the prep work for the film.


    “The film is produced with the support of the Romanian Film Center, in collaboration with the Romanian public broadcaster TVR.” Oltaenu informed.


    Historical film Baluan Sholak is based on true story of a wrestler by the same name. While Nurgeldy Sadygulov, has made many documentaries earlier, Baluan Sholak is his directorial debut in feature film.


    Talking about the film, Sadygulov said, “Baluan is a national hero. He was a musician too. He was also a person who was fighting for identity of Kazakhstan people.”


    “The film is sponsored by the government in Kazakhstan along with private funding.” He informed.Kazakistan actor Yerkebulan Daivrov who was also present, spoke about playing the real life character in the film Baluan Sholak. “Everyone knows about him in Kazakhstan. There are many plays based on his life. I have done his character in many plays and was approached to play him in film. I had to put on 15 kgs weight in a month to look like him though. Baluan could pick up 800 kgs of weights. I needed to look like someone who would have that kind of strength.” he said.


    Monsters directed by Mareaus Oltaenu is in international Competition category while Baluan Sholak directed by Nurgeldy Sadygulov is being screened in World Panorama section at IFFI.


    ***


    E.Dias/N.Sona/M.Chopade

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593235) Visitor Counter : 176
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi