      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Oththa Seruppu 7: A Solo act film’s one man show at IFFI
      
      Releasing small films a challenge, need small
      
      capsule theatres: Director R. Parthiban
      
      Posted On: 23 NOV 2019 2:06PM by PIB Mumbai


    Goa: November 23, 2019


    Imagine one man doing the screenplay, direction, production and even distribution for a two hour long cinema. And what if he is the only one who can be seen on screen in the film. Welcome to Oththa Seruppu 7 (Single size slipper 7), a Tamil solo act film by R. Parthiban which has piqued the interest of movie buffs at the 50th International Film Festival of India.


    Attending a media conference at IFFI, R. Parthiban talked about his experimental film Oththa Seruppu 7. “Oththa Seruppu 7 is a murder mystery shot in just a 500 sq feet. It is inspired by a murder which happened in Tamil Nadu year ago, “ he said. The film also holds a record for a film written, directed and acted by one person.


    The director also spoke about how it took him 15 years to get the courage to make a film like Oththa Seruppu 7. “ The sound plays a very important role in the film. Lot of characters are unseen and they are assumed only through sound. We got Resul Pookutty on board to ensure the film is technically sound”, he said.


    Replying to questions, the versatile director said that the film also deals with rich-poor divide in the country and how the economy is adversely affecting the life of middle class people.


    Recalling the difficulties faced to release such an experimental movie, R. Parthiban said that releasing small films is a big challenge everyone is facing now a days. “ No body is interested to fund this kind of small films. Government must build small capsule theatres to address this issue. Small films have to hold its ground amidst the roar and cry of huge commercial films. I am expecting some support from film festivals too”, he elaborated.

    Backgrounder


    OTHTHA SERUPPU SIZE 7


    Directed by Radhakrishnan Parthiban the film is about the vast rich and poor divide and psychological stress everyone carries of the life lived so far. Masilamani, a middle aged security guard at a popular sports and recreation club in Chennai, is being questioned as a murder suspect while his terminally ill young son waits outside the investigation room. Masilamani’s strange tale, with moments of unexpected comedy and sudden displays of wit, leaves us questioning who really is he, what has he done and if he deserves the punishment that is staring him in the face.


    Parthiban is an actor, writer, director and producer who has acted in over 60 films and directed 14. His film Pudhiya Paadhai (1989) and Housefull (1999) won the National Film Awards for Best Regional Film.


    ED/NS/MR/BSN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593228) Visitor Counter : 401
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi