      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      We tried to analyse the question of belonging through ‘Far From Us’ : Directors Verena Kuri and Laura Bierbrauer
      
      ‘Feelings to Tell’ is about people and their emotions: Wen Li

      Posted On: 23 NOV 2019 6:28PM by PIB Mumbai

          Goa: November 23, 2019


          We tried to analyse the question of belonging through this film. Subject of refugees is a natural discussion right now. The best thing is that we all understand that any country can go through a situation like that, said director of “Far from us”, Verena Kuri while talking in a press conference at IFFI 2019, today.


          “We have released the film in Germany, Brazil and Argentina. The Germans too have faced the displacement problem in not so distant past and hence can identify with the film”, she said.


          On asked if she had men in her crew, Verena laughed saying, “It is quite an effort to make a film in a jungle with a small child. The men who joined the crew were our best friends. They were like our soldiers. Lot of women but yes men too, in our crew”


          The movie is also about clash between mother’s duty and desire. The characters in movie speak German, Spanish and Portuguese as they live near from Brazilian border. In a way the characters in movie feel the same way we feel, said Co-director of the movie Ms. Laura Bierbrauer.


          Director of the film “ Feelings To Tell ” Ms. Wen Li said that the movie is about an artist who wants to escape the real world into the village. “The time in the village is going back while the time in the real world is going ahead”, she added.


          Sharing her experience of making ‘Feelings to Tell’ Wen Li said “I have a lot of friends who told me to write Romantic stories but when I wrote the story, I wanted to put my own feeling in the story. We all want to escape the real world. You don’t need to write a story with a lot of drama I wrote a simple story of people and their emotions.”


          Talking about the funding, Wen said, “It was very difficult to find funding in China. In the end it was my family who trusted me to give the fund to make this kind of film.”


          BACKGROUNDER


          FAR FROM US


          This Argentinian film follows Ramira as she returns to her home in the Misiones jungle, which is on Argentina’s border with Brazil. She departed after the birth of her son and has to rebuild a bond with the child she left behind, as well as her mother and the community with its hybrid languages and local customs. Her family question Ramira’s abandonment of her child and fight with her over her dead father’s inheritance.


          Feelings to Tell
          After falling into sleep, Jiang, a young painter, finds himself in a Taogu village where he meets a mute girl, Jiu’er, and her foster father Old Bai, who believed firmly in ancient Xiangchu gods. As an observer and participant of the dream, the veneration they showed to the gods deeply touched Jiang. When Jiang witnessed the deep affection his grandfather showed to his grandmother, he felt more puzzled over the fact that his parents had torn the last veil of hypocrisy and wished to get rid of the perplexities of real life.


          E.Dias/N.Sona/M.Chopade

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593264) Visitor Counter : 192
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi