      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting organises Interactive digital Multi-Media exhibition on IFFI@50
      Posted On: 23 NOV 2019 7:26PM by PIB Mumbai


    Goa: November 23, 2019


    Adding yet another dimension to the IFFI experience this year is a one of its kind hi-tech digital, interactive and multimedia exhibition put up by the Bureau of Outreach and Communication and National Film Archives of India (NFAI) at Darya Sangam, near Kala academy. Named IFFI@50 the exhibition traces the journey of IFFI over the last five decades as it showcases Indian cinema to the world while also providing a platform in India for showcasing world cinema.


    Speaking at a press conference on the exhibition today, Additional Secretary, Ministry of I&B, Shri Atul Kumar Tiwari said the exhibition leverages novel hi-tech features like Zoetrope (moving picture creative installation), 360 bullet shot, 360 degree immersive experience area, augmented reality experience, vertical digital display panels, virtual reality tools, hologram technology, etc to create a self-learning historical experience for the viewers. He added that there are many career opportunities for younger generation in films, for which they can get valuable information from the exhibition.


    “One can play quiz, get photos clicked with a virtual image of Mahatma Gandhi created using AR technology, and watch rare clips of the earliest editions of IFFI. Viewers can also engage in many interactive installations. There is a section curated for Konkani films and one dedicated to mark 150th year of Mahatma Gandhi”, informed Shri Tiwari.


    Talking about the efforts put in by the Bureau of Outreach and Communication in setting up the exhibition, Entertainment Society of Goa CEO Shri Amit Satija said, “Something valuable has come to our doorstep, we should take the benefit of this opportunity.I want students from Goa and neighbouring areas to come and watch the exhibition,” he said.


    NFAI Director Shri Prakash Magdum and Regional Outreach Bureau, Pune Director Shri Santosh Ajmera also participated. A large scale projection mapping showcasing the journey of IFFI since its inception is an interesting part of the exhibition. The projection mapping technique is used to create various sets of movies like Jodha Akbar, Bajirao Mastani, James Bond films and other regional cinemas. The mapping is happening on the huge façade of the exhibition which requires long hours of work for both installation and removal.


    On the sidelines of the exhibition, various competitions such as film quiz, short film making (on Government initiatives like ‘Swachh Bharat’, ‘No to single use plastic’, ‘Ek Bharat, Shresth Bharat’ etc), are being conducted for children on everyday basis and awards are being given for 50 winners. The exhibition is open for all till 28 th November 2019 from 10am to 9pm.


    ED/NS/MR/MC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593272) Visitor Counter : 236
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi