      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      “Indian films are highly respected In North Sudan: Actor Andrew Luri
      Posted On: 24 NOV 2019 5:33PM by PIB Mumbai


    Goa : 24.11.2019


    Among many international films having their Indian Premier at the festival, Hearts and Bones from Australia was screened today. Directed by Ben Lawrence, the film tells the tale of a friendship that develops between a war photographer and a South Sudanese refugee.


    The actor of the film Andrew Luri who plays the role of refugee Sebastian Aman spoke to the media about his film and his love of Indian cinema.


    “The film emotionally connects with whoever is watching it.” Luri said. Talking more about Hearts and Bones the actor revealed, “We shot with twins so if one was tired, we shot with the other and vice versa.”


    “We also shot in a real hospital and the cameras were set very far. Few of the doctors won’t realise that we were actors shooting. They would actually come to us to check us thinking we were patients”, he added.


    Speaking about India and Indian film, Luri said “I am very interested to work with Indian actors because they are very popular in Sudan and I have grown up watching them. I am really liking it here. I am going to talk about the people and Goa in my country when I go back.”


    “Indian films are highly respected In North Sudan. People there watch films at night and sometimes watch two Indian films at night. In spite of them being long, people watch them and enjoy till dawn”, Luri added.


    On asked if formal training is necessary for actors, he said, “You need to act from your heart. Something you learn through pain, you never forget.”


    Luri spoke about his love for Hindi films. “I have a collection of Hindi films at my home and I love the acting of Amitabh Bachchan.


    ***


    E.Dias/N.Sona/M.Chopade

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593307) Visitor Counter : 275
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi