      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Dedicated TV channels needed for showing short films in India: Bikramjit Gupta
      
      ‘Bridge’ is about the bond between a taxi driver and a mute girl

      Posted On: 26 NOV 2019 12:59PM by PIB Mumbai

    Goa: November 26, 2019


    There should be dedicated TV channels and OTT platforms for showcasing short films in India, said Shri Bikramjit Gupta, Director of Hindi non-feature film ‘Bridge’. “ There are many film festivals for short films nowadays. Due to social media short films are gaining popularity also. But we need more ways to monetize them”, he said. Shri Bikramjit Gupta was attending a media conference at the 50th International Film Festival of India today in Panaji.


    Sharing the genesis of his movie, Shri Bikramjit said that the film is about the bond between a taxi driver and a mute girl who later in the film, turned out to be not mute. “The city Mumbai has a vibrant night life.It never sleeps. I have met a lot of people who are on the roads at night. There was this kind of feeling of insecurity and danger to those who are on pavements. What will happen if someone who is in flesh trade, finds a small girl on the road. Will he help her or will he behave like a beast. That thought inspired me to make this film,” he said.


    On asked if it is better to write one’s own script and direct it, the filmmaker said, “It is not necessary but whenever one writes a script, they visualise the film for sure.”


    Replying to questions of funding, Shri Bikramjit said, “You just need to reach out to people. Knock on all doors and ask them to see your story, there is no other way. I am not from affluent family to produce myself.”


    Bridge


    It tells the tale of a special kind of friendship that evolves between a taxi driver and a mute girl. The story happens in Mumbai. Vinod, a taxi driver-cum-pimp, finds a young, mute girl in Mumbai. Rajjo, a prostitute, is irked as the girl’s presence in the taxi harms her nightly earnings. The two decide to locate the girl’s family. She shows them a photo of a bridge near Koliwada, but when they reach there she is not able to locate her house. Next morning, the girl goes missing from the cab. After a few months, Vinod sees the girl again, and follows her to a slum. Vinod speculates something impious but the final revelation initiates a special kind of friendship.


    Bikramjit Gupta is a film director with over 15 years of experience in making feature films, documentary films, independent films, docu dramas, spots and corporate films. He has worked with global TV networks and production houses and has researched wildlife documentaries.


    ***


    ED/NS/MR/BSN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593523) Visitor Counter : 177
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi