      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      “Tehrik-e-Talim” has proved to be an effective mission to connect Madrasas with formal education system: Union Minority Affairs Minister Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi
      
      Minister attends valedictory session of Madarsa teachers training at Anjuman-e-Islam in Mumbai today

      Posted On: 30 NOV 2019 5:19PM by PIB Mumbai

    Union Minority Affairs Minister Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said that Madrasa teachers are being trained to impart education in mainstream formal subjects like Hindi, Maths, Science, English, Computer, Marathi and other regional languages.


    Addressing the valedictory session of Madarsa teachers training at Anjuman-e-Islam in Mumbai today, Shri Naqvi said that besides religious teaching, Urdu, Arabic and other languages, Madrasa teachers are also being provided training for mainstream formal education like Hindi, Maths, English, Science, Computer etc.


    Union Minority Affairs Ministry launched a campaign about 4 years ago to connect Madrasas with mainstream formal education system. Shri Naqvi also distributed certificates to Madarsa teachers from different states on the occasion.


    Shri Naqvi said that “Tehrike Talim” has proved to be an effective mission to connect Madrasas with formal education system. A large number of Madrasa teachers have been trained in mainstream education. It is heartening that these teachers include a large number of female teachers.


    Under the programme to connect Madrasas with formal education, more than 300 teachers from Madrasas from various states have been trained by the Ministry of Minority Affairs in the first six months of the Modi Government-2. These teachers are being provided training from reputed institutions of the country such as Aligarh Muslim University, Jamia Millia Islamia, Jamia Hamdrad and others.


    Shri Naqvi said that Ministry of Minority Affairs has been working on war footing to provide affordable, accessible and quality education to six notified Minority communities- Jain, Parsi, Buddhist, Christian, Sikh and Muslims.


    Shri Naqvi said that the Modi Government has connected thousands of Madrasas and other educational institutions belonging to Minority communities with “3T- Teacher, Tiffin, Toilet”.


    Shri Naqvi said that around 20 lakh students from six notified Minority communities- Jain, Parsi, Buddhist, Christian, Sikh and Muslims- have been given pre-matric, post-matric, merit-cum-means and other scholarships in the first six months of the Modi Government-2.


    Shri Naqvi said that due to the efforts of the Modi Government, school dropout rate among girl students from Minority communities, which was more than 70 per cent in 2014, has now come down to about 35 per cent. We will bring it down to zero per cent.


    Shri Naqvi said that basic infrastructure is being constructed on large scale under “Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karykram” (PMJVK) to ensure educational empowerment of Minorities especially girls.


    Under “Pradhanmantri Jan Vikas Karykram”, 104 Common Service Centres have been approved across the country in the first six months of the Modi Govt-2. These centres will work as a single-window system for the needy people to provide information regarding Central Government schemes as well as to assist them in getting benefits of these welfare schemes. Under PMJVK, several development projects—Toilet facilities- 53, Solar Power Facilities in Schools- 16, Additional Class Rooms- 324, Health Centres- 223, Anganwadi Centres- 52, Residential Schools- 33, Degree Colleges-7, School Buldings-98, Hostel-98, ITI-4, Hunar Hubs-100, Medical College-1 and Polytechnics- 3 have been sanctioned/constructed in the first six months of the Modi Government-2.


      R.Tidake/S.Tupre /R.Aghor/P.Kor


    

    
    (Release ID: 1594365) Visitor Counter : 238