      Ministry of Tourism

      Ramayana and Krishna Circuits
      Posted On: 24 JUL 2017 5:02PM by PIB Chennai

        Releases Photos Features Invitations
        Press Information Bureau
        Government Of India
          Ministry of Tourism
          (24-July, 2017 17:22 IST )
          Ramayana and Krishna Circuits

            Ramayana Circuit and Krishna Circuit are among the thirteen thematic circuits identified for development under Swadesh Darshan Scheme.


            Ministry has initially identified fifteen destinations for development under the Ramayana Circuit theme namely Ayodhya, Nandigram, Shringverpur & Chitrakoot (Uttar Pradesh), Sitamarhi, Buxar & Darbhanga (Bihar), Chitrakoot (Madhya Pradesh), Mahendragiri (Odisha), Jagdalpur (Chattisgarh), Nashik & Nagpur (Maharashtra), Bhadrachalam (Telangana), Hampi (Karnataka) and Rameshwaram (Tamil Nadu).


            Similarly, twelve destinations have been identified for development under Krishna circuit namely Dwarka (Gujarat), Nathdwara, Jaipur & Sikar (Rajasthan), Kurukshetra (Haryana), Mathura, Vrindavan, Gokul, Barsana, Nandgaon & Govardhan (Uttar Pradesh) and Puri (Odisha).


            The following projects have been sanctioned under Ramayana and Krishna Circuits of Swadesh Darshan Scheme:


            (Rs. in crore)

                                                                                                                                                                      
Sl. No.           Name of the Project                                                                                                                Amount sanctioned
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                   
Ramayana Circuit                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                      
1.                Development of Chitrakoot and Shringverpur as Ramayana Circuit in Uttar Pradesh (2016-17)                                          69.45            
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                   
Krishna Circuit                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                      
2.                Development of Tourism Infrastructures at places related to Mahabharata in Kurukshetra, Haryana. (2016-17)                         97.35            
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      
3.                Integrated Development of Govind Dev ji temple (Jaipur), Khatu Shyam Ji (Sikar) and Nathdwara (Rajsamand) in Rajasthan. (2016-17)  91.45            
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                      

            The completion time for the projects sanctioned under Swadesh Darshan Scheme varies from 18 to 36 months.


            This information was given by Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State for Culture and Tourism (Independent Charge) in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


            ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502070) Visitor Counter : 214
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil