      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Sterling performance of Indian Women Cricket Team at World Cup inspires Youth to take Sports as a career: Vijay Goel
      Posted On: 27 JUL 2017 2:23PM by PIB Chennai


    Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel here today felicitated the Indian Women’s Cricket team and its support staff when they came to pay a courtesy call to the Minister at his official residence. The team has returned from London after their splendid performance in the recently concluded Women’s World Cup.


    Welcoming the team Shri Goel said that these girls have inspired youths especially millions of young girls across the country to take up sports as a career by their sterling performance at the World Cup. He said, from Rio Olympics to Paralympics and in games like hockey, wrestling, badminton, and now the splendid performance in the Women’s World Cup, Indian women are leading the way in the international sporting arena. The Minister said that the message is clear – Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao and now “Beti Khilao”.


    Reiterating Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s vision to involve youth in sports, Shri Goel said the idea is “Kheloge to Khiloge (Those who play, they shine)” to develop overall personality of the youth of India.


    Shri Goel also felicitated the coaches and the support staff for their efforts behind the scene and giving India reasons to rejoice and celebrate women’s cricket. He stated that this performance will inspire India’s football team in the upcoming FIFA U-17 World Cup (in October). Shri Goel also said that the Ministry’s doors are open 24x7 for players and best facilities will be provided to them so that they excel in their respective disciplines in order to make India a sports power hub.


    Sharing her experience of the World Cup, Captain of the Indian Women Cricket Team Mithali Raj appreciated performance of each member of the team in the championship and thanked Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and Sports Minister Shri Vijay Goel for their constant encouragement. Star performers of the team Harmanpreet Kaur and Poonam Raut also narrated their experiences during the thrilling encounter against England in the finals of the championship.


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1508932) Visitor Counter : 124
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil