      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Rajnath Singh inaugurates YUVA – a skill development programme
      
      
      YUVA is Delhi Police initiative under Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana

      Posted On: 29 AUG 2017 9:25AM by PIB Delhi

    

    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh inaugurated the YUVA – a skill development programme and an initiative by Delhi Police under Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana, here today.

    
    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Rajnath Singh said that these kind of initiatives improve the image of the police among common man. He said that it is a big task that Delhi Police has opened skill development training centres in the police stations. He said that the 21st Century India will also like to see Indian police in this form only. The Home Minister said that core policing is important for any police, but at the same time the police should also adopt people-friendly measures and increase their social interaction. He also thanked the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship for the YUVA project.
    
    Shri Rajnath Singh said that the Police should engage with the youth who are prone to drug addiction and other crimes. He expressed happiness over the fact that efforts are being made that about 70-80% youth under this project get employment. He further said that it is the collective responsibility of the police and the society to bring the youth of the country on right path. He appreciated the fact that Delhi Police has started this project with the same objective in mind.
    
    Addressing the gathering, the Minister of State for Skill Development & Entrepreneurship (Independent Charge) Shri Rajiv Pratap Rudy said that under the guidance of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, the skill development has increased the employability among the youth. He said that the system in the country needs to be such that it gives enough importance to the skills possessed by any individual. He added that many skills are in huge demand world over and our youth can tap this opportunity, if groomed properly.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, Lt. Governor, Delhi, Shri Anil Baijal said that the Government is making efforts to reorient the working of Delhi Police. He also emphasised that the police should establish connect with the youth and community. He also said that the YUVA programme is a big initiative to make youth employable.
    
    The Delhi Police Commissioner, Shri Amulya Patnaik also emphasised on the need of social service along with prevention of crimes. He said that due to this project, a lot of alienated youth can be brought into the mainstream.
    
    The ‘YUVA’ initiative by Delhi Police aims to connect with youth by upgrading their skill as per their competencies. It will help them to get a gainful employment under Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna under the Ministry of Skill Development. Delhi Police has tied up with National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) for providing mass job linked skill training for the selected youth. National Skill Development Corporation shall be providing skill training to the youth under ‘Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna’ (PMKVY) and CII will provide job linked training through its Sector Skill Councils who are connected to industry and thereby provide job guarantee.
    
    A detailed exercise was conducted in all 13 districts of Delhi Police to select the youth in the age of 17-25 years for this training belonging to categories such as School dropouts, Juvenile offenders, Victims of crimes and families in dire state due to incarceration of the bread earner of the family, mostly from the underprivileged colonies.
    
    So far, 2,269 candidates have been selected to be trained by 36 training partners in 45 skills in the next three months. A total of 32 police station buildings have been identified where Skill Development Centers would be opened at the earliest.
    
    The youth coming for skill training in a police station building will be a huge step in building up their confidence and faith in police organization and will go a long way in building a positive image of police in the long run.

    ****


    
    
    KSD/NK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1501049) Visitor Counter : 180