      PIB Headquarters

      MSME organises National Level Vendor Development Programme cum Industrial Exhibition at Avadi
      Posted On: 02 JAN 2018 5:59PM by PIB Chennai


    Micro, small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Development Institute, Chennai the State Level field Office of the Ministry of Micro, small and Medium Enterprises, Government of India, New Delhi, in association with HVF, TANSTIA, AIEMA, IEMA, CDISSIA AND DIC is organising a 2 day “MSME-DEFENCE HEAVY VEHICLE EXPO” – a National Level Vendor Development Programme cum Industrial Exhibition on 4 th & 5 th Jan 2018 at at Valluvar Vasuki Kalyanamandapam, HVF, Avadi, Chennai – 54.


    Objective of the Expo “MSME-DEFENCE HEAVY VEHICLE EXPO” is to groom Micro, Small and Medium industries as suppliers to Indian Defence and allied organisations. It will also throw open new business opportunities for MSMEs in the backdrop of product diversification and technology up gradation. Both the large scale units and MSMEs will display their products. Other organizations who work for the welfare and growth of MSME’s will be participating in this EXPO. Around 100 stalls are expected to be put up. 3000 visitors will be witnessing the event every day.


    Theme Pavilions:


    MS & SS Sheet metal fabrication units, OEM’s, Castings, forged items Pressed components, Chemicals, Auto components, Tools Laboratory Equipment’s, glass products, Plastic products, Electronic and Electrical goods manufacturer, Chemicals and wood products, Batteries, solar energy, computer and its allied products, furniture, lighting products, Leather Products, Packing items, IT & IT Enabled services Handicrafts, Paints and lubricants, paper products, water treatment equipment’s, food processing, Garments making.


    As concurrent events, Seminars will be organised on various Government schemes, Technological Developments, Procedures and formalities for vendor registration of PSUs Import export and digital Marketing.


    Vendor Development Programme on 04.01.2018 from 10.00 AM to 11.30 AM (First come first served basis only) and seminar on Improve your business, 04.01.2018 from 11.30 AM To 05.30 PM Organisations of the Defence PSUs, Govt. of India, Govt. of Tamil Nadu and banks like, Indian Bank, NSIC, SIFBI, NABARD, TIIC, NSC, IDBI angel investors and District Industries Centre will participate and give power point presentations on latest information for the benefit of the participants.


    Entry free for all Business Visitors will be allowed with a proof of their Business card/ADHAAR/UAM to the above Exhibition.


    ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1515071) Visitor Counter : 143
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil