      PIB Headquarters

      Vellore Postal Division to roll out Core System Integration solution Core System Integration solution
      Posted On: 23 JAN 2018 3:32PM by PIB Chennai


    Vellore Postal division will be the first division in Tamil Nadu Circle to rollout Core System Integration solution (CSI) along with Office of PMG Chennai city Region, Office of CPMG Tamilnadu Circle, Office of GM Finance and Accounts. CSI will be implemented in Vellore HPO and in all its 46 sub post offices under Vellore Postal Division.


    Sri R. Anand IPoS, Postmaster General of Chennai City Region inaugurated the Core System Integration Solution at Vellore HPO today (23.01.2018). Smt. K. Vijaya, Superintendent of Post Offices, Vellore Division was also present on the occasion. The roll out of CSI solution will be implemented in all the 45 postal divisions of Tamil Nadu Circle in a phased manner and will be completed within this year. The rollout of CSI has been commenced so far in 8 other states since 2015.


    India Post has taken up the IT modernisation project for improving its operations and service delivery in several phases. It has successfully implemented Core banking solution and Core insurance solution in most of the post offices in the country through Finacle & McCamish applications. To consolidate these efforts of IT modernisation, India Post has introduced the CSI solution.


    CSI solution has provision for upgradation of Mail handling & Counter Operations, Finance & Accounting and Human Recourses on a new platform (SAP), CSI solution is expected to bring all the services of a post office and its administration under one roof. CSI functions on centralised online real time exchange of all the transactions including mails thus resulting in better accuracy and speed of the operations. At present the postal transactions are made off- line and later updates are made online. Introduction of CSI will enable real time updates and that would enable faster and more reliable service in Postal operations, Logistics, Banking, Insurance and Retail Operations. It ensures better visibility of various activities in Mail streaming and transparency in financial Services. CSI avoids double entry of transaction at post offices which reduces the operational time. It also facilitates the customers to avail “Door step Pick of Mails” and instant tracking of various kinds of mails.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1517481) Visitor Counter : 46
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil