      PIB Headquarters

      DEFENCE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT MEET ‘FORGING NEW PARTNERSHIP WITH INDUSTRY FOR DEFENCE PRODUCTION’
      Posted On: 18 JAN 2018 6:20PM by PIB Chennai


    The two day ‘Defence Industry Development Meet’ organised by Department of Defence Production, Ministry of Defence, Government of India was inaugurated by Hon’ble Defence Minister Tmt Nirmala Sitharaman in the august presence of Hon’ble Chief Minister, Tamil Nadu, Thiru Edappadi K. Palaniswami. The event is being held at Kalaivanar Arangam, Chennai. Senior Officials from Ministry of Defence, State Government, Services, Chairman OFB,CMDs of DPSUs, senior executives of DPSUs / OFB and private industries attended the inaugural function.


    The objective of the Meet is to forge new partnerships with private industry with the aim to achieve self-reliance in defence production under the overarching ‘Make in India’ initiative of the Government.


    The meet will focus on indigenization, import substitution and technology infusion. The event is part of the Ministry’s initiative to encourage and facilitate participation of private industries especially MSMEs in Defence Manufacturing.


    The event will provide private firms/companies especially vendors from Tamil Nadu region an overview of the existing defence procurement policy, indigenization and outsourcing procedures of DPSUs/OFB and update them on the recent Government policy initiatives to promote indigenization and outsourcing and the opportunities thereon.


    Hon’ble Governor of Tamil Nadu &Hon’ble Raksha Rajya Mantri, will attend the valedictory function scheduled on 19 January, 18.


    Highlights of Event on 18 January, 2018


    Ø The Department of Defence Production presented policy initiatives for supporting Indian vendors especially MSME in the field of Defence Production.


    Ø Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) showcased the technologies which are available for the private sector for commercial exploitation. Hon’ble Raksha Mantri handed over three representative ToT agreements of DRDO to Industry-one each for Army, Navy, Air force,


    Ø HAL, BEL, BEML, BDL, MIDHANI showcased over 50 products for indigenization by the industry.


    Ø OFB offered more than 20 products to vendors for indigenization.


    Ø MDL, GRSE, GSL showcased vendor development opportunities.


    Ø Hon’ble Raksha Mantri released the simplified ‘Make-II’ procedure which stipulates relaxed eligibility criteria, minimal documentation, provisions for suo moto proposals from individuals / industry, particularly for innovative solutions and relaxed eligibility criteria for start-ups. This procedure envisages for assurance of order on successful development of prototype.


    Ø Hon’ble Raksha Mantri launched Defence Investor Cell being set up by Department of Defence Production which will facilitate the investment in defence production sector. The Defence Investor Cell Defence will directly interact with all interested investors with regard to potential investment and the queries related to policy and the projects handled by the Ministry of Defence.


    Ø 1000 plus vendors are participating in the two day event.


    Ø Indian Army, Indian Navy & Indian Air Force are projecting their requirements, especially related to MSMEs, for indigenization.


    Ø Ministry of MSME presented the policy initiatives taken by the Government to support MSME.


    Ø Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion brought out the initiatives taken by the Government for ‘ease of business’ processes and issues related to licensing of defence products.


    Ø Ministry of Home Affairs presented their requirement for police and para military forces.


    Ø The Meet will not only strengthen the existing partnership but also provide scope for new collaborations during the two-day event.


    Ø DPSUs /OFB are providing facility for on the spot vendor registration for prospective vendors for supplying defence needs.


    Ø This event has brought all defence related vendors and suppliers of Tamil Nadu and other parts under one roof and will facilitate creation of an aerospace &defence ecosystem in the region.


    Ø Defence Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman highlighted the recent policy initiatives including Make-II procedure released by Govt. on 16 Jan 2018, Defence Innovation Hub for Coimbatore, CODDISSIA and Defence Investor Cell. She said more initiatives to promote ‘ Make in India’ in defence will be taken up.


    ****


    

    
    (Release ID: 1517119) Visitor Counter : 100