      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi Offers “Chadar” at Dargah Ajmer Sharif on Behalf of the Prime Minister
      Posted On: 06 MAR 2019 3:06PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said here that while on one hand Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi believes in the legacy of Sufi Saints to protect human values and justice, and on the other hand, he is a “nationalistic warrior” against terrorism.


    He said that the Prime Minister is working with commitment to national security by adopting “zero tolerance” policy against terrorism. India’s spiritual and Sufi culture is the guarantee of ensuring humanity and peace by defeating and demolishing terrorism and all other forms of violence.


    Shri Naqvi offered 'Chadar' on behalf of the Prime Minister at dargah of Sufi Saint Hazrat Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti on 807 th Urs at Ajmer Sharif. He also read out the message of the Prime Minister in which he conveyed greetings and best wishes to the followers of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti in India and abroad on the occasion of annual Urs.


    The Prime Minister in his message said: “Harmonious co-existence of different religions, communities, beliefs and faith in India is the beauty of our country. Various Saints, Pir and Fakirs in our country have given message of peace, unity and harmony time to time. They have played a key role in spreading message of discipline, decency and self- restraint. Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti is the symbol of great spiritual traditions of India. Khwaja Moinduddin Chishti’s service to the humanity will inspire generations to come. On the annual Urs of this great Sufi Saint, I express my tributes to him through sending “Chadar” at Dargah Ajmer Sharif.”


    People from all sections of the society welcomed wholeheartedly the “Chadar” offered by the Prime Minister.


    Addressing on the occasion, Shri Naqvi said that India is in safe hands. There will be no compromise with the security of the country and its people under the strong and able leadership of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. The organizations and people, who are involved in terror activities by making Islam as their “security cover”, are the biggest enemy of the Islam. India is a role model for the entire world for social and communal harmony. We will have to strengthen this fabric of social harmony and unity. The life of Gharib Nawaz inspires us to strengthen the commitment to communal and social harmony. This unity can defeat the forces, who are engaged in the conspiracy to create divide and conflict in the society. The “Development of the country and environment of trust” is the only agenda of the Modi Government. Our mantra is “Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas”.


    On the occasion, Shri Naqvi also laid foundation stone of Khwaja Gharib Nawaz University at Kayad Vishramsthali, to be established by Ajmer Dargah Committee. He also inaugurated Khwaja Gharib Nawaz Dispensary (OPD) at Dargah Apartment, Civil Line, Ajmer.


    *****


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1567617) Visitor Counter : 896
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi