      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Surat Metro Rail Project
      Posted On: 09 MAR 2019 8:45PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government of India has approved the Surat Metro Rail Project having two Metro Rail Corridors with combined length of 40.35 km.


    The project will be completed in 5 years at an estimated project cost of Rs. 12020.32 Crore.


    Benefits:


    This project will provide continuous availability of affordable, reliable, safe, secure and seamless transport system in the urban agglomeration of the city. It will reduce the accidents, pollution, travel time, energy consumption, anti-social incidents as well as regulate urban expansion and land use for sustainable development. The Metro will provide Eco friendly and sustainable Public Transport to residents, commuters, visitors and travelers.


    Surat Metro Rail Project Highlights


    Some of the highlights of these corridors are as follows:


    The corridor- 1, Sarthana to Dream city line is 21.61 Kms comprising of underground corridor of 6.47 km & elevated corridor of 15.14 km, which will connect 20 metro stations (via Sarthana, Nature park ,Kapodra, Labheshwar chowk area, Central Ware house , Surat Railway station, Maskati hospital, Gandhi baug, Majura Gate,Roopali canal, Dream city).


    The corridor-2, Bhesan to saroli line is 18.74kms and is completely elevated corridor which will connect 18 Metro stations. (via Bhesan, Ugat Vaarigruh, Palanpur road, LP Savani School, Adajan Gam,Aquarium, Majuragate, Kamela Darwaza, Magob & Saroli)


    Dream city and Bhesan depot will fulfill the maintenance facilities of Surat metro rail Project.


    The population of around 69.36 lakh of Surat Municipal Corporation, Out Growth Area & Urban Agglomeration is expected to be benefitted by Surat Metro Rail Project directly and indirectly.


    The proposed corridors will be having Multimodal Integration, and will have feeder network of Bus, Intermediate Public Transport (IPT) and Non-Motorized Transport (NMT).


    The residential areas, commercial, and industrial areas along this Metro Rail corridors shall be immensely benefitted by this project as the people of these areas will be able to travel on trains from their own neighborhoods to reach different areas of the city conveniently.


    The project will be implemented by Gujarat Metro Rail Corporation (GMRC) Ltd.


    The project will be financed mainly through equity from GoI and Government of Gujarat on 50:50 basis and loan from bilateral/ multilateral agencies.


    ****


    RJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1568451) Visitor Counter : 999
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi