      Ministry of Defence

      Vice Admiral MA Hampiholi, AVSM, NM assumes charge as Director General Naval Operations (DGNO)
      Posted On: 27 MAR 2019 3:34PM by PIB Delhi


    Vice Admiral MA Hampiholi, AVSM NM has assumed charge as Director General Naval Operations today, on 27 Mar 2019. He is a graduate of the National Defence Academy and was commissioned in the Executive Branch of the Indian Navy on 01 Jul 85.


    The Flag Officer is a specialist in Anti-Submarine Warfare and has held important assignments both afloat and ashore. In the initial years of his career, he served onboard IN Ships Himgiri, Agray and Ganga as ASW specialist officer and subsequently as an instructor at ASW School. His Command tenures afloat include INS Nashak (missile vessel), INS Magar {Landing Ship Tank (Large)} and INS Talwar (stealth Frigate) and Second in-Command of INS Khukri (Missile corvette). He commanded the National Coast Guard, Mauritius for two years (2003 – 05) and was also the Commandant, Naval Academy and Commanding Officer of INS Mandovi.


    His staff appointments include Joint Director at Directorate of Personnel at Naval Headquarters, Naval Adviser to the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command, Senior Directing Staff at the Naval War College, Mumbai and Principal Director Staff Requirements at Naval Headquarters.


    On promotion to the rank of Rear Admiral in Feb 2015, he was appointed as the Assistant Chief of Personnel (Human Resources Development), and subsequently as the Flag Officer Sea Training in Oct 16. He was later appointed as the Flag Officer Commanding, Western Fleet in Jan 18 and Commanded the sword arm prior to his assuming of his present appointment as the Director General Naval Operations on promotion to the rank of Vice Admiral.


    The Admiral is a graduate from the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington and the prestigious National Defence College, New Delhi. He is a recipient of the Nao Sena Medal in 2011 and the AthiVishistSeva Medal in 2019.


    ****************


    DKS/AC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1569593) Visitor Counter : 841
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali