      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Shri Gadkari launches INAM-Pro + : The Web Platform for Sale and Purchase of Construction Material and Service
      Posted On: 01 JUN 2017 7:49PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of Road Transport & Highways and Shipping Shri Nitin Gadkari launched INAM-Pro + in New Delhi today. INAM-Pro+ is an upgraded version of INAM-Pro, the web portal designed by National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (NHIDCL) and launched by the Ministry two years back as a common platform to bring cement buyers and sellers together.
    
    More than 700 construction companies have used INAM-Pro during the last two years. With 37 Cement companies registered on it, the portal facilitated comparison of price, availability of materials etc. and made it very convenient for the prospective buyers to procure cement at reasonable rates in a transparent manner. This reduced the time and effort in preparation of proposals and bid submissions, and helped increase efficiency in procurement of construction materials as one could place orders, obtain price quotes and track them in swift manner on this portal
    
    The publicly visible prices have promoted transparency and enhanced ease of doing business. The companies registered on INAM-Pro have a committed supply of 27 million metric tons of cement at a price restricted by predefined ceiling values.
    
    INAM-Pro has thus been successful in matching demand with supply, cutting down delays by timely supply of material and providing for online payments , mitigating cost overruns due to price hedging through ceiling price mechanism which allows maximum increment of 10% Year on Year basis and promoting transparency in the market due to publicly visible Prices.
    
    INAM-Pro has been highly acclaimed by the construction industry and IT sector and has also been recognized and listed in the Book-on-Innovations "New Beginning" released by Hon'ble PM on the Civil Services Day.
    
    Following the success with cement, the portal has recently been upgraded as INAM-Pro+ to include the A to Z of construction materials, equipments/machinery and services like purchase/hiring/lease of new/used products and services in the domains of Construction Materials viz, cement, steel, bitumen, stone aggregates, concrete, bricks, wood, sanitary items, paint etc. ; Infrastructure Machinery viz.HMP, Paver Finisher, Backhoe Loaders etc.; Intelligent Transport System Equipment viz. VMS, CCTV, ECB, Boom Barriers etc. ; Road Furniture viz. road signage, road studs, etc. ; Haulage Vehicles Viz. Tippers, Backhoe Loaders, Cranes ; Road Safety and Protection Works viz. Crash Barriers, Hazard markers, Delineators etc. and Services viz. Road Marking, Ambulance, Route Patrolling, Tree plantation / Transplantation.
    
    The portal allows stake holders to seek operational guidance, give their feedback and submit suggestions through Toll Free No. 1800 200 3399 (10.00 A.M. to 6.00 P.M, Monday to Friday) or www. www.inampromic.in.
    
    Launching INAM-Pro +, Shri Gadkari said that this portal is very effective in facilitating efficient and transparent procurement of construction material and service. He called upon government organizations, PSUs and other organizations in the sector to make use of this portal.

    ***


    
    
    NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491582) Visitor Counter : 381