      Ministry of Home Affairs

      MoU signed between Central Industrial Security Force & National Skill Development Corporation
      Posted On: 05 JUN 2017 7:05PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Ministry of Home Affairs and the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) & National Skill Development Fund (NSDF), Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) here today. The Minister of State for Skill Development & Entrepreneurship (Independent Charge) Shri Rajiv Pratap Rudy and the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju were also present during the occasion.

    
    Shri Rajiv Pratap Rudy hailed the signing of the MoU between the two Ministries. He said that skill development has increased the employability among the youth. He said that the system in the country needs to be such that it gives enough importance to the skills possessed by any individual and the policies are framed accordingly. He added that many skills are in huge demand world over and our youth can tap this opportunity, if groomed properly. He also suggested to CAPFs that aspirational values need to be added to the designations in the system, which will act as an encouragement to the individuals.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Kiren Rijiju said that India can become a world power if youth of the country develop the attitude towards skill development. He expressed happiness that in the last two and half years, skill development has led to employment of large number of youth in different areas, thereby strengthening India by skill development. He said that it has brought a revolution under the guidance of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. The signing of today’s agreement has added a new chapter to it, he added. He said that the dignity of labour and value of hard work is losing importance in the country, which needs to be addressed and the attitude towards labour needs to be changed. He said that hard work and dedication are the most important factors in skill development. He also expressed his faith in the success of outcome of this agreement. He said CAPFs, when given any Government programme for implementation, have executed in a very speedy and efficient manner, for example: Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan and Digital Payment initiative. He also added that there is no dearth of skills in India and skills need to be given importance along with degrees to attract youth towards developing their skills.
    
    Shri O. P. Singh, DG, CISF, in his welcome address stressed that this project will help families of CISF personnel. Simultaneously, CISF would be contributing majorly in enhancing the skilling initiative and potential. He said that CISF has taken skill development has a new challenge.
    
    Dr. K.P. Krishnan, Secretary, Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship said that skill development is a challenge that India needs to be addressed very seriously because India is a younger nation and a lot of youth enter the work force every month. That is why a separate Ministry has been created for the purpose of providing skills to youth for employability, he added.
    
    The MoU provides that CISF, NSDC and NSDF shall work together at CISF units all across the country where Family Welfare Centres are functional and other CISF locations with an objective to impart skill development programs under the Skill India Mission for the purpose of implementation of CISF Multi Skill Development Institute Projects.
    
    The MoU aims at assisting retiring/retired, serving low medical category (LMC) CISF personnel to acquire additional skills and facilitate their resettlement through a second career. It will also provide welfare to wards, family members of serving CISF personnel, retired personnel and personnel killed in action. Skill Development would go a long way towards supporting gainful employment and at the same time would contribute towards nation building.
    
    The MoU shall remain in effect for a period of 5 years (starting from 5th June, 2017 till 5th June, 2022), subject to a mid-term review after 3 years.
    
    DGs of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) and senior officers of Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship were also present.

    *****


    KSD/NK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491838) Visitor Counter : 156