      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Rajnath Singh to inaugurate 2-day national level conference on “Capacity Building of SDRF-2017” tomorrow
      Posted On: 05 JUN 2017 1:45PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh will inaugurate a two-day national level conference on “Capacity Building of SDRF-2017” here tomorrow. The conference is being organised by the National Disaster Response Force to develop a synergy and to highlight way ahead to strengthen the response capabilities of SDRF. Dr P. K Mishra, Additional Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister and Shri Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog will also participate in the conference.
    
    During the conference, various agenda points like streamlining the training process of State Disaster Response Forces (SDRFs) and conducting it in a planned and coordinated manner, strategy for joint efforts towards community preparedness, integrations of operational efforts between NDRF & SDRF, requirement and creation of training infrastructure in each States, creation of a pool of instructors, sharing of best practices, improving response time by SDRF’s shall be discussed. The Standard Operating Procedure on Disaster Management for Differently Abled Persons will also be released.
    
    This year NDRF took Community Awareness Programmes to a new level. As a special initiative for boosting the confidence and skills of the Students, a special campaign was launched in all Kendryia Vidhayalayas of Delhi and NCR. Under this campaign, Inter- School, School Safety Mock Drill competition, and Inter School – Open Essay competition on “How will I respond in case of an earthquake” were organized. As a part of event, winner of Inter School Safety Mock Drill Competition & Open Essay Competition will be awarded during the event. Trophies will also be awarded to the winners of NDRF Inter Battalions Professional Competitions.
    
    The conference shall be attended by the Director General of Police of All States/UTs, Relief Commissioners and representatives from State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), India Meteorological Department (IMD), National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM) and other stack holders.

    ****


    
    
    KSD/NK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491728) Visitor Counter : 164