      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      2383 AIDS and Assisted Living Devices Distributed to 1266 Senior Citizens during camp on ‘Rashtriya Vayoshri Yojana’ OF M/o Social Justice & Empowerment in Nagpur
      Posted On: 04 JUN 2017 4:46PM by PIB Delhi


    2383 Aids and Assisted Living Devices were distributed to 1266 Senior Citizens during a Camp on “RASHTRIYA VAYOSHRI YOJANA” of Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment at Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Hall, Civil Lines, Nagpur, Maharastra here today. Shri Devendra Fadvanis, Chief Minister of Maharastra in presence of Shri Nitin Jairam Gadkari, Union Minister of Road Transport & Highways and Shipping, Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment and Shri Ramdas Athawale, Minister of State Social Justice and Empowerment distributed these Aids and Assisted Living Devices.


    The devices will help the Senior Citizens to overcome their age related physical impairment and to lead a dignified and productive life with minimal dependence on care givers or other members of the family. The ambitious Scheme, first of its kind in the country is expected to benefit 5,20,000 Senior Citizens over a period of the 3 years.


    As per the Census figures of 2011, the population of senior citizens in India is 10.38 crore. More than 70% of the population of senior citizens live in rural areas of the country. A sizeable percentage (5.2%) of the senior citizens suffers from some sort of disabilities related to old age. Projections indicate that the number of elderly population will increase to around 173 million by 2026.


    The proposal for formulation of a Scheme for providing Physical Aids and Assisted-Living Devices for Senior Citizens belonging to BPL Category was announced in the Budget 2015-16. Pursuant to this, the “Rashtriya Vayoshri Yojana” has been formulated. The Scheme aims at providing Senior Citizens, belonging to BPL category and suffering from any of the age related disability/infirmity viz. Low vision, Hearing impairment, Loss of teeth and Locomotor disability, with such assisted-living devices which can restore near normalcy in their bodily functions, overcoming the disability/infirmity manifested. The assistive devices shall be of high quality and conforming to the standards laid down by the Bureau of Indian Standards, wherever applicable.


    Under t he Scheme, the following Aids and Assisted-Living Devices will be provided to eligible elderly beneficiary senior citizens, depending upon their physical impairment :-


    1. Walking sticks


    2. Elbow crutches


    3. Walkers / Crutches


    4. Tripods / Quadpods


    5. Hearing Aids


    6. Wheelchair


    7. Artificial Dentures


    8. Spectacles


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/SJ&E/04.06.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491706) Visitor Counter : 355