      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Mission Innovation and Clean Energy Ministerial 6-8 June, 2017 Beijing, China - Dr. Harsh Vardhan to lead the Indian Delegation
      World’s Energy Leaders to Gather in Beijing for second Mission Innovation Ministerial and 8th Clean Energy Ministerial
      Posted On: 05 JUN 2017 4:35PM by PIB Delhi


    Curtain Raiser


    An Indian delegation led by Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Minister for Science & Technology, Earth Sciences and Environment, Forest & Climate Change will be participating in the Second Mission Innovation and Clean Energy Ministerial along with Senior Officials from the Ministry of Science & Technology, Ministry of New and Renewable Energy and Ministry of Power.


    Eighteen months ago on 30th November 2015 leaders of 20 countries came together to launch Mission Innovation (MI), a landmark 5-year commitment to accelerate the pace of innovation and make clean energy widely affordable and accessible worldwide. MI now comprises 22 economies and the European Commission, representing the European Union, and collectively accounts for more than 80 percent of the world’s total public financing of clean energy R&D.


    There is a concerted effort by 22 Member countries and EU to enhance the pace of innovation and scale of transformation through this clean energy revolution launch to meet the requirement for economic, energy security and goals in timely manner.


    India is Founding Member of the Steering Committee and also a Member of the two sub-groups: Joint research and Capacity Building and Private Sector Engagement.


    During the meeting 7 Innovation Challenges would be announced out of which India co leads 3 challenges: Smart Grid, Off-Grid Access and Sustainable biofuels


    India will be announcing two MI-centric Funding Opportunities in Smart Grid and Offgrid Access at US $ 5 million each. Joint virtual Clean Energy Centre with UK and Indian Government funding of UK £5 million each has been initiated. Under the Indo-US Joint Clean Energy Research (PACE-R) the new collaborative public – private programme on Smart Grids & Energy Storage would be announced.


    Minister will announce the hosting of MI sustainable Biofuel Innovation Challenge workshop in collaboration with Biofuture platform in New Delhi in December 2017.


    ***


    RDS/nb


    

    
    (Release ID: 1491784) Visitor Counter : 199