      Ministry of Railways

      Ministry of Railways celebrates World Environment Day
      Posted On: 05 JUN 2017 4:58PM by PIB Delhi


    On the occasion of World Environment Day, Ministry of Railways hosted an event in National Rail Museum, New Delhi today i.e. 05th June, 2017. Minister of Railways Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu was the Chief Guest on the occasion. Member Engineering, Shri A.K.Mital, Member Rolling Stock Shri Ravindra Gupta, Member Staff Shri Pradeep Kumar & other senior officers were also present on the occasion A number of dignitaries from Railways as well as other Environmental bodies were present on the occasion. The event was focussed on the efforts made by Railways towards fulfilment of India’s Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDC) commitment on various environmental issues. On this occasion Minister of Railways Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu released Environment Sustainability Report 2016-17.


    Speaking on the occasion, Minister of Railways Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu said that today, the challenge for the planet is Climate Change. It is the duty of everyone to come forward and play their own part in conservation of environment. Proper awareness needs to be created. As far as Railways is concerned, it is the best environment friendly medium of transport. A lot of efforts has been taken for environment conservation. Separate Directorate for Environment has been created in Railways. The emphasis to reduce dependence on conventional fuels is desirable. Electrification of Railway tracks has been fast tracked so that use of diesel may become nominal, reducing emissions. Also other options of energy resources like Solar Energy & Wind Energy have been encouraged. Restoration of water bodies, working with United Nations Environment Program (UNEP), conducting Roundtable on Environmental issues, launch of new Water bodies are some of the concrete measures taken by Railways which show commitment of Indian Railways for environmental issues. Conservation of Environment can boost the economy. It can help to grow Railways by saving huge amounts.”


    The event started with presentation of awards by Minister of Railways to Railway officials who have made outstanding contribution towards environmental sustainability on Railways. The award was also presented to the officers of South-Central Railways who have revived an old water body at Salarjung thereby reducing a huge intake of fresh water by Railways.


    The technical session started with an address by DG/ Bureau of Energy Efficiency and was focussed on Indian Railway’s role in Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDC) and combating Climate Change. The second presentation was on Energy Management, Reduction in Energy intensity and increasing share of Renewable energy.


    Ministry of Railways have been focussing on green certification of Railway buildings and stations in collaborations with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). As on date 6 buildings have already been certified as green buildings. The three latest edition being Ajmer Workshop, Integral Coach Factory (ICF) Chennai and Tirupati Workshop, who were awarded by Minister of Railways.


    Indian Railways as part of its Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDC) commitment for 20% reduction in fresh water consumption has issued a new water policy focussing on various aspects of water conservation by way of setting up of water recycling plants, rain water harvesting, revival/creation of water bodies.


    A presentation on water management was given by Shri Amit Garg, ED/EnHM/CE. A session was held on Green Industrial Units by Shri K.S.Venkatagiri, Executive Director/CII. A presentation on Solid Waste management was given by Sandeep Mehra/GGM/RITES. The valedictory session was chaired by Shri Amit Garg and ended with a vote of thanks to the chair.


    ****


    AKS/MKV/AK/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491787) Visitor Counter : 148