      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Two-day National Level Conference on “Capacity Building of SDRFs-2017 being held Various sessions stress on need of disaster preparedness and strengthening of SDRF
      Posted On: 06 JUN 2017 5:52PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh inaugurated the 2-day National Level Conference on “Capacity Building of SDRFs-2017” here today. The conference is being organised by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF).

    
    Earlier in the day, while addressing the inaugural function of the conference, Shri Rajnath Singh said that disaster has no geographical and physical boundaries, so we must think beyond boundaries for effective management of disasters. He also appealed to the States to modify and implement the best practices of other states in tackling disasters. He said that the risks arising out of development shall also be taken into account and focus should not only be on mitigating the effects of disasters. Addressing the gathering, Dr. P. K. Mishra, Additional Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, said that it is for the first time in the last few years that, such a national level conference is being organised with the participation of most of the States.
    
    Following the inaugural session, during the second session of the conference, various issues pertaining to disaster preparedness & response, Preparedness of State Disaster Response Force’s (SDRF’s), Early Warning Service were discussed by the imminent delegates of National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), Indian Metrological Department (IMD), INCOIS.
    
    Shri R K Jain, Member NDMA stressed the need for SDRF preparedness and strengthening of SDRF by specialized training and equipping with latest gadgets for prompt and timely response to disaster as local authorities like SDRF have to respond first to any disasters as India is among top five countries in the world which is vulnerable to various kinds of disasters viz. Floods, Earthquake, Cyclone and Tsunami etc.
    
    Shri Amitabh Kant, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), NITI Aayog, addressed the gathering and briefed about the digitalization, its benefits to common people as well as agencies involved in disaster management. He also highlighted the various initiatives taken by Government of India for promoting the digitalization.
    
    Shri Kamal Kishore, Member, NDMA expressed his views on Disaster Preparedness & Response and highlighted the benefits of various social media tools in the case of disaster. Dr. S S C Shenoi ,Director, INCOIS briefed about the Tsunami Early Warning Services for India & Indian Ocean Rim Countries. Dr. M Mohapatra, Additional Director General, India Metrological Department, briefed about multi-hazards early warnings, new forecasting applications & modules for forecasting to Cyclone, Monsoon etc in India, various tools prominently being used by common people for disseminating early warning, its benefits to common people & disaster managers as well as how these helpful to disaster manager and other stakeholders.

    ***


    
    
    KSD/NK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491987) Visitor Counter : 131