      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Buyer Seller Meet on Mangoes on 5th -6th June at Mumbai
      Posted On: 02 JUN 2017 5:57PM by PIB Delhi


    

    APEDA is organizing a Buyer Seller Meet (BSM) on 5th -6th June, 2017 at Mumbai. The programme will facilitate the interaction of Buyers of mangoes from China, Japan, Australia, Iran, Mauritius, South Korea and Dubai with the concerned Government officials of mango exporting states and the mango exporters. About 30 leading importers from their countries are exported to participate in the event.

    
    The objective of the event is to provide a platform for interaction of exporters and importers of mangoes, to promote exports of mangoes from the country. The Buyer Seller Meet has been scheduled on the first day (5th June, 2017) in Hotel Fortune, Navi Mumbai. There are about 60 exporters from the country who would be participating in the event. State Governments of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telanagana, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are participating in the BSM and would be showcasing their variety of mangoes through a stall put up separately for each State. Information related to mangoes would be disseminated through various publicity material prepared. Further, a provision has been made for wet sampling of mangoes to the buyers of the different countries, so that they can appreciate a vast range of mango and its taste. The second day (6th June, 2017) of the event is plan to showcase the critical infrastructure set up for export of mangoes namely Hot Water Treatment facility, Vapour Heat Treatment facility and Irradiation Facility. The idea is to create confidence among buyers about the quality improvements made by India and its commitment to export safe food products. The event is going to be inaugurated by Shri Alok Vardhan Chaturvedi, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Govt. of India. The event would be joined by Shri D.K. Singh, Chairman, APEDA, Dr. Shakil P. Ahamed, Joint Secretary, MIDH, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and Mr. Ashwani Kumar, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare.
    
    MJPS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491656) Visitor Counter : 227