      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Workmen in the North East being trained on -site to handle construction equipments NHIDCL-NSDC to train over a 1000 people under PMKVY in a phased manner Shri Gadkari launches first phase of training for workmen of Tripura today
      Posted On: 01 JUN 2017 7:48PM by PIB Delhi


    Construction workers in the North Eastern states are being trained to handle equipments used in the construction sector under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY). The Minister of Road Transport & Highways and Shipping Shri Nitin Gadkari inaugurated the first of such trainings through a video link in New Delhi today. The training is being undertaken by National Highways Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (NHIDCL) at its project sites in the North East, in association with the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC). In the first phase, a month long training from the 1st to 30th of June 2017, will be conducted for 40 trainees in two batches of 20 trainees each at two site offices of the ongoing projects on Agartala- Udaipur - Sabroom Section of NH-44 in the state of Tripura. The training will be for Junior Backhoe Loader Operator Level 3 at the site office of M/s KMC Construction and M/s Oriental Structural Engineers Pvt. Ltd., and will be provided by trainers from M/s Escorts for a duration of 190 hours. Over a 1000 workmen will be trained in the North Eastern states as part of this programme in a phased manner.
    
    Inaugurating the training module Shri Nitin Gadkari said that the purpose of the training programme is to impart skill to the local youth of the North Eastern states so that they can find employment in the infrastructure projects coming up in the area. He said that his ministry is also engaging more and more local contractors in the North East , as also other remote and not so developed areas, so that they can, in turn, engage the trained, local youth on the construction sites. Shri Gadkari said that 71 drivers training schools are also being set up to impart training to the local youth and enhance their employability.
    
    Also speaking on the occasion MoS Road Transport & Highways and Shipping Shri Mansukh L Mandavia said that the training of local youth will attract industries to the North East and also improve the quality of construction.

    ***


    
    
    NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491581) Visitor Counter : 237