      Ministry of Urban Development

      Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu launches ‘Segregation of Municipal Waste at Source Initiative for NCR’
      Use Green and Blue bins to segregate wet and dry waste, says Shri Naidu
      
      Special Edition of Diamond Toons Comic ‘Chacha Chaudhary & Swachh Bharat’ released
      
      Exchange of MoU between DMRC and IL&FS
      
      Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu flags off segregated waste collection vehicles

      Posted On: 05 JUN 2017 4:26PM by PIB Delhi

    On the occasion of World Environment Day, the Union Minister of Urban Development Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu launched a campaign on source segregation of municipal waste for National Capital Region (NCR) here today.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu urged all the citizens to participate in this campaign for its success. He said that bins with different colors, shall be used to segregate waste in every house and shop. Green bins shall be used for wet waste and Blue bins for dry waste, he added. The Minister pointed that the incorrect disposal and burning of solid waste results in emission of climate change causing Greenhouse gases like Methane and Carbon Dioxide to the tune of 12.69 million tonnes of Carbon Dioxide in the country per year. He also said that a recent study has revealed 15 diseases, such as Hepatitis, Cholera and Malaria, caused due to the improper solid waste management.


    Shri Naidu said that a number of policy interventions have been introduced by the Government to encourage processing of municipal solid waste to compost and energy. He said that to promote conversion of ‘Waste to Energy’, purchase of electricity so generated has been made mandatory by DISCOMs and to promote ‘Waste to Compost’, a subsidy of Rs 1,500 per ton will be provided by the Government.


    During the occasion, the Minister released a special edition of Diamond Toons Comic titled ‘Chacha Chaudhary & Swachh Bharat’. The comic book depicts cartoons with a message pertaining to solid waste management.


    A Power Purchase Agreement was also exchanged between DMRC and IL&FS, in which the green power generated through waste by IL&FS plant will be purchased by DMRC. This green partnership between DMRC and IL&FS will greatly help in building a Swachh & Swasth Delhi.


    Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu flagged off segregated waste collection vehicles/ auto tippers, covering a total of nine Urban Local Bodies (ULBs), which includes Gurugram, Faridabad, Noida and Ghaziabad, besides five ULBs of Delhi.


    The Minister felicitated individuals, Residential Welfare Associations, Hotels and Restaurants who have commendably contributed to the source segregation of waste and also administered a pledge in this regard.


    ****


    KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491769) Visitor Counter : 203