      Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs

      Shri S.S. Ahluwalia leads Indian Parliamentary Delegation to Sweden
      Delegation seeks Swedish support for the Global Convention against International Terrorism at the UN
      
      Shri Ahluwalia thanks Sweden for its consistent and unequivocal support to India’s candidature to the expanded permanent membership of the UNSC and NSG
      Posted On: 01 JUN 2017 11:08AM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Shri S.S. Ahluwalia, led an Indian Parliamentary delegation on a three-day visit to Sweden for promoting and strengthening parliamentary relations between the two countries.The visit, which concluded late last night, is expected to re-energize the existing high-level contacts between India and Sweden and further strengthen bilateral relations.


    During the visit, the Indian delegation met Swedish Minister for Policy Coordination and Energy, Mr. Ibrahim Baylan, the Speaker of the Riksdag (Swedish Parliament), Mr. Urban Ahlin, and Foreign Minister Ms. Margot Wallström.


    Shri Ahluwalia, in his meetings with the Swedish dignitaries, thanked Sweden for its consistent and unequivocal support to India’s candidature to the expanded permanent membership of the UN Security Council (UNSC) and membership of the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG). He expressed satisfaction at the continued strengthening of bilateral relations and underlined importance of Parliamentary relations between the two democracies, including upcoming visit of the Speaker of Swedish Riksdag to India.


    The Minister further discussed the entire gamut of bilateral political and economic relations in addition to other issues of global concern. He emphasized on the threat posed by international terrorism globally, especially in the South Asian region, and the need for the international community to join hands to combat this global menace, including its state-sponsorship and funding. Shri Ahluwalia stressed that these perpetrators of terror were not small-time anarchists but rather they were well-educated, well-motivated, well-trained, well-armed, well-connected and well-funded terrorists. The Minister sought Swedish support for the Global Convention against International Terrorism at the UN.


    The Ministerial delegation, during the visit, also visited Swedish Parliament and met Ms. Asa Coenraads, Chairman of the India-Sweden Parliamentary Association in the Riksdag, who was joined by a couple of other Parliamentarians. A dozen other Swedish Parliamentarians and officials also participated in the luncheon interaction hosted by Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the Swedish Parliament, Mr. Kenneth G. Forslund, and exchanged views and information on a wide range of issues of mutual interest.


    The Indian delegation also interacted with the Indian Diaspora in Sweden, representatives of Swedish Parliament, Government, business community and industry at a reception, hosted by Indian Ambassador Ms. Monika Kapil Mohta during the visit. During the reception, the delegation was also given a presentation on India-Sweden economic relations by the Chairman of the Sweden-India Business Council.


    The Parliamentary delegation, among others, comprised nine Members of Parliament – Shri Bhartruhari Mahtab, MP(LS), BJD; Shri Amdayala Paddu Jithender Reddy, MP(LS),TRS; Shri Chandrakant Bhaurao Khaire, MP(LS), Shiv Sena; Shri Ram Kumar Verma, MP(RS), BJP; Shri Manchacheri Kuppadakkath Raghavan, MP(LS), INC; Shri Palanivel Kumar, MP(LS), AIADMK; Shri Chintakunta Munaiah Ramesh, MP(RS), TDP; Shri Mohammed Faizal Padippura, MP (LS),NCP; and Shri Yerram Venkata Subba Reddy, MP(LS), YSRCP – and Shri Rajiv Yadav, Secretary, Parliamentary Affairs.


    *****


    VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491479) Visitor Counter : 131