      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Health advisory for Yatris During Shri Amarnathji Yatra
      Posted On: 06 JUN 2017 4:15PM by PIB Delhi

      

        T he Pilgrimage to Holy Cave of Shri Amarnathji involves trekking at altitudes as high as 14000feet. Yatris may develop High Altitude Sickness with following symptoms: loss of appetite, nausea,vomiting, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, lightheadedness and difficulty in sleeping, visual impairment, bladder dysfunction, bowl dysfunction, loss of coordination of movements, paralysis on one side of the body, gradualloss of consciousness and mental status changes, drowsiness, chest tightness, fullness, congestion, fastbreathing and increased heart rate. If high altitude sickness is not treated timely, it may be lethal in amatter of hours.


        Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board has issued the following Health Advisory for the Yatris:


        Do ’ s for prevention of High Altitude Sickness.


        1. Do prepare for the Yatra by achieving Physical Fitness – it is advisable to start a preparatory Morning/ Evening walk, about 4-5 km per day, at least a month prior to the Yatra.


        2. Start deep breathing exercise and Yoga, particularly pranayam for improving oxygen efficiency of the body.


        3. Do check with your physician prior to travelling to higher elevations, if you have any existing pre-existing medical conditions.


        4. Do walk slowly while ascending and take time to acclimatize-, relax for a short while on steepinclines.


        5. Do avoid exerting beyond your normal capacity.


        6. Do take compulsory rest at various locations and ensure time logging and take ideal walking timementioned on the display boards while moving towards next location.


        7. Do check with your physician prior to taking any medications.


        8. Do drink lots of water to combat dehydration and headaches – about 5 liters of fluid per day.


        9. Do follow the prescribed food menu – available at Shrine Board’s website, Shriamarnathjishrine.com – when having food in the Yatra area.


        10. Do consume plenty of carbohydrates to reduce fatigue and prevent low blood sugar levels.


        11. Do bring portable oxygen with you as it is helpful in case you have difficulty in breathing.


        12. Do descend immediately to a lower elevation, if you start having altitude illness symptoms.


        13 In case there is any change in the status of your health after having obtained Compulsory HealthCertificate some weeks earlier, do consult your doctor before embarking on the pilgrimage.


        14. In case of any signs of high altitude sickness or any other discomfort, immediately contact the nearestmedical facility located at every 2 kms.


        Don’ts for prevention of High Altitude illness.


        1. Don’t ignore the symptoms of high altitude illness.


        2. Don’t drink alcohol, caffeinated drink, or smoke.


        3. Don’t ascend any further if you have altitude illness. Instead, descend immediately to an elevation whereyou can acclimatize.


        4. Don’t accept everything a sick Yatri says since his/ her judgment is impaired.


        ****


        KSD/NK/KM/sk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491955) Visitor Counter : 104