      Ministry of Finance

      The Union Finance Minister to inaugurate the one week Teachers Workshop on Contemporary Themes in India’s Economic Development and the Economic Survey.
      Posted On: 08 JUN 2017 4:15PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister for Finance, Defence and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley along with the Union Minister of Human Resource Development (HRD), Shri Prakash Javedkar will inaugurate the one week Teachers Workshop at IIT Delhi on Sunday, 11 th June, 2017. The one week workshop for Economic Teachers from different Universities and Colleges across India is being hosted by the Office of the Chief Economic Adviser (CEA), Ministry of Finance, in collaboration with the Ministry for Human Resource Development (MHRD), Government of India. This is the first time that such a workshop is being organised. The workshop is being organized from 11 th to 17 th June, 2017 at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi.


    Dr. Arvind Subramanian, Chief Economic Adviser (CEA), Ministry of Finance will be delivering the lectures during the one week Workshop on various aspects of the Indian economy based on the latest three Economic Surveys. The workshop will work in 3 ways; First, about 165 Teachers from all over India will physically participate; Second, the lectures will be Telecast Live on the official Facebook Page of the Ministry of Finance and third, the lectures will also be recorded and converted into a self-paced Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) and then posted on the SWAYAM platform of MHRD besides being uploaded on YouTube for the wider public.


    The course overview and the syllabus outline are at as follows:


    Course Overview


    This course will cover the history of Indian economic development and the current progress, challenges and the strategy going forward. It will cover these themes through the analysis presented in the Economic Survey s of the previous three years (2014-15 to 2016-17). The detailed overview of the syllabus is provided below. This course is suitable for students and teachers of Economics both at the undergraduate and advanced levels as well as policymakers interested in the Indian economy.


    Learning Outcomes:


    This course will help in developing an in-depth understanding of the Indian economy- its history, recent developments, and impending challenges. The participants will become proficient in understanding and analyzing macroeconomic developments and policy. They will also become familiar with the current dominant thoughts and tools used for economic policy making and research.


    Syllabus Outline

                                                                                            
1.0   Global and Indian Economic History: The Precocious Development Model                  
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
2.0   Economic Outlook, Prospects, and Policy Challenges                                    
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
3.0   Fiscal Issues: FRBM and Fiscal Policy                                                 
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
4.0   Fiscal Issues: State Finances, Urbanization, the Fourteenth Finance Commission and GST
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
5.0   Monetary Policy and Inflation Targeting in an Open economy                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
6.0   Economic Crises and the Twin Balance Sheet Challenge in India                         
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
7.0   Subsidies, Bounties, and JAM trinity; Universal Basic Income (UBI)                    
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
8.0   State of the Indian States                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
9.0   Agriculture                                                                           
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
10.0  Manufacturing and Services: Development Transition Through a Sectoral Lens            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
11.0  State Capacity, Fiscal Capacity and Social Sector in India                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
12.0  Infrastructure: Power, Railways, and Energy                                           
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
13.1  International Trade                                                                   
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
13.2  India’s Internal integration: Trade and Migration                                     
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
14.0  Demonetisation; India’s Meta-challenges: Exit and Ideology                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            

    *****


    DSM/KA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1492248) Visitor Counter : 288