      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh felicitates the students of ‘Kashmir Super 30’ initiative qualifying for IITs/NITs/Regional colleges
      Posted On: 13 JUN 2017 5:05PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh felicitated the students from Jammu and Kashmir, who have qualified for the IITs/NITs and regional colleges, at a function organised here today.
    
    These students belong to the ‘Kashmir Super 30’ initiative of Indian Army with training partner Centre for Social Responsibility and Leadership (CSRL) & Petronet LNG Limited (PLL). The project aims to support the talented underprivileged students of the economically weaker sections of Kashmir to achieve educational success by providing engineering entrance exam coaching. Out of 40 students enrolled under the project, 35 boys were given coaching at Srinagar and 5 girls at Delhi/NCR. In the result declared of IIT-JEE this year, 26 boys and 2 girls cracked the IIT –JEE mains exam. Further out of 28 students, 9 students made it to the prestigious IITs.
    
    While addressing the students, Dr Jitendra Singh said that these students have set an example before others to follow. He complemented Petronet for their efforts in supporting these children. He said that the job which they are performing is not small and they are making a real contribution in the lives of these students with their sincerity and commitment. He appreciated them for their focussed and result-oriented approach. He also appreciated Indian Army for its contribution. He said that we are indebted to Indian Army which serves the nation not only in the times of disturbance, but also in the times of peace by working in various situations like flood relief measures.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh said that we have one of the best talents in Kashmir. He said that under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, various new schemes have been initiated which are youth-centric. He said that India’s 65% population is below the age of 40 years, so youth-aspirations will decide our priorities. He assured students that the Government of India is ready to support all efforts to realise their potential. He said that in the Civil Services Exam Result declared recently, 14 students from Jammu and Kashmir have made it to the list.
    
    Major General R P Khalita, General Officer Commanding, 19 Infantry Division, Indian Army, Shri Prabhat Singh, MD&CEO of Petronet LNG Ltd and other officers were also present on the occasion.

    ***


    
    
    KSD/NK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492663) Visitor Counter : 120