      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi participates in various programmes on completion of 3 years of NDA Government
      Minority Affairs Minister briefs about Achievements of the NDA Government

      Posted On: 12 JUN 2017 6:53PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State for Minority Affairs (Independent Charge), Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, today said that the last three years of the Modi Government have been years of “Development, Transparency & Efficiency”. Shri Naqvi stated it while participating in various programmes including press conference during his visit to Pakur in Jharkhand on the occasion of completion of 3 years of the NDA Government at the Centre. The Minister interacted with the people and informed them about various welfare schemes of the NDA Government.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that India’s economic growth rate has been above 7 per cent during the last three years. India has become one of the most attractive investment destination of the world. The success story of Indian economy has been recognised by the entire world.
    
    The NDA Government is committed to development of youth power of the country. Schemes such as “Mudra Yojana”, “Stand Up India”, “Start Up India”, “Make In India” have turned “job seekers” into “job creators”. These schemes are guarantee of empowerment of youth and women.
    
    Shri Naqvi further said that during the last three years of the NDA Government has ensured that benefit of every welfare scheme is reaching directly to the needy. Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) has saved more than Rs 50 thousand crores. The Minority Affairs Minister said that more than 2 crore free domestic LPG connections were given to poor families in the last three years and more than 1 crore people have given it up their subsidy.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that “Jan Dhan accounts” of more than 26 crore people have been opened in three years. More than 13 crore poor people have been included in various social security schemes. More than 2 crore toilets have been constructed in 2016-17, investment worth Rs 1 lakh 43 thousand crore has come in electronics manufacturing under “Make in India”.
    
    Informing the people about achievements of the Ministry of Minority Affairs, Shri Naqvi said that the 3 years the NDA government are reflection of “empowerment without appeasement” policy. Our focus was on “3E- Education, Employment & Empowerment”. “Progress Panchayat”, “Less Cash Chaupal”, coordination meetings with the states were important measures.
    
    More than 2 lakh women were provided leadership training under “Nai Raushni”. Budget of Minority Affairs Ministry has been increased after about 10 years in 2017-18. It has been increased to Rs 4195 crore from Rs 3827.25 crore in 2016-17.
    
    The achievements of Ministry of Minority Affairs also include: Scholarships worth Rs 4740 crore to 1 crore 82 lakh students; scholarships worth Rs 166 crore to 1 lakh 38 thousand 426 girl students under “Begum Hazrat Mahal Scholarship; more than 5 lakh 20 thousand youths including about 40 per cent women, covered under various job-oriented skill training; establishing 33 degree colleges; 223 multi-purpose “Sadbhav Mandap” and 18 Gurukul type residential schools in last six years; significant increase in annual Haj quota.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that launching “Tehreek-e-Taleem”, campaign for education; organising “Hunar Haat”, to provide market-opportunity to master artisans across the country; establishing “Hunar Hub” in all the states; organising “Usttad Samman Samagam”; establishing 5 international level educational institutes; 100 Gurukul-Navoday type schools in minority concentrated areas and reviving option of sending Haj pilgrims through sea route also will be our steps to be taken in the coming months.

    *****


    
    
    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492596) Visitor Counter : 113