      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Visit of Minister of State (I/C) Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel to China
      Posted On: 12 JUN 2017 7:00PM by PIB Delhi


    At the invitation of the All China Youth Federation (ACYF), Minister of State (Independent Charge) Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel paid an official visit to China from 9 – 13 June 2017. During the Shanghai leg of the visit from 11-13 June, Vice Mayor of Shanghai (incharge of youth affairs) Mr. Shi Guanghui, received the visiting Indian delegation in the afternoon of 12 June at the premises of the Shanghai Municipal People’s Government.


    Shi Guanghui welcomed Shri Vijay Goel to Shanghai and called for promoting greater exchanges between the youth of India and China – “as the future potential of the world’s largest developing countries lay in their hands”. Vijay Goel, thanked Shanghai Municipal Government and Shanghai Youth Federation for the excellent arrangements for the Indian delegation and also extended an invitation to Shanghai city leadership to join the upcoming 3 rd International Day of Yoga celebrations in Shanghai on 21 st June.


    Earlier in the forenoon of 12 June, Shri Goel visited the ANTS Innovation Center in Pudong, where an incubation hub for education related start-ups and tech companies run by the young entrepreneurs from Shanghai was on display. He also visited the Shanghai Zhubaiqiu Youth League Branch, where handicraft learning for young Shanghainese is being promoted.


    Separately an interaction of the visiting Sports Minister with members of the Indian community in Shanghai including Indian IT professionals, leading CEOs, bankers and service sector professionals was organized under the aegis of Indian Association Shanghai at the Indian Consulate Conference Hall. Nearly 40 - 50 service professionals from the Indian community who has been based out of Shanghai joined the interaction to meet the Minister for Sports and Youth Affairs Shri Goel. During the interaction with the Indian community Shri Goel apprised them on the achievements and priorities of the Government of India upon conclusion of three years in governance and the recent initiatives undertaken to promote development of sports and youth exchanges in India. An interactive Q&A Session followed the address during which members of the Indian community raised queries on issues pertaining to improving the sports facilities in India.


    Earlier on 11 June,2017 Shri Goel visited the Shanghai Urban Planning and Exhibition Center and learned about the priorities and vision for development of Shanghai by 2020. It may be noted that Shri Vijay Goel is leading a 200-member youth delegation from India, whose visit is being organized as part of the bilateral youth exchange programme which has been in place since 2007.


    AD/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492599) Visitor Counter : 117