      President's Secretariat

      President addresses special session of AIMA organized to mark its Diamond Jubilee
      Posted On: 07 JUN 2017 8:24PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee addressed the special session of All India Management Association (AIMA) being organized to mark its Diamond Jubilee at Rashtrapati Bhavan today (June 7, 2017).
    
    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that there is an urgent need for management education in India to complement training for entrepreneurship. Startups and small businesses must come up to create jobs for the millions of our youth entering the working population. That is perhaps the only way that we can fully utilize our demographic dividend. The youth, simultaneously, need to be equipped with suitable skills to man the jobs that get created. He commended AIMA for taking the initiative to set up a council to teach management and entrepreneurship skills. He stated that these skills would improve the employability of Indian youth and enable many to set up new enterprises.
    
    The President said that India has made tremendous progress since 1957, the year in which AIMA began its journey. AIMA has, since its inception, made an outstanding contribution to the development of India’s management culture and capability. Indian managers are considered as best managers and are always in high demand. He said that he was happy to note that AIMA was taking on more responsibilities and expanding its portfolio of activities. He hoped that AIMA would continue to follow the ideas, principles and philosophy with which it had been started 60 years ago.
    
    Among the dignitaries present on the occasion were Shri Sunil Kant Munjal, President, AIMA and Chairman, Hero Corporate Service, Ms. Rekha Sethi, Director General, AIMA and Shri Preetha Reddy, Past President, AIMA and Vice Chairperson, Apollo Hospitals Enterprises Ltd.

    ***


    
    
    AKT/AK/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492169) Visitor Counter : 205