      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Awareness session on Industrial Informaton System – Chaattisgarh
      Posted On: 16 JUN 2017 11:24AM by PIB Delhi


    An awareness programme was conducted by Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion at Naya Raipur, Chhattisgarh on the Industrial Information System on June 15, 2017. The programme was chaired by Shri Chandu Lal Sahu. Hon’ble Member Parliament Mahasamund and Member of Consultative Committee of the Ministry of Commerce and IndustryThe session was attended by senior govt. officials from Chhattisgarh Govt and industry associations.


    Sh Sunil Mishra MD Chattisgarh State Industrial Development Corporation gave an overview of Industries in Chattisgarh. The state is rich in minerals and a quarter of power comes from the state. The state is strong in core industries particularly steel.


    Dr Vandana Kumar JS DIPP made a presentation on the ‘Industrial Information System which has been developed with the support of Ministry of Electronics and IT in collaboration with BISAG.


    The various features of the portal like the GIS Maps showing the industrial infrastructure mapped till date along with the raw materials layers were demonstrated. A provision to see the connectivity through Air, Rail and Road, scheme details and demand assessment were also demonstrated. Over 2800 clusters have been mapped with over 5.25 lakh hectare land. JS DIPP mentioned that the various central government departments and state govts are continuing to enter data on the system. As the database gets enriched, the portal will serve as valuable decision support tool to investors and policy makers alike.


    The development of the portal was much appreciated and was received enthusiastically. Shri Chandu Lal Sahu said that the portal is an opportunity for the State to showcase its large industries ,steel and power sector plants. It will attract investors which will result in job creation in the State.


    Representatives of Industry associations said the system would be very useful to industries. Secretary Industries Sh A S Bhat said that 53 Clusters of Chattisgarh have been mapped and work will continue to enhance completion and accuracy of data. Sh Sahu advised that industry has to be supported , particularly small enterprises.


    *****


    MJPS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492973) Visitor Counter : 67