      Ministry of Home Affairs

      National Level Conference on "Capacity Building of SDRFs-2017" concludes today
      Posted On: 07 JUN 2017 6:01PM by PIB Delhi


    The two-day National Level Conference on "Capacity Building of SDRFs-2017" concluded here today. The conference was inaugurated by the Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh yesterday. The conference was organised by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to develop a synergy and to highlight way ahead to strengthen the response capabilities of State Disaster Response Forces (SDRFs).
    
    On the second day of National level conference on capacity building of SDRF-2017 today, the Union Home Secretary, Shri Rajiv Mehrishi addressed the delegates from the states. He emphasized that NDRF and SDRFs to work together on Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) by educating the community and adopt new technologies to tackle the new emerging challenges besides their primary role. He underlined the strengthening of SDRF by specialized training and equipping with latest gadgets for prompt and timely response to disaster. The Home Secretary also assured State representatives to provide every possible help for making SDRF a self- contained response Force.
    
    Prof. Santosh Kumar, Executive Director, National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), delivered a lecture on “Vulnerability profile of the country & Emerging Challenges” and elaborated future challenges in the field of disaster management like climate change, resources, population profile, disaster profile, hazard profile, life expectancy, rapid urbanization, future trends of disaster viz. Urban Floods, etc. During his lecture, he said that expansion of cities, growth of urban infrastructure, non-following of building codes are changing the risk profile. The response agencies need to be prepared and equipped accordingly to tackle with these disaster scenarios.
    
    The representatives of Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Jammu & Kashmir, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Nagaland, Tamil Nadu and Uttarakhand gave their presentations on the current status of SDRFs and steps to be taken for strengthening of SDRFs. Shri Randeep Kumar Rana, Dy. Inspector General, NDRF and Director National Civil Defence College (NCDC) Nagpur also provided valuable inputs through their presentations. The conference concluded with the discussion on various agenda point with the representatives of SDRF’s.

    *****


    KSD/NK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492134) Visitor Counter : 55