      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      India to be Co-Partner Country in ANUGA 2017
      “Food Diplomacy to bridge all Barriers”, Says Smt Badal
      Posted On: 13 JUN 2017 5:31PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Food Processing Industries Smt Harsimrat Kaur Badal today addressed a Joint Press Conference with the organizers of ANUGA - an international business platform for Food Industry to be held in Cologne, Germany. She also signed the Memorandum of Understanding for Participation in the ANUGA Exhibition with Ms Katharina C Hamma, Chief Operating Officer, Koelnmesse GmBH (Organizers of ANUGA).


    Minister of Food Processing Industries said that it was an honour for India to be a co-partner country in such a prestigious international event. “It gives us the opportunity to showcase our strengths and opportunities to an international audience”. The Minister also said that Food Processing Sector has lots of challenges to deal with but due to the transformation happening in this sector in the last 3 years, the industry is ready to overcome the obstacles. Smt Badal said that under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, in the last 3 years, our Government has started nine Mega Food Parks; strengthening cold chain infrastructure; implementing Kisan-SAMPADA scheme with allocation of Rs 6000 crore; creation of corpus of Rs. 2000 Crore with NABARD for priority lending to the food processing industries; rationalising taxes; allowing 100% FDI in retail market for Food sector, etc. These steps will help the Government in achieving its vision of making India a Global Food Factory rather than being a market place only. “Brand India will be standing parallel with Brand ANUGA in Cologne, Germany”, said the Minister. Smt Badal said infact Germany could be invited to partner in World Food India to be organized shortly by the Government of India. The Minister recognised the importance for India to be showcasing its strength in Food Processing Industries by participating in various International Food Exhibitions like SIAL in France and ANUGA in Germany.


    “Food diplomacy will bridge many differences and would transform the lives of farmers” reiterated Smt Badal. Development of Food Processing Industries will help in achieving the target of doubling farmers’ income by 2022. We need to upgrade our farming techniques and need investment not only in Food Processing but also in Farming technologies. We also need to learn from the west on how to control wastage at harvest and transportation level said the MInister.


    Speaking on the occasion Ms Katharina C Hamma said that she is happy to announce India as a partner country to ANUGA 2017. While ANUGA 2015 had 135 Indian exhibitors, more than 200 Indian companies are expected to participate in ANUGA 2017 from October 7th to October 11th 2017 at Cologne. For ANUGA 2017 e- commerce in food industry will be focussed for the first time. Ms Hamma said India’s food industry is known for its efficiency and culinary competence. World is attracted to Indian cuisines and its diversity. India is a home to a diverse variety of spices, a large number of which are exported across the globe. Traditional Organic produce of North East India is held in high esteem. She congratulated Indian Government for taking new path breaking initiatives.


    ANUGA Background:


    ● ANUGA - an acronym for Allgemeine Nahrungs Und Genußmittel Ausstellung ( General Food and Non essential Provisions Exhibition) is the world’s biggest and most important trade fair for Food and beverage trade. It takes place biennially (every 2 years). ANUGA 2017 is the 34th edition.


    ● ANUGA offers an extensive supporting programme with Lectures, Special exhibition and attractive industry events


    ● ANUGA is the leading export platform with 7,189 exhibitors from 109 countries with over 85% of Exhibitors from abroad.


    ● 1,60,000 decision makers from the retail and out-of-home market from 192 countries visited during last ANUGA. 66% of the industry visitors are foreigners


    Quick facts regarding Indian Participation at ANUGA:

                                                              
Year  No. of exhibitors from India  No. of visitors from India
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
2005  45                            304                       
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
2013  126                           529                       
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
2015  150                           1,696                     
                                                              
                                                              

    ● Increase in participation in 2015 vis-a-vis 2013


    ● 19% in exhibitors and 220% in visitors from India


    ● Ministry of Commerce & Industry and Ministry of Food Processing Industry are jointly sponsoring this Indian branding at ANUGA, 2017.


    ● More details are available at www.anuga.com


    ***


    SBS/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492668) Visitor Counter : 227