      Ministry of Finance

      The Union Minister of Finance, Defence and Corporate Affairs Shri Arun Jaitley will leave tonight on a 4-day official visit to Republic of Korea (ROK) to participate in the India-Korea
      
      Strategic Economic Dialogue and the 2nd Annual Meeting of the Board of Governors of AIIB among others.

      Posted On: 13 JUN 2017 8:45PM by PIB Delhi

    

    The Union Minister of Finance, Defence and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley will leave tonight on a four-day official visit to Republic of Korea (ROK) to participate in the India-Korea Strategic Economic Dialogue and the 2nd Annual Meeting of Board of Governors of AIIB among others.

    
    On the first leg of his visit, the Union Minister for Finance and Defence, Shri Jaitley will arrive in Seoul tomorrow i.e. 14th June, 2017. The First engagement of Shri Jaitley after his arrival in Seoul, would be to have a Meeting with Mr Han Minkoo, Minister of National Defence, Republic of Korea, followed by lunch being hosted by Mr Minkoo in honour of the visiting Finance and Defence Minister, Shri Jaitley.
    
    In the afternoon on 14th June, 2017, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will lead the Indian Delegation and will have a Meeting with the Deputy PM and Finance Minister, ROK and Korean official delegation as part of India-Korea Strategic Economic Dialogue .This will be followed by the Signing Ceremony of EDCF Agreement between the two countries and thereafter, an MOU will be signed between EXIM Bank of India and South Korea’s KEXIM Bank.
    
    In the evening, the Deputy PM and Finance Minister of Republic of Korea will host a dinner in honour of the Finance Minister of India, Shri Arun Jaitley which will also be attended among others by the visiting FICCI delegation.
    
    On next day i.e. 15th June, 2017, the Finance Minister of India, Shri Arun Jaitley will have a Breakfast Meeting with the representatives of the Korean Financial Industry. Later, the Chairman of the KB Bank, Korea will call on the visiting Finance Minister of India. After that, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will have one to one Meetings with South Korean Industry leaders including the CEO of Samsung Electronics, and the Chairman of Hyosung Group among others.
    
    In the afternoon on 15th June, 2017, the Finance Minister of India, Shri Arun Jaitley will address the Seminar on ”Doing Business in India” hosted by the Korean Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI),FICCI and the Indian Embassy in South Korea. On the sidelines, there will also be Business to Business Panel Discussions in which members of visiting FICCI delegation will hold discussions with their Korean counterparts.
    
    Later, the Finance Minister of India, Shri Arun Jaitley will call on the President of Republic of South Korea, H.E. Mr Moon Jae-in, In the evening on 15th June, 2017, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will leave for Jeju, South Korea to participate in the 2nd Annual Meeting of the Board of Governors of AIIB.
    
    Next day, i.e. 16th June, 2017, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will participate in AIIB Governors’ Seminar on ‘Sustainable Infrastructure’. After that, the Finance Minister will participate in an India Seminar.
    
    In the afternoon on 16th June, 2017, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will participate in the Opening Ceremony of the 2nd Annual Meeting of Board of Governors’ of AIIB followed by the Governors’ Business Session. Later in the afternoon, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will participate in AIIB Workshop on ”Energy Strategy of the AIIB”.
    
    In the evening, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will participate in the Host Country Dinner for visiting Board of Governors.
    
    The next day, 17th June, 2017, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will leave Jeju to undertake journey back home via Seoul and will arrive in the national capital on the morning of Saturday, 17th June, 2017 after completing his 4 day official visit of South Korea.

    **********


    
    
    DSM/KA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492704) Visitor Counter : 127