      Ministry of Communications

      Many countries express interest in knowing Digital Transformation in India
      ICT is key for promoting inclusive development in India-Manoj Sinha
      Posted On: 14 JUN 2017 3:51PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Communications Shri Manoj Sinha said that ICT has been utilized in India as a key enabler of governance, based on the principles of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas. Speaking at the World Summit on Information Society, WSIS Forum-2017 at Geneva, the Minister highlighted the success story of India in leveraging ICT for providing citizen centric information and services in timely and reliable manner under the visionary leadership of Prime Minister of India Shri Narendra Modi.
    
    The Minister explained in detail the ambitious Bharat Net Project, which aims to provide broadband connectivity to over 250 thousand Gram Panchayats via indigenously developed Gigabyte Passive Optical Network by the end of year 2018. This ambitious digital connectivity project which happens to be the world’s largest connectivity project and unique in many of its dimensions will provide reliable and quality broadband connectivity to rural areas.
    
    India’s success story of direct benefit transfer through Aadhar, e-payments facility through BHIM; use of National Digital Literacy Mission, digital platforms such as National e-governance platform, m-governance, Government E-market Place were also highlighted during the address. The success story of Digital India in ensuring citizens centric services and its role in building a knowledge based society was specially mentioned in the address.
    
    Number of participants, countries and organizations showed keen interest in understanding the technologies adopted by India to leap frog from traditional system of governance to digital system of governance.
    
    In order to enhance cooperation between India and International Telecommunications Union (ITU), the Hon’ble Minister met Mr. Houlin Zhao, Secretary General, ITU and Mr. Malcolm Johnson, Deputy Secretary General, ITU. There was a strong desire on the part of ITU to enhance cooperation with India and study the flagship programmes such as Aadhar, Digital Financial Services so as to put it as global standards. ITU also showed interest in identifying developmental and social programmes and technologies, good practices of ICT based interventions in India including in Smart Cities project for its implementation in other parts of the world. Hon’ble Minister welcomed ITU’s proposals and reiterated India’s support for opening of a Local Area Office of ITU in India. He asked ITU to take lead in addressing the misuse of ICT by terrorists and cybercrimes through darknet, darkwebs and other instruments.
    
    Shri Manoj Sinha, Union Minister of State for Communications (Independent Charge) and Minister of State for Railways is heading a high-level delegation for the meeting of the World Summit on Information Society Forum-2017 (WSIS) which is being held at Geneva from 12-16 June 2017.

    <><><><><>


    
    
    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492760) Visitor Counter : 205