      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      India Pavilion at Expo 2017 Astana – A Mega Attraction
      Posted On: 15 JUN 2017 6:34PM by PIB Delhi


    

    India’s national pavilion at the International Exhibition Expo 2017 (June10- September 10) in Astana, Kazakhstan is a major attraction for the visitors. India’s participation in this event has been organized by the India Trade Promotion Organization (ITPO), New Delhi.

    
    India Pavilion was inaugurated jointly by Mr. L. C. Goyal, Commissioner of India Pavilion and Chairman Managing Director, ITPO and H.E. Mr. Harsh Kumar Jain, Ambassador of India to Kazakhstan, Mr. Deepak Kumar, Executive Director, ITPO and Mr. A.K. Sinha, OSD, ITPO were also present during the opening ceremony. H.E. Ambassadors from five other countries to Kazakhstan were also present. There is a representative participation from 100 countries and over 10 international organizations in the Expo.
    
    India’s participation in Expo 2017 has become more significant due to recent Astana visit of the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, Mr. Narendra Modi who had bilateral talks with H.E. the President of Kazakhstan, Mr. Nusultan Nazarbayev during two-day summit of Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) – a consortium that focuses on security and trade.
    
    H.E. Ambassador of India to Kazakhstan delivered a welcome address and Commissioner of India Pavilion, Mr. L.C. Goyal highlighted salient features of India pavilion.Creating a sync. with theme of the Expo “Future Energy”, India pavilion features a model of Cochin Airport which is a 100 per cent world’s first green airport generating more energy than required. Besides, there is also model ITPO’s ambitious project i.e. Re-development of Pragati Maidan exhibition complex into a world class Integrated Exhibition-Cum-Convention Center (IECC). India Restaurant is also set up for serving taste of Indian cuisine during the three months long EXPO. Apart from a large number of visitors, A delegation led by the honorable Minister of Green Energy, Government of Malaysia also visited the India Pavilion.
    
    Future of the energy leads the visitors to “Energy in Life” corridor. The corridor is designed with Indian historical architecture presents new energy ideas through technology and smart India with experience of smart cities, smart transfer, tourism, yoga, ayurveda and culture. The most interesting parts of the pavilion are the models designed and displayed by the Department of Science and Technology, Ministry of New and Renewable Energy and the energy resources Institute India. The models showcase native technology with strong forms on Science and technology.

    *****


    
    
    MJPS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492943) Visitor Counter : 182