      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      In-principle decision to open Janaushadhi Kendras at Railway Stations taken: Shri Suresh Prabhu
      We will utilize the vast Railway Infrastructure to increase Accessibility to Affordable, Quality Generic Drugs for the common man: Shri Ananthkumar
      Posted On: 13 JUN 2017 5:38PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers and Parliamentary Affairs, Shri Ananthkumar held a detailed discussion with the Minister of Railways, Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu for opening of Janaushadhi Kendras at Railway Stations and other Railway establishments here today. Minister of State for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping and Chemicals & Fertilizers, Shri Mansukh Lal Mandaviya was also present on the occasion.
    
    Assuring firm support to the PMBJP scheme from Ministry of Railways’ side, Shri Prabhu informed the media persons that an in-principle decision to open Janaushadhi Kendras at Railway Stations and other Railway establishments has been taken during today’s discussions. Railways being the largest employer in India, the amalgamation of efforts between the two Ministries for the percolation of generic drugs would increase their accessibility to the common man manifold, Shri Prabhu added.
    
    Briefing the media on the outcome of the meeting, Shri Ananthkumar informed that the meeting was very fruitful and Shri Prabhu has extended full support from Railways to take ahead the vision of the Prime Minister. “We will utilize the vast Railway Infrastructure to increase Accessibility of Affordable, Quality Generic Drugs for the common man”, said Shri Ananthkumar.
    
    Further, Shri Ananthkumar said that the Government is pursuing in full force the vision of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, to make affordable and quality medicines accessible to all citizens of the country. The Minister added that currently over 1600 Janaushadhi Kendras have been opened in over 450 districts across India under the Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana (PMBJP) and all the drugs available at these stores meet the WHO GMP (Good Manufacturing Practices) benchmarks.
    
    The Ministers have directed senior officers of the two Ministries to work out the modalities and the strategy for roll out of the plan in detail. Other dignitaries present on the occasion were Shri Jai Priye Prakash, Secretary, Department of Pharmaceuticals, Shri Mohd. Jamshed, Member Traffic, Railway Board, Shri Biplab Chatterjee, CEO Bureau of Pharma PSUs in India (BPPI) - the implementing agency for PMBJP, along with other senior officers of the two Ministries.

    *****


    
    
    VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492707) Visitor Counter : 103