      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      J& K Sports Minister calls on Union Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports Vijay Goel in New Delhi
      Posted On: 08 JUN 2017 7:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of Sports from Jammu and Kashmir Moulvi Imran Ansari here today called on the Union Minister of State(I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports, Shri Vijay Goel. During their hour long meeting various ways to engage the youth of J&K in sporting and constructive activities were discussed. Shri Vijay Goel informed the J&K delegation that in pursuance of the directives of the Prime Minister sanctioning a package of Rs. 200 crores for sports activities, Rs. 30 crores have already been released as the first installment. He assured that whatever more is required for creation of sports facilities and for upgradation of existing ones in the State, the same will also be released. The Minister also directed that for upgradation work of two main stadia be taken up on top priority basis. In this connection, the Minister will hold a meeting with the execution agency NPCC at his level so as to ensure early completion of upgradation work.
    
    Shri Goel also agreed for a demand of an Astro Turf football field in the Islamic University in Awantipur as and when the proposal is received. For the first time, the Minister directed for posting of a Deputy Director level officer by the Sports Authority of India exclusively for looking after sports activities in the state of Jammu & Kashmir. In many villages, open gym equipment will also be provided by the Government of India.
    
    Shri Vijay Goel said that in addition to this financial support the National Institute of Sports, Patiala has trained 200 youths from J&K as coaches in different sports disciplines last year. On the request of the State Government, the Minister approved engagement of these coaches by the State Government as coaches and deploy them in all districts. The remuneration will be paid by the Government of India. The Minister expressed confidence that with the creation of sports infrastructure in all districts and upgradation of existing two main stadia and both capital cities, Jammu & Srinagar, the youth will engage in sports and indulge in constructive activities.
    
    The Sports Minister of Jammu & Kashmir Moulvi Imran Ansari thanked the Union Minister for the concern of Government of India for the people of Jammu & Kashmir.

    ***


    
    
    AD/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492297) Visitor Counter : 131