      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      DGFT creates GST Facilitation Cell for exporters
      Posted On: 10 JUN 2017 6:10PM by PIB Delhi


    DGFT has constituted a GST facilitation cell in DGFT Headquarters to assist and advice exporters , trade and industry for smooth transition from present regime to GST regime w.e.f. 1st July 2017.The GST facilitation cell is headed by Mr Nikunj Kumar Srivastava, Add DGFT and comprises two other officers Mr Rakesh Kumar Joint DGFT(r.kumar73@nic.in), Mr Kaushlendra Pratap Singh Deputy DGFT(Kaushlendrap.singh@nic.in. Exporters can email their queries concerning GST and pertaining to FTP.
    
    Similarly all regional offices of DGFT have constituted GST facilitation cell and the cell would headed by head of the regional office i.e. Add DGFT/ Joint DGFT with other two officers of the rank of Deputy DGFTor Asst DGFT.
    
    Recently, DG, DGFT also convened a meeting of stakeholders (FIEO/ trade/ industry) on 9 th June to understand the issues being faced by them in GST system. These issues have been taken up with department of revenue and GSTN, who have informed that most of the issues have already been resolved.
    
    Earlier, DGFT, jointly with FIEO, had also organised an outreach program on 2nd June, 2017 to educate the exporters about GST regime. This program was attended by large number of exporters. Shri Ajay Bhalla, Director General DGFT himself addressed the exporters and explained them about all aspects of GST including benefits that will accrue to them because of automatic and quick refund of all taxes paid on inputs. DG also responded to many queries of the exporters regarding various export promotion schemes, filing of GST returns and claiming refund. Shri Tejpal singh, Addl DG, DGEP and Shri Yoginder Garg commissioner customs were also present in the workshop, who made detailed presentation on GST.
    
    It may be noted that earlier Department of Commerce had announced to align the mid-term review of Foreign Trade Policy with roll out of GST for the convenience of exporters and industry.
    
    MJPS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492493) Visitor Counter : 97