      Ministry of Communications

      Highlights of India’s bilateral meetings with foreign countries
      Posted On: 15 JUN 2017 7:01PM by PIB Delhi


    

    On the sidelines of WSIS Forum 2017, Shri Sinha met Dr. Debretsion Measho, Ethiopian Minister of Communications and IT. Both sides agreed to draw up a list of priority areas for cooperation in ICT infrastructure development, technological up-gradation, development of Common Service Centers for G2C and learning of best practices followed by India. Shri Sinha invited the Ethiopian delegation to visit India at mutually convenient time, which was accepted.

    
    In the bilateral meeting with Mr. Mahmoud Vaezi, Iranian Minister for Information & Communication Technology, both sides agreed for setting up a Joint Working Group to examine potential areas of cooperation, updating the existing MoU of 1995, cooperation in the field of cyber security, ICT infrastructure development for making Iran hub for internet traffic of Central Asian Countries with rest of the world. Iran also sought India’s support to its candidature of ITU Council. It was decided to nominate Shri G.K. Upadhyay, Member (Technical), DoT and Mr. Sherafat Adviser, as focal point to carry forward the points agreed during the meeting. Both sides also agreed to consult and closely cooperate at regional and international forums, on issues of common interest.
    
    Shri G.K. Upadhyay, Member (Technical), DoT discussed issues of mutual interest with Mr. Shigenki Suzuki, Japanese Vice Minister for Policy Coordination, Ministry of Internal Affairs & Coordination along with other delegation members. Japan expressed keen interest in offering 5G standardization and regularization; machine to machine (M2M); Internet of Things (IOT); knowledge development & regulation; and cyber security coordination. Both sides agreed to examine these issues and work-out a plan to carry forward the cooperation in ICT sector.
    
    Mr. Win Mlambo, Zimbabwean Deputy Minister for ICT, Postal and Courier Services expressed interest in furthering cooperation in ICT sector for connecting its rural areas with ICT infrastructure on the lines of Bharatnet. Zimbabwe sought technical, financial and regulatory expertise of India for using utilities like transmission lines for laying optic fibre cables. The Indian side was headed by Shri G.K. Upadhyay, Member (Technical) DoT for this meeting. India agreed to seriously consider the request made by Zimbabwe side.
    
    The Meeting between Member (Technical) DoT and Mr. Rashid Ismailov, Russian Deputy Minister of Information and Communications explored cooperation in the field of IoT and M2M; brainstormed on ways and means for expanding cooperation and consultation in the field of cyber security. Russia expressed keen interest in several C-DOT products where Indian side agreed to share detailed technical information and continue this discussion. Shri G.K. Upadhyay, Member (Technical) DoT briefed about India plans to offer infrastructure to host the BRICS Institute of Future Networks and sought Russia’s support.

    <><><><><>


    
    
    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492949) Visitor Counter : 214