      Ministry of Education

      NCERT’s National Yoga Olympiad- 2017 Concludes
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2017 12:19PM by PIB Delhi


    A 3-day National Yoga Olympiad concluded at Talkatora stadium, New Delhi yesterday, with distribution of Prizes to the children of winner states by the Chief Guest Shri Upendra Kushwaha, MoS, Ministry of HRD. The Guest of Honour on the occasion was Dr. H.R Nagendra, Chancellor of S VYASA University, Bangalore.


    The awards were given in four categories –

     1. Upper Primary (Girls) – The Gold medal was bagged by the Gujarat team, the Silver medal by the Delhi team and Bronze medal by the Haryana team.
     2. Upper Primary (Boys) – The Gold medal was bagged by the Delhi team, the Silver medal by the Gujarat team and Bronze medal by the Tamil Nadu team.
     3. Secondary (Girls) – The Gold medal was bagged by the Delhi team, the Silver medal by the Gujarat team and the Bronze medal by the Karnataka team.
     4. Secondary (Boys) – The Gold medal was bagged by the Haryana team, the Silver medal by the Delhi team and the Bronze medal by the Manipur team.

    Addressing the gathering of around 450 participating students, teachers and parents, Shri Kushwaha pointed out that the age that these children are at is a moment of joy, they are first in their duties and have no tensions, and hoped that their lives remain so carefree always. He further stated that, it is only possible to stay healthy in mind and body, if the body is active and the mind is peaceful. To create a balance between these two is called Yoga.


    If the foundation of Yoga is set at this tender age, then this habit will continue for the entire life. He congratulated the children who won the medals. He suggested that this Olympiad should not be considered as a competition but adopt Yoga as a part of a daily routine. Shri Kushwaha added that,Yoga creates constructive thinking which helps in better concentration, which is necessary to get any kind of success in life.


    He observed that, in earlier days, Yoga was connected with sages, however, now Yoga is being promoted in a manner where every child is becoming aware of it. It is being adopted not only in India but by the whole world. The world has accepted to celebrate 21 st June in the form of International Yoga Day, thanks to efforts and initiative of the Ho’nble Prime Minister.


    Shri Kushwaha further expressed his gratitude towards Dr Nagendra ji because of his great contribution to Yoga. He informed that S VYASA University has undertaken many research works on Yoga. He also appreciated the efforts of NCERT to have included Yoga in the school curriculum.


    Dr. H.R Nagendra, in his address emphasised that yoga can bring health. Twenty thousand children have participated from 143 districts in this National Yoga Olympiad. Children should not feel stressed or tense during the practice of Yoga. They must smile during their performances, which I noticed that 40- 50 per cent children were. Girls have expressed better synchronisation and good concentration while making pyramids, while the boys have shown greater physical strength and strong postures, which have made them successful.” He further pointed out that children at a very young age get involved with drug abuse and waste their lives, but yoga can help them to get rid of this kind of addiction. Dr Nagendra appreciated NCERT for bringing such awareness about Yoga among children which would help in avoiding such substance abuse and focus on concentration and a healthy way of life.


    Director NCERT, Professor Hrushikesh Senapaty, informed that NCERT has signed an MoU with Academy of Korea, South Korea in which one of the areas is the collaboration to promote Physical education and Yoga at the international level.


    *****


    GG/RK/NCERT NYO’17

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493422) Visitor Counter : 146
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

4.