      Ministry of Urban Development

      Thousands perform asanas in National Capital to celebrate 3rd International Yoga Day
      Yoga has no religion; It is a science that benefits all - Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2017 1:35PM by PIB Delhi


    Thousands of people performed asanas in the national capital today to mark the third International Yoga Day. Over 10,000 people gathered at Central Park in the heart of Connaught Place and the circular road around it, making it one of the largest yoga shows in the city. School students, teachers, government employees, political leaders, police and paramilitary officials as well as volunteers from NGOs were among those who performed the yoga postures on the mats rolled out on the lawns.


    The Minister for Urban Development Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu, also the Chief Guest of the Delhi event thanked Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for taking up the initiative with UN to make Yoga as an international art. "It is a matter of pride that our ancient tradition got international acceptance. Yoga is neither political nor religious but a traditional Indian art practiced since times immemorial; it brings peace, good health and unity. Yoga is a science. It aims at the harmonious development of the body, mind and the soul" he said.


    Shri Naidu while leading Yoga programme at Nirman Bhawan urged everyone to join the drive. He said that yoga is important for the society. Celebrating yoga and performing it all over the world is to make people aware about the benefits of yoga and inspire them. Yoga is an universal and traditional practice adopted by our forefathers which brings unity among people, the Minister said.


    The Delhi event at connaught place, organised by the AYUSH Ministry and the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), started at 6:15am with performances by students. A 'Common Yoga Protocol' comprising of various asanas in a sequential order, followed for 45 minutes till 7.45 a.m. Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu along with Lt. Governor of Delhi Shri Anil Baijal; Governor of Goa, Smt Mridula Sinha; Chief Minister of Delhi, Shri Arvind Kejriwal; former Bihar Governor Shri Ram Nath Kovind; Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel and MP Smt Meenakshi Lekhi performed yogasanas along with thousands on the occasion.


    AAR/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493433) Visitor Counter : 98