      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi kickstarts Yoga Day celebrations at anganwadi centres across the country;
      
      Takes part in yoga sessions with children and eye catching official mascot for IDY 2017

      Posted On: 18 JUN 2017 3:41PM by PIB Delhi

    
    

    The Minister of Women and Child Development , Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi kickstarted the International Day of Yoga 2017 celebrations in Anganwadi Centres by taking part in a yoga session with Anganwadi children and the official Mascot Yogiraj of IDY 2017 at an Anganwadi Centre at Peeragarhi in New Delhi today morning. About 150 children participated in today’s Yoga awareness and celebration event at the Anganwadi centre . The officials of Ministry of Women and Child Development also participated in Yoga sessions enthusiastically .

    
    Anganwadi centres across the country will be participating in the International Day of Yoga celebrations. The Ministry of Women and Child Development has taken up the initiative of imparting awareness about the benefits of yoga to about 100 million beneficiaries through 13.52 lakhs anganwadi centres nationwide. Not only this, the children at the Anganwadi centres will also be instructed to practice yoga on a regular basis to ensure a healthier future. All the CCIs in the States/UTs have also been instructed to observe this international day for stress free and healthy life.
    
    The special feature of today’s function was the official life-size yoga mascot Yogiraj for International Day of Yoga 2017 who performed Yoga along with the WCD Minister and the children. The children were enthralled with the performances of the Yogiraj who also made the children do fun yoga asanas and did Yoga dance for them . Children from Dance Out Of Poverty (DOOP ) performed YOGMOB at the event .
    
    Mascot Yogiraj , an initiative of Central Council of Research and Naturopathy of M/o has given #IDY2017 a fresh appeal which is catering to all age groups, right from kids to senior citizens. The Mascot is eye-catching and showcases a young yet symbolic character leaving a great impact on audience and helps boost the awareness of International Day Of Yoga. He has been connecting with families by providing added entertainment and interactivity, especially at Malls, Public Places , Events & Recreational Tourist Areas in Delhi NCR & Lucknow.
    
    Also participated in today’s events were Mascots of FSSAI Master Sehat & Miss Sehat who educated children about Safe & Nutritious Food . It was not only a visual treat for students but a very informative interaction . FSSAI has launched its campaign Safe & Nutritious Food @ School which caters to these kids and the initiative is bringing awareness to a great extent through these life size mascots .

    *****


    
    
    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493124) Visitor Counter : 158