      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      ACC Appointments
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2017 8:59PM by PIB Delhi


      The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the following appointments:


      i. Shri N.K.Sinha, lAS (BH 80), Secretary, Ministry of Culture as Secretary, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting in the vacancy caused due to appointment of Shri Ajay Mittal, lAS (HP 82) as Secretary, Department of Personnel & Training.


      ii. Shri Rajiv Gauba, lAS (JH 82), Secretary, Ministry of Urban Development as Officer on Special Duty in the Ministry of Home Affairs. The officer will take over as Home Secretary on completion of tenure of the present incumbent Shri Rajiv Mehrishi on 30.08.2017.


      iii. Shri Ajay Mittal, lAS (HP 82), Secretary, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting as Secretary, Department of Personnel & Training in the vacancy caused on superannuation of the present incumbent Shri B.P.Sharma, lAS (BH 81) on 30.06.2017.


      iv. Smt Aruna Sundararajan, lAS (KL 82), Secretary, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology as Secretary, Department of Telecommunications in the existing vacancy.


      (v) Shri Avinash K Srivastava, lAS (UP 82), Secretary, Ministry of Food Processing Industries as Secretary, Department of Consumer Affairs in the vacancy caused due to appointment of the present incumbent Shri Jagdish Prasad Meena, lAS (AM 83) as Secretary, Ministry of Food Processing Industries.


      (vi) Shri Yudhvir Singh Malik, lAS (HY 83), Chairman, National Highways Authority of India as Secretary, Ministry of Road Transport & Highways in the existing vacancy.


      (vii) Shri Subash C Garg, lAS (RJ 83), Executive Director, World Bank as Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs in the existing vacancy.


      (viii) Shri Jagdish Prasad Meena, lAS (AM 83), Secretary, Department of Consumer Affairs as Secretary, Ministry of Food Processing Industries in the vacancy caused due to appointment of present incumbent Shri Avinash K Srivastava, lAS (UP 82) as Secretary, Department of Consumer Affairs.


      (ix) Shri Rajeev Kapoor, lAS (UP 83), Secretary, Ministry of New & Renewable Energy as Secretary, Department of Chemicals and Petrochemicals in the existing vacancy.


      (x) Smt Sanjeevanee Kutty, lAS (MH 83), Secretary, Border Management as Secretary, Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare in the vacancy caused on superannuation of the present incumbent Shri Prabhudayal Meena, lAS (MP 80) on 31.07.2017.


      (xi) Shri Deepak Kumar, lAS (BH 84), Director General, ESIC as Chairman, National Highways Authority of India in the vacancy caused due to appointment of the present incumbent Shri Yudhvir Singh Malik, lAS (HY 83) as Secretary, Ministry of Road Transport & Highways.


      (xii) Shri Durga Shanker Mishra, lAS (UP 84), Additional Secretary, Ministry of Urban Development as Secretary, Ministry of Urban Development in the vacancy caused due to appointment of the present incumbent Shri Rajiv Gauba, lAS (JH 82) as OSD in MHA.


      (xiii) Shri Arun Kumar Panda, lAS (OR 84), Additional Secretary, Department of Health & Family Welfare as Secretary, Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in the vacancy caused due to superannuation of the present incumbent Shri K.K.Jalan, lAS (HY 82) on 30.06.2017.


      (xiv) Shri Ravi Kant, lAS (BH 84), Additional Secretary, Department of Defence as Secretary, Ministry of Shipping in the vacancy caused due to repatriation of Shri Rajive Kumar, lAS (UP 81) to his cadre.


      (xv) Shri Anand Kumar, lAS (KL 84), MD, National Highways Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited as Secretary, Ministry of New & Renewable Energy in the vacancy caused due to appointment of the present incumbent Shri Rajeev Kapoor, lAS (UP 83) as Secretary, Department of Chemicals & Petrochemicals.


      (xvi) Shri Ajay Prakash Sawhney, lAS (AP 84), Additional Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas as Secretary, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology in the vacancy caused due to appointment of the present incumbent Smt Aruna Sundararajan, lAS (KL 82) as Secretary, Department of Telecommunications.


      (xvii) Shri Ajay Kumar Bhalla, lAS (AM 84), Director General, Foreign Trade as Secretary, Ministry of Power in the vacancy caused on superannuation of the present incumbent Shri P.K.Pujari, lAS (GJ 80) on 30.06.2017


      ****


      KSD/NK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493499) Visitor Counter : 188