      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi participates in ''International Yoga Day'' programme
      Yoga is the “golden key to good health”: Minority Affairs Minister
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2017 2:55PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Minority Affairs (Independent Charge) Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said here that Yoga Day has been converted into “International Health Conclave” showcasing India’s thousands years old tradition.
    
    Shri Naqvi participated in “International Yoga Day” programme at Central Park, Sector-50, Noida. Shri Naqvi said that Yoga, thousands of years old Indian health tradition, is the “golden key to good health”.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that Yoga has been recognized by the entire world. India’s thousands years old culture Yoga has proved to be “resource of health” for the entire world. Yoga Day has been converted into “International Health Conclave” showcasing India’s thousands years old tradition. Congratulations to Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for making Yoga a part of lifestyle of the people across the world.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is committed to make India a developed as well as “healthy” and an ideal nation for the entire world in cleanliness.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that he himself practising Yoga for the last several years. Shri Naqvi said that Yoga is more important today as human mind and body has been affected by stress and pollution. Shri Naqvi said that Yoga is the “golden key to good health” and “good health is real wealth”. Yoga is not just an exercise but it is “health science”.
    
    Yoga provides energy to our body as well as our mind. It helps in maintaining a balance in our lifestyle. The aim of yoga is to calm the chaos of conflicting impulses. Yoga not only positively changes the lifestyle but it also increases the level of health.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that with the efforts of Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, 175 countries including 40 Islamic nations, co-sponsored a resolution in the United Nations to declare 21 June as the ''International Yoga Day''.
    
    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493501) Visitor Counter : 98