      Ministry of Mines

      Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Power, Coal, New and Renewable Energy and Mines chairs 5th Geoscience Advisory Council Meeting
      Posted On: 27 JUN 2017 6:06PM by PIB Delhi


    

    Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Power, Coal, New and Renewable Energy and Mines, addressed the 5th Geoscience Advisory Council (GAC) Meeting in New Delhi today. Mines Secretary Shri Arun Kumar, DG GSI Shri M Raju and other Ministries’ Official members, Scientific Institutions and Non-Official members of the GAC participated in the daylong deliberations.

    
    The 5th GAC discussed issues related to Geophysical techniques for exploration of concealed/deep seated mineral deposits, Mineral System Research and advanced techniques for exploration of subsurface mineral deposits, and the strategy for exploration, augmentation of mineral resources and mining of Rare Earths/Rare Minerals and other strategic resources. Shri Piyush Goyal @PiyushGoyal, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Power @MinOfPower, Coal @CoalMinistry, New and Renewable Energy @mnreindia and Mines @MinesMinIndia, asked the scientific community working in the field of geosciences and mineral system research to add value to the mineral wealth of the country especially in the area of strategic and critically important metals and minerals. At the same time there has to be a harmony between wealth creation and preservation of ecology and environment for sustainable development.
    
    Geoscience today constitutes a huge and fast expanding canvas. Apart from Ministry of Mines, the members comprise Secretaries of Earth Sciences, Science and Technology, Environment and Forests, Atomic Energy, Niti Aayog, Space, Water resources, Coal and Steel. Other Official members are heads of the scientific organisations like Geological Survey of India, Atomic Minerals Directorate for Exploration and Research, Indian Metrological Department, National Institute of Oceanography, Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Birbal Sahani Institute of Palaeobotony, National Geophysical Research Institute and Head of Geology ONGC. Up to 12 non-official members are nominated by the Ministry of mines from amongst the persons who have long experience and expertise on geophysical policy and R&D.
    
    The GAC advises the Ministry of Mines on geoscientific policy matters in general and the role and direction of the GSI in particular prioritizing GSI thrust areas etc.
    
    YSKataria/GAC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493869) Visitor Counter : 208