      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      M/O Social Justice and Empowerment Organises Mass Awareness Event and a Function on ‘International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking’
      Posted On: 28 JUN 2017 5:52PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment organized a function on the occasion of ‘International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking’, here today. Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot inaugurated the function. Ministers of State Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar and Shri Vijay Sampla also graced the occasion. Mr Sergey Kapinos, Representative of UNODC in India, Smt. G. Latha Krishna Rao, Secretary, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment and many diginitaries were present.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot called upon youths and people of our country to get rid of Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking’. He opined that mere the efforts by Governments will not serve the purpose and the people’s participation is very much necessary to eradicate this evil practice. He praised the efforts of many individuals and NGOs working in the field of prevention of drug abuse and informed that his Ministry provides community based services for the identification, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts through Voluntary Organizations.
    
    Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar in his address said the Government has taken many initiatives for prevention of drug abuse and family members and society at large can play very important role. Shri Vijay Sampla said that people should be made aware of the evils of drug abuse and many organizations are working very well against drug abuse.
    
    The dignitaries visited the Stall and Exhibition displayed at the venue. The Message of secretary General, United nations was read by Mr Sergey Kapinos, Representative of UNODC in India. A Pantomime Show was presented and a Skit was performed by the artists of Song and Drama Division on the theme of "Prevention of Substance Abuse" on the occasion.
    
    Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment is the nodal Ministry for drug demand reduction. It coordinates and monitors all aspects of drug abuse prevention which include assessment of the extent of the problem, preventive action, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts, dissemination of information and public awareness. The Ministry provides community based services for the identification, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts through Voluntary Organizations. The Ministry provides financial assistance to approximately 400 NGOs across the country for running de-addiction centres. The Ministry has also set up a 24 x 7 National Toll Free drug de-addiction helpline number 1XXX-XX-0031 to help the victims of drug abuse, their family and society at large.
    
    Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has assigned the work of National Survey on Drug Use to the National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre (NDDTC), AIIMS, New Delhi after a gap of fifteen years. The survey will be carried out in about 25% of the districts in each State. The Survey will include a Household Sample Survey and Respondent Driven Sampling Survey.
    
    Earlier in the morning, a mass awareness event “Run Againswt Dru Abuse” was also organized at India Gate Haxagon Lawns, New Delhi which was attended by about 4000 participants. Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot flagged off one kilometre run. Ministers of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Krishan.Pal. Gurjar and Shri Vijay Sampla, Dy. Chief Minister of Delhi Shri Manish Sisaudia, Secretary, M/o of Social Justice and Empowerment Smt G. Latha Krishna Rao and other dignitaries were present.

    *****


    
    
    Sanjay Kumar/jk/MoSJ&E/28.06.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493978) Visitor Counter : 230
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil