      President's Secretariat

      Knowledge is the Emerging Currency of the World in the present century, says President
      Posted On: 17 JUN 2017 5:40PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee addressed the convocation ceremony of the passing out Engineering Graduate Courses of College of Military Engineering, Pune today (June 17, 2017).
    
    Addressing the Engineering Graduates, the President said that as they are aware, knowledge is the emerging currency of the world in the present century. They should make full use of technical knowledge acquired by them at this prestigious institution of excellence of military engineering. They can be successful in all their endeavors only by being professionally competent and by keeping abreast with the latest developments. The need of the hour is therefore to exploit the cutting edge technologies which are best suited to meet the requirements. He was sure the technical knowledge they had acquired would stand them in good stead. Their passion to accept challenges would empower further them to achieve unprecedented goals.
    
    The President expressed happiness that the college would be celebrating its platinum jubilee next year. He said that in these glorious 75 years the college has left an indelible mark in the service to the nation. The personnel who have passed through the portals of CME have proved their mettle both in operations and peacetime. This has been made possible due to the untiring efforts of the faculty in ensuring that the institution kept pace with the changing security environment and technological advancements.
    
    The President said that in the rapidly changing environment, one factor which has not changed is the faith reposed in the armed forces by the entire nation. The Indian Army Engineers have traditionally left their mark on prestigious national projects be it oil pipe line at Siachen, prestigious naval bases and airfields in the north and north east or roads cutting through the Himalayan ranges. He was sure that each and every one of them would also follow the footsteps of their illustrious predecessors and shall live up to the high standards expected of them.

    *****


    AKT/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493142) Visitor Counter : 118