      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Dr Harsh Vardhan and Shri Dharmendra Pradhan inaugurate Swasth Saarthi Abhiyaan and Fuel Conservation Workshop
      
      Shri Pradhan says IGL to provide Health insurance with death benefits to drivers in the Capital
      
      Petroleum Minister gives a new target to increase business from current Rs 3000 Cr to Rs 30,000 Cr for CNG as fuel
      
      Mega Health Camp being organized to provide basic health check up to drivers
      
      Free Health camps to continue for 2 months at all IGL Stations in the Capital
      
      3rd Fuel Conservation Workshop to be held in Delhi as part of Saksham 2017
      
      Posted On: 28 JUN 2017 3:08PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Science and Technology and Earth Sciences and Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan and Minister of State (I/C) for Petroleum and Natural Gas, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, together, inaugurated the Swasth Saarthi Abhiyaan (SSA) today at Siri Fort Auditorium.


    The Swasth Saarthi Abhiyaan (SSA) is a two month long mega campaign focusing on providing preventive healthcare to the auto, taxi and bus drivers of the region. SSA, an initiative of Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL), was inaugurated in the presence of various dignitaries including Members of Parliament, Officials of Delhi Police and other Senior Officials of the Ministry. The SSA event is a unique initiative to address the major issues being faced by public transport drivers of the region, with almost all of them being users of CNG.


    Shri Dharmendra Pradhan in his address said that the drivers in the capital region are partners in the growth story of gas used as fuel in vehicles. CNG is used in vehicles for transport, domestic use, autos etc. He said that approx.. 4.5 Lakh vehicles which use CNG contribute to the Rs 3000 Cr business of IGL. He said that new aim should be to increase this business from Rs 3000 Cr to Rs 30,000 Cr.


    Shri Pradhan said that the Swasth Saarthi Abhiyaan is an initiative to provide basic health check up to the drivers. He added that the 2 month long medical camp at various IGL stations in the Capital will provide free health checkup which includes blood test, sugar test, eye test with the help of doctors from St Stephen hospital. Shri Pradhan added that in cases which require operation for cataract, amongst drivers, facility for the same will also be provided. He also added that IGL is planning to provide health insurance which would also include death benefits for drivers in the Capital.


    The Minister launched the Swasth Saarthi web application which will enable the drivers undergoing the health checkups during the campaign to access their health records online from anywhere, in case of need.


    On the Fuel Conservation Workshop, the Minister called upon the drivers to conserve fuel and make use of the workshop to get trained in the fuel conservation methods.


    Dr Harsh Vardhan, congratulated the Petroleum Minister and all stakeholders for taking the initiative of SSA. He recalled Hon’ble Prime Minister’s slogan for Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas and said that country cannot develop without development of all its citizens.


    A ‘Fuel Conservation Workshop’ for drivers was also organized by Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA) as a part of Saksham 2017 – the mass Oil and Gas Conservation Campaign. The campaign is also being supported by Delhi Police to disseminate the message of road safety and responsible behavior among the drivers.


    A mega Health Camp was held on the occasion to provide basic preventive health care needs like measurement of height-weight, BMI and Blood pressure, Vision & Eye checkup, Blood Group testing, Counselling, Health Education & First Aid tips. The campaign would continue in form of health camps at various CNG stations of IGL till 31 st August 2017.


    In a special Fuel Conservation Workshop conducted by PCRA during the event, the message on fuel conservation and good driving habits was disseminated to the gathered drivers. Such workshops have already been conducted earlier by PCRA across various cities as a part of Saksham 2017. This is the third workshop being conducted, in Delhi, earlier being at Mumbai and Vishakhapatnam.


    Wrestler, Ms. Babita Phogat was also present on the occasion and lend her voice to the campaign for promoting responsible behavior among the drivers.


    Road Safety Cell and Women Safety Cell of Delhi Police organized skits and street plays to spread messages of road safety and responsible behavior towards passengers, especially women and elderly.


    *****


    RG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493927) Visitor Counter : 92