      Ministry of Education

      Government constitutes a committee to prepare the final draft of National Education Policy
      Posted On: 26 JUN 2017 8:15PM by PIB Delhi

      The committee for preparation of final draft of National Education Policy has been constituted under the Chairmanship of eminent Scientist Padma Vibhushan Dr K. Kasturirangan . The other members of the committee are:

      Dr. Vasudha Kamat a prominent academician from the field of education technology who has contributed extensively towards school education. She was also Vice-Chancellor of SNDT University Mumbai


      Shri K.J. Alphonse holds administrative experience of practical challenges in implementation of school education reforms. He was instrumental in achieving 100 % literacy rate in Kottayam and Ernakulam districts of Kerala.


      Dr. Manjul Bhargava a Professor of Mathematics in Princeton University USA. He was awarded field medal in mathematics at a quite young age for his contributions to Gauss number theory.


      Dr Ram Shankar Kureel , Vice chancellor of Baba Saheb Ambedkar University of Social Sciences Mhau, Madhya Pradesh has published various national and international papers on inclusion of the marginalized in mainstream education and development.


      Dr. T.V.Kattimani is Vice Chancellor of Tribal University, Amarkantak. He is from the field of language education and mass communication.


      Shri Krishna Mohan Tripathy has vast experience of implementation of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and was also Chairperson of Uttar Pradesh High School and Intermediate Examination Board.


      Dr. Mazhar Asif is a Professor of Persian in Guwahati University. Under his research mentorship first Persian-Assamese-English dictionary was compiled.


      Dr. M.K.Shridhar is a former Member Secretary of Karnataka Innovation Council and Karnataka Knowledge Commission. A Divyang scholar he is member of CABE also.


      The council will start its work from immediate effect. In an exhaustive democratic exercise carried for last 30 months the HRD ministry has received thousands of suggestions from, educationists, teachers, experts, students and other stakeholders from across the country. Consultations were held at Tehsil, district and state level. Regional conferences were organized where state governments have given their detailed opinion. Rajya Sabha debated the issues and a special education dialogue was organized in which 48 MPs from all parties participated. Many MPs have given their views in writing. On MyGov platform 26, 000 people gave their views online. TSR Subramaniam committee has given its detailed input. All these suggestions and inputs will be considered by the committee.


      *****


      GG/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493783) Visitor Counter : 221