      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Union Sports Minister Vijay Goel and tennis legend Vijay Amritraj take part in curtain raiser for second edition of Slum Daud
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2017 5:03PM by PIB Delhi


    

    Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports Vijay Goel here today led the curtain raiser of the second edition of the Slum Daud. Chief Guest for the event was tennis legend Vijay Amritraj. The first edition of the Slum Daud was held on 26 May in which 5000 youngsters from various slums in Delhi participated wholeheartedly. The Slum Yuva Daud is part of the Adopt Slum Campaign initiated by the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports and Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan.

    
    Interacting with the media Shri Goel said, “This would enable us to gather the youth and know about their skills and ideas. We would organize mini-fests in slums with the themes of Swachhta, Digital India, Beti Bachao Beti Padao etc.” “We will aim at creating model slums and create groups of youth who will work as agents of change to work for the development of their respective slums/areas”, Goel added.
    
    Tennis legend Vijay Amritraj said, ”Our youth has tremendous potential to bring changes in the society and must work tirelessly to hone their skills and work for nation building; sports is something that entices the youth and they must take it up as a career too”.
    
    Shri Goel also stated that the government under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi is committed for the cause of the weaker sections and we all must keep the fire burning, the fire that illuminates lives in a positive way and resolves social and economic issues. The Slum Yuva Daud & Adopt Slum campaigns aim at highlighting the government’s pro-people schemes among masses.
    
    Shri Goel further stated that the “Adopt a Slum” campaign will involve groups like NSS, public schools, RWAs, NGOs, rotary clubs etc. Goel himself has adopted Indra slum of Timarpur area.
    
    The NYKS has adopted slums across 11 districts and will work for their overall development with young volunteers. The second edition of the Slum Daud starts on 24th from Cross River Mall in Shahdara and will end on 29th July with a marathon at Talkatora Stadium. There will be 11 Slum Marathons in total during this second phase.

    ***


    
    
    AD/MB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493476) Visitor Counter : 169