      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of the text of PM’s statement at SCO Summit in Astana, Kazakhstan
      Posted On: 09 JUN 2017 7:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Your Excellency President Noorsultan Nazarbayev, Distinguished Leaders, Members and Observers of the SCO, Secretary General of the SCO, UN Secretary General, Heads of International organizations, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen!


    At the outset, I extend my hearty congratulations to President Nazarbayev for successfully leading Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO). Kindly also accept my appreciation for the excellent organisation and hospitality rendered to all of us during this conference. Shanghai Cooperation Corporation is the main pillar of peace and security at the regional and global levels.


    
    It is a privilege that India will today gain accession to the SCO after 12 years of Observer ship. I am truly grateful to all the nations which supported our accession to the SCO. With this expansion of members, SCO is slated to represent approximately 42% population , 20% GDP and 22% geographies of the entire world. It is evident that the success of SCO reflects the prosperity and development of a huge part of the globe.


    Excellencies,


    India may be gaining accession to SCO on this day; however, we have behind us, a truly long standing historical relation with each of you members. Trust and goodwill are the main pillars of our political and economic cooperation which is built on trust and bona fides. There are many dimensions of our co-participation with SCO countries. The chief drivers of cooperation are the sectors of Energy, education, agriculture, security, minerals capacity building, development partnership, trade and investment . I am certainly hopeful that our accession to SCO will lead our nations to newer heights of development.


    
    Excellencies,


    India has kept connectivity with SCO nations at top priority and we fully support it. We envision that our future generations will only strengthen the march towards success and prosperity of our nations due to various connectivity initiatives. For this to be successful we have to make regional cooperation between the member nations highly robust. The success of our connectivity initiatives and other projects will depend highly upon acceptance, solidarity, regional cooperation as well as inclusivity and sustainability. We consider ourselves fortunate to be a part of International North-South Transport Corridor and Chahabahar Agreement. Our decision to join Ashkhabad agreement will certainly help India establish itself a strong foothold in this domain.


    
    Excellencies,


    
    Terrorism is corroding the human rights and human values among nationals. Hence, SCO’s role in curbing Terrorism and Extremism is commendable. Be it the burning issue of radicalization, recruitments and training of terrorists, or financing of these outfits, if we member nations do not join hands and make joint concerted efforts, we will never be able to achieve security and peace in our nations. I repose full faith in the collaboration between SCO and India in fortifying our fight in ousting terrorist outfits.


    
    In regional perspective, Afghanistan can also benefit greatly from SCO's efforts in reinstating peace and stability in the country. The need of the hour is that SCO needs to take up initiatives on the problem of climate change in the global context at war footing. In this context, I must congratulate Kazakhstan and the vision of the President in selecting a very pertinent theme of "Future Energy" in Astana Expo 2017.


    

    Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,


    
    Today, it is indeed a landmark day for SCO. India is fully prepared to play an active role in aligning itself with the vision of SCO, and will collaborate unequivocally in the development process. Once again, I express my earnest thanks to President Nazarbayev for the successful organisation of this conference. I also extend my best wishes to President Xi Jinping for the forthcoming SCO conference.


    Thank you!


    ***


    AKT/SS/RSB/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494647) Visitor Counter : 404