      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Government is committed to take tough Anti-Doping measures to provide a healthy eco-system for Development of Sports: Vijay Goel
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2017 5:37PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Youth Affairs & Sports Shri Vijay Goel has said that the Government is committed to take tough Anti Doping measures to provide a healthy eco-system for development of sports in the country. Inaugurating a Conclave on Nutritional Supplements for sports here today to work out a doping free model, Shri Goel said, time has now come to provide safe and quality nutrition to the athletes in the wake of increasing international competition and high incidences of dope. Shri Goel said tackling the causes of doping is a priority for his Ministry. He said import and sale of sub-standard and dope-laced nutritional supplement is a cause to worry as an unsuspected athlete gets banned under the Anti-Doping Code because of use of these supplements. He said to protect the clean athlete and meet his requirement for quality supplements the convergence of various Regulatory Authorities to work out a Dope Free Model for nutritional products is a good initiative and a welcome step. He said a collaboration of NADA with FSSAI and other agencies will have far reaching impact in improving physical fitness standards in the country and help athletes in making informed choices formed which is about with cause doping free system.
    
    Shri Vijay Goel called upon the stakeholders to create mass awareness about doping and its vicious effects on the career of athletes. He said he will personally understand the level of awareness among athletes by meeting them in different states and training camps during his visits there.
    
    The Minister further stated that while collaboration with Australian Sports Anti Doping Authority has enabled them to adopt international practices in dope testing, resulting in a high detection rate, there also is need for strengthening preventive aspects to reduce the incidence of doping in the country. Supplements laced with prohibited substances have been found to be a major cause of doping in India. NADA has taken up the matter with Food Safety and Standards Authority due to which an advisory stand issued by them to the Food Safety Commissioners. He said, the deliberations during the conclave will provide a road map of regulatory mechanism for dope free nutritional supplements which can be consumed by athletes without fear of inadvertent doping.
    
    Chief Executive Officer, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) Shri Pawan Kumar Aggarwal, Eminent scientists, nutritionists, sportspersons, office bearers of sports federations, laboratory directors and regulatory authorities from various parts of the country attended the day long conclave.

    ***


    
    
    AD/MB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494098) Visitor Counter : 177
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil