      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh launches new training programme ‘COMMIT’ for State Government officials
      COMMIT covers about 3.3 lakh officials every year, compared to 10,000 under ITP, says Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2017 3:02PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh launched a new training programme Comprehensive Online Modified Modules on Induction Training (COMMIT) for State Government officials, here today. The objective of this training programme is to improve the public service delivery mechanism and provide citizen centric administration through capacity building of officials who interact with the citizens on day-to-day basis.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Jitendra Singh said that the new training programme will supplement the earlier training programme and the advantage of COMMIT is that it is cost effective and has the potential to cover about 3.3 lakh officials annually, compared to 10,000 officials under existing 12-Day Induction Training Programme (ITP). The Minister said that citizens can be easily accessible when we go digital. He said that to achieve maximum Governance, it is necessary to equip the officials with the best possible tools to perform best to their ability.


    Secretary, DoPT, Shri B P Sharma said that COMMIT will be launched in 6 States of Assam, Haryana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal initially on pilot basis during the current financial year 2017-18 and within next year it is expected to cover all India level. He said that the COMMIT has been designed in such a way that it allows to translate the content in local/regional languages.


    The COMMIT programme, developed by DoPT in collaboration with United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), will supplement the existing 12-Day ITP launched in 2014-15 for newly recruited state Government officials to develop in them Generic & Domain specific competencies. The programme will cover approximately 74,000 State Government officials in the financial year 2017-18. It will be of 28 hours duration which will include e-Modules for 20 hours and face-to-face training for 8 hours. The 20 hours e-training would be imparted through specifically developed 12 Generic and 3 Domain specific e-Modules. The modules on soft skills will be delivered as e-Modules & through face-to-face training and the domain modules will be covered through e-Modules only. The programme will be implemented through State Administrative Training Institutes (ATIs).


    Representatives from UNDP and senior officers from DoPT were also present during the occasion.


    KSD/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494051) Visitor Counter : 116