      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Special Webpage on Goods and Services Tax (GST) on PIB Website
      Posted On: 30 JUN 2017 7:01PM by PIB Delhi


    A special webpage on the Goods and Services Tax (GST) on PIB Website was launched today by Principal Director General, Press Information Bureau, Shri A P Frank Noronha. The webpage can be accessed on http://pib.nic.in/gst


    Goods and Services Tax (GST), a historic tax reform, will come into effect from tomorrow i.e.1 st July, 2017. GST will completely transform the Indirect Taxation landscape in the country involving both the Central and State levies. In a departure from the normal practice, GST will be administered together by the Centre and States.


    The webpage on GST is a one stop platform for all information on the new tax regime. It contains press releases issued till date on the Goods and Services Tax (GST) in both Hindi and English languages. The webpage also contains various presentations, FAQs etc on GST.


    Video clips of press conferences conducted with regard to GST by Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley; Workshop conducted by Revenue Secretary, Shri Dr Hasmukh Adhia; Various video clips on GST including educational videos, TV Spots and Radio jingles as prepared by CBEC are also available on the webpage. Video links of programmes on GST by DD News can also be accessed.


    YouTube, Twitter, Facebook etc updates on GST are integrated into the webpage for easy access on social media platforms. Various Infographics on GST have been compiled along with the Advertisements issued. Finance Minister’s quotes and bytes on GST after GST Council meetings have also been uploaded on the webpage.


    The website will also have a link to the webcast of the Special Programme of Launch of GST scheduled at 11 PM on 30 th June 2017 from Central Hall of Parliament House.


    The biggest tax reform since independence - GST - will pave the way for realization of the goal of One Nation - One Tax - One Market. GST will benefit all the stakeholders namely industry, government and consumer. It will lower the cost of goods and services give a boost to the economy and make the products and services globally competitive, giving a major boost to ‘Make in India’ initiative. Under the GST regime, exports will be zero-rated in entirety unlike the present system where refund of some of the taxes does not take place due to fragmented nature of indirect taxes between the Centre and the States. GST will make India a common market with common tax rates & procedures and remove economic barriers. GST is largely technology driven and will reduce the human interface to a great extent. GST is expected to improve ease of doing business in India.


    CP/GV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494240) Visitor Counter : 234