      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Water Storage Level of 91 Major Reservoirs of the Country continues to be at 19% of their Capacity
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2017 4:24PM by PIB Delhi


      The water storage available in 91 major reservoirs of the country for the week ending on June 29, 2017 was 29.665 BCM, which is 19% of total storage capacity of these reservoirs. This percentage was at 19 for the week ending on June 22, 2017. The level of June 29, 2017 was 126% of the storage of corresponding period of last year and 91 % of storage of average of last ten years.


      The total storage capacity of these 91 reservoirs is 157.799 BCM which is about 62% of the total storage capacity of 253.388 BCM which is estimated to have been created in the country. 37 Reservoirs out of these 91 have hydropower benefit with installed capacity of more than 60 MW.


      REGION WISE STORAGE STATUS:-


      NORTHERN REGION


      The northern region includes States of Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan. There are six reservoirs under Central Water Commission (CWC) monitoring having total live storage capacity of 18.01 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 4.66 BCM which is 26% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 24% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 31% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the corresponding period of last year but is less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


      EASTERN REGION


      The Eastern region includes States of Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and Tripura. There are 15 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 18.83 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 2.86 BCM which is 15% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 17% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 17% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the corresponding period of last year and is also less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


      WESTERN REGION


      The Western region includes States of Gujarat and Maharashtra. There are 27 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 27.07 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 5.84 BCM which is 22% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 9% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 20% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the storage of last year and is also better than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


      CENTRAL REGION


      The Central region includes States of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. There are 12 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 42.30 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 11.83 BCM which is 28% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 20% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 17% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the storage of last year and is also better than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


      SOUTHERN REGION


      The Southern region includes States of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, AP&TG (Two combined projects in both states) Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. There are 31 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 51.59 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 4.47 BCM which is 9 % of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 10% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 21% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the corresponding period of last year and is also less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


      States having better storage than last year for corresponding period are Punjab, West Bengal, Tripura, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Telangana and Karnataka. States having equal storage than last year for corresponding period are Himachal Pradesh, AP&TG (Two combined projects in both states). States having lesser storage than last year for corresponding period are Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu.


      Samir/JD/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494078) Visitor Counter : 65