      AYUSH

      Ayurveda is the need of the hour to provide strong health care: Shri. Shripad Yesso Naik
      Posted On: 15 FEB 2019 6:03PM by PIB Bengaluru


    Ayurveda is the need of the hour to provide strong health care: Shri. Shripad Yesso Naik


    BANGALORE, FEBRUARY 15, 2019


    Government of India is working towards integrating Ayurveda into mainstream health care. Specialty Ayurveda clinics and hospitals are need of the hour to provide strong health care support. Bangalore has number of government and private super specialty hospitals serving the public. Management of metabolic disorders, geriatric care, health promotion can be managed well by Ayurveda said Shri. Shripad Yesso Naik, The Minister of State for AYUSH (Independent Charge) here today.


    After inaugurating the newly constructed Hospital, Administrative and Research blocks of Regional Ayurveda Research Institute for Metabolic Disorder (RARIMD) at Bengaluru the minister , addressing the gathering , said that , India stands second in the world in the number of diabetics. Globally, one among every 11 humans is diabetic which is definitely alarming. These problems are diagnosed in youth of today which worsens as they grow older. In the next 2 decades, it can be noted that elderly population in India will be at its highest and thus increasing the need for health support exponentially. Geriatric care becomes a great challenge in India also vowing to its high population. In this context, exploring the potential of these traditional medical sciences is the need of the hour the minister added.


    The minister further said that providing healthcare to its citizens in 21 st century has become a daunting task for all Nations. In addition to dealing with old and established diseases, we are now confronted with a very complex set of diseases due to changing life styles and environmental factors. Despite our achievements in the field of health such as a raise in life expectancy and elimination of small pox, plague and so on, the fact is that the health scenario in India continues to face numerous challenges. Ayurveda can provide effective answers to these questions the minister added.


    Addressing about the achievements of RARIMD the minister said that the institute has premier research facilities in AYUSH sector. It focuses on research in the management of metabolic disorders. Our country is home to substantial traditional medicinal heritage, and now has a special status among the different countries in terms of indigenous system of medicine and traditional health care practices the minister said.


    Special handbook of Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS) was released in the function.


    The Union Minister of State for AYUSH (Independent Charge) and The Union Minister for Statistics and Programme Implementation & Chemicals and Fertilizers , Shri. D. V Sadananda Gowda jointly inaugurated the newly constructed Hospital, Administrative and Research blocks of RARIMD. The minister for Medical Education, Government of Karnataka Shri. E. Tukaram and other dignitaries were present during the occasion.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564776) Visitor Counter : 63
    
    
      Read this release in: Kannada