      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Union Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan inaugurates Atal Anusandhan Bhawan at the Institute of Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine at Bengaluru
      Posted On: 24 FEB 2019 6:33PM by PIB Bengaluru


    Union Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan inaugurates Atal Anusandhan Bhawan at the Institute of Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine at Bengaluru


    Bangalore , February 24, 2019


    India has scientific collaborations with all major countries in the world. Our country is one among the top ten nations of the world which are ahead in science and technology sector. The country is ranked third in Nano Technology, fourth in weather forecasting & sixth in scientific publications. Bangalore city is contributing immensely to the Science and Technology sector of India said Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister for science and Technology , Earth Sciences and Environment , Forest & Climate Change at Bengaluru today.


    He was addressing the gathering after inaugurating the Atal Anusandhan Bhawan at Institute of Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine (inStem) here today.


    The Minister said that our Prime Minister has huge confidence in the ability of scientific community of India. He believes that with science we can alleviate sufferings of common man. The Prime Minister has the dream of making India one among the top 3 nations ahead in science sector in the world by 2030 the minister added.


    The Minister said that Science and Health sectors should be developed as a social movement in the country. Scientific Social Responsibility oriented research should improve the lives of common men. The Government has clear vision about science and research in the country and will appreciate the strength of science. The youngsters of our nation should develop individual dreams and work hard to make them come true . Robust start-up movement is going on in the country, where ideas are converted into entrepreneurship. The government will stand with aspirants willing to become part of scientific start-up movement said the minister.


    Addressing about the Bangalore Biological Cluster the minister said that National Centre for Biological Science (NCBS) has state of art and high end facilities and contributing immensely to the biological research in India.


    Dr. Apurva Sarin, Director , inStem, Dr. Renu Swarup, Secretary , Department of Bio Technology and other dignitaries were present during the occasion.


    *******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566192) Visitor Counter : 22