      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Environment protection should become a peoples movement : Dr. Harsh Vardhan
      Launch of National Carbonaceous Aerosols Programme at Indian Institute of Technology Bombay

      Posted On: 07 JUL 2017 6:34PM by PIB Mumbai

    Urging scientists to solve the basic issues like water and sanitation, confronting the common people, Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan has said that scientific research should reach the public. Launching the National Carbonaceous Aerosols Programme Project (NCAP) on Carbonaceous aerosol emissions, source apportionment and climate impacts (NCAP-COALESCE project) at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay today, the Environment Minister said that scientists should work at the grassroots level. The Minister emphasized that there should be synergy and coordination between the various scientific and technical institutions working for the common goal to combat climate change.


    The Environment Minister emphasized that climate change and global warming is the talk of the world and this project will be a milestone in our history. He also stressed that carbonaceous aerosols are a matter of great concern on the issue of climate change. He also urged the student community to set ambitious goals and work relentlessly to achieve them. The Minister expressed the hope that project will encourage our scientists to address important questions, generate new and impactful knowledge and produce research outputs which are second to none in the world.


    The Minister informed that organisations like ISRO are working in the field of Carbon Emissions. He suggested that there should be a synergy between various organisations working in a particular field. He emphasised that the country needs environmental soldiers. The Minister disclosed that a data bank of environment friendly practises is being prepared. For this joint secretaries from the centre are being sent to various regions across the country. He encouraged the students to dream big and work hard and he assured them that the government will support them every step of the way. Speaking about India’s ancient culture the minister said that environmental protection is in the Indian DNA.


    The NCAP-COALESCE project was launched as part of India’s National Climate Action Programme. Under the leadership of IIT Bombay’s Interdisciplinary Programme in Climate Studies, this multi-institutional, coordinated project, would enable teamwork in cutting-edge fundamental research to understand the sources, fate and impacts of carbonaceous aerosols, on climate change in the Indian region.


    The project would be a key step to build a strong knowledge base for India related to short lived climate pollutants, including carbonaceous aerosols, as part of India’s broad commitment to climate action.


    Research activities in the NCAP-COALESCE project should lead to significant advances in our understanding of key areas within carbonaceous aerosol influence on climate change. Importantly, the project would also contribute towards building scientific capacity, through training of M.Sc., M.Tech. and Ph.D. students as well as the creation of infrastructure and systems at the participating institutions.


    It is envisaged that the project would strengthen scientific networks and provide key new knowledge to underpin government decision making in regard to climate change.


    Over a period of time, the NCAP-COALESCE project would emerge as an important knowledge and information resource to support national and state actions responding to climate change caused by carbonaceous aerosols.


    ***


    PIB/IJ(APS)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494944) Visitor Counter : 1892