      Ministry of Railways

      Government set a target to provide broadband connectivity to 2.5 lakh Village Panchyats by December, 2018 – Manoj Sinha
      Posted On: 14 JUL 2017 4:29PM by PIB Mumbai


    In sync with Digital India Programme of Prime Minister of India, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL); who is providing integrated Telecom Services to the Nation has introduced state of art 100G Optical Transport Network (NG-OTN) across India for providing Super Express Highways.


    The NG-OTN was launched today in Mumbai by Shri Manoj Sinha, Minister of State for Communication (Independent Charge). Shri Manoj Sinha appreciated the efforts of BSNL for up gradating its Network to provide modern technology based Ultra fast Broadband services to the Nation. Minister stated that Government has set a target of providing broadband connectivity to 2.5 lakh Village Panchyats by the end of December 2018, so far more than 1 lakh Villages have been already provided with Optical Fiber broadband connectivity. NG-OTN will also be helpful to service Central Government Projects like Bharatnet, SWAN, NKN etc. Shri Anupam Srivastava CMD BSNL expressed confidence in collaboration between BSNL and Fiber Home to provide several such more projects to the Nation.


    NG OTN is planned to cover a total 100 cities across the Nation with capital outlay of Rs.330 Crs. This project also aimed to provide a 99.99 % up time for which a Network Operating Centre (NOC) is made operational at Bangalure for providing 24X7 support. This project aimed to enhance existing 10G capacity to 100 G capacity of Optical Fiber infrastructure of BSNL. This enhanced capacity will help retail customer base of BSNL in Landline, FTTH and Mobile services. This facility will also boost Enterprise Business Segment by providing Ultra high capacity in Lease line.


    At present 45 out of 100 cities are already put in place and started operating on NG-OTN from today. Rest 55 cities will be covered and will start functioning on NG OTN facilities by March 2018.


    BSNL has a total customer base of approximately 115 million. BSNL is committed for quality customer care and 24 hrs support across the country. NG OTN is a step forward taken by BSNL in this direction to ensure customer delight.


    ****


    PIB/NS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1495638) Visitor Counter : 305