      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Food Sector is set to roll – Harsimrat Kaur Badal
      Posted On: 21 JUL 2017 6:15PM by PIB Mumbai


    In the coming two years 42 food parks which are sanctioned by the Government will be functional and there will be a hub of common facilities so that the entire infrastructure cost will not have to be borne by each one. Every state will have a couple of mega food parks where units can come and make use of common infrastructure without having to put in a huge cost, said Union Minister of Food Processing Industries, Ms. Harsimrat Kaur Badal in Mumbai today.


    While addressing a road show of ‘World Food India 2017’ which would be organized in November 3 to 5, 2017 in New Delhi, the Minister said, India is not only food surplus country but largest producer of many of the agriculture products but still facing problems of farmers distress and wastage of food. In the last three years the government has taken revolutionary steps to address these issues of farmer’s distress and reducing wastage by taking giant steps in correct direction so that quantum difference would be achieved improving the life of the farmers.


    While ascertaining that the food sector is on roll, the Minister also stated that the Kisan Sampada Yojana for which Prime Minister has allocated 6000 corers of rupees would transform the lives of farmers. The objective of the scheme is to give thrust to development of food processing sector, augment capacity through technology infusion, linking farmers, processors and markets, to create robust supply chain infrastructure for perishables, development of agro processing clusters and to promote skill development, R&D and quality assurance.


    Ms. Badal appealed to the captains of the food processing sector, all the state governments to participate in the ‘World Food India 2017’ in a big way.


    Maharashtra Chief Minister Shri Devendra Fadnavis, Shri J.S.Meena, Secretary, Ministry of Food Processing, Ms. Shobana Kamineni, President CII and other dignitaries were present at the function.


    ****


    PIB/NS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496819) Visitor Counter : 230