      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      FTII announces 3 short courses in Mumbai in partnership with Films Division
      Digital Cinematography, Acting and Screenplay Writing courses to roll out Mid-August

      Posted On: 24 JUL 2017 3:42PM by PIB Mumbai

    Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) and Films Division (FD),both media units under Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, have come together to announce 3 short courses in Mumbai. In its maiden joint venture, the FTII- FD partnership will see commencement of 3-week long Foundation Courses in Digital Cinematography, Screenplay Writing and Acting from 17 August 2017 at Films Division complex in South Mumbai.


    The courses, to be conducted by experts in respective fields, are full-time in nature, non-residential, with limited intake on first-come-first-served basis. The last date for applying is 7th August 2017. Application form and other details can be seen on www.ftiindia.com and www.filmsdivision.org .


    "This activity is part of FTII's new outreach initiative SKIFT (Skilling India in Film and Television), with a mission to democratize film education by conducting short courses across the country. We have already conducted Film Appreciation, Screenplay Writing, Acting, Basic Acting Workshop for Children and Digital Cinematography course in Mumbai, Delhi and Port Blair and plan to hold such courses in Srinagar, Jaipur, Hardwar and Guwahati as well" said Director, FTII Bhupendra Kainthola. Global digital imaging giant Canon is the Technology Partner of SKIFT. For technical support, Mumbai-based Yasuka and Studio Assist are the other partners.


    DG Films Division, Manish Desai said "FTII's position as a national front-ranker in film & television education and Film Division's vast experience in promoting India's documentary movement, together bring a rare synergy while offering quality and affordable short courses to the masses".


    FTII, Pune has on Friday last received approval from the National Skill Development Council (NSDC),Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, to conduct skill-oriented short courses under the Special Project category of Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY). The approval grants FTII the status of Training Provider in the 'Media and Entertainment' Sector Skill Council (SSC) and to conduct film-and- television related skill development courses at different locations in India.


    Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) is the flagship scheme of the Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship (MSDE). The objective of this Skill Certification Scheme is to enable a large number of youth to take up industry-relevant skill training that will help them in securing a better livelihood. The funding under PMKVY will further help lower course fees making them affordable to a larger section of society.


    PIB Mum


    

    
    (Release ID: 1496879) Visitor Counter : 324