      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Four Films Division documentaries bag IDPA Awards
      Posted On: 25 JUL 2017 5:22PM by PIB Mumbai


    ‘Kapila’ and ‘ Living the Natural Way’ , the two documentaries produced by Films Division, Mumbai, have won the Gold at the 12 th IDPA Awards in up to 60 minutes and above 60 minutes category, striking a rare double honour.


    ‘Kapila’ an eponymous film by Sanju Surendran explores Koodiyattam – the classical theatrical art form of Kerala, through the life and recitals of young exponent Kapila Venu. The 62 minute documentary by the FTII alumnus captures the genius of the artiste through performances, rehearsals, memories and desires. This is the fourth award for Kapila , having already bagged 62 nd National Film Award, Special Jury Award at Vision du Reel, Switzerland, 2016 and Best Documentary Award at 9 th SiGNS film awards, Kerala.


    Kapila Venu is a disciple of the Koodiyattam maestro Guru Ammannur Madhava Chakyar and is considered the torch bearer of the art form.


    ‘ Living The Natural Way’ by Sanjib Parashar, winner of Golden Award in the Best film under non-fiction above 60 minutes unfolds the miraculous and tender process of the creation of a big river island with rich biodiversity on the barren sand deposits of river Brahmaputra by a tribal person over a period of 30 years. It also focuses on the destruction of the largest river island, Majuli in Assam.


    Two more documentaries produced by Films Division of India have also been honoured.

     1. ‘ Earth Crusader’ by Shabnam Sukhdev won the Certificate of Merit, ‘Silent Voices’ by Pritha Chatterjee got the honour of Jury’s Special Mention.

    ‘Earth Crusad ers’ unveils the life and ideology of internationally renowned architect Didi Contractor, known for working and experimenting with sustainability in building homes driven by a strong Gandhian ideology. For the past two decades Didi Contractor has been passionately implementing her architectural visions in the Kangra Valley, at the foot hills of the Himalayas combining rural traditions with modern requirements


    Pritha Chatterjee’s ‘Silent Voices’ tries to dig into three young Bengali women’s lives in respect of the sociological stand point and system of marriage.


    Films Division, the oldest media unit under the Information & Broadcasting Ministry has been encouraging independent documentary production through funding, mentoring and finding outreach for issue based documentary films.


    The IDPA Awards, instituted by the Indian Documentary Producers’ Association, the apex body of documentary makers, are considered prestigious by film makers. Every year, IDPA gives awards recognizing excellence in documentary films production, student films, animation films, public service films and a slew of technical categories.


    PIB Mum | July 2017


    

    
    (Release ID: 1497091) Visitor Counter : 444
    
    
    
    
    

1.