      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Press Brief on Visit of Hon’ble Minister of State for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping and Chemicals & Fertilizers (Shri Mansukh Mandaviya) to Vishakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh
      Posted On: 18 MAR 2017 5:04PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    Shri Mansukh Mandaviya, Hon’ble Minister of State for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping and Chemical & Fertilizers, Government of India visited the head office of Dredging Corporation of India and its dredging site along the beach road. While witnessing the beach nourishment activity carried out by DCI Dredge-17, near the Kurusura Subamrine Museum, he interacted with the top officials of DCI and VPT regarding the operational details of dredging carried out. Shri Rajesh Tripathi, CMD, Dredging Corporation of India Limited appraised him about the progress of the beach nourishment taken up by DCI for Visakhapatnam Port Trust. On this occasion, the Hon’ble Minister also participated in cleanliness drive of the beach area as part of the “SWACHHTA PAKHWADA” initiative which is being celebrated throughout the country. The Hon’ble Minister also inspected the Public Toilet facility constructed by DCI near RK Beach as part of SWACHH BHARAT mission. Later in the day Hon’ble Minister along with Shri K. Haribabu, Member of Parliament, Visakhapatnam Constituency conducted a review meeting of DCI, National Highway works in Andhra Pradesh and Petroleum, Chemicals & Petrochemical Investment Region (PCPIR) in the office of DCI.

      REVIEW OF DCI
      2. During the review, CMD, DCIL briefed the Hon’ble Minister about the various diversified activities taken up by DCI in the fields of dredging, land reclamation, beach nourishment , recent international dredging contracts bagged by DCIL and the CSR activities. CMD informed that the company cater to the maintenance dredging requirements of all major ports. He stated that the Company is also getting works on tender basis both national and internationally like that in Mongla Port, Bangladesh. He stated that the experience and caliber of the employees and assets of the Company are sufficient to cater to all the maintenance dredging requirements of the Country’s major ports. Hon’ble Minister stated that DCI as the only PSU dredging Company is of strategic importance and appreciated the commitment of the senior management and the employees in the performance and growth of the Company and also serving the Ports which are the lifeline for the country and assured all the help and support of the Government in this regard.
      REVIEW OF NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
      3. During the review of National Highway Projects, it was informed that 66 Nos., of road works in a length of 800 Km for State Highways/ Major State Roads/ Major District Roads for Rs.1000 Cr has been sanctioned by Ministry of Road Transport and Highways under additional CRF Funds. Further, Hon’ble Minister of State stated that the long pending demand of Vizianagaram bypass has been fulfilled and the work of Rs. 4 Lane of Vizainagaram bypass with concrete Road for Rs.430 Cr has also been sanctioned. During current financial year, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has sanctioned, 14 major projects costing Rs. 4500 Cr. On national highways under corridor approach and NHDP 4 scheme for Andhra Pradesh.
      4. Visakhapatnam area grid separator at convent junction on Visakhapatnam Old Road is being developed at a cost of Rs.60 Cr. Out of this, Rs.30 Cr will be funded under Sagarmala, GoI, Rs.15 Cr by NHAI and Rs.15 Cr by VPT.
      5. Six laning of Anakapalli- Andapuram excess control highways as part of NH16 providing connectivity of 12 Km to Visakhapatnam Port with service Road on both sides. This will be dedicated corridor to Port.
      6. Visakhapatnam Ranasthalam, NH 16 to 6 laned in a length of 47 Km at a cost of Rs.1000 Cr. Bids for the project already done and the construction will start in next 4 to 5 months.
      7. Outer ring road 186 KM around Amaravathi – 20000 Cr. Land acquisition to be done by State Government
      8. Nandigama and Kanchicharla bypasses which were pending since 2007 sanctioned by MoRTH, GoI.
      9. Amaravathi Anadapur Expressway with connectivity to Kadapah and Kurnool in alenght of nearly 690 Km at a cost of nearly 28000 Km would be taken up by NHAI. Land Acusition by State Government.
      10. Avenue plantation along the National highways to be taken up with the partnership of local industrialist, farmers, NGOs coming forward.
      11. MOU has been signed for NHAI projects to the tune of Rs.75000 Cr.
      REVIEW OF PETROLEUM, CHEMICALS AND PETROCHEMICAL INVESTMENT REGION:
      12. Hon’ble Minister reviewed the working of PPCIR, the offices of APIIC gave a power point presentation on the present states of PCPIR. The Hon’ble Minister enquired about the states of finalization of Masterplan and the Anchor unit for the project.
      VISIT TO VISHAKHAPATNAM PORT TRUST:
      13. Hon’ble Minister visited outer Harbor state and enquired about the ongoing activities. The Chairman VPT explained about the various activities of the Port and major cargo making bulk of import and export; i.e. Coal, POL and Ironove. Hon’ble Minister also witnessed the ongoing coal unloading which is fully mechanized and interacted with the caption of the ship, other officers and staff of the port.
      Later on, the Chairman VPT, Sh M.T. Krishna Babu gave a power point presentation covering all aspects of the Port. Hon’ble Minister exposed satisfaction over the performance of the port and appreciated the Swachhata Abhiyan being under taken by the VPT. He also assured all help from the Ministry to make it a world class port at par with global standards.
    
    
    (Release ID: 1484880) Visitor Counter : 116