      PIB Headquarters

      “NABARD launches Water Conservation Campaign”
      Posted On: 22 MAR 2017 3:44PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    Ahmedabad, 22-03-2017



        NABARD has decided to launch a major Water Campaign during the current year, covering around 1,00,000 villages in vulnerable/ water stressed areas and more specifically where the ground water is over exploited. The decision comes on the heels of a similar campaign undertaken last year which covered some 40,000 villages and received encouraging response at the field level. Since NABARD has been implementing large number of watershed development projects in various states, the important learnings and successfully demonstrated local technologies for efficient conservation and management of water resources and promotion of climate resilient agriculture through community involvement, will be one of the key inputs to sensitize the rural community during the campaign.
        2. The campaign would essentially focus on creating awareness among the rural community about the methods of water conservation, preservation and its efficient utilization at various levels using the modern technologies like micro irrigation ( more crop per drop ), traditional water management practices, adopting improved package of agronomic practices, etc. As a part of the campaign, area specific contents covering different water management practices applicable to local conditions for various agro climatic regions, with emphasis on community participation, is being developed.
        3. In an innovative move, NABARD proposes to identify Village Volunteers (Jal Doots) for a localized and more effective approach. These volunteers will increase awareness about various methods of rain water harvesting, efficient water use, recharging groundwater and integrated farming systems besides facilitating creation of water conservation structures& adoption of water efficient practices/ technologies through convergence with the ongoing schemes of the Govt./ banks.Involvement of bank branches, Govt. departments, extension agencies and other stakeholders during the campaign process is expected to give impetus to this initiative. Adequate number of Master Trainers in Gujarat will be identified and professionally trained who will be deployed to run the campaign at district/ village level during April to July 2017.
        4. The programme has been launched in Gujarat by conducting a State Level Meet on Water Campaign on 22 March 2017, by the Regional Office of NABARD. The representatives of the State Govt., bankers, Partner NGOs, KrishiVigyanKendras, farmers participated in the programme. Shri ApoorvaOza, CEO of Aga Khan Rural Support Programme India(AKRSPI) along with his team shared their initiatives in water conservation in the State, which was appreciated by one and all.


    
    
    (Release ID: 1485162) Visitor Counter : 297