      Ministry of Railways

      Minister of State for Railways Shri Rajen Gohain inaugurates “Udaan- A Sports Conclave”
      Posted On: 09 MAY 2017 3:56PM by PIB Delhi


    

    Shri Rajen Gohain, Minister of State for Railways inaugurated “Udaan- A Sports Conclave” organized by Railway Sports Promotion Board (RSPB) under Ministry of Railways here today. Chairman, Railway Board Shri A.K.Mital, & Member Staff Shri Pradeep Kumar, Secretary, Ministry of Sports Shri Ingeti Srinivas were present to grace the occasion.

    
    The Conclave was attended by various eminent sportspersons like Ms. Mary Kom, Sushil Kumar, Ms. Sakshi Malik, Shri Bhaichung Bhutia, Gymnastics Coach Shri B.S. Nandi. Ms. Rekha Yadav, Secretary, Railway Sports Promotion Board and Col. Satyavrat Sheoran from Services Sports Control Board were also present on the occasion.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu, Minister of Railways said through video conferencing that the conclave is an effort to bring all stakeholders on one platform. Railways is proud to have sportspersons who have made the country’s flag fly high. The idea behind the conclave is to get inputs to explore more opportunities in making Railways a better organisation in terms of sports.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Manoj Sinha, Minister of State for Railways and Minister of State for Communications (Independent Charge) said through video conferencing that Railway Sports Promotion Board is doing a commendable job in promoting sports in India. One third of Sportsperson are from Railways. Railway Sports Promotion Board is also empowering women by promoting women employees for sports. Efforts of Railway Sports Promotion Board can help India reach to the next level in Sports. He congratulated the organisers for organising the event.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Rajen Gohain, Minister of State for Railways said that Railways is striving to provide the best opportunities to its sportsmen. Railway Sports Promotion Board has taken various steps in this regard. Railways is proud of its players who have brought laurels to the country. This conclave shall further streamline the efforts of Railway Sports Promotion Board as it has brought stakeholders, sportsmen & Railways as an organisation on one platform. He congratulated the organisers for organising the event.He stressed on strengthening the Sports in Railways.
    
    Conclave also saw the participation of representatives from Corporate sector like Shri Pankaj Sahni, COO, Medanta – The Medicity; Shri Harbhajan Singh, DG/Corporate Affairs, Honda Motorcycle; Shri Vivek Kohli, Co-Chairman, STAG International; Shri Viren Rasquinha, CEO, Olympic Gold Quest and noted Media persons Shri Pradeep Magazine and Shri Vikrant Gupta. The discussion pertained to ‘Sports in India : Challenges & the Road Ahead’ and ‘Convergence of Stakeholders – Strategic Partners to Rejuvenate Indian Sports.”

    ***


    
    
    AKS/MKV/AK/EN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489525) Visitor Counter : 166