      Ministry of Jal Shakti

      Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat Inspects ongoing Projects in Rishikesh and Haridwar
      Posted On: 13 JUN 2019 6:55PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Jal Shakti Minister Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat reviewed the ongoing Namami Gange projects in Rishikesh and Haridwar today. Shri Shekhawat was shown the working of the Sarai Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) on the miniature model of the Sarai STP and then inspected the plant in detail, where the officials took him through the operations of the plant. He also inspected the control room of the STP accompanied by Director General, National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG), Shri Rajiv Ranjan Mishra and Executive Director, Shri Asok Kumar.


    Shri Shekhawat also inspected the under construction Jagjeetpur STP which is slated for completion later this year. Under the Namami Gange programme, NMCG has approved 4 projects, 2 projects related to laying of Interception and Diversion (I&D) works and 2 projects for creating 82 (68+14) Million Litre Per Day (MLD) STP capacity. The STPs were awarded under the Hybrid Annuity Mode (HAM) and the work is proceeding at a fast pace. Work on the 14 MLD STP was recently completed and the other STP of 68 MLD is expected to be completed by August 2019.


    
    Further, upgradation of the existing 27 MLD plant at Jagjeetpur and 18 MLD plant at Sarai have also been undertaken under the Namami Gange Programme and these works are expected to be completed by August 2019. A total of Rs 426.97 Cr has been sanctioned for these projects at Haridwar.


    
    The Minister also visited the Chandi Ghat project in Haridwar. The Chandi Ghat project was inaugurated in February. The River Front Development, River Protection works, Bathing Ghat and Cremation Ghat have been constructed at a cost of Rs 69.18 Crore at Chandi Ghat, Haridwar.


    Shri Shekhawat also addressed a gathering at Parmarth Niketan, Rishikesh. He asked the gathering to conserve water in every way and also stressed on the importance of Ganga rejuvenation and conservation, while appealing to everyone to join the movement and turn it into a major Jan Andolan.


    The minister also took stock of various STP projects in Rishikesh. Under the Namami Gange programme, NMCG has sanctioned a project of construction of 26 MLD STP in place of existing 6 MLD STP capacity with Inspection & Diversion of 7 drains. The works are under progress and are expected to be completed by December 2019. Once these projects get completed the total treatment capacity at Rishikesh would increase to 43 MLD. A total of Rs 163.2 Crore has been sanctioned for the projects at Rishikesh.


    While visiting the 6 MLD STP project at Lakkarghat, the Minister instructed the officials to ensure the projects get completed on time. Under, the Namami Gange programme, NMCG has approved I&D and STP at Muni Ki Reti – Dhalwala under Design Build Operate Transfer (DBOT) Model. The project is under progress and is expected to get completed by Dec 2019. Once the projects get completed the total sewage treatment capacity of the town would increase to 12.5 MLD from 6.2 MLD. A total of Rs 80.45 crore has been sanctioned for the projects at Muni Ki Reti.


    ***


    NP/SKP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1574493) Visitor Counter : 644
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi