      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Shri Nitin Gadkari Participates in Cleaning and Deepening of Village Pond in Delhi Under Swachha Bharat Abhiyan
      Posted On: 26 JUN 2019 6:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises and Road Transport & Highways Shri Nitin Gadkari has called for upliftment of villages in the country. He said, the villagers turn to cities due to lack of employment, clean drinking water, drainage system, health facilities, etc. The Minister said, the government is seriously working for the welfare of poor, farmers and labourers.


    Inaugurating the cleaning and deepening work of a pond in village Qutubgarh here today for rain water harvesting, Shri Gadkari exhorted rural youth to take up new and modern modes of employment for improving their income. He appreciated the honeybee cultivation work introduced in the village in the year 2018, and said, this will not only improve the village’s income, but also their esteem.


    The Minister also informed about technology available for utilising farm waste for productive use. Calling for improving water management at local level, Shri Gadkari said, re-using the waste water has found great acceptance around the world.


    The pond cleaning and deepening work has been undertaken under Swachha Bharat Abhiyan of the Khadi and Village Industries Commission. Minister of State for Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises and Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries Shri Pratep Chandra Sarangi was also present on the occasion.


    Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways and Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, Shri Nitin Gadkari planting a sapling at a function as part of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan, organised by Khadi & Village Industries Commission (KVIC), at Village Qutubgarh, in Delhi on June 26, 2019. The Minister of State for Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises and Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries, Shri Pratap Chandra Sarangi is also seen.


    The Minister of State for Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises and Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries, Shri Pratap Chandra Sarangi planting a sapling at a function as part of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan, organised by Khadi & Village Industries Commission (KVIC), at Village Qutubgarh, in Delhi on June 26, 2019.


    ***


    NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575852) Visitor Counter : 225
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi