      Ministry of Defence

      DEFENCE CORRESPONDENTS’ COURSE - 2020
      Posted On: 12 MAR 2020 4:22PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    Dear Editors/ Bureau Chiefs


    1. The Directorate of Public Relations, Ministry of Defence will be conducting a month long Defence Correspondents’ Course (DCC) tentatively during Aug - Sep 2020.


    2. Defence reporting being sensitive and highly technical, this course is being conducted for correspondents to enable them to appreciate the nuances of dissemination of information to the people, keeping in view, national integrity, social harmony and good neighbourly relations. Following are the QRs for the subject course:-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
(a)                                                                                                                                                    Age                                                       35 years as on 1st Jul 2020.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
(b)                                                                                                                                                    Educational Qualifications                                A bachelor’s degree in any stream (essential) from a recognized University/Institution.                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                     
A A Diploma or degree in Mass Communication /Journalism/Public Relations from a recognized University/Institution will be given additional weightage.
                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
(c)                                                                                                                                                    Professional Experience                                   At least three years of journalistic (editorial/reporting) experience with any reputed Newspaper /Agency /Electronic Channel on a regular basis. In case of print media, the newspaper/periodical should be registered with Registrar of Newspapers for India.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                     
Published/Broadcast works relating to Defence issues will have an added advantage for selection.                                                     
                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                       Women candidates are encouraged to apply for the course.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               

    3. In view of the above, it is requested that the career-oriented and enthusiastic journalists who have potential to rise up in future and contribute positively to Defence reporting, may be identified for the DCC-2020 and names be forwarded to undersigned by mid April to enable an interaction. An application form will be sent in due course thereafter. Last year, the unit was able to send 04 candidates from Gujarat within the limited seats. If required, an orientation capsule will be done for the earmarked journalists.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606095) Visitor Counter : 94
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati