      PIB Headquarters

      Swachhata -MOHUA app -A citizen's tool to better city management
      Sanitation and hygiene remain prime concern for any civic body to effectively contain the spread of deadly Corona virus.
      
      Posted On: 04 MAY 2020 1:07PM by PIB Chennai


    During the COVID 19 crisis, the plethora of activities undertaken already by the civic bodies as part of the Swachh Bharat mission had actually helped them in better planning and execution of Sanitation and allied activities. Armed with the Swachhata MOHUA app,the larger civic bodies such as Municipal corporations are handling grievance redressal deftly. The app is a highly popular grievance redressal tool for citizens and under the ambit of the Swachh Bharat mission (Urban) , already it has has over 1.7 crore urban users across the country. This app has now been modified and strengthened further in order to enable citizens to get their COVID 19 related complaints also redressed by their respective Urban Local Bodies(ULBs). The pilot version of the revised App has been shared with select states and citizens earlier. Based on the feedback, the same is being launched across India.


    Coimbatore city Municipal corporation, in the wake of lockdown and strict enforcement of safe distancing and public hygiene , is in the forefront of encouraging citizens to lodge their multiple complaints through the Swachhata MOUHA app. Sh J. Sravankumar, Commissioner , Coimbatore city municipal corporation is regularly monitoring the complaint redressal system and holds regular meetings and inspections for reviewing swachhata and other activities in the sealed and other areas of the municipal limits.


    Since the complaints posted under COVID 19 categories are critical , ULBs need to take immediate action by either directly resolving the complaints or forwarding them to the concerned department. All complaints can be monitored at the Swachh city dash board, in the same manner as the ULBs monitor other complaints on Swachhata App on Swachh city.The additional Nine categories include


    1. request for fogging, Sanitation during COVID -19


    2.violation of quarantine during COVID 19


    3.Violation of lock down during COVID 19


    4.request about suspected case of COVID 19


    5.Request food during COVID 19


    6 Request shelter during COVID 19


    7.Request medicine during COVID 19


    8 Request assistance for COVID 19 patient transport


    9.Request waste pick up from quarantine area .


    Thirunavasrasu from Perur Coimbatore says in this CoVID crisis the revised swachata App is a blessing with relevant covid19 categories and thanked the Honourable Prime Minister and minister of housing and urban Minister for this app.


    Nargunan from Pollachi Coimbatore says the revised swachata App is well devised to redress the grievance of everyone who may be affected by Covid19 and lockdown.


    Sivasankaran from Sundarapuram Coimbatore says in this COVID crisis the revised swachata App is handy and convenient as any citizen can lodge a grievance and get it addressed immediately .


    The revised version of the Swachhata App essentially leverage the popularity and huge userbase of the app to better support citizens during the COVID Pandemic. However the addition of these new categories has no impact on the existing categories of the App and citizens may continue to either of the categories. Under Swachh Bharat mission (URBAN) all are collectively working to ensure the safety and we'll being of citizens during the CoVID crisis.


    MOHUA has introduced these nine additional Categories of Complaints specific of COVID 19 on the Swachhata App to make it more responsive to the needs of the Present times. The ministry's move is a major boost to states and UTs as it helps in better management of cities in every aspect in the pandemic situation.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1620847) Visitor Counter : 34
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil