      PIB Headquarters

      DIGITAL INDIA CAMPAIGN - A GAMECHANGER IN THE LOCKDOWN SCENARIO @CovidIndiaSeva handle gaining popularity in addressing Covid19 queries
      Posted On: 01 MAY 2020 8:09PM by PIB Chennai


    In the Covid-19 induced national lockdown, the digital platforms have become the major source of information and updates of all the happenings across the world, thanks to the Digital India scheme for reaping the benefits at a crisis hour. The union and state governments too are finding digital platforms especially twitter as a quicker mode of disseminating information in addition to the conventional platforms. All the union ministries have an official twitter handle and are regularly utilising the platform for announcing important decisions and other updates from their ministries and departments. In an effort to stop misinformation and clarify on essential aspects of containing covid-19, the union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, had recently launched “@CovidIndiaSeva”- a Twitter Seva platform set to resolve all #COVID19 queries, which will be handled by a team of experts. They will share authentic public health information regarding #COVID ー 19 swiftly helping to build a direct channel for communication with citizens.


    This Twitter Seva platform aims at enabling E-Governance delivery in real time by responding to public queries effectively.


    Professor Rajesh from Sulur, Coimbatore thanked the government for the handle @CovidIndiaSeva as it is a useful initiative under the digital India, in which experts are answering queries.


    Professor Veerasamy from Malumichampatti Coimbatore appreciated the initiative as he got his queries answered.


    Digital India is a campaign launched by the Government of India in order to ensure that government services are made available to citizens electronically by improved online infrastructure and by increasing internet connectivity or making the country digitally improved in the field of technology.


    It was launched on 1st July, 2015 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It enables and empowers beneficiaries with Bharatnet.


    The initiative includes plans to connect rural areas with high speed internet networks. Digital India consists of three core components - the developments of secure and stable infrastructure, delivering Digitally and ensuring universal digital living. As a result, the use of the social media handles like twitter, facebook etc by the public have increased over years . These platforms are thus widely used by the governments to reach the public and their utility is best realised in the present Covid-19 lockdown scenario. The public is using them as an effective tool for knowing the general information and updates about Covid 19 and the official @CovidIndiaSeva twitter handle serves as an interactive platform to answer their queries too. Thus Digital India campaign has changed the lives of the common men in our country and India is now adding approximately 10 million daily active internet users monthly which is highest rate of addition to the internet community anywhere in the world.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1620136) Visitor Counter : 63
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil