      PIB Headquarters

      CITIZENS TURN SAMARITANS DONATING TO PMCARES FUND TO DEFEAT COVID -19
      Posted On: 06 MAY 2020 3:57PM by PIB Chennai


    In a democratic country like India, people's participation is essential for the successful implementation of any Government programme. And when India is going through an unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic disaster, fund requirements are high due to the indefinite nature of the pandemic.


    Keeping this in mind, the Government of India felt the need of having a dedicated fund with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency like the one posed by the COVID 19 Pandemic to provide relief to the affected . The fund was created on 28th March, 2020 and named as the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency situations fund (PM cares fund) .


    The fund consists entirely of Voluntary Contribution from individuals, organisation and does not get any budget support. Donations to PM cares fund would qualify for 80G benefits for 100 percent exemption under the Income tax Act 1961. Donations to PM cares fund will also qualify to be counted as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure under the Companies Act 2013.


    PM cares fund is also exempted under the PCRA and a separate account for receiving foreign donations has been opened. Contributions as little as Rs 10 also is accepted under the fund. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had appreciated the spirit of the country men for donating voluntarily in times of crisis. In a response to a tweet of a donor who donated Rs.501 to PMCARES FUND, the prime minister said there is nothing big or little and that every contribution mattered and it reflects our collective resolve to defeat Covid-19 . People from all sections of society have come forward to donate to the fund irrespective of whether it is big or meagre.


    Speaking to Field Outreach Bureau Coimbatore, Indumathi, an eatery owner from Sowripalayam Coimbatore said her contribution to PMCARES FUND may help towards better Covid 19 vaccine development and for treating the affected .


    Prabhakar, a software ware engineer from Coimbatore says he is happy to donate to PM cares fund as it is required for finding a solution to end the pandemic. He also urged the public to come forward and contribute for this noble cause.


    Yuvantika , a Nine year old girl from Theethipalayam Coimbatore said she donated her entire pocket money as the nation is facing a crisis and asked others also to do their bit.


    The fund will definitely be a great boost to undertake and support relief or assistance of any kind relating to the present public health emergency Covid 19 including the up gradation of health care or pharmaceutical facilities, other necessary infrastructure, funding research on vaccine development or any type of support to public. With such widespread support from all sections of the society, the nation will soon bring an end to the disaster in line with the expectations of its citizens.


    Hon'ble PM appreciating a donor


    Indumathi, an eatery owner says her contribution will help vaccine development


    Prabakar , a software engineer says his donation will help end the disaster


    Yuvantika, 9yr old girl believes it her duty to help the nation in crisis

    
    
    (Release ID: 1621356) Visitor Counter : 26
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil