      PIB Headquarters

      Skill India Mission, a boon for the youth in the Lockdown period
      Lakhs utilise their acquired skills productively at homes and as frontline warriors

      Posted On: 09 MAY 2020 3:37PM by PIB Chennai

    During COVID-19 lockdown, Union Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSME) notified all the establishments with designated and optional trades to pay full stipend to apprentices engaged with them in view of lockdown and as a part of commitment towards the public during the crisis.


    Under National Apprenticeship Promotion scheme (NAPS), the stipends will be paid by the Government for the lock down period.


    During the Corona Virus Pandemic, the Ministry had also taken a decision that National Skill training institutes and their hostels across India can be used as quarantine centres.


    The Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship had also provided the Ministry of Health and Family welfare (MOHFW) a list of around one lakh personnel who were trained in Health care skills through various programmes under the skill India mission.


    The nearly one lakh candidates who are aiding in emergency and isolation works in the battle against COVID-19 have been trained in various job roles including:


    PMKVY Health Trainer (92,040 persons)


    Emergency Medical Technician (Basic) - (989 persons)


    Radiology: (373 persons)


    Home Health Aid: (1644 persons)


    X-Ray Technician: (299 persons)


    General Duty Assistant: 10,172 persons


    Frontline Health Worker: 530 persons


    Phlebotomy Technicians: 334 persons


    National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) is encouraging skill seekers to acquire new skills and help them find jobs in various fields. NSDC E - learning aggregator, e-skill India portal offers more than 400 courses curated from various knowledge providers.


    The e-skill India portal pivots the online skill creating initiatives in Collaboration with Global leaders in the E-Learning domain and this enabling cater to a wide range of courses for users. NSDC in alliance with English score, an English language assessment app by British Council, aims to provide Global standard of English proficiency to the Indian youth. This collaboration brings not just free app access to the Indian youth but also enable free certification for one lakh candidates.


    Work from home employees and corporate Employees can also use their time to enrol and access the wide catalogue of Business Professional courses and certification.


    Shri Sagadevan, Director of a Vocational skill training centre, Coimbatore, said that under the Skill India programme they have given training for different skills. The people who got training in Tailoring are preparing masks in this COVID crisis.


    Prof. Julian while interacting with Field Outreach Bureau, Coimbatore said unable to move around due to lockdown, NSDC offering 400 online courses is a wonderful opportunity to students to improve their skills in a productive way. The final year students are up scaling themselves so that they can equip themselves with the skills before looking for a suitable employment.


    Shri.Satheesh Kumar from Coimbatore says he got training for wiring under the skill India and it helped him to get a job.


    Shri.Gokul, a H.Sc. student appreciated the good efforts of the Central Government for its innovative measures to train the citizens with skills that make them an entrepreneur. Further such schemes make everyone to stand on their own legs and is a bold step ahead towards eradicating poverty, he added. Skill India Mission is a boon that had changed lives of many who had during utilised their skills acquired for various tasks at their homes during the lock down.


    Prof Julian says online courses by NSDC a wonderful opportunity


    Shri.Sahadevan says Skill India is a scheme for youth empowerment


    Shri.Satheeshkumar says Training under the skill India helped him to get a job


    Shri.Gokul lauds the scheme as it encourages entrepreneurs

    
    
    (Release ID: 1622649) Visitor Counter : 44
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil