      PIB Headquarters

      NATIONAL SERVICE SCHEME VOLUNTEERS HELPING POLICE FORCE TO ENFORCE LOCK DOWN NORMS EFFECTIVELY
      Posted On: 13 MAY 2020 2:33PM by PIB Chennai


    Covid-19 pandemic lockdown third phase is entering its fag end which is very crucial. This is the time to enforce safe distance norms to prevent the spread of disease. Tamil Nadu Police is utilising the service of volunteers to create awareness about Covid-19 prevention measures. NSS students and NCC cadets are being used effectively to enforce lockdown norms in the district. Earlier Trichy range Police DIG had asked for volunteers to assist police in Corona prevention measures to maintain social distancing in Trichy, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Karur and Pudukottai districts. Students have come forward with approval of college authorities and parents to work in unison with the police force.


    NSS project officer Dr Tamilarasu of Lalgudi Government Arts and Science College said that Lalgudi Police had asked for volunteers to create Covid-19 awareness. 15 student volunteers from National Service Scheme of the college are staying in a hall and working with the local Police in enforcing lock down norms for 40 days. Police are guiding the NSS volunteers in performing their duty. Though NSS activities are performed almost throughout the year, this national call of duty is entirely different as they are involved in directly dealing with the public during a crisis hour, he added.


    Naveen, NSS volunteer from Lalgudi College says that for the past 40 days they are doing Covid-19 awareness voluntary work in coordination with Lalgudi Police. This period was really a good learning experience as they did vehicle checking with the Police. People responded well to their advice of not coming out defying lock down norms. They also took it in the right spirit and the volunteers are happy that Lalgudi is doing well in maintaining lockdown norms. The volunteers were moved by the dedication the Policemen had towards serving the public selflessly defying all odds, he added.


    Gurumurthy another NSS volunteer said that he said that people were advised to wear face masks and wherever there is a crowd people were separated and urged to maintain safe distance. They also went to ration shops and made people standing in queue maintain safe distance norms. Further shops which were open defying government order were advised them to close to prevent spread of disease, he added.


    Social responsibility is inseparable from youth as they are the symbol of positive energy in any society. They are doing yeoman service along with police to make lockdown really meaningful in combating the spread of the deadly Covid-19.


    Dr Tamilarasu NSS Project officer Lalgudi Govt College


    NSS volunteers from Lalgudi govt College of Arts and Science


    

    
    (Release ID: 1623509) Visitor Counter : 48
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil