      PIB Headquarters

      eNAM online marketing portal empowers the farmers to get the right price
      Posted On: 17 MAY 2020 6:18PM by PIB Chennai


    During the Lockdown and COVID-19 crisis, Horticulture sector, one of the major drivers of growth and economic development was affected drastically and the schemes under the Government of India came as saviour for the farmers at this juncture.


    Mission for integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH) is a centrally sponsored scheme for the holistic growth of the horticulture sector covering fruits, vegetables roots, tuber crops, mushrooms species flowers, aromatic, plants, coconut, cashew, cocoa and bamboo. The farmers of Nilgiris are involved in horticulture in large numbers and they are benefited through the MIDH scheme largely.


    Farmers in Nilgiri with the help of Horticulture department have said eNAM is growing in popularity.


    While giving feedback to Field Outreach Bureau, Coimbatore, Dr Sandeep, Doctor by profession, and an agriculturist said that he and his friends grew perishable vegetables at Nilgiri district. Marketing was a major problem faced by them and the central government’s eNAM -National Agriculture Market platform would be a solution for the worries of farmers. The farmers who grew quality vegetables and greens could not realize the price of cultivation due to cumbersome and discouraging marketing practices by the vendors. Consequently the consumer also has to pay a higher price without even the farmer getting the price he deserved, he added. He hoped the eNAM online marketing platform would put an end to deprivation of the farmers and customers and welcomed the government's initiative.


    eNAM should be made compulsory at all agricultural marketing sale mandis across the country. This will facilitate a farmer to know the rates of the product in different parts of the country and his nearby station. He would assess the demand for product and the prevalent day market rate for his product to realize the right price for the product.


    Through eNAM portal, the farmer will be able to see the final rate at which the customer gets the product from different parts of the country so that he can know the value of his products and demand the right rate. Thus eNAM portal tries to empower the farmers to get them the right price for the product.


    Wahid Sait, the President of Nilgiri flower growers Association has said around 300 farmers are into the high tech floriculture providing employment for 2500 labourers. Floriculture involves a huge investment as the flowers seeds are imported from Netherlands and also for their infrastructure and procurement of planting materials. During the lock down considering the loss of work and production, he requested lower air freight charges for the flowers to different destinations like Delhi, Bombay and Kolkata to help the farmers to reach out in crisis time. Horticulture department has recognized the selfless service of corona warriors by creating floral designs to spread the awareness among the public urging everyone to stay at home. As a mark of respect for their dedication in fighting Corona in Nilgiri, Nilgiri warriors were greeted and taken around the Government Botanical Garden Ooty to relieve them from stress.


    Wahid sait requests to lower air freight charges


    Nilgiris corona warriors


    

    
    (Release ID: 1624715) Visitor Counter : 45
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil