      PIB Headquarters

      AYUSH SANJIVANI APP -A PERFECT GUIDE ON BOOSTING IMMUNITY
      Posted On: 26 MAY 2020 6:52PM by PIB Chennai


    Due to the unprecedented health threat COVID 19, the people across the nation is trying different means for boosting ones immunity . In an effort to lead from the front, our Honourable Prime Minister had posted some slides on " General measures to enhance the body's natural defence system " in his instagram page. In his post , the prime minister had advised that Prevention is better than cure and while there is no medicine for COVID 19 as of now, it will be good to take preventive measures which boost our immunity. The Prime minister stressed on the Power of Ayurveda and it's power in boosting the immune system. The measures included drinking warm water throughout the day, practising yogasan, pranayama, meditation for at least 30 minutes , taking chyavanprash 10gm every morning, adding turmeric, jeera, dhaniya and garlic in cooking ,drinking herbal tea/golden milk etc.


    Further the Honourable Prime Minister has established a task force for scientific validation of Ayurveda and traditional medicine formulae through research institutions like ICMR to be used in the treatment of COVID 19. To spread awareness about the measures and ways that help in boosting immunity,


    the ministry of Ayush and Ministry of information Technology Meity has come up with 'Ayush Sanjivani ' App which was launched by Dr Harshavardhan , Union health and family welfare in New Delhi. On the occasion, the minister also published two Ayush based studies related to COVID 19 treatment in New Delhi.


    Highlighting the importance of harnessing technology for COVID 19 response , the Union minister said the Ayush Sanjivani Mobile App will help to generate data on acceptance and usage of Ayush advocacies and measures among the population and it's impact in prevention of COVID 19.The app is intended to reach out to a target of 50 lakh people.


    Shri Ramkumar from Coimbatore says Ayurveda can boost immunity of the system and Sanjivani App will help the public to know about the preventive measures of simple home remedies.


    Smt Akalya says her family who settled in Coimbatore from Kerala is dependent on the Ayurvedic form of treatment. In strengthening the immunity , Ayurveda is always helpful and she thanked the Government for launching a special app .


    Adhithyan, a school student from SIHS colony Coimbatore says Sanjivani App is helpful for children and Elders in advising on various measures of boosting immunity as they are more vulnerable to COVID 19 virus.


    Thus Ayush Sanjivani App is getting popular attention increasingly as it advises on relying in traditional medicinal items which are largely available at home. Armed with such a reliable app which helps to boost the immunity , one shall believe that corona pandemic will soon end in our country with the multipronged approach adopted by our government in dealing with the crisis.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1626958) Visitor Counter : 31
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil