      PIB Headquarters

      ANGANWADI WORKERS TO RECEIVE COMPLAINTS AGAINST DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
      Posted On: 22 MAY 2020 4:26PM by PIB Chennai


    In Tamil Nadu anganwadi workers are being asked to act as coordinators to receive complaints against domestic violence during lockdown. Covid-19 pandemic lockdown has led to fear of increased domestic violence against women. The socio economical reasons behind the cruelty cannot be justified. Tamil Nadu has taken steps to utilise the services of anganwadi workers to receive complaints against domestic violence. In villages anganwadi workers interact with women in the village and they are easily accessible to them. Women who are affected by domestic violence during Covid-19 lockdown can lodge their complaints to anganwadi workers by getting their numbers from www.icds.tn.nic.in website. Karur Collector Shri Anbazhagan said that women can lodge complaints against domestic violence in the following emergency numbers 181, 1091, 122 also. Ariyalur Collector Smt Rathna has urged public and the affected to lodge complaints against domestic violence to Anganwadi workers over phone.


    Tiruchirapalli Social Welfare department is taking action to prevent child marriages even during lock down. One Stop centres under Ministry of Women and Child Development also provide assistance to women affected by violence. They provide medical assistance, police assistance, psycho social counselling and legal help shelters. Karur Krishnarayapuram Child development Project officer Smt.V. Kuralselvi said that as per orders from Collector, Anganwadi workers are receiving complaints on domestic violence over phone and forwarding to family counselling centre.


    Tiruchirapalli range Police had taken effective steps to prevent violence against women especially during lockdown period. The Police launched a massive initiative to contact more than 13,000 victims of domestic violence in the past four years in Trichy, Pudukottai, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts under Trichy range. During the initial period of lockdown, inspectors of 15 All women police stations contacted these victims over phone and ensured that they are safe and there is no recurrence of violence.


    Tiruchi Range DIG Shri.V Balakrishnan has said that public grievances from Tiruchirapalli, Pudukottai, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur will be heard through Google Meet app on Mondays and Fridays from 12 noon to 1 PM. Public who wants to make complaint must first contact DIG office on 0431-2333909 and register their name and address.


    Awareness about the government's various measures is the need of the hour to prevent domestic violence against women and children and it is everyone's responsibility to make our society free from this deplorable evil.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1626078) Visitor Counter : 63
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil