      PIB Headquarters

      DECISION TO EXTEND VALIDITY OF MOTOR VEHICLE DOCUMENTS WIDELY WELCOMED
      Posted On: 26 MAY 2020 4:23PM by PIB Chennai


    Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways had issued an order that there will not be any late fee for various motor vehicle permit and other related charges till July 31. This has been welcomed as due to Covid-19 lockdown people are not able to approach road transport office and process their motor vehicle fees. The role of trucks and goods vehicles in keeping the prices of essential items under control is very important. The truck drivers had to brave Covid-19 pandemic as they have to travel from covid 19 free zone to a state which may be badly affected by corona. There is no relaxation in checking at interstate border check posts and they have to keep everything upto date.


    A lorry driver said government decision to extend the validity of motor vehicle documents which expired since February 1 till June 30 will bring solace to truck owners. He said that this order should be passed on to all the law implementing authorities so that it will be implemented fully.


    Now that lockdown norms are being relaxed people come out with their own vehicles in huge numbers. As there is no public transport public are using two wheelers and cars. In Tiruchirapalli suburban area, 55776 cases were filed against persons for violating lock down norms according to Police. In Trichy district alone till now 17242 vehicles were seized for violating lockdown norms. The government order to give extension to paying motor vehicle tax without paying any penalty has lessened the burden of authorities from routine checking of various motor vehicle norms and instead concentrate fully in ensuring Covid 19 pandemic control measures.


    Shri Nagendiran, Senior Service executive of a coffee outlet, welcomed the government move to extension of validity of documents related to Motor vehicles Act and central motor vehicle rules. He says that this will give relaxation for those whose request for extension is pending in road transport office.


    Christo, an autodriver from Trichy said that they are slowly getting back to business after relaxations announced by government in lockdown. But still they are not getting enough riders as public transport especially government buses are not running. Once lockdown is completely removed then things will change for better. Meanwhile relaxations regarding all motor vehicle related papers insurance and licence have come as a relief for them who struggle to get regular business.


    Senthil cab driver from Tiruchirapalli said owners of hiring vehicle including cabs are relieved by the order of Ministry of road transport and highways that fees paid for renewal even if it is under process, due to closure of Road Transport office, will be considered valid. Government had earlier issued orders that validity of fitness, driving licence permits and registration which expired by February 1 will be extended upto June 30 so that public will not suffer because of lockdown. Transport vehicles can use non - use clause facility for suspension of tax liability during lockdown. Hired taxis buses can utilise VAHAN platform online and get tax relief as they are not operating. There are many persons who are held up in others states and unable to come to the place where their licence has to be renewed.


    Government is doing its best to help vehicle owners as they are affected by lock down caused by Covid 19 pandemic. Extension of time given to renewal of licence, registration and permit will definitely help vehicle owners during this lockdown.


    Senthil cab driver Tiruchirapalli

    
    
    (Release ID: 1626913) Visitor Counter : 55
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil