      PIB Headquarters

      ATMANIRBHAR BHARAT: ENTREPRENEURS GEAR UP TO MANUFACTURE INDIGENOUS PRODUCTS
      Posted On: 28 MAY 2020 1:50PM by PIB Chennai


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi had announced Rs 20 lakh crore financial package to revive India's economy from the slowdown, national lockdown had inflicted. Addressing the nation for the fifth time since March , the Prime Minister said the path for India's economic revival is Atmanirbhar Bharat -Self reliant India . The Prime Minister said the financial package will help revive every branch of the economy from demand supply chain to manufacturing.


    The Prime Minister also urged the people to buy and promote local products and brands. He urged the people to be vocal for the local.


    He further added Global brands that are there today were once local too, it is with people's support that made them Global.


    The Atma Nirbhar Bharat scheme could give the much needed fillip to the country's disrupted business operations by promoting Make in India manufacturing, encouraging substitution of import of low Technology goods from other country and encourage local produce at lower prices.


    In Coimbatore, three garment companies in Tiruppur along with an engineering industry have come up with a new heat seam sealing machine used for sealing PPE units. The locally manufactured machine is designed for sealing seams of coveralls for health care workers and active wear used for snow boarding, cycling, sailing etc.


    The home made machine is a classic example of Made in India scheme substituting import, costing just Rs 1.5 lakh plus GST whereas if it is imported from other countries it would cost Rs. 2.5 lakhs to 5 lakhs.


    P. Thiruvasakamani, owner of the company said they thought about manufacturing a machine locally as , in the manufacture of coveralls, heat seam sealing machines were not available and depend on import from other countries like China. It was a time taking process to reach Tiruppur and the cost was high. Now medical textiles are manufactured in large numbers in Tiruppur and such local achines would prove advantageous because the cost is economical .


    A. Sakhtivel, Export Council chairman launched the machine recently and said such indigenous ventures would form the backbone of Make in India scheme and Atma Nirbhar scheme.


    Thus amidst COVID crisis , the Made in India products are making a mark due to the efforts of manufacturing sector and this would eventually make our country fulfil the Prime Minister's vision of Self reliant India -Atma Nirbhar Bharat. Additionally this would boost the country's export growth as well.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1627395) Visitor Counter : 40