      PIB Headquarters

      WEBINARS : VIRTUAL CLASSROOMS BECOME POPULAR MODE OF TEACHING AND LEARNING DURING LOCKDOWN
      Posted On: 29 MAY 2020 3:07PM by PIB Chennai


    The best way to stop Covid 19 pandemic and perhaps the only way to take precautions and follow preventive measures to prevent the virus from spreading. Union government and Prime Minister stress the importance of an effective lockdown to break the chain of Covid 19. Safe distance norms, total restriction on crowding, closure of schools and colleges, shut down of public transport are part of the means to control the disease spread. At this juncture , one cannot even think about seminars and highly literary and technological discussions. But internet is a wonderful medium where one can interact with people virtually without the danger of being infected. Union human resources Development Ministry has urged graduate and postgraduate students to explore UGC Massive open online courses- UGC MOOCs and select a course to study. UGC MOOCs offers over 100 post graduation and 200 undergraduation courses. Additionally, during lockdown, the union government urged students from 9th till post graduation to use SWAYAM online portal extensively where teaching learning interactive resources are available .


    Union Human resources development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank himself had led the way of going online and addressed a webinar hosted by National Assessment and Accreditation Council on the topic 'Turn the Challenges to Opportunities: Covid 19 pandemics and measures to combat in Higher education institutions in India' . Through facebook, he addressed heads of institutions, teachers and vice chancellors of universities. He said that there are nearly 50,000 colleges, 15 lakh schools and one crore teachers in the country. The teachers and students have dared to face the challenges posed by lockdown. The minister pointed out that our NITs and IITs are utilising technologies for online education.


    Webinars, the online meeting platform is the safest method of connecting individuals across a spectrum through internet. It is already getting popular across the world but lockdown had given it a big thrust. National Institute of Technology -NIT Trichy is conducting six day online workshop on effective online teaching learning strategies for faculties of Bengaluru based College till May 31. The Course objectives include Flipped Classroom and Blended learning methods for virtual classrooms, use of Video conferencing and learning management tools for Teaching, experimental learning, material generation for students and improved student engagement in the virtual class with the help of technology. The course uses free open source tools and provide hands-on training in the software for the participants. It is the first of a series of training workshops planned to facilitate faculty of the self-financing institutions across India to seamlessly transition to virtual classrooms. Dr. Mini Shaji Thomas, Director, NIT - Trichy lauded the idea of online workshop and said it will use adult learning methods by hands-on session with practice of the software and tools, the participants learn. She also emphasized that women have an additional responsibility at home during lockdown but technology will help in enhancing their online skills. NIT Trichy Alumni institute interaction cell also conducted many webinars including 'Leading through the post pandemic world-Impact challenges and implications' and 'Map your destiny post covid-19' . A private University from Tanjore, conducted a webinar on Choices and Current trends in drug product development by its Assistant professor Dr B N Vedha Hari.


    Webinars are not about online science and technology seminars alone. Dr V Kalavathi head of Tamil Department in a private college in Rajapalayam addressed webinar on varalatriyal nokkil aga ilakiyangalil mannargal -Kings in aga inter life literature in historical perspective. She spoke exhaustively about how the actions of kings of Chera Chola Pandyas are mentioned in aga literature. She spoke about Mamulanar, Sangam poet, mentioning about Chola and Chera kings in his poem. Webinars are treasures which are indelible as they are available in internet and can be viewed and heard by anyone anywhere in the world with internet connection.


    Even lockdown induced by Covid 19 cannot stop one's yearning for knowledge and information, as the science and technology's power and potential are immense and dynamic and can change the course of the future in an unimaginable way.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1627636) Visitor Counter : 25