      PIB Headquarters

      UMANG APP GAINS POPULARITY DURING LOCKDOWN AS A ONE STOP E-SEVA CENTRE OFFERS 800 PLUS SERVICES OF CENTRAL AND STATE GOVERNMENTS
      
      During the crisis of COVID 19, UMANG app played an important role to access Pan India e-Gov services ranging from Central to Local Government bodies and other citizen centric services.

      Posted On: 29 MAY 2020 7:20PM by PIB Chennai

    UMANG (Unified Mobile Application for New Age Governance.) is developed by Ministry of Electronics and information Technology (MeitY) and National e-governance Division (NEGD) to drive Mobile Governance in India.


    UMANG is one of the key initiatives under the Digital India program to develop a common, unified platform and mobile app to facilitate a single point of access to all government services. It is envisaged to act as a master application, which will integrate major government services from various sectors such as Agriculture, Education, Health, Housing among others. The application will enable users to access e-Government services of the central Government, the State Governments, local bodies and their agencies.


    The objective of the app is to act as an enabler and facilitator in developing overall mobile based service delivery ecosystem in India..it also


    provides easy access for individuals to various services via single Mobile Application, easy to remember short code and single Toll Free number.


    It provides easy discoverability of services, easy manageability and standardisation of service delivery.


    Umang app also provides for quick mobile enablement of e-Gov applications/services of Government departments through easy and fast integration, on-boarding, mobile front-end roll-out by bringing their services on this mobile application platform and provide value added service to departments via a common platform through integration with Telecom Service Provider and Payment gateway.


    UMANG is conceptualised to bring governance on the finger tips of individuals through 'mobile first' strategy. This multi-lingual app is developed and operated to fast-track Mobile Governance. Its primary aim is to abridge inconvenience faced by users in managing multiple mobile apps and facilitate a one-stop-solution to avail varied government services. Thus, downloading one mobile app will aid convergence of various efforts, carried out separately, to reach out to the individuals via mobile phones.


    Umang services has been made available on multiple channels like mobile application, web, IVR and SMS which can be accessed through smartphones, feature phone, tablets and desktops.


    Jeevitha Mary from Sundarapuram, Coimbatore said Digital India initiative by the Prime Minister made us to move many steps forward and Umang app is one stop centre for availing all the welfare schemes of governments . This app was highly beneficial a lot during this lock down to avail all beneficiary schemes announced for the welfare of the citizens.


    Mrs. Suma, Coimbatore lauded the Indian Government for its tremendous effort taken to safeguard the lives during this pandemic. She stated that UMANG app is serving as an unique platform to access all the welfare schemes announced in this lock down. It makes people to get these benefits sitting at home , without any stress.


    Jagadheesan a student from Coimbatore appreciates this multilingual app which is available in 13 indian languages. Through this app , one can access over 800 services of 127 departments of state and central departments. It includes Aadhar,bharat billpay, tax payments , birth certificate, travel documents , passport etc. Vishnu Prasad from Coimbatore says this app is well designed keeping the difficulties faced by the citizens in mind.


    Ramkumar another beneficiary found the app extremely helpful during the corona lockdown and assured that he would it to his friends and neighbours. Thus, Umang app serves as a 24x7 government e - office offering essential services for the public and this digital india initiative got a big thumbs up from the citizens during the lockdown .


    Jeevitha Mary says umang app is one stop centre for availing all welfare schemes


    Jagadheeshan says umang app provides 24x7service to public


    Vishnu Prasad says this app well designed keeping the citizens difficulties


    Ramkumar says this app is useful in corona crisis

    
    
    (Release ID: 1627711) Visitor Counter : 50
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil