      PIB Headquarters

      RESUMPTION OF DOMESTIC FLIGHTS CONNECTS NOT JUST CITIES BUT HEARTS
      Lakhs get a sigh of relief as they rejoin their dear ones

      Posted On: 28 MAY 2020 2:39PM by PIB Chennai

    Covid 19 pandemic led lockdown had affected individuals, business and trade all over the nation. If the decision to run Shramik special trains was to help labourers to return to their home states, resumption of domestic flights will help families, traders and business men to travel back to their destination of choice. In addition to connecting the near and dear ones, this had also boosted the confidence of trading community and will bring our economy back on wheels. Domestic flights are as important as international flights in connecting a vast country like India.


    Union Minister for Civil Aviation said that on the third day of resumption Wednesday, in 354 departures and 288 arrivals about 50,000 passengers travelled. On second day of commencement of domestic passenger flights, our airports handled 62,641 passengers on 445 departures and 447 arrivals. On the first day of resumption of domestic flights on 25th May after covid 19 closure, 58,318 passengers flew to their destinations in 832 flights. Lifeline Udan which started on March 26th has now carried 927 tonnes of medical and essential cargo in 579 flights. The Minister said under Mission Vande Bharat , in the first Phase 13750 people have returned to India from 12 countries including United Kingdom, the United States of America, Bangladesh, the gulf nations on 64 flights. In the current second phase 58,750 Indians are being brought back in 311 flights from Europe, Africa, Russia, Australia, the USA Canada till June 17.


    A leading private Airlines resumed flights to Tiruchirapalli from Chennai with 17 passengers. That flight returned to Chennai with 31 passengers. Flight services between Trichy and Bengaluru also resumed. 65 passengers from 13 districts including Trichy, Thanjavur, Ariyalur , Karur came in the Trichy flight from Bengaluru and were subjected to tests for any symptoms for Covid 19. They will be put under 14 day mandatory quarantine in their respective home towns.


    Trichy Collector inspected the medical tests made for the passengers in the airport. In the return flight, 52 passengers left for Bengaluru from Trichy. Most airlines authorities advise passengers to check in online on the respective website and obtain boarding pass 48 hours to one hour before departure of flight. They urge passengers to bring soft copy or printed copy of that online boarding pass. Passengers who want to come from other states to Tamil Nadu by domestic flights or train should get epass through http://tnepass.tnega.org website. All the passengers will be stamped quarantine seal on arrival and made to follow 14 day home quarantine norms.


    Smt D V Lakshmi manager in IT Company in Bengaluru thanks central government for resuming domestic flights. She says that she is the only child of her parents and is not able to go and see them in Chennai. Now that domestic flight services have been resumed she is happy to go and see them. There are many such persons who are delighted that domestic flights have started again. But they have to get the epasses to enter Tamil Nadu and should not have any Covid 19 symptoms.


    The resumption of domestic flight services will help those who want to travel in an emergency to see their ailing parents who are staying alone, for medical treatment. This will really help as rail and road services are not resumed in a full fledged manner. But it is our duty to follow restrictions and safe distance norms issued by government to prevent spread of Covid 19.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1627408) Visitor Counter : 17