      PIB Headquarters

      Functioning of Women Post Office in Gujarat
      Posted On: 14 AUG 2019 5:00PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    Ahmedabad, 14-08-2019


    Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has stressed upon the need to empower women in the country by enhancing their role in economy. He emphasises that the Government should move from women’s development to women-led development.


    To implement this vision of Hon’ble Prime Minister, Department of Posts, under the guidance of Shri Ravishankar Prasad, Hon’ble Minister of Communications and IT, Law and Justice is opening up “Mahila Post Office”. These Post Offices will show-case the women power to empower common citizens by better delivery of Postal Services.


    To take this vision forward, Gujarat Postal Circle has taken a landmark step and decided to made operational one Women Post Offices ( Mahila Dak Ghar ) each at Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Rajkot on the occasion of RakshaBandhan . From 16th August 2019 , Gujarat University Post Office at Ahmedabad, Waghodia Road Post Office at Vadodara and Rajkot Seva Sadan Post Office at Rajkot city will function as Women Post Offices operated by all women employees. In these Post Offices women customers will get out of turn services and they will not have to stand in a queue.


    There is different comfort level when women interact among themselves. Keeping all this in mind, the Chief Postmaster General, Gujarat Postal Circle had planned to put in operation all Women Post Offices to be known as “ Mahila Post Office ” at major cities of Gujarat. Accordingly, it has been decided to convert existing Post Offices into Mahila Post Offices in the places where there are large number of women customers. In days to come, more such Post Offices will be made operational in Gujarat.


    Gujarat Postal Circle is feeling proud while putting in operation these Women Post Offices for better and efficient services to the society with a special focus on women customers.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581977) Visitor Counter : 75
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati