      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Gujarat to get first Central Institute of Chemical Engineering & Technology (CICET): Shri Mansukh Mandaviya
      
      Union Minister Mansukh Mandaviya urges people to join the campaign to collect littered plastic waste on 2nd October
      
      Shri Mansukh Mandaviya inaugurates Boys & Girls Hostel at CIPET Ahmedabad

      Posted On: 18 AUG 2019 6:26PM by PIB Ahmedabad

    · Ahmedabad to get Plastic Waste Management Centre to find solutions to reduce plastic pollution


    · CIPET to start skill development centre in Bhavnagar from October, 2019


    · Valsad soon to have CIPET’s training centre


    · Diploma course to start in Sanand under the aegis of CIPET


    Union Minister of State for Shipping (I/C) and Chemical & Fertilizers Shri Mansukh Mandaviya inaugurated newly built boys and girls hostel at the cost of Rs. 31 crores at Central Institute of Plastic Engineering & Technology (CIPET) in Ahmedabad today. The hostel will provide accommodation facilities for 150 girls & 575 boys.


    The minister said that the plastic has become the indispensable part of our day to day life but it is one of the main causes of rising pollution. Thus, the research in plastic engineering technology is the need of the hour. He lauded the role of CIPET like institutes in the field of plastic engineering. The Minister announced to set up a CIPET training institute in Valsad at the cost of Rs. 54 crore which will benefit the tribal students. He also said that a Skill Development Centre will start functioning from this October in Bhavnagar. CIPET will also start diploma course in Sanand very soon, he added.


    Quoting the Prime Minister’s Independence Day speech, the minister said, “Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has expressed concerned over the use of single-use plastic. I urged people on behalf of PM to join the movement to collect littered plastic waste on 2 nd October.


    Describing Gujarat as a hub of the chemical industry, Shri Mansukh Mandiya said that Vapi, Ankleshwar and Vatva have a significant presence of the chemical industry. He said the government is planning to set up Central Institute of Chemical Engineering & Technology (CICET) on the line of CIPET to benefit the chemical industry. “Gujarat will get the country’s first CICET which will be set up either in Vatva or Surat. CICET will facilitate chemical industry with research and innovations.” The minister added.


    Expressing concern over the rising pollution caused due to plastic, Shri Mandaviya said that the government is planning to set up the Plastic Waste Management Centre in Ahmedabad to find out solutions to systematic segregation and recycling of plastic waste.


    Smt. Bijal Patel, Mayor, Ahmedabad, Prof. Dr. S.K. Nayak, Director General, CIPET and other Central and State government dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    J.Khunt

    
    
    (Release ID: 1582266) Visitor Counter : 178
    Click Here for Related Photos
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati