      Ministry of Home Affairs

      UNION HOME MINISTER TAKES PART IN CONCLUDING CEREMONY OF ‘MISSION MILLION TREES’ CAMPAIGN; FLAGS OFF BATTERY OPERATED ECO-FRIENDLY BUSES
      SHRI SHAH GIVES A CLARION CALL TO WOMEN TO AVOID PLASTIC BAGS FOR GROCERY AND VEGETABLE SHOPPING
      
      GUJARAT WILL TAKE LEAD IN THE COUNTRY ON ENHANCEMENT OF ELECTRIC MOBILITY: GUJARAT CM SHRI VIJAY RUPANI
      Posted On: 29 AUG 2019 1:20PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    Ahmedabad, 29-08-2019


    On his first visit to Gujarat after scrapping various provisions of Article 370 granting special status to J&K, the Union Home Minister today participated in the concluding ceremony of “Mission Million trees” programme organized by Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. The Mission which started on world environment day i.e 5 th June, 2019 has been concluded with plantation of 10,87,000 trees in Ahmedabad city.


    Speaking on the occasion the Union Home Minister gave a clarion call to the women to keep away from using plastics bags while purchasing groceries and vegetables. Reminding the citizens of Paris climate accord Mr. shah outlined the danger of ozone layer depletion because of CO 2 and CO emission worldover.


    The Home Minister recalled that the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Bhai Modi on resuming powers second time in 2019 created a separate ministry for “Jal Shakti”. He said that this step will guide the entire world in coming days on various fronts of environment conservation including water conservation, water saving, waste water treatment, irrigation innovations etc.


    Shri Shah also flagged off 8 AC electric buses in the city and also inaugurated a battery charging station. Lauding the efforts of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation Shri Shah appreciated that Ahmedabad has taken a lead on electric Mobility with countrymade buses. He also appealed to the civic authorities to keep prepared for technological needs such as establishment of efficient battery exchanging stations which should be time saving and energy efficient.


    It is to be mentioned here that the Union Home Minister wrote a special letter to the chairmen/secretaries of the resident societies in his parliamentary constituency to plant at least 5 trees in their society which have more than 100 years of age such as Banyan tree, Peepal tree etc. Expressing satisfaction at the response, the Home Minister said that he has received 3216 positive replies in which the societies have also made arrangement for regular watering and maintenance of the trees.


    Speaking on the occasion, the state Chief Minister Shri Vijay Bhai Rupani assured the Home Minister that Gujarat will take lead in the country on enhancement of electric mobility. He emphasized that 50 electric buses have been provisioned in Ahmedabad now but in very short span of time 500 electric buses will be put to service in Ahmedabad alone. He reiterated for green, clean, environment friendly and pollution free state of Gujarat.


    Shri Vijay Bhai Rupani also informed that the electric buses are indigenously made which echoes the sentiments of Make in India. Expressing satisfaction at sufficient rainfall this monsoon, Shri Rupani said that numerous check dams, ponds and other water conservation efforts of the state government in last 3 years are now yielding good results following this year’s good rainfall.


    Ms. Bijal Patel, Mayor, Ahmedabad, Shri Pradipsinh Jadeja, Home Minister, Government of Gujarat, Shri R.C. Faldu, Agriculture Minister, Government of Gujarat, Shri Kaushik Bhai Patel, Revenue Minister, Government of Gujarat and other dignitaries were also present on the occasion.


    DK/J.Khunt/PIB Ahmedabad

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583407) Visitor Counter : 147
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati