      Ministry of Finance

      The Union Minister of Finance, Defence and Corporate Affairs leaves on a 4-day official visit to Paris to attend OECD Meetings among others
      Posted On: 06 JUN 2017 5:18PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar


    The Union Minister of Finance, Defence and Corporate Affairs Shri Arun Jaitley left today on a four-day official visit to Paris, France to participate in Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Meetings among others. The Finance Minister will arrive in Paris today evening and tomorrow, he will deliver the Key Note address at OECD Meeting. Later the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will participate in the Panel Discussion on the topic of “Stocktaking on Globalisation”. Other participants in the Panel Discussion include Mr. Angel Gurria, Secretary General, OECD, Mr. Anders Samuelsen, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Denmark, Mr. Steven Ciobo, Minister of Trade of Australia as well as the Finance Ministers of UK and Sweden. Thereafter, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will participate in Luncheon Session on “The Challenges of Globalisation and the OECD”. In the evening, the Finance Minister will hold a bilateral meeting with Mr. Angel Gurria, Secretary General, OECD.Later the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will participate in the OECD Forum on ‘Cashless Society and Fintech’. In the evening, the Finance Minister will hold a bilateral meeting with the Foreign Minister of Denmark Mr. Anders Samuelsen. Thereafter, the Finance Minister will participate in the Signing Ceremony for BEPS Convention and will make a Statement on the occasion of Signing Ceremony. Thereafter, the Finance Minister will hold a bilateral meeting with the Finland Minister of Foreign Trade & Development, Mr. Kai Mykkänen. The Finance Minister will also participate in Ministerial Dinner hosted by HE, Mr. Lars Lokke Rasmussen, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Denmark.
    
    On Thursday, 8th June, 2017 the Union Minister of Finance, Defence and Corporate Affairs Shri Arun Jaitley will call on his French counterpart and Minister of Defence, Ms. Sylvie Goulard. Afterwards, the Financial Minister will also meet the President of MEDEF (Mouvement des Entreprises de France), Mr. Pierre Gattaz. The Finance Minister will also make a statement at the Conference on Business opportunities between the African Tech System and the Global Tech World. In the afternoon, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will address the Investors Roundtable Session co-organised by CII and BNP Paribas.
    
    On Friday, 9th June, 2017 the Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley will call on the French Minister of Economy, Mr. Mr Bruno Le Maire. In the evening, the Finance Minister will leave for back home and will arrive in the national capital on the morning of Saturday, 10th June, 2016.

    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492260) Visitor Counter : 86