      AYUSH

      AYUSH Minister to inaugurate the second edition of National Health Editors’ Conference on Yoga in New Delhi tomorrow
      Posted On: 08 JUN 2017 6:01PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar


    The second National Health Editors’ Conference on Yoga will be inaugurated by Minister of State for AYUSH (Independent Charge), Shri Shripad Yesso Naik at National Media Centre in New Delhi tomorrow. The conference is being organized by Ministy of AYUSH in association with Press Information Bureau (PIB), M/o Information & Broadcasting and Central Council for Research in Yoga and Naturopathy (M/o AYUSH) as a part of celebrations of the 3 rd International Day of Yoga on 21 st June, 2017. The theme of this year’s conference is “Yoga for Health and Harmony”.


    The aim of the conference is to give insight to the journalists about the scientific aspects of yoga & its benefits for human health. More than 150 Health Editors and media persons from National, Regional and International media organizations are expected to attend the conference. Senior officers of PIB and Ministry of AYUSH will also remain present on the occasion.


    Three eminent experts of yoga and modern medicine will present highlights from recent research works on aspects of yoga. The experts are as follows:


    I. Dr. K. K. Deepak, AIIMS, New Delhi who will speak on Yoga and Stress Management


    II. Dr. R. S. Bhogal, Kaivalyadhama, Pune will deliver talk on Yoga and Mental Health


    III. Dr. Hemant Bhargava, SVYASA, Bangalore will lecture on Yoga and Diabetes


    The workshop will also include short yoga demonstration as well as expericene sharing by people who have been benefited by Yoga. The Editors/Journalists will also have the opportunity to interact with the Yoga experts during the Q&A sessions. The first National Health Editors’ Conference on Yoga was organized by M/o AYUSH and PIB last year.


    Tomorrow’s Health Editors’ Conference will be live streamed on PIB website including YouTube channel of PIB, PIB Facebook & PIB Twitter. The link to the YouTube channel of PIB is as below:


    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vAypXLY9sZI


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492928) Visitor Counter : 165