      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      Centre Grants Approval for Airport at Jewar in Greater Noida
      Delhi-NCR to get its Second International Airport

      Posted On: 24 JUN 2017 6:06PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar

    The Government has granted in-principle approval for a greenfield airport at Jewar in Greater Noida in view of the rapidly growing flying requirements of the NCR region . Announcing this at a press conference in New Delhi today the Minister for Civil Aviation Shri P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju said that the air traffic in the NCR region is growing very fast. From the current level of 62 million passengers per annum, it is expected to reach upto 91 MPPA by 2020 and 109 MPPA by 2024, which would be the saturation point for the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi. So Delhi will require a second airport in the next 7-10 years. The minister said that the Government of Uttar Pradesh had submitted a proposal for construction of a new Greenfield International Airport at Jewar in Greater Noida, and the Ministry of Civil Aviation has accorded in principle approval for the project based on the recommendations of the Steering Committee on Greenfield Airports, headed by the Secretary (CA).

    
    The Noida International Airport will be located 72Kms from IGI Airport and 65 Kms from Hindon Air Force station Ghaziabad. Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) is the implementing authority of the project. An area of 3000 hectares has been notified for the airport which will be developed in phases. An area of 1000 hectares will be developed in the first phase at an estimated cost of Rs 10,000 crores. There will be one runway in the first phase. Three more runways will be developed in subsequent phases. The total cost of development of all phases is expected to be around Rs 15-20,000 crores. The airport is expected to cater to 30-50 million passengers per year over the next 10 to 15 years.. Government of UP along with YEIDA will bear the cost of land procurement. The project will be implemented in the PPP mode for which concessionaire is to be identified based on open market competitive bidding process.
    
    Also speaking on the occasion MoS Civil Aviation Shri Jayant Sinha said that the airport is not only important for the NCR region but also for Western Uttar Pradesh. He said cities in this part of Uttar Pradesh have a lot of potential in terms of air traffic and the Noida airport will help in providing seamless domestic and international connectivity to the region. He further said that the project will give a big boost to economic development in the region. Greater Noida and Western Uttar Pradesh have many industries that will benefit from this improved connectivity. It will also encourage more industrialization, thus pushing economic growth.
    
    Secretary Civil Aviation Shri R.N. Choubey informed that metro connectivity was being extended to Jewar, and so the airport would have multi modal connectivity by road and rail. He further said that UP Government and YEIDA will be preparing the Techno- Economic Feasibility Report for the project. He said this airport is expected to be operational within the next 4-5 years.

    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494116) Visitor Counter : 17