      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi addresses the 76th meeting of Central Waqf Council
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2017 6:08PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar


    The Minister of State for Minority Affairs (Independent Charge) and Parliamentary Affairs, Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said here that during the last three years, more than two thousand criminal cases have been filed in connection with encroachment on waqf properties by waqf mafias and strict action has been taken against several people sitting at top posts in waqf boards.

    
    Addressing 76th meeting of Central Waqf Council in New Delhi, Shri Naqvi said that waqf properties are being utilised for socio-economic-educational empowerment of the needy people of the society under the Centre’s Modi Government after making these properties free from encroachment on “waqf mafias”. Various projects related to educational, social and skill development are being initiated on these properties.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that the Ministry of Minority Affairs is making efforts to ensure that all the waqf boards and their records across the country are made digital. The Ministry has been providing all possible help to the state waqf boards. The Computerisation of waqf boards and their properties will help in ensuring transparency.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that a one-man “Board of Adjudication” at the Central level has been established under the chairmanship of retired Supreme Court justice to deal with complaints and disputes regarding waqf properties. Three-member tribunals are being established in the states. About 21 states have established these tribunals so far. Other states should also do this soon. There are about 5,12,556 registered and non-registered waqf properties across the country. The number may increase after computerisation of all waqf properties.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that Ministry of Minority Affairs has been working towards socio-economic-educational empowerment of all the notified Minorities- Muslim, Christian, Buddhist, Sikh, Parsi and Jain- effectively as a mission and commitment.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that measures taken by the Government led by Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for socio-economic-educational progress of Minorities during the last three years is a reflection of “empowerment without appeasement” policy. Shri Naqvi said that Ministry of Minority Affairs has been successful in enabling the poor, backward and weaker sections of the Minorities getting a share of mainstream development through “3E”- Education, Employment and Empowerment.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that our “empowerment without appeasement” policy has created an “atmosphere of development and trust” among Minorities. The Ministry of Minority Affairs, during the last three years, has provided benefits of schemes/programmes related to better education, skill development and providing employment to every needy person.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that schemes/programmes such as “Garib Nawaz Skill Development Centre”, “Usttad”, “Nai Manzil”, “Nai Roshni”, “Seekho aur Kamao”, “Padho Pardes”, “Progress Panchayat”, “Hunar Haat”, multi-purpose “Sadbhav Mandap”, “PM’s new 15 point programme”, “Multi-sectoral Development Programme”, “Begum Hazrat Mahal Scholarship” for girls, etc have ensured “happiness in eyes and prosperity in life” of every needy person belonging to the Minority communities.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that thousands of Minority communities’ schools and Madrasas have been connected with “3T”- Teachers, Tiffin and Toilets during last three months. These educational institutions also include institutions run by Gurudwaras and those institutions run by Jain, Buddhist and Parsi community.

    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1494117) Visitor Counter : 147