      Ministry of Defence

      "Launching of “Pavitrapati” Ayurvedic Biodegradable Face Mask and Anti-Microbial Body Suit Named “Aushada Tara”"
      Posted On: 13 AUG 2020 6:29PM by PIB Mumbai


    Pune: 13 August 2020


    Pune based Defence Institute of Advanced Technology, DIAT (DU) developed a Nanofibres of Ayurvedic based Biodegradable Face Mask which acts a virus neutraliser to resist against the bacteria / virus, and has named “ Pavitrapati ”.


    Accordingly the Transfer of Technology [ToT] / NDA of this product signed in June 2020 between DIAT and Kolhapur based Textile Company M/s. Siddheshwar Techtessile Pvt. Ltd., Maharashtra, for actual development to this product on mass level to contain the spread of the COVID-19 virus. The Company now launched its first ever Aurvedic based biodegradable face mask named “Pavitrapati” for sale. M/s Siddheshwar Techtessile Pvt. Ltd., Maharashtra developed initially 10,000 Nos of this mask and have got responses from distributors, sales teams, pharmaceutical companies and the same will be made available on online platform like. Amazon, Flipkart etc.


    Another ToT has been transferred to M/s. Siddheshwar Techtessile Pvt. Ltd., Maharashtra by DIAT for development of anti-microbial body suit in the name of “ Aushada t ara” . This suit has superhydrophobic, breathing, anti-microbial, comfort feeling properties. The fabric material of the suit has the approval for fighting against the COVID-19. The suit had cleared the splash resistant tests and it has got good repellent property of any fluids. The demand of this suit will be for medical hospitals, private companies, airlines and Govt agencies. The production of the Aushada Tara has started and the initial order is already placed and executed.


    The above two products are the Trademarked products of DIAT (DU).


    MI/PM


    *


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1645554) Visitor Counter : 602
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi