      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      A cultural bond between sandy beaches of Goa and dense forests of Jharkhand
      
      Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat brings the two states together through a webinar

      Posted On: 26 AUG 2020 7:26PM by PIB Mumbai

    Mumbai, 26 August 2020


    Is it possible to take a stroll on the sandy beaches of Goa, and roam around the dense forests of Jharkhand at the same time? Today’s webinar on 'Weaving Cultural Threads: Goa and Jharkhand' organised by Regional Outreach Bureau (Maharashtra, Goa & Jharkhand) together with Press Information Bureau (Goa & Ranchi), Ministry of Information & Broadcasting made it possible.


    Goa and Jharkhand being ‘paired states’ under ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ Mission, the webinar focused on the diverse cultural heritage of these states with eminent speakers from both these states.


    Eminent authors, scholars and artists from these states shared their views that bind these two states together.


    Vivek Menezes, Author, curator and Photographer from Goa spoke about the uniqueness of India. “There is no other place in the world, where two diverse states like Goa and Jharkhand belong to the same nation. This is the beauty of India!” he said.


    
    He also spoke about his memories of his childhood days spent in Jamshedpur, Jharkhand. “Despite the diversity, Goa and Jharkhand share a symbiotic relation. Many people from Jharkhand work in Goa. They are the backbone of our labour force. Goa’s economy is able to flourish because of the people from places like Jharkhand. Without them the Tourism Industry, Fishing Industry etc. wouldn’t be able to perform well.”


    He enlisted many common things that both these states share including the biodiversity or forest cover these states have, ancient art and rich cultural background.


    Addressing the important role these two states play in preserving the rich heritage of the country, he suggested that both the states should be brought into main stream.


    “The connections we are building through #EkBharatShreshthaBharat are important. This is the India, I want to live in!”, he added.
    
    Eminent author from Jharkhand, Mahadev Toppo began his address by highlighting an interesting observation, about the survival methods shown in popular television reality shows which are actually a part of tribal life since ages.


    Highlighting the contribution of tribal life in art and culture, Mahadev Toppo said “Fashion, Fabric and jewellery across the world are inspired by the tribal life and indigenous people”


    He also mentioned that besides having a plethora of minerals and the state is also rich in art and culture.


    “The tribal life in Jharkhand values and believes in community living. It teaches us to coexist with the environment. Standing by these principle, people of Jharkhand celebrate Sarhul a festival during spring season in which we worship the mother earth”, he said.


    “We respect trees and jungles and worship our animals. Haryali Pooja is celebrated during the rainy season. As part of this festival, people stop visiting forests for a certain period of time so that new life among flora and fauna may flourish”, Toppo added.

    Another speaker in the webinar, Giridhari Ram Gaunjhu, who was a Professor in Ranchi University, added to the rich heritage of community life of Jharkhand. He stated that “Jharkhand is a part of the Gondwanaland, and we have one of the oldest civilizations in the world”.


    He spoke about the different communities who live in Jharkhand. There are 32 communities of which nine are primitive tribes. One such tribe called ‘Asura’ makes special iron weapons with unique anti rusting properties. He quoted an exponent of the regional music and Padma Shri. Dr. Ram Dayal Munda who had said, “The world should learn from Jharkhand, the culture of Jharkhand teaches us sustainable development”.
    
    Speaking about the rich flora of the state which is a part of the daily tribal life, he mentioned that traditional food of Jharkhand enhances immunity, which is a significant inspiration to the world during these tough times. “Several medicinal plants that the tribes have been using for years are getting recognition today” he added.

    Additional Director General, PIB, Ranchi, Arimardan Singh Singh while addressing rhe webinar said “India is a land of diversity. While the state of Goa is situated on the sea shore Jharkhand is a landlocked state. Both these states have different climate, culture and lifestyle but there is an underlying unity’.


    Media and Communication Officer, PIB Mumbai, Sriyanka Chatterjee moderated the enriching and engaging session. Vinod Kumar, Deputy Director PIB Goa delivered the Vote of thanks.


    The webinar was organised on the lines of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ programme of the Government of India that celebrates the sentiment of ‘Unity in Diversity’ .


    * * *


    VK/DL/DR


    ***


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1648811) Visitor Counter : 176
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi