      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Shri DharmendraPradhan and Shri AnantkumarHegde assume charge of their offices at Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship; to bring scale and speed to India’s Skill Mission
      Posted On: 04 SEP 2017 2:32PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar


    Minister for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri DharmendraPradhan andMinister of State for Skill Development and EntrepreneurshipShri AnantKumar Hegde, here today took charge of their respective portfolios at the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship.
    
    Speaking to the media persons, Minister for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri DharmendraPradhan, said, “I am extremely humbled that the Prime Minister has given me this responsibility to steer India’s Skill Mission and we will ensure that we deliver on his expectations. He has a vision that we create a new environment of creating dignified job opportunity for the youth. This is a policy driven ministry and in the last three years we have been able to lay down the foundation for skill development in the country. We will now work towards bringing scale and speed to this programme by bringing in convergence and coordination with our States, Departments, Private Institutions and other existing skill programs.”
    
    “It is a great responsibility more than a challenge and we will work for filling the need gaps and work towards ensuring the youth of a brighter future. We will explore all possible grid system, information systems, technology advent that the country is witnessing, conventional jobs and new age skills to enable a more efficient outcome of our programs and schemes in skills.”
    
    Committing himself to the Prime Minister’s vision, Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri AnantkumarHegde, said, “I consider the opportunity of being appointed as the Minister of State as greater responsibility towards serving the nation. I am certain that with the guidance of the Shri Pradhanji, we will work as per the defined agenda and draw a proper roadmap for the work to be taken up which will bring about efficiency in the skill ecosystem.
    
    Shri Pradhan also added that job growth is an aspiration for any government. “This ministry has been doing good job and we will be giving it a major push to fulfil the objectives. Every month, there are more than 10 lakh youth joining the job market. Our primary objective will be to create grid across sectors, States and the aspiration of the youth and ensure all the requirements are well addressed,” he further added.
    
    Following the joining of respective offices, both the Ministers took an elaborate review meeting with the officials at the Ministry.

    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1501883) Visitor Counter : 137