      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Shri Giriraj Singh Takes Over As Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
      Posted On: 04 SEP 2017 8:50PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar


    Shri Giriraj Singh took over as the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises here today. Before this charge he was Minister of State for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. On the occasion Shri Kalraj Mishra, former Union Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises was given farewell bid. Chairman, Coir Board, Shri CP Radhakrishnan, Secretary MSME, Shri Arun Kumar Panda, Development Commissioner Shri Surendranath Tripathi were also present on the occasion.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Shri Giriraj Singh said that he will strive forward to increase employment under MSMEs and ensure that MSMEs do not face any hurdle in conducting of their business. He also said that he will take forward the works left over by his predecessor to its logical conclusion.
    
    Shri Kalraj Mishra, former Union Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises said that he was satisfied with the work done in his ministry during his stint and hopes that his successor will finish the pending works and fulfill the dream of the Prime Minister.
    
    Shri Giriraj Singh was born on 08 Sep 1952. He now represents Nawada (Bihar) Parliamentary constituency in Lok Sabha. Shri Giriraj Singh was the Member, Joint Committee on Salaries and Allowances of Members of Parliament (2 Sep. 2014 - 9 Nov. 2014). He was a Member, Bihar Legislative Council from (2002 - May 2014). Shri Giriraj Singh was Cooperative Minister, Govt. of Bihar (2008 - 2010). He was Minister, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Resource Development, Govt. of Bihar (2010 - 2013).Shri Giriraj Singh was Elected to 16th Lok Sabha (May 2014).

    *******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1501961) Visitor Counter : 155