      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi inaugurates “New India- We Resolve to Make” exhibition cum cultural event in Mumbai
      Posted On: 07 SEP 2017 4:43PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs, Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said that tolerance is the culture and commitment of India and Indians and it is our Constitutional duty to protect and strengthen this culture, in Mumbai, today.
    
    While inaugurating “New India- We Resolve to Make” exhibition cum cultural event at Bandra Railway Station, Mumbai, jointly organised by Parliamentary Affairs Ministry and Container Corporation of India, Shri Naqvi said that any type of violence and anarchy is a conspiracy to weaken the fabric of the country’s social harmony and strength of “unity in diversity”. It is our Constitutional duty to protect this unity and defeat such evil forces who want to disturb our social harmony.
    
    Under “New India” vision, the Government led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been working with commitment to welfare and empowerment of that poor section of the society which remained the below poverty line even after seven decades of Independence. Shri Naqvi said that our Government has worked keeping this section in centre of all the welfare schemes.
    
    Shri Naqvi reminded that Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given a call for “New India” and all sections of the society have to work together to fulfil this commitment.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that Cenre is making every effort to take everyone in “Sankalp se Sidhi” campaign to make India free from corruption, poverty, filth, communalism, terrorism and casteism. We have taken a pledge to make a “New India” by 2022.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that with this objective, Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs is organising photo exhibition “New India- We Resolve to Make” at 39 places across the country. The exhibitions are aimed at promoting the campaign launched by Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for “New India”.
    
    The focus of the exhibitions will be on India’s freedom movement from 1857 to 1947 showing the various activities initiated to attain the freedom from the British rule- “The First War of Independence, 1857”, “The Champaran Satyagrah”, “The Non-cooperation Movement”, “The Dandi Yatra” and “The Quit India Movement”.
    
    Besides this, the period of five years from 1942 to 1947 is being reflected to show how the movement of India’s struggle for freedom transformed the entire country into one to fight for the freedom from the British Rule and in the end, the vision of new India from 2017 to 2022 will be showcased, when we will be celebrating 75 years of India’s Independence.
    
    The exhibitions are showcasing different aspects from India’s freedom struggle to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s vision for “New India”. The exhibitions are also displaying various welfare schemes of the Central Government.

    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502063) Visitor Counter : 150