      Ministry of Steel

      SAIL’s retail sales gets boost with SAIL’s Gaon ki Ore campaign
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2017 3:55PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar


    Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL), is running a nation-wide campaign सेल स्टील – गाँव की ओर (SAIL steel – Gaon ki ore) which is aimed at boosting steel consumption in country. This has started to reflect positively through the dealer sales numbers, which recorded an 18% jump in the month of August 2017 over CPLY selling 91,000 tonnes of steel in the month. SAIL targets to sell 1 Million Tonnes steel through its dealer network this financial year and aims at doubling it in next three financial years, as per the directions from Steel Minister Shri Birender Singh to SAIL to go for smart marketing.


    SAIL had identified the potential of rural markets for enhancing steel consumption which is currently around 10 kgs per capita per year as against around 150 Kg per capita consumption in Urban India.


    The Gaon ki ore campaign is designed to familiarize end users at the Grass-root level, especially of rural areas, with innovative usage of SAIL steel and its applications and advantages in construction, household equipment, agriculture etc. Through engagement activities the audience are informed how using SAIL steel can increase durability, life, safety and longevity of any construction and product. SAIL’s product basket has branded products like SAIL TMT, SAIL Jyoti GP/GC sheets, Salem stainless utensils products in its basket which fit the rural requirements well and has popular acceptance.


    Through this nation-wide campaign initiated at Nalbari, Assam, SAIL aims to cover more than 100 locations by the end of this year and within months of its inception around twenty workshops have already been conducted in various states. This new age marketing campaign strategically aims to develop a stronger link with consumers through direct engagement. All workshops of the campaign are designed to familiarize participants about SAIL’s production process, product range, applications and advantages and the interactive sessions are conducted in local language for easier connect with audience. SAIL Earth-Quake Resistant (EQR) TMT Rebars received special attention of the audience who were keen to know regarding the bendability of the EQR and its higher resistance to earthquakes.


    Company’s recently held campaign at Mandi, Himachal Pradesh successfully involved a wide participation from locals and their families. Taking the buzz forward, SAIL organized another round in Palampur today, integrating it with an on-going exhibition on ‘Destination Himachal’ leveraging the crowd presence to raise awareness about steel consumption.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502995) Visitor Counter : 28