      PIB Headquarters

      Natural remedy for hypertension: CMFRI develops product from seaweeds
      Posted On: 28 MAY 2019 2:05PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    In a major development in utilizing the medicinal prospects of marine organisms, the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) has now come up with a nutraceutical product from sea to combat hypertension. The product, Cadalmin TM Antihypertensive extract (Cadalmin TM AHe), was developed from seaweeds, which are commonly available in the Indian coastal waters and are known for their extraordinary medicinal properties.


    Bioactive pharmacophore leads from seaweeds were used to develop this product, which can be administered orally to regulate hypertension that is one of the risk factors for strokes, heart attacks, heart failure, and arterial aneurysm, and is a leading cause of chronic kidney failure. This is sixth in the series of the nutraceutical products developed by CMFRI. The institute has already developed and commercialised natural products for diseases such as diabetes, arthritis, cholesterol and hypothyroid.


    Dr Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary, Department of Agriculture Research and Education and Director General of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) released the product at a function held at CMFRI.


    “The extract contains 100% natural marine bioactive ingredients from selected seaweeds by a patented technology, and would be made available in 400 mg capsules. This nutraceutical does not have any side effects as established by detailed preclinical trials. Cadalmin TM Antihypertensive extract is the only product made by 100% natural marine bioactive ingredients from seaweeds as a natural remedy of hypertension”, said Dr Kajal Chakraborty, Senior Scientist at CMFRI who developed the product.


    Dr A Gopalakrishnan, Director, ICAR-CMFRI said that entrepreneurs and start-ups are welcome to upscale and market this product by expression of interest (EOI) with CMFRI . “The institute is in the process of developing more health products from the underutilized seaweeds. Efforts are on for standardizing and promoting seaweed farming all along the Indian coasts as a livelihood option for the coastal communities. This is expected to compensate for the dip in income for the fishermen during lean seasons”, he said.


    Dr J K Jena, DDG (Fisheries), ICAR presided over the function. Welcoming the gathering, Dr T V Sathianandan, Head of the Fishery Resources Assessment Division, ICAR-CMFRI proposed vote of thanks.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572806) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam