      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      IMPCC Meeting of Assam Chapter Held In Guwahati Today
      Posted On: 01 APR 2019 3:39PM by PIB Guwahati


    The Inter Media Publicity Coordination Committee (IMPCC) meeting for the month of April was held today at the conference hall of National Small Industries Corporation Limited (NSIC), Guwahati. The discussion in the meeting was aimed towards the role of NSIC for the development of MSMEs and its various schemes for the benefits of the enterprises including SC, ST and women entrepreneurs.


    ShriKuldeep Singh Dhatwalia, Director General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India, who is also the Chairman of IMPCC, Assam Chapter, chairedthe meeting today.Highlighting the significance of IMPCC meeting ShriDhatwalia said in his address that all media units of the Ministry I & B, Central and State Government departments are members of this Committee; and that they should assemble once in a month to share their works, experiences and plans for publicity for the coming month. With the declaration of election, all the publicity programmes of the Ministry are now focused on increasing voter’s participation in the electionthrough SVEEP, he informed.The IMPCC meetings, as decided by Ministry of I& B, are conducted on the 1 st Monday of every month. In the eventuality of the day being a holiday, it is being held one day in advance or later, he added.


    In a detailed presentation about goals, achievements and on-going activities of NSIC, it was informed to the members that with an aim to promote and support Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises Sector NSIC is providing integrated support services encompassing marketing,technology, finance and other services. In North Eastern states also, NSIC is supporting and assisting the MSMEs through Credit support, marketing support and skill development training to the unemployed youths through incubation training centre. It was also informed that National SC/ST Hub, an initiative of Ministry of MSME, was launched to provide professional support to SC-ST entrepreneurs to fulfil the objectives of 4% procurement from Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) as per the mandate of the Public Procurement Policy. The hub is providing handholding support to SC-ST MSEs through finance facilitation, e-tendering, support etc. In financial year 2018-19, till date, procurement from 1,720 SC/St owned MSEs stood at Rs. 488.15 Cr., out of total procurement of Rs. 24,918 Cr. from 62,008MSEs. At present procurement of SC-ST MSEs is 0.52% of total procurement as compared to 0.48% of total procurement in financial year 2017-18.


    Earlier, Dr.AvinashChoudhury, Zonal General Manager, NSIC, North East welcomed the members of the meeting.


    Participants from different departments shared their views and gave their suggestions at the end of the meeting. They mentioned that the IMPCC platform is very useful for them in sharing their views and getting inputs from other members.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1569918) Visitor Counter : 13
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese