      PIB Headquarters

      BSNL "PRATIBHA" PLAN AND TELANGANA CIRCLE NEW OFFICIAL WEBSITE OF BSNL LAUNCHED IN HYDERABAD
      -BSNL achieved first place in South Zone in SIM activations of 4,27,209 in the current financial year 2017-18 so far
      -BSNL earned Rs.2,500 Crore revenue for Andhra Pradesh and Telangana States during 2016-17

      Posted On: 21 JUL 2017 6:59PM by PIB Hyderabad

    Shri L. Anantharam, Chief General Manager, BSNL, Telangana Circle launched new prepaid plan PRATIBHA of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) today. It is meant for Rank Students of EAMCET, NEET, JEE etc in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana states. While addressing media conference held today at Doorsanchar Bhavan at Abids in Hyderabad Shri Anantharam said that he is handing over the SIMs to two meritorious students namely, Mr. Sai Sumanth who got the second rank in EAMCET and Mr. Karthik, who secured rank in the IIT today. The salient features of the plan are Free Data of 3GB and 300 SMS with validity of 30 days. Talk value of Rs.20 in main account. Plan Voucher cost is Rs.49.


    A New official website of BSNL Telangana Telecom Circle launched by name www.telangana.bsnl.co.in . The new website offers quick and easy access to the essential information on plans, tariffs and offers of Landline, Broadband, Mobile, FTTH and all other BSNL products and specific offers of Telangana Circle. Customers can easily have access for payment of the bills and recharges on the website. The website will be updated on regular basis with latest tariff plans, offers and with the news of events of BSNL Telangana Circle.


    Shri Anantharam explained several new services of Mobile, Landline, Broadband, Wi-fi etc for the benefit of customers. He said that they are going to launch 4G Wi-fi service next month in Telangana Circle. In this context, he mentioned about the various Landline and Broadband services that are in vogue. Shri Anantharam said BSNL started Re-verificatiion process of existing customers through e-KYC. With this process Mobile number will be linked to Aadhaar number through this process. It is mandatory for all existing customers to undergo re-verification for linking Mobile number with Aadhaar number. As per Supreme Court guidelines the linking is to be completed by 6-02-2018. For the benefit of postpaid customers, BSNL has enhanced the free data offered in the Post Paid Plans with effect from 1 st July 2017. Installation charges have been waived off for the benefit of new Landline, Broadband & FTTH connections (Voice/Broadband/Combo) for a period of one year with effect from 18th July, 2017. BSNL, Telangana circle has commissioned Wi-Fi services under the brand name "BSNL 4G PLUS" in many important locations/public places in Telangana State. As of now in 63 locations Wi-Fi services are commissioned under Phase-I, including 11 rural exchanges and 58 more locations are expected to be launched by Aug 2017. Further in Phase II, 130 more sites are planned.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496703) Visitor Counter : 223
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu