      Ministry of Tourism

      Tourism can be integral driver for economic growth of the country with cooperation of stakeholders in entire value chain
      Posted On: 03 OCT 2018 6:34PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 3rd October, 2018


    Tourism can be the integral driver for economic growth of the country with cooperation of stakeholders in entire value chain. Shri JP Shaw, Regional Director(East), Indiatourism, Ministry of Tourism said this while addressing the press at a programme on ‘Paryatan Parv’ here today. He underlined the importance of cultural heritage and tourism and mentioned that Paryatan Parv has an important role in creating awareness among the stakeholders in the tourism value chain. He emphasised that it plays a quintessential role in promoting tourism for country's growth and development. He appealed to the press and media to sensitise the populace to know their country with the ethos of ‘Atithi Devo Bhava’.


    Shri Shaw said that the vision of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and the efforts of Union Minister of State (I/C) for Tourism, Shri KJ Alphons had helped in creating a positive image of India world over and tourism can play a pivotal role in economic growth of the country. He said that Tourism has an incredible potential with evolving areas of ecotourism and adventure tourism. He emphasised that the perspective of ‘Swacchta Hi Seva’ should become a habit among people so that the positives of cleanliness reflects in promoting tourism. He said that Swachh Bharat initiatives should be holistic in its approach to involve all stakeholders in the tourism value chain.


    Shri Shaw informed about the latest initiative of Incredible India and Indiatourism, Ministry of Tourism in encouraging tourism among students. He said that the press and the role of Information Technology will play a vital role in this direction of creating awareness. He said stakeholders in the tourism value chain including hospitality sector, aviation sector, science and technology, culture and health, road and highway development organisations are integral components in developing the tourism sector as a whole. Shri Shaw mentioned that efforts of Incredible India in West Bengal has been instrumental in creating awareness and building a ecosystem for development of tourism.


    ***


    SB/MSA/Kol...

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548383) Visitor Counter : 31
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali