      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      Need to Create Public Platforms to enable Markets to take our People to the Productivity Frontier : Jayant Sinha
      Posted On: 01 OCT 2018 6:19PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, October 1, 2018


    The Union Government has created a series of plaforms and one of them is United Payments Interface or UPI which enables such an easy payment system that no other country can replicate with. Now the payments have become very easy through utilisation of phones as almost everybody have accounts through Jandhan, even GST has become easy for payments through GSTN. All the messages are automatically uploaded tyrough the platform of GST. The Union Minister of State for Civil Aviation Shri Jayant Sinha said this while speaking on ‘Farm to Frontier: A Dfferent Development Model for India’ in the 187th Annual General Meeting of Calcutta Chamber of Commerce, today, in the city. He added that, people are going to get up to 5 lakhs of coverage for their health treatments through a cashless portable way-all that is needed is to show their gold card in the place of treatment. Shri Sinha said, the Government is on the way to make a platform called ‘Digiyatra’ as well as building an extraordinary platform for drones to enable automated traffic management for the digital sky.


    According to Shri Sinha, such platforms will enable people to get to the productivity frontier and hence they act as game changers for India’s development. There are many frontier industries and frontier companies where people are very productive, generating high output, developing more ways of innovations and thus making them globally competitive too , he pointed out. He said, the challenge for us now, as we have about total formal jobs of 75 million or so, out of which Government jobs are about 15 million and we have other jobs of about 50 millions, is, to think about how we can increase the number of direct frontier jobs as well as develop more and more ways of innovations. Shri Sinha also pointed out that these frontier industries give employment to 10 million people out of which 4 million are in IT services. They are supporting additional 30 million jobs in indirect frontier jobs, he said and we can go from 10 million frontier jobs to 50 million frontier jobs in the next 20 years, he added, which means 2 million jobs a year. And hence, the total number of jobs that are linked to highly productive industries, like IT services, automotive, banking, aviation may create 200 million jobs and then we can really transform India and that’s what we have to try for , he commented .


    Answering to the queries of industrialists , Shri Sinha also hinted at the investment to be done at airports for their uplift and said Rs 1 lakh crore investment will be done for giving facelift to the airports in the next 15 to 20 years, when the Government will try to massively increase the airport capacities three to four times. He even hinted at the financial package for making Air India strong and vibrant and added that financial packages, series of reforms for transformation as well as a series of strategies will be undertaken to give Air India a complete facelift.


    ********


    SSS.....

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548139) Visitor Counter : 5