      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Working of a charkha demonstrated at Publications Division on programme to commemorate ‘150 Years of the Mahatma’
      Posted On: 10 OCT 2018 5:06PM by PIB Kolkata


    - Kolkata, 10 September, 2018


    The working of a charkha or spinning wheel was demonstrated to school students by volunteers from Mahatma Gandhi Gramodyog Seva Sansthan at a programme organised to commemorate ‘150 years of the Mahatma’ at Publications Division in Kolkata today. Notably, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has endorsed charkha in his monthly Mann Ki Baat and various other programmes and also called for supporting the growth of the khadi sector on which many poor farmers and weavers are dependent.


    The non-profit organisation Mahatma Gandhi Gramodyog Seva Sansthan has taken up the task of spreading awareness about spinning wheel and khadi clothes made from indigenous cotton. Mahatma Gandhi brought the charkha into wider use with his teachings. Khadi and the spinning wheel played a vital role in India’s independence movement. Presently, a number of cotton farmers in Maharashtra and Karnataka are shifting from Bt cotton to the organic variety that consumes less water and also goes into the making of superior quality clothes. Weavers at Burdwan, attached to this organisation make clothes with cotton yarns made at Wardha for which they procure cotton from farmers at Wardha at Maharashtra. The khadi garments thus manufactured are also sent to Erode in Tamil Nadu for dyeing purposes where natural colours are used. Arup Rakshit of Mahatma Gandhi Gramodyog Seva Sanstha informed, they participate in exhibitions and organise awareness camps throughout India to spread knowledge about khadi and a number of people like farmers and weavers who are part of this indigenous industry. He further said, they are being sought for by IT companies to impart training to the employees on running charkhas because the process increases the power of concentration and helps to fight depression.


    The Joint Director of Press Information Bureau Shri Chinmay Chakravarty and other senior officials attached to various media units of Information and Broadcasting Ministry were present in the programme.


    *****


    CC/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1549244) Visitor Counter : 64
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali