      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      ‘The International Day of the Girl Child’ celebrated in a day long programme
      Posted On: 10 OCT 2018 5:44PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, October 10, 2018.


    ‘The International Day of the Girl Child’ was celebrated and organized by Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan here today. A group of about 500 girls in the age group of 15 to 29 years participated in the day long programme. On the occasion, there was felicitation of girls, who have achieved success in the arena of sports and social work. The sessions involved discussions with objective of the programme, ‘The International Day of the Girl Child- With Her: A skilled Girl Force’.


    Speaking on the occasion, Ms. Jane Namchu, ADG(M&C), Press Information Bureau, Kolkata lauded the girls for their success and said that, Girl students in present era should utilize, in optimal way, the facilities of Central Government initiatives with citizen-centric approach for betterment and success of country’s growth and development. Ms. Namchu expressed optimism in the utility of the Government’s programme and said, it is the individual who has to come forward in knowing about various opportunities, schemes and programmes in today’s fast changing technical world. Motivating and inspiring the participating girls, Ms. Namchu, the guest of honour, said there should be attitude to learn new technology and to dovetail studies in line with practical job-orientation to be relevant in today’s context.


    Shri Nabin Kumar Naik, State Director, Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan, Kolkata said, Girls of present generation are the leaders of tomorrow and they are source of energy and power, who can drive changes in the future for betterment of all. He said that Girls too have a equal role to play in growth story of future development and growth of the country.


    Present on the occasion were officials from Food and Nutrition Board along with other dignitaries who delved upon the efficacy of nutritive (Poshan) diet in girl child development and growth. Cultural functions and Food exhibition on Nutrition were also organized for awareness of participating students and visitors on the occasion.


    ***


    SB/Kol…

    
    
    (Release ID: 1549268) Visitor Counter : 28
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali