      Ministry of Shipping

      Kolkata Port Trust organises seminar on ‘Eradicate Corruption –Build a New India’ on Vigilance Awareness Week Shirking responsibilities is also corruption, says Kolkata Port Trust Chairman
      Posted On: 30 OCT 2018 12:22PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 29 th October, 2018


    The Chairman, Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT) Shri Vinit Kumar urged all officials not to shirk their responsibilities which are to be carried out with integrity and honesty. He said, “Shirking responsibilities also amounts to corruption”. While speaking at a seminar organised by the Vigilance Department of Kolkata Port Trust on the subject ‘Eradicate Corruption –Build a New India’ as a part of Vigilance Awareness Week 2018, Shri Kumar reflected on the philosophy based on which Government organisations function, which is about taking decisions based on judging whether it is going to benefit the poor citizens of the country. The Chairman further stressed on strengthening the preventive vigilance mechanism of the organisation. Shri Vinit Kumar also released the second edition of KoPT Vigilance Department’s journal ‘Aloke’ on the occasion. It contains extensive case studies on vigilance and anti-corruption matters. The Chairman suggested that an e-book of this publication can be made available for its wider dissemination as it is meant to benefit general public as well.


    Speaking about decision making procedure in any government organisation, Shri S.B. Arun Kumar, Deputy Chairman of Kolkata Dock System stated, a good decision which is delayed will not be effective and beneficial for the organisation. Urging all officers present not to hold up files unnecessarily he said, notings in files should reflect transparency. He also suggested that major decisions taken in the organisation should be disclosed and uploaded in their intranet for the sake of transparency. He further remarked, “Corruption at lower level has come down owing to transparent online system”.


    In today’s seminar, guest speaker Md. Asif Iqbal shared his thoughts on building a corruption-free India. Mr. Iqbal though blind is a top level management consultant, involved in a number of Central Government projects including Raipur Smart City. He also made a presentation of his inspiring life experiences which made him overcome physical disability through hard-work and honesty.


    The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) observes the Vigilance Awareness Week every year during the week in which the birthday of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel (31 st October) falls. Central Government organisations are observing Vigilance Awareness Week from 29 October- 3 November this year. Kolkata Port Trust is organising a number of in-house and outreach activities to orient the regular and contractual employees and also other stakeholders on the guidelines of Central Vigilance Commission. The Chief Vigilance Officer of KoPT Shri S.K. Sadangi was also present in the seminar.


    ****


    CC/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551190) Visitor Counter : 34