      AYUSH

      Union Minister of State for AYUSH lays foundation stone of Girls Hostel at ‘National Institute of Homoeopathy’ in Kolkata
      Posted On: 30 OCT 2018 6:01PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 30 th October,2018


    Quality Education in the sphere of AYUSH systems of healthcare, namely Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy, in educational institutes and centres of excellence is imperative for quality health care service. Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik emphasized this, while speaking during the occasion of Foundation stone laying ceremony of Under-graduate Girls Hostel at National Institute of Homoeopathy (NIH) here today. The Minister urged the administration of NIH, Director and the stakeholders to complete the construction before the scheduled completion date so that the facility of accommodation for about 200 Girl students could be functional soon. He reckoned that the institute has a long way to go with potential to achieve excellence in quality education. He urged the stakeholders of the institute to strengthen the AYUSH systems of healthcare with quality service to all patients visiting the institute. Observing that the institute has footfalls of patients from across the country as well as the neighboring and foreign countries like Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Malaysia, among others, he said that education of the institute should set new milestones of excellence in the sphere with result oriented health care service. The Minister suggested that the State Government should also work in coordination with stakeholders for emphasis on AYUSH systems of healthcare, for creating awareness and to strengthen the potential of the sector.


    Present on the occasion, Joint Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH, Shri Roshan Jaggi noted that the administration of the institute would complete the construction work of G+10 storied Girls Hostel building with RCC frame structure on pile foundation well before January 2020. He said that institute will have facilities of high speed internet connectivity in academic and hostel premises in future adding a feather in its cap upon completion. He said the foundation laying ceremony also demonstrates the resolve and continuous strive towards excellence along with special emphasis on Swacch Bharat Abhiyan for a neat and clean campus.


    On the occasion, winners of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan essay, slogan competition and summer internship winners were awarded by Union Minister of State (IC) for AYUSH. The Minister also planted saplings and had discussion with senior officials of institute on assessment of planning details and implementation of hostel building. Culture programmes were also organized on the occasion in presence of officials and staffs of the institute.

      SB/Kol
    
    
    (Release ID: 1551248) Visitor Counter : 61
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali