      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB, Kolkata Pays Tribute to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel
      Posted On: 31 OCT 2018 4:35PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, October 31, 2018


    As Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi unveiled the tallest statue of the world named the Statue of Unity in commemoration of 143 rd birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, fondly known as the Iron Man of India, the entire country observed the birth anniversary of the first Deputy Prime Minister of India, with due honour as the National Unity Day. Press Information Bureau (PIB), Kolkata too observed the birth anniversary of the Indian statesman, the Iron man of India with due dignity today. As a part of the function, the former Director General of All India Radio, News Dr P K Bandyopadhyay delivered a very lively lecture on Sardar Patel’s administrative acumen and disclosed the fact that a book has been written by him on Sardar which will be released on November 8, 2018 in the city.


    Dr Bandyopadhyay also spoke on Gandhiji’s influence on Sardar Patel as both of them hailed from the identical historical and cultural background and said that the only time when Patel differed with Gandhiji was during the days of interim Government. Dr Bandyopadhyay spoke in length about how Sardar Patel’s statesmanship worked for giving a strong foundation of Indian Civil Services. He also had a lively interaction with the audience.


    In the beginning, Joint Director (M& C), Shri Chinmay Chakravarty gave his welcome address. The Dy Director of Publications Division Shri Khurshid Mallick and Dy Director (M&C) of PIB, Kolkata too spoke on the occasion. Publications Division too exhibited several books & periodicals on Sardar Patel.


    A documentary on Sardar Patel, titled ‘Sardar Patel: A Nation Stands United’ by Films Division was also screened on the occasion, including two other short films.


    *******


    SSS/ 31.10.18/……

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551356) Visitor Counter : 11
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali