      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Save the country from corruption because it kills us: ADG police. Balmer Lawrie & Co. Ltd organizes a seminar as part of Vigilance Awareness week.
      Posted On: 30 OCT 2018 6:08PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 30th October, 2018


    Chairman and Managing Director, Balmer Lawrie and Company Ltd. Shri Prabal Basu urged upon all officials and employees to say no to corruption. Speaking at a seminar held by Balmer Lawrie and Co. Ltd. to mark Vigilance Awareness Week in Kolkata today, Shri Basu said, the observance of Vigilance Awareness Week renews our commitment to achieve the goal of promoting integrity, transparency and accountability in governance for a Corruption Free India. For this purpose, the employees of our organization have a very important obligation on their part. They should inculcate the vision of integrity in their life and they should also spread this culture to their family, colleagues, friends and public in general. We must remain vigilant throughout the year to eradicate corruption from all spheres of life.


    Dr. B.N. Ramesh, senior IPS officer and ADG, police, Government of West Bengal gave a power point presentation on corruption and on the ways to get rid of it. He said that corruption can be defined as dishonest or unethical conduct by a person entrusted with a position of authority, either to obtain benefit to oneself or to some other person. It is a global phenomenon, affecting all strata of society in some way or the other. He urged upon all to save the country from corruption because it kills the people. He also urged the management to encourage honest employees by rewarding them along with punishing the corrupt.


    The purpose of Vigilance Awareness Week is to generate awareness in the public at large about the ill effects of corruption and this year’s theme is “Eradicate Corruption-Build a new India”.


    Shri Dipankar Mondal, Vice President (Vigilance); Shri D Sothi Selvam, Director (Business and Management) and other officials of Balmer Lawrie and Co. Ltd. were also present in the seminar.


    ****


    CC/MSA/bb…..

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551250) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali