      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Union Minister Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani inaugurates FICCI Frames 2018
      
      I&B Minister releases FICCI-EY Media & Entertainment Report 2018
      
      Digital Technologies have a big role in Enhancing Consumer Experience: Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani
      
      Indian M&E sector needs to define its strengths on its own and position itself absolutely differently: Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani
      Posted On: 05 MAR 2018 5:58PM by PIB Mumbai


    The Union Minister for Information & Broadcasting and Textiles, Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani has said that when it comes to content and exhibition of content, the affordability of entertainment is what matters most to consumers. She said that digital technologies have a big role in bringing in affordability, due to falling data prices. The Minister added that there is a need for collaboration between media & entertainment industry and mobile manufacturers in order to enhance and personalize audio and video experience of consumers, from a content perspective. She said this at a discussion during the inaugural session of FICCI Frames 2018, in Mumbai yesterday.


    Stating that creativity is best when it is interdisciplinary, the Minister said that we need to tell our students that it is okay to pursue courses in technology, music, mathematics and philosophy and still be a film-maker. She expressed the hope that the Indian Institute of Mass Communication (IIMC) becomes a deemed-to-be university this year. She said that IIMC should be able to create an academic ecosystem which provides an opportunity for students to take every kind of subject so that the creative instinct is enhanced. Recalling the Honourable Prime Minister’s clarion call to introduce Artificial Intelligence (AI) in everyday life, the Minister spoke of the potential role of AI in film-making, in enhancing consumer experience. She also talked about using data analytics to understand consumer needs, and of the need to look at technology from a creative point of view.


    Smt. Irani said that with Government placing a high thrust to tourism, a lot has to be done in terms of industry coming together and highlighting to the Government specific locations particularly suited to filming, so that these can be pitched to both international community and domestic market. She said that various Government departments relating to films will be brought under one umbrella organization, so that a film-maker with a new concept can get the necessary support for the same from one desk. The Minister said the Government would leverage technology to lessen the distance between Government and the film-maker needing assistance.


    The Minister noted that the definitions of employment adopted by various entities that look into the business of content making or film making vary from one firm to another. She said that one of the biggest needs of the Indian entertainment industry is the need to define how we look at employment, so that we get similar employment data, irrespective of platform.


    Speaking of the Indian media & entertainment sector, the Minister said that we need to define our own strengths and then position ourselves absolutely different from what is happening in the business. She said that we are one of the largest consumer bases in the world, and that we need to leverage that more. She said we don’t talk enough about the capacity of our regional language films, and that we should never shy away from talking about business opportunities India offers in the sector.


    After inaugurating the conclave, the Union Minister also released the FICCI-EY Media & Entertainment Report 2018. The report can be accessed here .


    Eminent film personality and Chief Mentor, FICCI Frames, Shri Karan Johar; President, FICCI, Shri Rashesh Shah; Co-Chair, FICCI Media & Entertainment Committee, Shri Siddharth Roy Kapur; Managing Director, Star India Pvt. Ltd., Shri Sanjay Gupta; and Secretary General, FICCI, Dr. Sanjaya Baru were other dignitaries present on the occasion.


    #FICCIFrames18 got off to a colourful start yesterday, with an informative and insightful inaugural session, featuring Union Minister @smritiirani, eminent film personality @karanjohar and other dignitaries. Watch the session here.https://t.co/wVHewWNXdI @ficci_india @EYnews

    — PIB in Maharashtra (@pibmumbai) March 5, 2018

    ***


    NW/DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522590) Visitor Counter : 994