      Ministry of Railways

      Western Railway will celebrate ‘Women Power’ on International Women’s Day with several special gifts to its women passengers & ladies staff
      
      Matunga Road station and Mumbai-Ahmedabad Shatabdi Express Ticket Checking staff to be fully manned by Ladies staff

      Posted On: 08 MAR 2018 10:49AM by PIB Mumbai

    A view of Women Employees appointed at Matunga Road station, WR's first station to be run by all women staff.


    Having the special credit as a pioneer to operate world's 1st Ladies Special train on it's Mumbai Suburban Section on 5th May, 1992, the Western Railway will celebrate the ultimate 'Women Power' on this International Women's Day on 8th March, 2018 with several special gifts to not only it's valued women passengers but also to it's dedicated ladies staff.


    According to a WR press release issued by Shri Ravinder Bhakar, Chief Public Relations Officer of W.Rly, various significant initiatives have been decided to be implemented w.e.f. 8th March, 2018 on the occasion of International Women's Day to further strengthen the social concept of women empowerment. Amongst these initiatives, the main steps are to make Matunga Road station as WR's 1st Railway station to be manned by all ladies staff and to depute all ladies ticket checking staff in Mumbai – Ahmedabad Shatabdi Express as well as for the 1st time on Indian Railways, the special installation of a Sanitary Napkin Vending machine in a II AC coach of 12951 Dn Mumbai – New Delhi Rajdhani Express to facilitate women passengers on board which has been provided by W.Rly Women Welfare Organisation.


    "Empower Women" being painted at Matunga Road station.


    Shri Bhakar added International Women's Day is a global day celebrating the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women. The day also marks a call to action for accelerating gender paucity, and WR have encouraged it's women employees by facilitating them to do so. Western Railway is keen to raise the participation and involvement of women in its extensive workforce. To celebrate and mark the International Women's Day, WR has decided to have an all women ticket checking staff in Mumbai – Ahmedabad Shatabdi Express from March 8th, 2018. Six lady TTEs will board the Shatabdi Express each day and perform their duty. Presently, 2 women TTEs were already performing their duty on board the Shatabdi Express. Gradually, it will be implemented in other trains too. Taking women empowerment a notch further, WR has stepped up to make one of its railway station Matunga Road to be run by all women staff. W. Rly has posted a total of 31 women staffers as frontline staff comprising of Commercial, Operating and Security departments. Commercial department has deployed 13 Commercial clerks and 03 Ticket checking staff to undertake commercial activities, whereas 11 Operating staff (Station Master and Points person) and 4 RPF personnel have been deployed at Matunga Road Station. These staff shall be handling overall operations of Matunga Road station round the clock. In addition to this, W. Rly will also collaborate with Rotary Club of Bombay Queen and has planned for beautification of Matunga Road station. The theme based painting work depicting the diversified role and emergence of women in the Society will be done across the Booking offices, SS office and Foot over Bridges. With this, Matunga Road has become the first such station on the Western Railway (WR) and the second suburban railway station in Mumbai to be operated only by women. It is noteworthy to mention that Ms Preeti Kumari, is the first motorwoman to maneuver local train of W.Rly's Mumbai suburban section.


    Sanitary napkin vending machine installed in Mumbai-New Delhi Rajdhani Express.


    WR cares for its women passengers too and have always made travel for them comfortable and safe. India's first & Mumbai city's only AC local continues to stand out on the railway tracks & WR has made it even more distinctive for women passengers by painting the earmarked coaches for women in vibrant hues of green. This colour symbolises environment and the city's major attractions like the Gateway of India, Worli Sea link etc. are painted on it. The image of a smiling woman and the colourful earmarking makes it easier for the lady passengers to identify the reserved coach. In yet another feather in the cap, on the occasion of International Women's Day, Western Railway Women Welfare Organisation has installed Sanitary Napkin Vending machine in 2-tier AC coach of Mumbai-New Delhi Rajdhani Express which is first of its kind in Indian Railways. Now women passengers on board this train can avail the facility by inserting a Rs.5 coin and this automated vending machine will dispense one pad at a time.


    Railway Board has declared the year 2018 as "The year of Women Passenger Security". Security of its women commuters is of prime concern and WR has always strived hard to secure their travelling experience. WR is going every extra mile to bring a smile on their faces with initiatives such as CCTV cameras, talk back system in ladies coaches to get in touch with guards during emergencies etc. To complement the use of All India Security Helpline Number 182 and offer more effective, reliable and real time communication, 'Eyewatch Railways' App was introduced for the safety of women commuters of Mumbai Suburban between Churchgate – Virar. It immediately sends out the location, video & audio which can instantly be viewed on the emergency response control centre at the RPF Control Room at Mumbai Central.


    WR has recently inducted 232 personnel of Maharashtra State Security Corporation (MSSC) and 97 lady home guards to supplement the efforts of RPF for passenger security on suburban section, especially women commuters as well as for crowd management at platforms on WR. With this the ladies security personnel over WR's suburban system has almost doubled, thereby generating employment to the women.


    WR's women sportspersons have also made a mark globally. WR's 4 hockey players were members of the 9th Women's Hockey Asia Cup winning Indian team. Whereas, 5 cricketers were part of the Indian team which played the finals against England at the Women's Cricket World Cup 2017.


    On 5th May 1992, WR had introduced the world's first ever 'Ladies Special' local train. And it is now more than 25 years that the women passengers are benefitting by this service. Today, WR operates 8 ladies special services in a day, divided equally during the morning and evening peak hours between the UP and DOWN lines.


    On the occasion of International Women's Day, various events have been organized by Western Railway at its Headquarter office as well as in Divisional offices. At Headquarter, there will sporting events for ladies such as carom, chess & skipping. It is also planned to have book exhibition of women oriented books. A quiz competition has been organized on the "Ladies theme". Four Ladies Rest Rooms/Changing Rooms for its women employees at Churchgate will be inaugurated. Sanitary napkin vending machine is also being installed at Headquarter office station building, Railway School-Valsad & Railway School-Ratlam. At divisional offices, programme such as ladies event camps, talk on 'Women Empowerment', health check-up camps, seminars etc. are being organized.


    *******


    DJM/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1523167) Visitor Counter : 782