      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      34 eminent women and ten distinguished institutions to be awarded Nari Shakti Puraskars 2017 on International Women’s Day today
      
      Nari Shakti Puraskars 2017 to be awarded by the President today
      
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2018 12:03PM by PIB Mumbai


    Ms. Thinlas Chorol founded the Ladakhi Women’s Travel Company at the age of 29. Ms. Urmila Balawant Apte has spent decades working for the cause of gender equality. Ms. Jayamma Bhandari has been working for over 20 years to rehabilitate sex workers. Ms. Ambika Beri has single-handedly established Art Ichol, India’s only permanent creative retreat for artists, writers and sculptors. Dr. S. Siva Sathya has developed a customized SOS mobile app for the Puducherry region. Ms. Rekha Mishra has single-handedly rescued 953 runaway/ lost/ trafficked children from Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST) Railway Station in Mumbai. Ms. Gauri Maulekhi has been the lead resource person for animal welfare laws for state agencies.


    ⚡️ 34 oustanding women are being conferred the #NariShakti Puraskars 2017 today @rashtrapatibhvn. Here is a glimpse of their contribution https://t.co/0RERLaV70J #WomensDay #SheInspiresMe@TwitterWomen

    — PIB in Maharashtra (@PIBMumbai) March 8, 2018

    What is it that unites all of these outstanding women? They have all rendered outstanding contribution in their respective fields, and have been recognized by the Government of India. They are amongst the 34 eminent women who are being conferred the Nari Shakti Puraskars 2017 today. They will be presented the awards by the President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind at a special ceremony to be held in Rashtrapati Bhavan, New Delhi on the occasion of International Women’s Day today. The national level awards are given by the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India to acknowledge women’s achievements. Outstanding contribution in the respective field is the primary consideration in selecting the recipients.


    Ten institutions will also receive the Puraskars today. The Awards were initiated in the year 1999.


    ***


    DJM/PIB Delhi

    
    
    (Release ID: 1523212) Visitor Counter : 871