      Ministry of Communications

      Special Postal Cover on Stephen Hawking released by Department of Posts
      
      40 School Students receive SPARSH Scholarship from Department of Posts

      Posted On: 20 MAR 2018 6:42PM by PIB Mumbai

    As a tribute to the renowned physicist, cosmologist and author, late Professor Stephen Hawking, a special cover on the great personality was released by the Department of Posts today. Chief Postmaster General, Maharashtra Circle, Shri H.C. Agrawal released the cover and presented the first album to Director, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, Dr. Sandip Trivedi, who was the Chief Guest for the function. Joint Secretary, BARC, Shri Mervin Alexander was also present for the function.


    In addition, forty school students received scholarships under ‘Deen Dayal SPARSH Yojana’ of Department of Posts today. Chief Postmaster General, Maharashtra Circle distributed the scholarship and certificates to the selected students of Maharashtra Circle, i.e. ten students from each of standards VI, VII, VIII & IX. Philately Scholarship under “Deen Dayal SPARSH Yojana” is Rs. 6000/- per annum, for promotion of aptitude & research in stamps as a hobby. A total of 579 students participated in the Philately Quiz in Maharashtra Circle, from which 111 students were selected for submission of philately project. After evaluation of these 111 philately projects, the 40 students were selected for the SPARSH scholarship.


     1. Philately Scholarship Scheme “Deen Dayal SPARSH Yojana” (Scholarship for Promotion of Aptitude and Research in Stamps as a Hobby) was launched by Union Communications Minister, Shri Manoj Sinha on November 3, 2017. Department of Posts has introduced this Yojana for promoting amongst children the traditional hobby of collecting stamps, miniatures, special covers and other philatelic material, so as to promote the education and holistic development of children.


    ***


    DJM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1525433) Visitor Counter : 764
    
    
    
    
    

1.