      PIB Headquarters

      CAG presents report on General and Social Sector for FY 2016-’17 to Maharashtra State Legislature
      Posted On: 28 MAR 2018 7:06PM by PIB Mumbai


    The Comptroller & Auditor General of India has released its report on General and Social Sector for the year ended March 2017 for the Government of Maharashtra today. The report has been presented to the State Legislature today. The Report contains an overview of the results of audit of Government Departments and Autonomous Bodies of the Government of Maharashtra (GoM) falling under General and Social Sector, besides findings of two Performance Audits on ‘Food and Drugs Administration’ and ‘ Management of Sports Infrastructure in Maharashtra’ . This Report also contains 18 Compliance Audit Paragraphs. The findings are as under:

                 
Performance Audit
                 
                 
                                      
Medical Education and Drugs Department
                                      
                                      
Food and Drugs Administration         
                                      
                                      

    The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) functioning under the administrative control of Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD), is responsible for implementation of the Food Safety and Standards (FSS) Act and Drugs and Cosmetics (D&C) Act as well as other Acts, Rules and orders designed to safeguard public health and for ensuring quality of Drugs, Cosmetics and Food. FDA carries out important regulatory functions of granting and renewing license for drugs issued to the manufacturer/sellers in the State, investigates complaints regarding quality and overpricing of drugs, carries out inspections of the drug manufacturing and selling units, draws and tests samples of food and drugs so as to ensure quality as per standards. The FDA is also required to take legal action against the offenders.


    The Performance Audit on ‘Food and Drugs Administration’ covered test-check of records for the period 2012-2017.


    Some of the serious deficiencies noticed are as follows:


    State Level Steering Committee set up under the Food Safety and Standards Regulation, 2011 met only twice during the period 2012-17. Out of 30 district offices, four meetings each were held in Pune and Nanded between August 2013 and June 2017, while, in the remaining 28 district offices, District Level Steering Committee did not meet even once during 2012-17.


    No survey was undertaken to develop a database on Food Business Operators (FBOs). Central Advisory Committee had estimated 16.86 lakh FBOs in the State of which only 9.43 lakh (56 per cent ) were registered/licensed as of March 2017.


    There was shortfall of 37 per cent in the post of Drug Inspectors who are key personnel for effective enforcement of provisions made under different Acts for Drugs control. There was wide variation in the workload of the Drug Inspectors due to uneven distribution of Drug Inspectors among the seven Divisions in State.


    FDA had failed to take action to cancel the licenses of 1,535 Drug selling units whose licenses had expired, thereby posing a risk to public health by the possible sale of drugs by such units.


    The renewal of Drug licenses was done without inspection of the premises of the Drug selling units and thereby the requirement of adequate physical infrastructure was not ensured before grant of licenses. Inspection/survey was not done to verify that the Drug selling/manufacturing units were not involved in any activities during the suspension period.


    There were serious shortfalls in the inspection of FBOs, Drugs manufacturing and selling units. The shortfall was to the extent of 35 per cent in the case of Drugs manufacturing units and 63 per cent in the case of selling units.


    Sampling to ensure quality of food items and drugs showed serious deficiencies.

      * Samples of infant food, instant milk substitutes, meat and fish products, fruits and vegetables were not taken for testing.
      * Microbiological tests for food samples were not carried out as there was no microbiological division and thus, pathogenic bacteria, yeast and mould could not be tested raising serious food safety concerns. Tests to analyse the contents of metals, toxic substance and insecticides articles were also not being done due to non-availability of requisite equipment.
      * ‘Gap Analysis Report’ of October 2013 based on study carried out by the FDA, brought to the fore issues relating to infrastructure, equipment, man-power in food laboratories but the Department did not initiate any action till November 2017. Of the three Food Testing Laboratories (FTLs) test-checked in audit, FTL at Mumbai was only found functional resulting in dependence on the Public Health Laboratories for testing of food samples drawn by FSOs.
      * Test Reports issued by Food analysts of eight selected districts, contained disclaimers stating that toxin, contaminants, residue and most of the additives were not checked.
      * The Drug Control Laboratories (DCLs) at Aurangabad and Mumbai had issued 2,026 test reports during 2012-17, without expressing any opinion on the samples of drugs tested. Test reports on the drugs tested were issued after 90 days from the date of receipt of sample in the DCLs, in 10,501 (40 per cent ) samples tested.
      * The DCLs in Aurangabad and Nagpur did not have facilities to conduct microbiological test on drugs and cosmetics and as a result all the samples were being sent to DCL, Mumbai, where they were unable to cope with the volume of work. Opportunity to strengthen and upgrade the DCLs by purchasing various modern equipment was lost despite availability of funds due to non-receipt of approvals from MEDD/Finance Department to the purchase proposals of the FDA.

    The delay in recalling Not of Standard Quality (NSQ) drugs resulted in consumption of the NSQ drugs by the public. In 95 (25 per cent ) out of 375 cases scrutinised in audit, more than 50 per cent of the NSQ drugs were already consumed before they were recalled. Of this, in 61 cases, the entire stocks of NSQ drugs were consumed and therefore could not be recalled.


    The monitoring mechanism in the Department was weak in view of absence of periodical reports on various key issues as also deficiencies in the reports submitted to the Commissioner, FDA.


    The deficiencies identified above clearly indicate the failure of the Medical Education and Drugs Department in ensuring that the food consumed by the Public is of standard quality. Further, even the quality of drugs supplied is not ensured due to inadequate testing and failure to follow-up effectively.


    This can have serious consequences for the health and welfare of the public.


    (Paragraph 2.1)

                                                  
School Education and Sports Department            
                                                  
                                                  
Management of Sports Infrastructure in Maharashtra
                                                  
                                                  

    A Performance Audit of Management of Sports Infrastructure in Maharashtra of School Education and Sports Department for the period 2012-17 revealed that though the Government of Maharashtra had formulated the new Sports Policy 2012, it was yet to be translated into an Action Plan. No long term plan was prepared for implementation of the Policy. There were delays in execution of schemes due to non-acquisition of land, change in design/scope of works and short or late-release of funds. There was short-release of funds for maintenance and repairs too. As a result, the infrastructure created could not be optimally utilised. The functioning of Sports Academies also suffered from number of problems viz. , less intake, inadequate coaching, lack of sports facilities and basic amenities and this impacted the performance at State, National, and International level games. Though emphasis was given on creation of sports infrastructure, in absence of qualified and capable coaches and focused training, it failed to yield the desired outcome. The release of funds was significantly less than the demands made.


    The deficiencies mentioned above indicated that even after incurring huge expenditure of ` 576 crore , the Sports Department was unable to create and maintain adequate sports infrastructure as well as coaching facilities thereby affecting the performance of the sports persons.


    (Paragraph 2.2)

                           
Compliance Audit Paragraphs
                           
                           
                                      
Public Health Department              
                                      
                                      
Rajiv Gandhi Jeevandayee Arogya Yojana
                                      
                                      

    The Theme Audit of Rajiv Gandhi Jeevandayee Arogya Yojana as implemented in the State revealed that for implementing the Scheme Government/Society had relied on data of total number of Ration Cards holders without obtaining the details of name and Ration Card Number. Therefore the correctness/authenticity of the beneficiaries covered under the Scheme could not be verified in audit. The health cards to the beneficiaries as envisaged in the Scheme, in order to identify them as well as make the beneficiaries aware of the Scheme benefits were not distributed. Expenditure of ` 68 lakh on printing of 18.51 lakh health cards was also rendered wasteful. Excess insurance premium which could not be quantified was paid in respect of all white Ration card holders instead of restricting it to the white Ration card holder farmers of the 14 suicide-prone districts as envisaged.


    Sufficient number of Argoyamitras were not appointed in all the empanelled hospitals whereas no Arogyamitras were appointed in Rural/Primary Health Centres/Sub-district/Women Government Hospitals thereby impacting counselling of the beneficiaries and their families and facilitating the referral/treatment of the patients. The expenditure on publicity was less than the norms prescribed, impacting creation of awareness of the Scheme benefits.


    As against the premium of ` 3,009.31 crore paid to the Insurer Company until November 2016 covering 9.35 crore beneficiaries under the Scheme, the claims received for settlement were meagre 11.89 lakh due to absence of wide publicity to the Scheme, shortfalls in conducting health camps and non-appointment of Arogyamitras at primary health centres. Thus the Scheme benefits were not commensurate to the expenditure incurred on the premium paid to Insurer. Besides, excess premium of ` 1.43 crore paid to the Insurer against ineligible beneficiaries had not been refunded by the Insurer Company. A huge balance of surplus premium of ` 47.63 crore was lying with the Insurer Company which was due for remittance to the Government. The Insurer Company had also got double benefit of ` 8.75 crore due to further adjustment of ten per cent of the surplus premium lying with them.


    The deficiencies mentioned above are a pointer to the need to streamline the implementation of the Scheme more effectively.


    (Paragraph 3.1)

                                                
Medical Education and Drugs Department          
                                                
                                                
Upgradation of Government Medical Colleges under
                                                
                                                
Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana         
                                                
                                                

    Audit of Upgradation of Government Medical Colleges (Mumbai and Nagpur) under Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana revealed that a gap analysis of existing facilities and future requirements in tertiary care was not carried out. The upgradation programme of GMCs could not be implemented as per the plan and there were instances of enormous delays, non-execution of civil works and non-procurement as well as non-installation of equipment for want of space. Equipment worth ` 9.17 crore were not installed/remained non-functional due to want of required civil/electrical works, lack of infrastructure/supporting equipment/software etc., Non-adherence to the conditions relating to execution of contract agreement and performance security resulted in extension of undue benefits to suppliers of equipment.


    (Paragraph 3.2)

                                                              
Higher and Technical Education Department                     
                                                              
                                                              
Functioning of Rasntrasant Tukadoji Maharaj University, Nagpur
                                                              
                                                              

    An audit covering period 2012-13 to 2016-17 was conducted to examine the functioning of the University especially in the areas of teaching and research, accreditation and affiliation and infrastructure facilities. It was found that

      * the functioning of Academic Council was ineffective and failed to fulfil its mandate.
      * no committee was found to review the existing courses of study and prepare a feasibility report.
      * there was continuous shortage of teaching staff in the University and colleges during the period from 2012-17, ranging from 33 to 48 per cent . Further, eight PG departments had more than 50 per cent vacancies in teaching staff since last five years .
      * mandatory teaching of 90 days was not adhered to and shortfall ranged from 36 to 75 days during 2014-15 and 2016-17.
      * University did not have any mechanism to monitor the progress and outcome of research activities. As such, out of total 132 research projects, only 27 were completed and no research work was published during the past five years.
      * out of 600 affiliated colleges, only 69 colleges possessed active accreditation and approval from NAAC and NBA owing to inadequacy of teaching staff and proper infrastructure such as buildings, libraries, laboratories and sports facilities etc.,
      * the extension to affiliation granted on the basis of Local Enquiry Committee recommendations was found flawed in 60 test checked colleges.
      * the student hostels faced problems of inadequate and irregular water supply, contaminated water in toilets etc .
      * the financial management of the University funds exhibited numerous lacunae and violations viz., unadjusted advances of ` 70.90 crore, inoperative bank accounts, diversion and blocking of funds.
      * the internal controls were weak.

    Thus, Government needs to monitor the functioning of the University especially in the areas of teaching, accreditation and affiliation to maintain academic standards.


    (Paragraph 3.3)

                                                         
Water Supply and Sanitation Department                   
                                                         
                                                         
Implementation of National Rural Drinking Water Programme
                                                         
                                                         

    The National Rural Drinking Water Programme in Maharashtra was deficient in planning and implementation since the State had not prepared State specific Sector Policy for planning the water supply schemes to be taken up during the 12th Plan period. The Village and District Water Security Plans and the five year Comprehensive Water Security Action plan were also not prepared.


    The State had received a total fund of ` 6,144.51 crore for the programme against which an expenditure of ` 5,880.16 crore was incurred during the period 2012-17. Due to late submission of proposals for release of second installment and opening balance of funds being in excess of 10 per cent of the release in the previous year, the GoI had imposed a cut of ` 71.10 crore. The State Government did not release its share of matching funds amounting to ` 547.93 crore during the period 2012-17. Non-recovery of statutory labour welfare cess from the contractors, non-remittance of Employees Provident Fund by the contractors indicated weak financial management under the programme. The implementing agencies did not ensure that the Government assets were insured while the works were in progress and there were some deficiencies in contract management of the works.


    Though, as per the 11 th Five Year Plan, 40 lpcd was to be provided to all the habitations by the end of March 2012, 12,815 habitations (13 per cent ) in the State were provided less than 40 lpcd of water. As against 50 per cent of the rural households to be provided with piped water supply at the end of 12 th five year plan, in Aurangabad, Gadchiroli, Nandurbar, Palghar, Solapur, Yavatmal districts less than 50 per cent of the habitations were provided with piped water supply. Against the target of providing piped water supply with household connections to 35 per cent rural households, analysis in audit revealed that in 19 districts, the percentage of rural household provided with piped water supply with a household connection, was less than 35 per cent , which ranged from eight per cent (Gadchiroli) to 34 per cent (Wardha) . In five of the selected districts the percentage ranged from 11 per cent (Ahmednagar) to 33 per cent (Raigad). The critical issues of tackling water quality affected habitations during the 12 th five year plan period in the State remained unachieved to the extent of 304 habitations in the State having population of 6.56 lakh remaining water quality affected. Special funds of ` 1.72 crore given by Niti Aayog to mitigate problems of water quality affected habitations remained unutilised. There was delay of more than five years in completion of 177 schemes due to lack of funds, legal disputes, drying of water sources and non-availability of land etc., The monitoring and evaluation of the programme as per the programme guidelines was deficient .


    A large number of schemes i.e. 7,141 schemes implemented by the Zilla Parishads in the test-checked districts were non-functional while 9 2 Regional Rural Water Supply Schemes implemented by MJP in the State were non-functional of which in 89 schemes the expenditure incurred was ` 443.85 crore, due to non-payment of electricity dues, drying of source, pending repairs, non-taking over of the Schemes by ZPs, no demand from GPs, rendering the expenditure on the Schemes as unfruitful.


    Thus, even after incurring huge expenditure, the targets set for providing drinking water, piped water, issues of tackling water quality etc., could not be fully achieved and therefore, warrant more effective measures.


    (Paragraph 3.4)


    In contravention to the terms and conditions of the Lease Deed, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority did not recover additional premium and interest thereon amounting to ` 428 crore from a private developer for a plot allotted in Bandra-Kurla Complex, for delay in construction.


    (Paragraph 3.5)


    Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority did not recover lease premium dues as per the prescribed schedule, on additional built up area allotted to the lessees in Bandra-Kurla Complex resulting in non-recovery of ` 855.59 crore as of March 2017.


    (Paragraph 3.6)


    Slum Rehabilitation Authority incorrectly approved a Scheme for rehabilitation of PAPs on encumbered land at village Mahul, Chembur, Mumbai ignoring security concerns of Central Government Agencies, resulting in undue favour to a private developer.


    (Paragraph 3.7)


    The decision of the Chief Executive Officer, Slum Rehabilitation Authority in not deducting the mandatory 15 per cent for recreational/amenity open plot from the total Floor Space Index in a project at Mulund, Mumbai resulted in undue benefits to the Developers in terms of saleable FSI to the tune of ` 37.93 crore.


    (Paragraph 3.8)


    The Housing Department failed to co-ordinate and supervise timely relocation of slum dwellers from Airport land and various concessions extended by the Government of Maharashtra to the private developer (HDIL) by amending the DCR, in terms of additional Floor Space Index and Transfer of Development Rights given remained unfruitful.


    (Paragraph 3.9)


    Collectors of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban failed to enforce the order of payment of revised lease rent as per Revised Policy of the Government resulting in loss of revenue to the tune of ` 60.33 crore and the Lessees continued to occupy the premises enjoying all benefits.


    (Paragraph 3.10)


    The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority fixed sale price of tenements considering market rate instead of actual land cost in projects at Pune, Satara, Solapur and Hingoli. This resulted in charging of excess profit on allotment of tenements to the extent of ` 8.08 crore thereby putting excess financial burden on the families falling under Low and Middle Income Group.


    (Paragraph 3.11)


    Failure of the Superintendent of G T Hospital, Mumbai in recovering the dues payable by the agency under a Public Private Partnership agreement for CT Scan services, resulted in non-recovery of rent of ` 2.53 crore for the machines, besides unauthorised holding of Government assets by a private agency without a valid Agreement in place.


    (Paragraph 3.12)


    A faulty Memorandum of Understanding with a private company for a water supply scheme based on the Tillari Dam in Konkan area and non-release of funds to the Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran, had resulted in blocking of funds of ` 52.95 crore and liability of ` 11.66 crore, besides depriving the targeted beneficiaries of the intended benefits.


    (Paragraph 3.13)


    Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority appointed a consultant for a road proposal in Kalyan/Ambernath region without including the proposal in the Regional Plan. Subsequently the proposal was withdrawn due to alignment issues rendering the expenditure of ` 4.15 crore on consultancy charges as unfruitful.


    (Paragraph 3.14)


    In absence of required staff and non-availability of mess facility, the hostel building at ITI, Saoner, district Nagpur could not be put to use, resulting in unfruitful expenditure of ` 1.22 crore incurred on construction of the hostel.


    (Paragraph 3.15)


    The Medical Education and Drugs Department did not pursue possession of land from the revenue authorities for more than eleven years, defeating the objectives of creation of medical and health infrastructure at Indora, Nagpur, besides wasteful expenditure of ` 0.31 crore


    (Paragraph 3.16)


    Procurement of machinery, tools and equipment by four State ITIs at Amravati, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Nashik, without ensuring compliance with the norms prescribed for affiliation of trades, resulted in wasteful expenditure of ` 3.99 crore


    (Paragraph 3.17)


    The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority in violation of approved plans, awarded and executed a work beyond the scope of the permissible Floor Space Index resulting in a stalled project at Kalina, Santacruz (East), Mumbai and infructuous expenditure of ` 16.30 crore.


    (Paragraph 3.18)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1526883) Visitor Counter : 523
    
    
    
    
    

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
*