      Ministry of Textiles

      Salient Features of Integrated Scheme for Development of Silk Industry
      Posted On: 23 MAR 2018 4:19PM by PIB Mumbai


    Salient Features of Integrated Scheme for Development of Silk Industry


    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for "Integrated Scheme for Development of Silk Industry", as a Central Sector Scheme, from 2017-18 to 2019-20.


    #MinisterSpeaks 🎥 Textiles Minister @smritiirani speaks on the cabinet decisions for the development of #SilkIndustry pic.twitter.com/0873fkq7NF

    — PIB India (@PIB_India) March 22, 2018

    Salient Features of the Scheme

     1. The scheme will benefit 85 lakh people in the silk sector.
     2. It will provide livelihood opportunities for women, those belonging to SCs and STs, and other weaker sections of the society across the country, including those from Left-Wing Extremism affected areas and North Eastern Region.
     3. Silk farmers, seed producers and chawki rearers will be brought under Direct Benefit Transfer, with Aadhaar linkage.
     4. A helpline will be set up for timely redressal of grievances & outreach programmes will be undertaken.
     5. Registration process & reporting by seed production centres, basic seed farms and extension centre will be automated through web-based software.
     6. Support to be given to:

    Private graineurs to produce quality seed


    Chawki Rearing Centres with incubation facilities, to produce and supply chawki worms


    Adopted seed-rearers to generate quality seed cocoons

     1. Cold storage will be set up, which will also provide mobile disinfection units and equipment support for mechanization
     2. 131 new Chawki Rearing Centres (CRCs) will be established for scientific handling of silkworm eggs and rearing of young age silkworm larvae under controlled conditions to enhance quality of cocoon and their harvest.
     3. 81 units will be installed to provide cocoon drying facility in a scientific manner for improved reeling.
     4. Automatic reeling machine for mulberry, improved reeling/spinning machineries and Buniyaad Reeling machines for Vanya silk under Make in India program will be disseminated to produce quality silk.
     5. For Government-owned facilities, 100% cost will be borne by the Government of India.
     6. For individual beneficiaries: SC/ST- 65% cost by Central Government, 25% by State Government and 10% by the beneficiary.
     7. Beneficiaries from NE states, J&K, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh - 80% cost to be borne by Central Government whereas individual and State Government will bear 10% each.
     8. General: 50% cost will be borne by the Central Government, 25% by the State Government.

    Related:

      * India to be Self-Reliant in Silk Production by 2020
      * Cabinet approves Central Sector "Integrated Scheme for Development of Silk Industry" for sericulture sector

    ***


    DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1526131) Visitor Counter : 1839
    
    
    
    
    

*