      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Thai Film Festival inaugurated at Films Division, Mumbai
      Posted On: 29 MAR 2018 9:02PM by PIB Mumbai


    “THE THAI FILM FESTIVAL IN MUMBAI” was inaugurated today. The three-day festival is being held at Films Division Complex situated at 24 Peddar Road, Cumballa Hill, Mumbai , and organized by the Royal Thai Consulate-General in Mumbai, in cooperation with the Films Division, Government of India . Admission to all screenings is free of charge.


    Inaugurating the festival, the Chief Guest, Additional Director General (Western Region), Press Information Bureau, Shri Nitin Wakankar said that films from various genres such as short film, animation, documentary, classic drama, comedy drama, action, and horror will be screened during the Festival. He said that the eclectic selection of films is sure to be a treat to film lovers looking to explore the treasures of Thai cinema, which he said is rich in narrative and stylistic experimentation, but remains relatively unknown to many.


    Shri Wakankar said that panel discussions on Film Production and Animation in Thailand, featuring Thai producers and directors will be held during the Festival, so as to promote academic exchange. Representatives of the National Federation of Thai Film Associations and the President of Foreign Film Production Services Association of Thailand will be meeting Indian producers to promote Thailand as a filming destination, during these three days.


    The Additional Director General said that the festival shall also be an opportunity for the residents of Mumbai to experience Thai Culture through films, food and cultural performances. He recalled that a Thai film festival was organized in Pune in August 2017, at the National Film Archives of India (NFAI), Pune, to mark 70 years of diplomatic relations between India and Thailand. He said that this festival will be a great success, like that one.


    He added that with a great deal of interaction and commonalities between India and Thailand, there is scope for greater exchange of ideas in film making and that this festival will evince interest amongst the representatives of the film and media sector on how and in which way this co-operation can be further enhanced in the coming years and decades. Expressing his gratefulness to the Royal Thai Consulate General in Mumbai and Films Division and wishing all success for the conduct of the festival, Shri Wakankar expressed confidence that the people of Mumbai will use this event as an opportunity to see the films on offer and also the culture of Thailand.


    Consul-General of Thailand in Mumbai, Mr. Ekapol Poolpipat; members of the diplomatic corps in Mumbai, representatives of film and media were present on the occasion, in addition to film-lovers of Mumbai.


    The colourful Opening Ceremony showcased Thai food and cultural performances as well.


    Related:

     1. Thai film festival to be held at Films Division, Mumbai during March 29 - 31, 2018
     2. “THE THAI FILM FESTIVAL IN MUMBAI” to Showcase Eight Thai Films

    ***


    DJM/IJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1527092) Visitor Counter : 256
    
    
    
    
    

2.