      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Smart India Hackathon 2018 to Develop Software for Empowerment of Divyanjan
      Posted On: 28 MAR 2018 7:45PM by PIB Mumbai


    All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) under the aegis of Ministry of Human Resources and Development and in collaboration with i4c, MyGov, Persistent Systems and Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini is organizing Smart India Hackathon – 2018. It is a large-scale event in which 27 Union Ministries/Departments and 17 State Governments are participating. It is being organized all over India on 30 th and 31st March 2018. Smart India Hackathon – 2018 includes two sub-editions - a software edition and a hardware edition. The software edition is a 36-hour software product development competition, which is being held now. The hardware edition for will be held later this year. 1,296 teams comprising more than 7,000 participants will take part in Smart India Hackathon – 2018.


    Smart India Hackathon – 2018, Grand Finale is an exercise to develop software in various areas, including software for empowerment of persons with disabilities. Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan), Government of India is the nodal ministry for the welfare of the persons with disabilities. After introduction of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act – 2016 and use of modern technology for empowerment of persons with disabilities, in the areas of early identification, intervention, education, skill development, vocational training and employment as well as providing accessibility in public places, the Smart India Hackathon – 2018 becomes very important.


    56 teams across India are working on seven different themes to develop software in the area of tracking & parking of vehicles, mobile apps on employment opportunities, digital solutions for effective learning, banking , software and picture exchange communication for persons with intellectual disability, mobile apps for assessment of reading skills and arithmetic skills and online system for skill training and employment. Each team consists of one team Leader and 5 team members including a mentor.


    The event will be a 36 hour software product development competition where the students of various technical Institutes will participate and will be mentored and judged by a group of 8 Expert Members chosen from all over India.


    Ali Yavar Jung National Institute of Speech and Hearing Disabilities (Divyangjan), Mumbai which is one of the apex National Institutes of the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (D) is involved in organizing Smart India Hackathon – 2018 at Bhopal. The Institute provides state-of-the-art facilities for the diagnosis and therapy for persons with speech language and hearing disorder. Institute provides modern aids and appliances under the Government of India schemes such as Digital programmable Behind the Ear hearing aids and Cochlear Implants.


    Smart India Hackathon – 2018 will be hosted by Sagar Institute of Research and Technology (SIRT), Bhopal. SIRT will provide all infrastructure including internet services as well as lodging & boarding for participants.


    During Smart India Hackathon - 2018, students will have the opportunity to interact with experts in the area and conclude their software edition accordingly. The jury will shortlist the winners, 1st Runner-Up and 2 nd Runner-Up, who will receive cash prizes of Rs. 1,00,000/-, Rs. 75,000/- and Rs. 50,000/-, along with trophy, memento and certificate respectively. In addition, 4th Prize – Persistent Inspiration Award, 5th Prize KPIT Inspiration Award and 6th Prize- Deloitte Innovation Award will also be given.


    The inaugural program of Smart India Hackathon – 2018 will be held on 30th March, 2018 at 7.00 a.m. Shri Prakash Javadekar, Union Minister of Human Resource Development will address the participants through video-conference. Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar, Minister of State, Social Justice and Empowerment, will be the Chief Guest for the inaugural ceremony at SIRT, Bhopal.


    Shri Thaawar Chand Gehlot, Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment will give away awards to the winners at the valedictory function, to be held on 31st March, 2018.


    Smart India Hackathon – 2018 will be a milestone for participants. Besides coming out with solutions for problems selected by various Ministries/Departments, the participants will get a chance to be a part of NASSCOM’s 10,000 Start-ups program as well.


    ***


    DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529722) Visitor Counter : 150