      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Swachhata Awards 2018 of MSME Ministry
      Posted On: 04 JUL 2018 5:47PM by PIB Delhi


      Giriraj Singh, MoS (I/C) giving away the Swachhata Awards 2018


      Ministry of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) celebrated Swachhata Pakhwada from 16th to 30th June, 2018. Union Minister of State (I/C),Giriraj Singh distributed the Awards at Pravasi Bharatiya Kendra in New Delhi today. Industrial Clusters, Industry Associations and field offices of National Small Industries Corporation Limited (NSIC), Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC), DC(MSME), Coir Board were felicitated for their contribution to Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan. This is the second year, when the Ministry gave Swachhata Awards and created a healthy competition amongst industrial clusters and estates and its field offices for Swachhata.


      During the Swachhata Pakhwada, Ministry and its subordinate organisations like KVIC, NSIC, National Institute for MSME and MSME-Development Institutes undertook a variety of activities like rain-water harvesting, construction of garbage pits for its conversion to manure, adoption of toilets in government schools for maintenance. The KVIC adopted Jagatpura Village in New Delhi for one year so as to make it a model Swachh Village. In addition, awareness campaigns and seminars on new and innovative technologies on cleanliness were organised. Children were also associated with activities like tree plantation drives, painting, essay and slogan writing competitions.


      Ministry and its field organisations have undertaken cleanliness drives across the country covering 11 villages and blocks, 4 slums, 5 market places, 3 river sides, 2 railway stations, 3 bus stops and a sea beach at Puri in Odisha. In addition, 8 public toilets, 5 residential colonies and one park have been adopted for one year.


      Speaking on this occasion, Giriraj Singh said that Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan started by the Prime Minister in 2014,on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, is changing the world’s perception about India.The Ministry of MSME and its subordinate officesare creating awareness amongst MSMEs to adopt a green approach in manufacturing and also about maintaining industrial hygiene amongst industrial workers. He said that MSMEs are also being educated about the importance of setting up of effluent treatment plantsand adopting waste management techniques. Secretary, MSME, Dr. Arun Kumar Panda, DG, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, Akshay Rautand other senior officials from the Ministry were present.


      ****


      MM/KA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1537682) Visitor Counter : 645