      NITI Aayog

      Atal Innovation Mission, NITI Aayog & MyGov launches “Innovate India Platform”
      Posted On: 26 JUL 2018 4:27PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri. R Ramanan, Mission Director, Atal Innovation Mission and Shri.Arvind Gupta CEO, MyGov today launched the “#InnovateIndia Platform”, a collaboration between the Atal Innovation Mission and MyGov, a citizen centric platform of the Government of India. The #InnovateIndia portal will serve as the common point for all the innovation happening across the nation.


    Launching the platform, Mission Director, Atal Innovation Mission said that the #InnovateIndia MyGov-AIM portal creates the much-needed innovations platform for registering both grassroots and deep-tech innovators at a national level. Those searching for a critical innovation can leverage the portal advantageously for the benefit of the economy as well as national social needs.”


    Some of the features of this platform are:

     1. The platform is open to all Indian citizens
     2. The users can View, comment, share, and rate the innovations crowdsourced on the #InnovateIndia platform
     3. View the leaderboard which is calculated based on the votes on each innovation.
     4. Citizens can share their/organizations/someone else’s innovation on the platform by login to the MyGov website
     5. These innovations can also be shared on various social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Facebook, and Twitter

    “India has been a very innovation-orientedsociety, but our challenge has been a structured approach to innovation, capturing them and building an ecosystem to take them global. The current government initiative to capture and support innovation from ground up, is aimed at creating a structured ecosystem to encourage, enhance and develop India’s innovative character”, said Shri Arvind Gupta, CEO MyGov.


    With the launch of the platform Indians will be able to upload and rate their/organizations innovation on the platform.The citizens can access the platform on https://innovate.mygov.in/innovateindia/ .


    *****


    AKT/RKC/SBP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540253) Visitor Counter : 1866
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali , Tamil , Malayalam
    
    
    

5.