      Ministry of Education

      Government is implementing Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna (PMKVY) Pan-India Basis
      Posted On: 30 JUL 2018 6:38PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government is implementing a flagship scheme known as Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) on pan–India basis which enables prospective youth to take up Short Term Training (STT) and Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) through accredited and affiliated training centers. The scheme has two components namely Centrally Sponsored Centrally Managed (CSCM) which is implemented by National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) and Centrally Sponsored State Managed (CSSM) which is implemented by State Skill Development Missions of the States/UTs popularly known as State-Engagement Component of PMKVY (2016-20). Under CSCM- PMKVY 2016-20, as on 10.07.2018, approximately 7213 Training Centres are operational and approximately 31.13 lakh candidates have been trained/undergoing training under STT, RPL and Special Project. Further, under CSSM component of PMKVY 2016-20, skill development training is provided in 1,080 training centres across 27 States.


    Significant efforts have also been made by the Government to universalise primary education through the erstwhile Centrally Sponsored scheme of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. Further, Government of India has recently launched Samagra Shiksha - An Integrated Scheme for school education w.e.f. 2018-19 which is an overarching programme for the school education sector extending from pre-school to class XII and which aims to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education at all levels of school education. Its overall goals include universal access and retention, bridging of gender and social category gaps in education and enhancement of learning levels of children.


    The curriculum of elementary education aims to provide a broad learning experience and encourages a rich variety of approaches to teaching and learning that cater to the different needs of individual children. At this stage, the focus is on the overall development that cuts across all subject areas so that the children acquire essential skills such as problem solving skills, personal character and values, physical and aesthetic development, ICT skills, interpersonal skills and cognitive skills for laying a firm foundation of learning. All these skills have been integrated with the subjects offered in classes at the elementary stage.


    In order to build a strong foundation, Samagra Shiksha focuses on improvement in quality of education by providing support for different interventions like in-service training of teachers and school heads, conduct of achievement surveys at state and national level, composite school grant to every school for providing a conducive learning environment, grants for library, sports and physical activities, support for Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan, ICT and digital initiatives, School Leadership development programme, remedial teaching for academically weaker students, support for Padhe Bharat Badhe Bharat, etc.


    The component of Vocationalisation of School Education under Samagra Shiksha aims to integrate vocational education with general academic education and prepare employable youth for various sectors of the economy and global market. The curriculum of vocational subjects for Classes IX to XII is divided into two major components - a) employability skills and b) vocational skills. The employability skills encompass Communication, Self-management, ICT, Entrepreneurship development and Green skills. The vocational skills are specific to job roles offered by the school. Thus, quality education under Samagra Shiksha coupled with skill training provide for a strong foundation and also enable the students to make informed career choices on the basis of their capabilities, aspirations and work opportunities available.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Shri Upendra Kushwaha today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/YP/AK/LS-1913

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540715) Visitor Counter : 1004