      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      A Day long Integrated Outreach Programme held at Gulma Tea Estate (Saalbari), West Bengal
      Posted On: 01 JAN 2020 1:13PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, January 1, 2020.


    Regional Outreach Bureau, Siliguri organized a day long Integrated Outreach Programme commencing on December 30, 2019 at, Gulma Tea Estate (Saalbari), Siliguri. On its maiden day, the programme was correlated with Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat,Swachh Bharat, Plastic Free India, and on Jal Shakti. The Programme was coordinated with the, Tea Estate Employees, Health Department, ASHA, Anganwadi Workers, SHG’s from various sector. As a package of the programme the the Bureau organized a Public Meeting, Photo Exhibition on Swachh Bharat, Plastic Free India, Jal Shakti and on Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat.


    During the IOP as a Chief Guest Shri H.K, Gupta, Manager, Gulma Tea Estate, inaugurated the meeting. Among the Speaker as a resource Person Shri Amrit Kr. Ghosh, Asstt Manager, while delivering his remarkable speech on Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat,he opined that the main purpose of the scheme is to remain without any discrimination of caste and creeds and boost the cultural connection between the states and union territories of the country having verities of cultural and traditional significances.


    Smt. Anita Chik Baraik, a Social Worker, while speaking on Jal Shakti said, during the summer season they had to face the shortage of water. She added that parents should give the basic things to preserve/conserve the water to our children. Among the other speakers Smti Urmilla Tigga, Smti Kiran Tigga presented their various experiences and the ways of preserving/conserving water and also spoke on Swachh Bharat, Plastic Free India.


    Appreciating the programme, Shri H.K. Gupta, Manager, in his speech urged to organize more such awareness campaign in his places in near future which is required for the Tea Garden dwellers.


    Apart from a cultural show, a Quiz competition was organized for the gathering and valuable prizes were awarded to all the participants.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1598120) Visitor Counter : 13
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali