      Ministry of Corporate Affairs

      Union Government is working on Act East Policy to bring more investment.
      
      Centre wants to honour tax payers: Anurag Thakur.

      Posted On: 16 JAN 2020 4:39PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, January 16, 2020.


    Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Anurag Thakur today stated that Central government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is working on Act East Policy to bring more investment and growth in the region as well as in the country to achieve 5 trillion dollar economy mark by 2025. Shri Thakur added that the government wants to honour the tax payers and treat them well and not to harass them. The Minister was speaking at a special session jointly held by Merchants’ Chamber of Commerce and Industry (MCCI), Bharat Chamber of Commerce (BCC), Calcutta Chamber of Commerce (CCC), Direct Taxes Professionals’ Association (DTPA) and Association of Corporate Advisers and Executives (ACAE) here in the city today. The Minister said, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is known for big and bold decisions and we have never failed in it, whether it is 2014 or 2019. We have gone for the mergers of banks to bring more synergy and capacity building. Banks will be ready to fund the industries and we have also cut down the historic corporate tax from 30 per cent to 15 per cent, to boost the investment and growth in the system, Shri Takhur added.


    Highlighting the series of steps taken by the G overnment to strengthen the economy, Shri Thakur said, tax concessions have been given to industries, foreign direct investments and MSME sector. He said, introduction of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) is a significant step towards cleaning and strengthening of the financial system of the country.


    In Ease of Doing Business, India has moved 14 places above to be 63 rd from 77 th position. Make-in-India programme is a major initiative towards increasing the indigenous capacity of the country to produce world class goods and services, he said.


    Replying to the queries of the audience , the Minister said, Central G overnment is taking all steps to strengthen the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and its appellate tribunal in terms of benches, courts and members to reduce pendency of cases. Considering the heavy caseload at some existing benches, additional members have been appointed and additional courts operationalised from time to time, the Minister added.


    The Minister invited suggestions for the upcoming budget. Suggestions on Real Estate, Tea industry, GST and Start Up etc were given to the Minister.


    SSS/ MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599564) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali