      Ministry of Culture

      PM to Dedicate 4 Renovated Heritage Buildings of the City Tomorrow
      
      Union Ministry of Culture Plans to Develop Cultural Spaces around Iconic Buildings in Metro Cities Including Kolkata

      Posted On: 10 JAN 2020 6:50PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, January 10, 2019


    Five cities including Kolkata have been taken up for development of cultural spaces around its iconic buildings. The other cities are Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Varanasi. In Kolkata, four iconic galleries, namely Old Currency Building, Belvedere House, Victoria Memorial Hall and Metcalfe House have been refurbished. New exhibitions have been set up and old galleries curated therein. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is going to dedicate these four renovated heritage buildings to the nation. The Chief Executive Officer, Development of Museums and Cultural Spaces, Shri Raghavendra Singh stated this in a press meet today in the city.


    The conservation work carried out in Old Currency Building includes removal of accretions in the first and second floor, removal of damaged interior walls and re-plastering, repairs and polishing of three wooden staircases, re-fixing of window glasses wherever missing, polishing of marble stone flooring, general electrification in an organised manner and the like. It will showcase art across three three centuries. Named ‘Ghare Baire-The Home, the World & Beyond’, the curation of this exhibition is going to provide glimpses of the richness, diversity and depth of Bengal’s art for centuries. The exhibition is sectioned into 13 broad categories, showcasing nearly 500 art-works, of over 450 are from the DAG collection and 20 are from the collection of the National Gallery of Modern Art, Delhi.


    Belvedere Estate has been renovated by CPWD at a cost of Rs 10.00 cr. The Metcalfe House too has been renovated by the Archaeological Survey of India and the Survey too organised an exhibition on Kolkata and its history and culture.


    The Victoria Memorial hall is undergoing modernisation and upgradation of galleries and stores with a sanctioned budget of Rs 59.96 crore. Its seven renovated galleries are ready for inauguration now.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599075) Visitor Counter : 3