      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      Statistics and Artificial Intelligence for Data Science (SAIDS 2020)
      Posted On: 14 JAN 2020 6:53PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, January 14, 2020.


    The Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (CAIML) of Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) in collaboration with Indo-French Centre for Applied Mathematics (IFCAM) is holding a f ive -day workshop on statistics and artificial intelligence for data science(SAIDS 2020). The event started at the ISI campus in Kolkata yesterday (13 th January) and will be continued till 17 th January, 2020. Mme. Virginie Corteval, Consul General of France in Kolkata, Professor Fabrice Gamboa, IMT, France, Professor Bimal K. Roy, Chairman, National Statistical Commission, Government of India, Professor Sanghamitra Bandyopadhyay, Director, Indian Statistical Institute and Professor Nikhil R. Pal, Head, CAIML of Indian Statistical Institute were present in the inaugurating ceremony. Mme. Virginie Corteval wished the workshop as a mile-stone in the progress of Indo-French joint collaboration in the field of education & research. Professor Bimal K. Roy discussed the role of AI and Machine Learning for uses of Data. Professor Fabrice Gamboa highlited the collaboration research of AI for economy, education etc. Professor Sanghamitra Bandyopadhyay congratulated for the success of the workshop. Professor Nikhil R. Pal discussed the asects of research in the field of AI.


    In the workshop keynote address was delivered by Dr. Inderpal Bhandari, Global Chief Data Officer, IBM Corporation. Dr. Bhandari discussed about how to turn data into business value of the organisation considering all aspects of human like and social attributes.


    Among the other distinguished speakers from the industry, during the workshop Dr. Hillol Kargupta, President, Agnik, USA; Mr. Pratik Pal, CEO, Tata Digital; Dr. Olivier Teytaud, Facebook, Paris; Dr. Vineet Chaoji, Amazon, India, will explain the role of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Data Science in establishing their organizations as the world leaders. About 125 master’s students, research scholars, university faculty members and industry practitioners studying in the field of Machine Learning (ML), Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Data Science from all over the country have attended this workshop.


    CG/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599377) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali