      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      12th TRIBAL YOUTH EXCHANGE PROGRAMME AT KOLKATA NEHRU YUVA KENDRA SANGATHAN, WEST BENGAL
      Posted On: 17 JAN 2020 4:06PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, January 17, 2020.


    The 12 th Tribal Youth Exchange Programme got started at Kolkata, with the formal inaugural ceremony being conducted at Vivekananda Yuva Bharati Krirangan, Salt Lake, Kolkata. This event is being organized by Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan, West Bengal, an autonomous organization under the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India, from January 14 to 20, 2020 with support from the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India. In the context of this event, active partipation has been ensured on the part of more than 200 tribal youths, from 6 tribal dominated districts of the country spread across three states namely Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telengana.


    The main objective of this event is to develop a better understanding of the diverse cultural ethos, language, lifestyle of the people depicting unity in diversity among the tribal youths and create a platform for national integration. During the inaugural session, eminent persons namely Smt. Krishna Chakraborty, Mayor, Bidhan Nagar Municipal Corporation, Shri Avinandan Maharaj, President, Ramkrishna Mission, Bagbazar, Shri Sunil Kumar Yadav, Commandant, CRPF (West Bengal), Shri Avijit Bose, Ex State Director, NYKS Odisha, Smt. Sarita Patel, Regional Coordinator, NSS and Smt. Jaba Chakraborty, Deputy Director, NYKS West Bengal, were present. At the conclusion of the event, various tribal songs and dance performances relating to regional cultures and national integrity were also showcased by the participating tribal youths.


    It is one of the major Flagship programme of Ministry of Home Affairs, where these 200 youths will undergo this programme containing various academic sessions. Different activities, game play, Presentation & interaction. The major contents on the programme are Youth Parliament, Skill Development and Employment Generation, Cultural Programme, Human Right, Swamijo’s Thought, Field Visit, Motivational Talks, Government Flagship Programmes, leadership personality development, yoga and the like.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599675) Visitor Counter : 18
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali