      Ministry of Education

      Alumni Build Hangout Areas for Students at IIT Kharagpur on their 50th Graduation Anniversary
      Posted On: 27 JAN 2020 4:15PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, January 27, 2020.


    IIT Kharagpur’s alumni batch of 1970 celebrated its 50th graduation anniversary with the gift of ‘ADDA’ and Alumni Clock Tower to the campus. Close to 150 members of the batch of 1970, congregated from all over the world together with their spouses celebrated their 50th graduation anniversary at IIT Kharagpur recently in a grand celebration titled the ‘Golden 2020 Reunion’ from January 24-26, 2020.


    The Alumni Clock Tower was inaugurated by Shri Amit Khare, IAS, Secretary, MHRD, Govt of India, who lauded the IIT Kharagpur alumni for their thoughtful gift to the campus community. “As the District Collector of Darbhanga, which had two clock towers, I often wondered about the need for them when people had their wrist watches to look at the time. I soon realized that they were great socializing points. Both ADDA and the Alumni Clock Tower would be places of interaction and exchange of ideas, which is what great institutions facilitate,” said Mr. Khare during the inauguration.


    Mr. Arjun Malhotra, a pioneering figure in the Indian software industry (co-founder of HCL) and a top fundraiser among the Batch of 1970, suggested to bring out a commemorative postage stamp in honour of the first IIT next year on occasion of IIT Kharagpur’s 70th anniversary.


    Thanking the batch for their sustained support to the Institute, Director of IIT Kharagpur, Prof. V.K. Tewari, said, “The Clock Tower may be made to display more features in the future, such as digital display of the temperature, humidity or announcements of major events. IIT Kharagpur has the largest infrastructure, students, faculty as well as alumni of all the IITs. With this enormous resource, particularly the assistance and mentorship of the alumni, no dream is impossible to achieve.”


    ‘ADDA’ the batch’s gift to the campur on their golden anniversary, is an expansive area with a sculped garden and varied seating arrangements. Renowned architect Abin Chaughury designed the gigantic red emblem that marks out the space.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1600690) Visitor Counter : 3