      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB, KOLKATA ORGANIZES MEDIA WORKSHOP ‘VARTALAP’ AT KRISHNANAGAR, NADIA DISTRICT
      Posted On: 22 JAN 2020 3:14PM by PIB Kolkata


    Krishnanagar, Nadia, January 22, 2020


    Press Information Bureau, Kolkata organized Vartalap – the Media Workshop at Krishnanagar, Nadia District of West Bengal today. The media-persons of the district including small and medium newspapers participated in large numbers in this programme meant for dissemination of news related to Central Government sponsored welfare schemes and programmes and media-services related to Press Information Bureau.


    The Additional Director General (M&C) of Press Information Bureau in Kolkata, Ms. Jane Namchu addressed the journalists working in Nadia district to update them about the functions of Press Information Bureau which is to provide them authentic information related to Central Government schemes and programmes which reach them through digital media and other means as well. In an interactive session held as part of the programme, the journalists shared their concerns and problems faced in their day-to-day functioning.


    Veteran journalist Shri Tarun Goswami shared his rich professional experiences and stated as to how PIB’s press releases, feature service, photos can be beneficial for them in their quest of making authentic news about Government and the welfare schemes meant for people. He urged the media persons to use information provided by PIB to sensitize common citizens about how they can avail benefits from the Centrally-sponsored schemes. In this workshop, it was also explained that how PIB press releases, photos, info graphics and other media contents can be obtained directly from PIB’s website, facebook page as well as twitter handle in Bangla, apart from Hindi, English and other Indian languages.


    Shri Bimal Kumar Bhattacharya, Lead Bank Manager, United Bank of India (UBI), Nadia district informed the journalists about the various banking schemes started by the Central Government like PMJDY, PMAY, PMSBY, PMMY, PMJJY, Atal Pension Yojana, Senior Citizen Savings Scheme, Sukanya Samridhi Yojana and several loan schemes among others.


    Around around 50 media persons participated in the workshop which became so lively and participative in nature that it was appreciated by most of the media persons present.


    Shri Md. Inasuddin, Secretary, Krishnanagar Poribesh Bondhu, spoke in detail about the initiatives taken at Nadia including Krishnanagar to save environment and make the region plastic free. He stated that use of plastic carry bags and thermocol now has been completely banned in the district successfully. Shri Inasuddin complimented the media for positively carrying forward the campaign and creating awareness among the masses.


    Dr. Amrito Chattopaadhyaay District Dy. Manager (DDM), NABARD, spoke about the various loans for Self-Help Groups such as Rural Development Funds, Animal Husbandry, Livelihood Entrepreneur Development for Women, Dairy Infrastructure Development Fund, Fishery Acquaculture Development Fund, Corp loan, National Lifestyle Mission, Agri-marketing Infrastructure Scheme and Fasal BimaYojana etc.


    Shri Sourav Kumar Roy, Manager (NCES), District Industries Centre, Nadia spoke about DIC's role for ensuring Entrepreneur Development and generating Self-Employment among artisans in the region.


    Smt. Srijata Saha Sahoo, Media & Communication Officer, PIB, Kolkata conducted the event. Shri Ajay Mhamia, Joint Director, PIB, Kolkata, answered different queries from the journalists pertaining to different aspect and moved the vote of thanks. An audio visual presentation of PIB utilities, including the diversified multilingual pages of reference matter that has been made available on the revamped PIB website was also presented.


    JN/AM/SSS/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1600083) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali