      Ministry of Education

      National Book Trust Releases On-Line Questionnaire to Assess Community Perception about the Psycho-Social Impact of COVID-19
      Posted On: 02 APR 2020 4:53PM by PIB Mumbai


    National Book Trust, which is the national body for book publishing and book promotion under the Ministry of HRD, is in the process of preparing seven booklets on the Psycho-Social Impact of Covid 19 and How to Cope up under its just launched Corona Studies Series to assess Community perception about the psycho-social impact of this pandemic.


    The NBT Study Group comprising eminent psychologists and counsellors has released a set of Questionnaires in Hindi & English of seven segments to assess Psycho-Social Impact of COVID-19 and the Lockdown and How to Cope.


    The seven segments comprise: 1. Parents, Mothers & Women; 2. Children, Adolescents and Youth; 3. Employees, Professionals, Self-Employed & Workers; 4. Differently-abled; 5. COVID-19 Affected Families; 6. Medical & Essential Services Providers; 7. Elderly (60 Years and Above).


    The Public circulation of the Questionnaire is intended to create a conducive environment for community participation and sharing of emotions in the lockdown period.


    Readers and general public are encouraged to participate in the Online Questionnaire and share their feelings and experiences to make the study useful for all.


    Corona affected families are encouraged to participate and send their responses as well.


    The link to access the questionnaire is https://nbtindia.gov.in/home__92__on-line-questionnaire-for-nbt-study.nbt.


    The NBT Study Group comprises DrJitendraNagpal, DrHarsheeta, SqLdr (Rtd) Meena Arora, Lt Col TarunUppal, Mrs. Rekha Chauhan, Mrs. Sonie Sidhu and Ms. Aparajita Dixit. The Group will develop methodologies and practical tips to deal with situations, helped by easy-to-assimilate reading materials on various segments through research, virtual interviews and case studies.


    *****


    NB /AKJ /AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1610324) Visitor Counter : 431
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi