      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr. Jitendra Singh releases National Corona Survey conducted in 410 Districts of the Country
      Posted On: 02 APR 2020 3:50PM by PIB Mumbai


    Dr. Jitendra Singh, Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions today released the National Preparedness Survey on COVID 19 – Responses of District Collectors and IAS Officers (2014-2018 batches). A copy of the report is available at https://darpg.gov.in .


    The COVID 19 National Preparedness Survey 2020 was conducted in 410 Districts in the Country within 3 working days to attain a bird’s eye view of the governance challenges of the Nation while coping with the greatest health crisis India faced since Independence.


    The objectives of this preparedness


    survey are as follows:


    · to develop a comparative analysis of COVID 19 preparedness across States;


    · to highlight the main priorities and constraints of COVID 19 preparedness, as they are perceived by the civil servants working in the field;


    · to access enabling factors in making institutional/ logistics/ hospital preparedness, etc.;


    · to capture trends to identify systemic and process related deficiencies, in combating COVID 19 in the districts of India.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr.Jitendra Singh said that the Prime Minister in his address to the Nation on March 19, 2020 and March 24, 2020 had urged the Indian people to fight to stop the virus with every resource at their disposal.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh said that the National Preparedness Survey on COVID 19, points out that India’s response has been coherent, purposeful and determined. Further he added the Survey has highlighted that the policy actions of the Government – Janata Curfew, National Lockdown, the Economic Package of Rs. 1.7 billion, the RBI announcements are steps which have received overwhelming support.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh recognized the immense efforts of Civil Servants, Doctors, Nurses, Health Sector Specialists, Police Officials in implementing the National Lockdown.He felt that the survey will serve as a benchmark for policy makers at National and State levels. Dr. Jitendra Singh thanked the Prime Minister for his leadership role in this moment of crisis.


    Secretary DARPG, Dr. Kshtrapati Shivaji, Additional Secretary DARPG V.Srinivas, Joint Secretaries Smt. Jaya Dubey and N.B.S.Rajput along with senior officials of the Department participated in the launch through video conferencing facility.


    <><><><><>


    VG/SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1610287) Visitor Counter : 194
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi