      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Union Minister for Micro Small Medium Enterprises Nitin Gadkari distributes PPE kits manufactureded by MSME
      Posted On: 11 APR 2020 10:07PM by PIB Mumbai


    Nagpur, 11 एप्रिल 2020


    Union Minister for Micro Small Medium Enterprises Nitin Gadkari today distributed the PPE kits manufactured by the Garment common facility centre of Micro Small Medium Enterprises ministry to the Deans of Government Medical College and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College at Nagpur. Sh. Gadkari has taken an initiative to provide initially 15000 PPE kits free of cost to healthcare workers of Govt. Hospitals and decided to get these kits manufactured from MSMEs in Nagpur. This will be of additional help to the Government hospitals and healthcare workers in fighting this pandemic COVID-19.


    The present scenario of COVID-19 outbreak, to safeguard the healthcare workers, paramedics, hygiene workers and others is the most challenging task. As compared to the increasing positive cases of COVID-19, there is huge demand of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits which provides protection from infection. The kits were distribute today at the hands of Nitin Gadkari. He said that these kits are given free of cost as additional help from his side for healthcare workers of Government. Medical college. These kits will act as important tool in fighting against corona virus. Shri P.M.Parlewar Director, MSME Development Institute Nagpur explained the details of kit and Rajya Sabha MP Dr. Vikas Mahatme informed about importance of PPE kits for Healthcare workers. Deans of Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Government Medical College, Nagpur along with other public representatives were present during distribution of kits maintaining social distance,


    P.M.Parlewar, Director, MSME Development Institute Nagpur and Under the guidance of Rajya Sabha MP Dr. Vikas Mahatme, conducted meeting with the Common Facility Centre (CFC), Orange City Garment Cluster. Discussions were also held with Manufacturers from Nagpur and M/s Plasti Surge Industries Pvt. Ltd.,Amravati for manufacturing Cover all Gown, Masks and prepare the kits which are protective gears designed to safeguard the health of people by minimising the exposure to a biological agent /virus. Cover all/gowns are designed to protect torso of healthcare providers from exposure to virus. Coveralls provide 360-degree protection as they are designed to cover the whole body including back and lower legs. These give protection to healthcare workers. For this purpose various doctors were consulted regarding the requirement and specifications of kit.


    S.Rai/D.Wankhede /P.Kor

    
    
    (Release ID: 1613492) Visitor Counter : 445
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi