      PIB Headquarters

      Crackdown against fake news and rumour mongering intensifies. Maharashtra Cyber register 161 cases
      Posted On: 10 APR 2020 6:36PM by PIB Mumbai


    Fighting fake news, hate speech and rumour mongering has been high on the agenda of the Central Government even as an all out battle is being waged against the dreaded Covid-19 outbreak. The Cabinet Secretary and the Union Home Secretary have written letters to all the state governments to strictly implement anti fake news measures.


    Maharashtra Police has been proactively enforcing the cyber laws in the state and has also releases an Advisory earlier this week detailing Dos and Don'ts for WhatsApp Group members and admins.


    From the beginning of lockdown till date, Maharashtra Cyber has registered 161 cases regarding fake news, rumours and hate speech over social media. Highest number of 22 cases have been registered in Beed, followedby Kolhapur 13, Pune Rural 12, Mumbai 11 and Jalgaon 10 among others


    Perpetrators are found to be mainly spreading rumors about Covid-19 and its treatment. There are rising trend in hate speech cases also, as out of total registered cases, 73 cases are about hate speech over social media. In Total 39 accused have been arrested and 33 identified.


    In last 48 hours total 30 FIR registered in Maharashtra about fake news, rumors and hate speech on social media and other online messaging channels regarding Corona Epidemics. What's App, Facebook and TikTok are mostly misused by perpetrators for these activities.


    Cyber Police is making coordinated awareness efforts to reach to common citizen to sensitize about fake news, rumors and hate speech through social media handles of each district. The platforms and intermediaries are also being notified to filter the fake news video and posts to reduce their spread.


    Cyber Police have advised citizens

     1. Not to forward the fake news / rumors - Break the chain of rumors
     2. Spot the creators and super spreaders and inform nearest police station or report to Cyber Cell
     3. Verify and fact check before sharing or forwarding any news or information.
     4. Always follow and rely on official sources in such time for authentic information.

    (Source : Maharashtra Cyber Press Release)


    MD/DR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1613036) Visitor Counter : 424
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi
    
    
    

4.