      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Maharashtra State Skill Development Society imparts health care training to 10,815 candidates
      
      While the whole country is fighting against the Covid-19 pandemic Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship( MSDE) has taken various steps to fulfil the growing demand for the health workers

      Posted On: 28 APR 2020 3:08PM by PIB Mumbai

    When an epidemic like Covid 19 breaks out, it is the frontline workers from all departments who play a key role in containing the outbreak. Ready availability of trained manpower plays a crucial role in determining the outcome of the war against the disease.


    The thrust laid on skill development by Government of India and pushed forward by the state governments has come to the aid of addressing the manpower challenge to fight Covid-19.


    In Maharashtra, the Maharashtra State Skill Development Society (MSSDS) has trained 10,815 young men and women in para-medical, nursing and other health care activities. They are eligible to be employed as bedside assistants, nursing and general duty assistants, laboratory assistants, dialysis assistants, operation theatre assistants, pharmacy assistants etc. The services of these trained youth could also be useful in managing isolation and quarantine centres of Covid 19 patients.


    MSSDS has shared the details of the eligible candidates with all the district collectors to be deployed as per their necessity. A proposal to recruit 985 candidates through various government agencies is under consideration.


    Meanwhile, the Director General (Training), Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship has written a letter to all the Chief Secretaries of the states to utilize facilities of 33 field Institutes like National Skill Training Institutes (NSTIs) for the purpose of Quarantine Centres /Isolation Wards and Temporary Medical Camps etc. Besides, States were also advised to utilise the facilities available in ITIs located in their States for the purpose.


    * * *


    R.Tidke/S.Tupe/D.Rane


    ***


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1618911) Visitor Counter : 93
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi