      Ministry of Railways

      Materials Management Dept. of Western Railway contributes in combating COVID19
      
      Workshop at Mahalaxmi in Mumbai prepares high quality PPE

      Posted On: 27 APR 2020 4:08PM by PIB Mumbai

    Mumbai, 27th April, 2020

    Western Railway’s Materials Management Department is providing essentials for doctors, paramedics and patients to fight against COVID-19 pandemic.


    The department has teamed up with Medical department has been instrumental in producing PPE, steel beds for Isolation wards, invasive and non-invasive ventilators, thermal body temperature measuring guns, oxygen cylinders, sanitizers, N-95 face masks, face shields, inner gowns, disinfectant spraying pumps, sodium hypochlorite solutions. This is in addition to the 410 Isolation coaches being arranged by the Western Railway.


    At Lower Parel Workshop and EMU Workshop at Mahalaxmi about 200 PPE coveralls are being prepared every day. These kits comply with the standards of Defence Research Development Establishment (DRDE) and South India Textile Research Association (SITRA).


    Chief Public Relations Officer of Western Railway Shri Ravinder Bhakar informed that Materials Management team has arranged medical essentials in all six divisions i.e. Ratlam, Rajkot, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Mumbai and Bhavnagar through trade purchases utilising various modes of procurement.


    To monitor the demand & supply, the department has switched over to online platform. It has also created a special task force including a material collection team to reach out to places in and around Mumbai. It uses Video Conference application and WhatsApp Group at various levels to make arrangements promptly.


    It has also ensured uninterrupted supply of all items required for the safe running of Goods and parcel trains including loco spares, coaching SLR spares and wagon spares which has been made possible through relentless monitoring of the stock and dues of these items and regular interaction with the industry by the headquarter and Depot Officers and staff.


    Furthermore, the department ensures wellbeing of its staff and their family. Employees update about health status of themselves and their family in WhatsApp groups on a daily basis. Officers and staff are encouraged and persuaded to download Aarogya Setu App.


    RT/DL/PM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1618669) Visitor Counter : 83
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi