      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Central Government constituted Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) visits Thane in Maharashtra to review the situation in context of COVID-19
      
      IMCT calls for strict implementation of Lockdown in containment areas and special attention & care for elderly

      Posted On: 25 APR 2020 8:08PM by PIB Mumbai

    Mumbai, 25 APRIL 2020


    Central Government constituted Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) visited Thane in Maharashtra today. The area of responsibility of earlier constituted Mumbai-Pune team was expanded to include adjoining Thane District.


    IMCT headed by Addl. Secretary Manoj Joshi, has emphasised upon surveillance measures, medical testing and institutional quarantine along with effective implementation of lockdown especially in containment areas, in order to fight and contain spread of COVID-19 effectively.


    The team visited at 3 hospitals in the morning i.e. Thane District Civil Hospital, Horizon Hospital, Kaushalya Hospital, and also paid visit to Parasik Nagar, Amrutnagar, Mumbra area to review and assess situation in District. IMCT would make on-spot assessment of situation and issue necessary directions to State Authorities for its redressal and submit their report to Central Government in larger interest of general public.


    In a meeting chaired by Manoj Joshi, Addl. Secretary Govt. of India reviewed and discussed the spread of COVID-19 in the district, containment strategy and preparedness for future. Mr. Joshi called for increasing the testing for high risk or suspected cases, to observe precautionary measures at fever clinics in the field while expressing satisfaction over coordination amongst departments. He also drew attention to be extra careful regarding hygiene & use of public toilets and to focus on increasing medical tests in slum areas and crowded habitats. He also asked district authorities to make necessary arrangements for Non-COVID patients for getting due medical attention.


    Vijay Singhal, Municipal Commissioner initially in the meeting briefed about steps taken by Thane Municipal Corporation, explained demographic profiling and micromanagement done with constitution of field teams for effective surveillance and testing of suspected cases.


    Rajesh Narvekar, District collector also apprised about, measures taken to address stranded migrant labourers including provision of accommodation and cooked food, initiatives taken like community kitchen etc. He added that and food grains are made available through ration shops and informed that there is no shortage of essential commodities in the district.


    Sanjay Kumar, Police Commissioner, Navi Mumbai briefed about steps taken for Law and Order management in view of presence of number of IT Companies and APMC Market at Vashi.


    Annasaheb Misal, Commissioner Navi Mumbai, Dr. Vijay Suryawanshi, Commissioner KDMC, Chandrakant Dange, Commissioner Mira-Bhayandar Municipal Corporation, also briefed about measures taken to contain COVID19 and increasing public awareness.


    Background:


    The IMCTs focus on a range of issues including compliance and implementation of lockdown measures as per guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act 2005; supply of essential commodities; social distancing in movement of people outside their homes; preparedness of health infrastructure, hospital facilities and sample statistics in the District; safety of health professionals, availability of test kits, PPEs, masks and other safety equipment; and conditions of the relief camps for labour and poor people. These teams would use expertise of the Centre and augment State efforts to fight and contain spread of COVID-19 effectively


    The Committees have been constituted by the Central Government in exercise of the powers, conferred, inter alia, under Section 35(1), 35(2)(a), 35(2)(e) and 35(2)(i) of the Disaster Management Act 2005. Governments of States/UTs have also been advised that while they can impose stricter measures than contemplated in the MHA Guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, they shall not dilute them.


    Also, the Supreme Court of India, in its Order dated 31.03.2020, has observed that all concerned State Governments, Public Authorities and Citizens of this country would faithfully comply with the directives and orders issued by the Union of India in letter and spirit in the interest of public safety. This observation, which must be treated as directions of the Apex Court, has also been conveyed to all States/ UTs Governments.


    *********


    PIB Mumbai/RT/DR


    ***


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1618283) Visitor Counter : 187
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi