      PIB Headquarters

      Yavatmal District leads in Maharashtra for Home-made Mask Making
      
      More than one crore face masks prepared by Self Help Groups across the country

      Posted On: 30 APR 2020 12:17PM by PIB Mumbai

    Mumbai: 30 April 2020


    More than one crore face masks have been made by various Self-Help Groups across the country. It shows relentless effort, positive energy and united resolve of SHGs to fight Covid-19 under DAY-NULM flagship scheme of Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.


    At the core of this proud moment is a strong face of women entrepreneurs supported by the Mission. Their resilience is motivating others to multiply the efforts with more energy and determination. It is women empowerment safeguarding lives in true sense.


    Yavatmal District leads for Home-made Mask Making


    At present to stop spread of Corona Virus, use of mask by all citizens is best of option. Keeping this in mind, Women Self Help Group of Umed from Yavatmal District came forward to make masks at home for use of citizens and within a month, made over 5 lakh home-made masks. Total 2466 women from 1422 ‘Umed’ SHGs spread across 16 tehsils of Yavatmal District worked hard in this people’s movement and making the District leading one in Maharashtra. As a part of Social Responsibility, out of 5,15,775 Masks made by these SHG about 57,403 were distributed free of cost to elderly, Divyang and needy people. Over 3 lakh were distributed to Grampanchayats on no profit basis while rest of masks were sold to earn revenue over 16 lakh.


    Some Quotes from the SHG women:


    Ms. Shubhangi Chandrakant Dhaygude, President, Samrudhhi Area Level Federation (ALF) has a distinct smile on her face that symbolizes satisfaction and pride. She collects orders through phone and stitches masks at her home in Titwala, Maharashtra. She says that they have made 50000 masks and 45 more women are involved in making masks with her.


    Ms. Meenu Jha, member of Savarni SHG in Kota, Rajasthan says that even she did not imagine that this small step can be so inspiring for others. These lines of Ms. Meenu Jha reiterate the fact that all of us have unique capability of contributing in this fight even during lockdown.


    Gamocha, the traditional cloth and symbol of respect in Assam has today become a symbol of health, safety and hygiene. Ms. Rashmi from Nagaon, member of Runjhun SHG is busy preparing masks using this traditional cloth.


    Ms. Updesh Andotra, member Prayas Self Help Group in Kathua, J&K feels proud while making the tricolour masks.


    RT/PM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1619497) Visitor Counter : 104
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi