      PIB Headquarters

      Financial Literacy Week 2019 - Inauguration
      Posted On: 03 JUN 2019 6:56PM by PIB Hyderabad


    ‘ Financial Literacy Week 2019’ was inaugurated on June 3, 2019 in Reserve Bank of India, Hyderabad by Shri Rahul Bojja, Commissioner of Agriculture, Telangana State. Shri Subrata Das, Regional Director for Andhra Pradesh & Telangana State, Shri T.S.Rao, Chief General Manager, Shri Sundaram Shankar, General Manager and Smt. M. Usha, Deputy General Manager of Reserve Bank of India, Hyderabad, Chief General Managers from NABARD, Andhra Pradesh Regional Office and Telangana State Regional Office attended the meeting. Senior Officers from Andhra Bank, Canara Bank, Indian Bank, Syndicate Bank, HDFC Bank, Officials from SLBC, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and Directors from ICAR-CRIDA and ATARI also attended the function. Officials from Financial Inclusion and Development Department, RBI, Hyderabad participated in the inaugural function.


    The Financial Literacy Week is an initiative of RBI to promote awareness on key topics every year through a focused campaign. Financial Literacy Week 2019 will be observed from June 3-7 on the theme of “Farmers” and how they benefit by being a part of the formal banking system.


    Growth in agriculture is necessary for the overall economic growth & finance is an essential enabler for the same. RBI is actively involved in formulating policies that enhance the flow of credit to the farming community. In recent years, the Bank has undertaken several initiatives to strengthen credit delivery mechanism and financial inclusion.


    In order to build awareness and disseminate financial literacy messages to the farming community, focused content in the form of posters and leaflets have been prepared for dissemination. Banks have been advised to display the posters and content in their rural bank branches, Financial Literacy Centers, ATMs and websites. Further, RBI will undertake a centralized mass media campaign during the month of June on Doordarshan and All India Radio to disseminate essential financial awareness messages to farmers.


    It was informed in the inaugural function that it is RBI’s endeavour to reach out to the farming community and all stakeholders are requested to co-ordinate and make this financial literacy campaign a success.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573290) Visitor Counter : 506
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu