      Ministry of Finance

      Democracy Truly Cannot Succeed unless Those who Express their Choice are Prepared to Choose Wisely: Shri N K Singh
      Posted On: 17 JUL 2018 11:57AM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, July 16, 2018


    Democracy and development are two best choices people hanker for. Popularly elected Governments undertake decisions resulting in fiscal profligacy, excessive market borrowing leaving behind an excessive pile of debt to successor Governments would suffer under the impact of the decisions taken earlier. There cannot be a judicial recourse to this; any ruler bias would suffer from moral hazards. On the one hand, interfering and compromising with the mandate of the Government in office and its elected representatives, on the other hand, what happens to the lingering impact of the past decisions on the flexibility and freedom of choice of incumbent governments. Are the governments entitled to circumscribe the option of successor governments? The question was asked by the Chairman of the 15 th Finance Commission, Shri N K Singh here today while delivering on an interactive session on ‘Democracy and Development organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC).


    Shri Singh even advised the social media companies to adjust their sites to make clearer if a post comes from a friend or a trusted source. They could accompany the sharing of posts with reminders of the harm from misinformation. Both are often used to amplify political messages, he added.


    According to Shri Singh Twitter could disallow the worst. Most powerfully, they could adapt their algorithms to click bait lower down the feed. Another point he raised was the issue of legacy.


    At the end, Shri Singh opined that democracy truly cannot succeed unless those who express their choice are prepared to choose widely.


    Earlier in the day, the 15 th Finance Commission under the leadership of Chairman Shri N.K.Singh participated in a meeting with leaders of various political parties at Nabanna (West Bengal State Secretariat) in Kolkata today. The Members of the Commission included Shri Shaktikanta Das, Dr. Anoop Singh, Dr. Ashok Lahiri, Dr. Ramesh Chand and Secretary Shri Arvind Mehta along with a few other officials. This was followed by an interactive session with Urban Local Bodies and Panchayati Raj Institutions of the state. West Bengal is the fifth State being visited by the 15 th Finance Commission from 16 th to 18 th July 2018.


    *********


    SSS/ 16.7.18/..

    
    
    (Release ID: 1538821) Visitor Counter : 3