      Ministry of Finance

      Bengal’s economy is very strategically placed. New initiatives of West Bengal government will create huge employment in the state: Shri N.K.Singh
      Posted On: 18 JUL 2018 11:50AM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, July 17, 2018


    New initiatives of the Power sector, urbanization and utilizing the comparative factor advantages of the West Bengal government will result in huge creation of new employment in the state and will play major role in promoting Bengal’s economy, stated Shri N.K.Singh, the Chairman of the 15 th Finance Commission in Kolkata today. Briefing the media, Shri N.K.Singh said, the Commission recognized that within the last few years, economy of West Bengal has made enormous progress in terms of key micro-economic parameters, GDP growth and on improved debt management, by enhancing its own tax revenue and looking at innovative ways of finance. In addition to that, the state has made significant strides on many indices of human development, particularly on education and health sectors which are going to have multiple effect on long term growth of West Bengal’s economy, he added.


    Shri Singh mentioned that Bengal’s economy is very strategically placed and it’s the driver economy for many other economies in the East and many other economies of the bordering states. It gives Bengal’s economic development a kind of strategic positioning, he added.


    Shri Singh informed that the government of West Bengal has brought out need for the Finance Commission to look at the legacy issue of a debt over-hand. He said that the issue would be redressed in a manner that it does not become a permanent tag on the economy of West Bengal. The commission has taken a serious note of this expectation of the West Bengal government and will explore the possible way to redress the issue within its mandate, he added.


    The Chairman stated that he has been assured by the Union Finance Minister that following the detailed discussions with CSSO, if any discrepancy in regard to the key micro economic features appears, would be reconciled.


    Based on the meaningful discussions held with different officials, the Commission will continue its dialogue to sharpen on what more needs to be done both in the short term and medium term for Bengal to become an important multiply state in terms of overall growth picture for the country.


    Chief Minister of West Bengal, Smt. Mamata Banerjee, State Finance Minister Shri Amit Mitra and other members of the Finance Commission were also present on the occasion.


    *****


    CG/MSA/bb/Kol………

    
    
    (Release ID: 1538933) Visitor Counter : 5