      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      An Exclusive Non-banking Financial Company in the offing for Food Processing Sector: Harsimrat Kaur Badal
      Posted On: 13 JUL 2018 5:21PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, July 13, 2018


    The Union Ministry of Food Processing and Industry is in the process of creating a non-banking financial institution that will cater exclusively to the credit and lending needs of the food processing sector. This was stated by Union Minister for Food Processing and Industries Smt Harsimrat Kaur Badal today in an interactive session organised by Indian Chamber of Commerce, here. She added that this new financial institution will provide loans exclusively to fund food processing projects. Request for proposal for the institution, which will be called Agro processing Financial Institution is going to be out by this month.


    Smt Badal said, the financial institution will completely focus on providing credit to ago-processing enterprises and it will be driven by the private sector too. She even indicated that Government is likely to hold a minority stake in this financial institution, while the majority equity will be held by a private company.


    The Minister even spoke in details about the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana, and pointed out that, Government of India (GOI) has approved a new Central Sector Scheme – Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana (Scheme for Agro-Marine Processing and Development of Agro-Processing Clusters) with an allocation of Rs. 6,000 crore for the period 2016-20 coterminous with the 14th Finance Commission cycle. The scheme will be implemented by Ministry of Food Processing and Industries (MoFPI).


    The schemes Which will be implemented will be implemented under PM Kisan Sampada Yojana includes, Mega Food Parks , Integrated Cold Chain and Value Addition Infrastructure , Creation / Expansion of Food Processing & Preservation Capacities , Infrastructure for Agro-processing Clusters , Creation of Backward and Forward Linkages , Food Safety and Quality Assurance Infrastructure , Human Resources and Institutions .


    The Ministry is also working on an initiative called Operations Greens, Smt Badal said, which was announced in the Budget in February. Under this, Rs.500 crore has been earmarked with a focus on preventing distress sale by tomato, onion and potato farmers.


    The Minister added that her Ministry would focus on a cluster-based approach to create direct linkages between farmers of these crops and food processing companies. She said that a framework for this scheme is being prepared. Under this scheme, the focus will be on growing varieties of onions, tomatoes and potatoes that can be processed and clusters will be developed by creating infrastructure and logistics linkages between farmers and food processing companies. This is aimed at controlling price fluctuations and enhancing incomes of these farmers.


    Smt Badal even spoke on 25 mega food parks which will become operational by 2018. Out of the 42 mega food parks sanctioned, 15 have become operational. Another 15 are expected to become operational by 2019.


    **********


    SSS/ 13.67.18

    
    
    (Release ID: 1538581) Visitor Counter : 6