      Ministry of Finance

      15th Finance Commission team visits IT Sector, Eco Park, Madhyamgram Municipality and Khemia Khamarpara Gram Panchayat
      Posted On: 19 JUL 2018 12:02PM by PIB Kolkata


    Madhyamgram, West Bengal, July 18, 2018.


    Shri N.K.Singh, Chairman, 15 th Finance Commission along with other members of the Commission today visited IT Sector of New Town and Eco Park at Rajarhat area. Finance Commission members then visited Khemia Khamarpara Gram Panchayat at Barasat sub division of North 24 Pargana district, West Bengal. They have discussed about the financial and developmental activities of the Khemia Khamarpara Gram Panchayet with members of the Panchayet. This team also visited Madhayaymgram Municipality of North 24 Parganas district Magistrate and other officials welcomed Shri Singh and other members of the Commission. A meeting was held among them. Finance Commision members observed how a Gram Panchayet of West Bengal run their normal activites.


    The Commission led by Chairman Shri N.K. Singh made a courtesy call on CM Ms. Mamata Banerjee yesterday. Presentations by the State government officials were also presented before the Commission. After detailed meeting with West Bengal government yesterday, Shri N.K.Singh, in a press conference said that the Commission has taken a note of the detailed presentation made by the state government. Commission appreciated the new initiatives taken by the state government in the fields of Power Sector, creation of leather hub, a financial hub, more orderly pace of urbanization, utilizing comparative factor advantages which are creating huge employment opportunities. The Commission also noted that West Bengal economy is strategically placed bordering Nepal, Bangladesh and Bhutan and is a driver economy for many other economies in the vicinity.


    Notwithstanding the current growth momentum and the new initiatives taken, Shri Singh highlighted the need to consider and examine the legacy issues particularly the huge debt overhang and the need for structural measures in a manner which does not become a permanent drag on the state economy.


    Commission during the detailed deliberation brought out some concerns like low capital expenditure as a percentage of total expenditure. It was assured by the state government that there has been a substantial enhancement in capital expenditure.


    *******


    CG/MSA/bb/Kol……

    
    
    (Release ID: 1539204) Visitor Counter : 4