      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      3-day Capacity Building Programme on GFR, E-procurement, GeM concludes
      
      Advisor to Lt. Governor J&K Shri Farooq Khan chairs the valedictory session

      Posted On: 05 JAN 2020 5:31PM by PIB Delhi

    The deliberations of the three-day training programme on Capacity Building conducted by Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) in collaboration with National Institute for Financial Management (NIFM), National Centre for Good Governance (NCGG) and Institute of Management, Public Administration and Rural Development (IMPARD) concluded here today with Government e-Marketplace (GeM) remaining focus of speakers on day three.


    Chairing the valedictory session, Advisor to Lt. Governor, J&K, Shri Farooq Khan called upon the officers to get maximum benefit out of today’s session on GeM so that the public exchequer could be used genuinely. He exhorted that if Govt. purchase is done properly and timely, it would serve the basic purpose of the welfare of the people. He also complemented DARPG, NIFM, NCGG and IMPARD for organising such event.


    Speaking during the practical session on procurement through GeM, Joint Secretary, Govt. of India, Ministry of Commerce and Chief Finance Officer, GeM, Shri Rajeev Khandpal said that this Capacity Building Programme will give more exposure to the officials of J&K regarding General Financial Rules (GFR) and other financial matters while dealing with their day to day administrative and financial work.


    Commenting on 'GeM Samvaad', an outreach programme launched by the Government of India, Shri Rajeev Khandpal said that ‘GeM Samvaad’ has been launched by the Govt. of India with an aim and objective to get an onspot feedback from all the States and UTs regarding GeM. He added that by this outreach programme, senior officials of GeM will visit all States and UTs to get feedback on how GeM portal can be made more user friendly. The Governments of different States and UTs can save upto 25% of public exchequer by procuring various departmental equipments throgh GeM, he added.


    During the afternoon session, Business Facilitator, GeM, Shri Kush Tyagi delivered a presentation on 'Introduction to Functionality of Buyer' which highlighted the a pre-requisities for registration as primary and secondary user on GeM portal. The speaker gave an onspot demonstration on how to register as a buyer on GeM portal to the officials of J&K.


    Earlier during the morning session, a detailed and an insightful presentation on GeM was delivered by Director, GeM, Shri Deepesh Gehlot highlighting the procedure of registration on GeM portal. He also explained the mechanism of procurement on GeM portal to the participating officials.


    On January 3, the three day Capacity Building Programme was inaugurated by the Union Minister of State, PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Dr Jitendra Singh in presence of Chief Secretary, Union Territory of J&K, Shri BVR Subrahmanyam, Additional Secretary, DARPG, Shri V Srinivas and Finance Commissioner, Dr. Arun Kumar Mehta.


    During the three day programme, various technical sessions were held on wide ranging issues like GFR-2017 and Procurement of Goods, Manual for Procurement of Goods-2017, Outsourcing of non-consultancy services, Hiring of Consultancy Services, Manual for Works 2019, GeM: an introduction and registration process and procurement through GeM. The trainers had a threadbare discussion on the subjects they spoke about. They elaborated the contents of their topic with respect to the relevant sections of the GFR.


    As a part of the conference, several interactive sessions were held in every module to provide participants an opportunity to attain better understanding of various topics covered in the programme.


    Pertinently, the programme was held with an aim to promote good governance practices and evolve transparent public policy in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370. Around 385 senior high level officers of J&K Government participated in the three-day Capacity Building Programme.


    ******


    NK/NJ/SMA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1598474) Visitor Counter : 772
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi