      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railways rationalizes Passenger Fares
      
      Measure to boost modernization and state of the art facilities to passengers of Indian Railways

      Posted On: 01 JAN 2020 1:36PM by PIB Delhi

    Indian Railways has continuously endeavored to augment passenger experience through modernization and provision of improved facilities over trains and stations. The last fare revision over Indian Railways was done in 2014-15. In order to expand passenger amenities and facilities at railway stations and trains, it has become imperative to increase the fare marginally without over burdening any class of passengers. Further, the burden of 7th Pay Commission on Indian Railway has necessitated rationalization of fares. Fare revision will help in channelising the fast modernization of Indian Railway.


    Accordingly, Railways has decided to marginally effect an increase in fare. Keeping the affordability concerns of daily commuters, there shall be no fare hike for passengers over suburban sections and season ticket holders. This class constitutes 66% of total passenger segment over Indian Railways. Even for the passengers traveling in Ordinary Non AC Classes, there shall be a marginal increase of 1 paise/PKM (Passenger Kilometer). The increase in fare will be on tickets bought on or after 1 st January 2020 and no excess fare (difference of fare) will be charged from passengers who have booked tickets before 1 st January 2020. The fare revision is as below:

     1. Ordinary Non-AC classes(Non-suburban): Fare increase by 01 paise/PKM
     2. Mail/Exp Non-AC classes : Fare increase by 02 paise/PKM
     3. AC classes- Fare increase by 04 paise/PKM
     4. Suburban fare and Season tickets: No increase

    Existing fares of train services like Rajdhani, Shatabdi, Duronto, Vande Bharat, Tejas, Humsafar, Mahamana, Gatiman, Antyodaya, Garib Rath, Jan Shatabdi, Rajya Rani, Yuva Expresses, Suvidha and special trains on special charges, AC MEMU (non-suburban), AC DEMU (non-suburban) etc shall similarly be revised to the extent of the above proposed increase in class-wise fares.


    There shall be no change in charges for reservation fee, superfast surcharge etc. Such charges, wherever applicable, shall continue to be levied additionally. GST as applicable shall be levied, as per instructions issued from time to time.


    Indian Railways is constantly striving for up-gradation of amenities to passengers, modernising railway stations and providing state-of-the-art facilities on board and off -board. Rationalisation of passenger fares will boost the endeavours of Indian Railways in the same direction.


    ***


    SG/MKV/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1598122) Visitor Counter : 978
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali
    
    
    

4.