      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      First Antarrashtriya Yoga Diwas Media Samman to be conferred to 30 media houses.
      
      Awards in recognition of contribution of Media towards propagation of Yoga across the country

      Posted On: 05 JAN 2020 5:37PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of Information & Broadcasting, Shri Prakash Javadekar will confer the first ‘Antarrashtriya Yoga Diwas Media Samman’, in New Delhi on 07 th of January, 2020.


    Acknowledging the positive role & responsibility of media in disseminating the outreach of Yoga in India and abroad, the Ministry of I&B had instituted the first Antarashtriya Yoga Diwas Media Samman (AYDMS) in June, 2019 to mark the contribution of media in spreading the message of Yoga.


    The Samman to be conferred on Media Houses would be given under the following categories:

      * Thirty (30) Sammans under Three (3) categories will be conferred.
      * Eleven Sammans to be conferred under the category “Best Media Coverage of Yoga in Newspapers.
      * Eight Sammans to be conferred under the category “Best Media Coverage of Yoga in Television.
      * Eleven Sammans to be conferred under the category “Best Media Coverage of Yoga in Radio.

    The Samman will comprise of a special medal/plaque/trophy and a citation. The contribution of Media in popularizing of Yoga and the entrieswas assessed by a Jury comprising of 6 members and was headed by Justice C. K. Prasad, Chairman, Press Council of India .


    Brief on International Day of Yoga


    The International Day of Yoga has been celebrated annually on 21 June since 2015. The idea of International Day of Yoga was first proposed by the Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi, during his address at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), on 27 September 2014.


    While proposing the idea the Prime Minister stated:


    “Yoga is an invaluable gift of India's ancient tradition. It embodies unity of mind and body; thought and action; restraint and fulfillment; harmony between man and nature; a holistic approach to health and well-being. It is not about exercise but to discover the sense of oneness with yourself, the world and the nature. By changing our lifestyle and creating consciousness, it can help in well being. Let us work towards adopting an International Yoga Day.”


    Following this initial proposal, the UNGA held informal consultations on the draft resolution, entitled "International Day of Yoga", on 14 October 2014. The consultations were convened by the delegation of India.On 11 December 2014, India's Permanent Representative introduced the draft resolution in the United Nations General Assembly. The draft text received broad support from 177 Member States who sponsored the text, which was adopted without a vote. This initiative found support from most global leaders. A total of 177 nations co-sponsored the resolution, which is the highest number of co-sponsors ever for any UNGA resolution of such nature.


    ***


    GK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1598476) Visitor Counter : 874
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Tamil
    
    
    

*