      Ministry of Defence

      DRDO at 107th Indian Science Congress
      Posted On: 03 JAN 2020 8:23PM by PIB Delhi


    The Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) is participating in “Pride of India-Science Expo-2020” being held from 3-7 January at the 107 th Indian Science Congress (ISC) at University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru. The five-day mega science expo has been organized as part of 107 th Indian Science Congress (ISC-2020) inaugurated by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


    The DRDO pavilion at the expo was inaugurated today by the Union Minister of Science and Technology Dr Harsh Vardhan. He also visited various DRDO stalls and took a keen interest in the products and technologies displayed there. 31 DRDO laboratories with more than 150 exhibits and models are participating in the expo showcasing many cutting-edge indigenous defence technologies, which narrate the saga of Self-reliance & National Pride with the “Make in India” spirit. Star attractions of outdoor exhibits at DRDO Pavilion include the Long Range Surface-to-Air Missile (LRSAM), Quick Reaction Surface to Air Missile system (QRSAM), ASTRA Missile, Radars including Battle Field Surveillance Radar (BFSR), ASLESHA and BHARANI, MINI-UGV Autonomous Surveillance Robot, Sentry Autonomous Surveillance Robot etc.


    Indoor exhibits include models from each technology cluster of DRDO. Some of them are AEW&C, UAV Rustom-I and Tapas, Nirbhay Missile, Akash Missle System, Prithvi missile, Nag missile, HELINA, Maareech – Advanced Torpedo Defence System, Bukhari-the heating system, Ready-to-Eat Packaged Foods, Juices etc.


    DRDO is the R&D wing of Ministry of Defence, with more than 52 laboratories and establishments mainly engaged in the development of weapon systems, platforms and equipment for the Armed Forces.


    DRDO pavilion at the Pride of India Expo has always been a major attraction amongst visitors & students. The visitors also get a chance to interact with DRDO scientists manning the stalls. DRDO welcomes one and all to its pavilion to get a first-hand account of capabilities of our nation in the area of advanced defence technologies and opportunity to share the pride of the vibrant DRDO community.


    ABB/SS/Nampi/DK/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1598432) Visitor Counter : 1052
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu