      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister to proceed on a two day official visit to Kolkata on 11th and 12th January 2020
      
      To Dedicate 4 renovated heritage buildings to the Nation
      
      To Participate in Sesquicentenary celebration of the Kolkata Port Trust
      
      To Fulfil the Pension Requirements of the Retired and Existing Employees of the Kolkata Port Trust
      
      To felicitate two oldest surviving Centenarian retired employees of the port Trust
      
      Posted On: 10 JAN 2020 12:13PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is proceeding on a two day official visit to Kolkata on the 11th and 12th January 2020.


    Dedication of Heritage Buildings to the Nation


    On the 11th of January, the Prime Minister shall dedicate to the Nation Four Refurbished Heritage Buildings in Kolkata to the Nation.


    These are the Old Currency Building, the Belvedere House, the Metcalfe House and the Victoria Memorial Hall. The Union Ministry of Culture has renovated these 4 iconic galleries and refurbished them with new exhibitions while curating the old galleries.


    Ministry of Culture under the direction of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is developing cultural spaces around iconic buildings in various metro cities in the country. To begin with the cities of Kolkata, Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Varanasi are being taken up under this project.


    Sesquicentenary Celebrations of the Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT)


    The Prime Minister shall also participate in the grand Sesquicentenary Celebrations of the Kolkata Port Trust on the 11th and 12th January 2020.


    Shri Narendra Modi shall be handing over a Cheque of Rs 501 Crore towards final instalment to meet the deficit of pension fund of retired and existing employees of the Kolkata Port Trust.


    In a memorable event, the Prime Minister shall also be felicitating two oldest pensioners of the Kolkata Port Trust Shri Nagina Bhagat and Shri Naresh Chandra Chakraborty (105 and 100 years respectively).


    The Prime Minister shall also launch the Port Anthem during the event.


    Shri Modi shall also unveil a plaque of 150 years of commemorative installation at the site of original Port Jetties.


    The Prime Minister shall also inaugurate the upgraded Ship Repair Faciility of Cochin Kolkata Ship Repair Unit at Netaji Subhas Dry Dock.


    Shri Narendra Modi shall inaugurate the Full Rake Handling Facility while dedicating the upgraded Railway Infrastructure of Kolkata Dock System of KoPT for smooth cargo movement and improving turnaround time.


    Prime Minister shall also launch the Mechanisation of Berth No.3 at Haldia Dock Complex of KoPT and a proposed riverfront development scheme.


    Prime Minister shall also inaugurate Kaushal Vikas Kendra and Pritilata Chhatri Avas for 200 Tribal girl students of Sunderbans, a project undertaken by KoPT with Purvanchal Kalyan Ashram, Gosaba, Sunderbans affiliate to Akhil Bharatiya Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram.


    PM @narendramodi will visit Kolkata on 11th and 12th January 2020. He will be taking part in various programmes during his visit.

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 10, 2020

    ***


    VRRK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1598993) Visitor Counter : 925
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Assamese , Bengali , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada