      Ministry of Defence

      Proposals of 16 States/UTs & six Ministries/Departments shortlisted for participation in Republic Day Parade 2020
      Posted On: 01 JAN 2020 9:30PM by PIB Delhi


    There is a well-established system for selection of tableaux for participation in the Republic Day Parade as per which Ministry of Defence invites proposals for tableau from all States/UTs and Central Ministries/Departments.


    The tableaux proposals received from various States/UTs and Central Ministries/Departments are evaluated in a series of meetings of the Expert Committee comprising of eminent persons in the field of art, culture, painting, sculpture, music, architecture, choreography etc. The Expert Committee examines the proposals on the basis of theme, concept, design and its visual impact before making its recommendations. Due to time constraints arising out of overall duration of the parade, only a limited number of tableaux can be shortlisted for participation in the parade. The selection process in vogue, leads to participation of the best tableaux in the parade.


    For Republic Day Parade 2020, a total of 56 tableaux proposals (32 from States/UTs and 24 from Ministries/Departments) were received. Out of these, 22 proposals, comprising of 16 States/UTs and 6 Ministries/Departments, have finally been shortlisted for participation in the Republic Day Parade 2020 after a series of five meetings.


    The tableau proposal of Govt. of West Bengal was examined by the Expert Committee in two rounds of meetings. The tableau proposal of Govt. of West Bengal was not taken forward for further consideration by the Expert Committee after deliberations in the second meeting. It is pertinent to mention here that the tableau of Govt. of West Bengal was shortlisted for participation in Republic Day Parade 2019 as an outcome of the same process.


    ABB/SS/Nampi/DK/Savvy/ADA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1598220) Visitor Counter : 873
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu