      Prime Minister's Office

      PM congratulates General Bipin Rawat on taking charge as India’s first Chief of Defence Staff
      Posted On: 01 JAN 2020 2:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has congratulated General Bipin Rawat on taking charge as India’s first Chief of Defence Staff.


    “I am delighted that as we begin the new year and new decade, India gets its first Chief of Defence Staff in General Bipin Rawat. I congratulate him and wish him the very best for this responsibility. He is an outstanding officer who has served India with great zeal.


    As the first CDS takes charge, I pay homage to all those who have served and laid down their lives for our nation. I recall the valiant personnel who fought in Kargil, after which many discussions on reforming our military began, leading to today’s historic development.


    On 15 th August 2019, from the ramparts of the Red Fort, I announced that India will have a Chief of Defence Staff. This institution carries tremendous responsibility of modernizing our military forces. It would also reflect the hopes and aspirations of 1.3 billion Indians.


    Creation of the Department of Military Affairs with requisite military expertise and institutionalisation of the post of CDS is a momentous and comprehensive reform that will help our country face the ever-changing challenges of modern warfare”, the Prime Minister said.


    I am delighted that as we begin the new year and new decade, India gets its first Chief of Defence Staff in General Bipin Rawat. I congratulate him and wish him the very best for this responsibility. He is an outstanding officer who has served India with great zeal.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) January 1, 2020

    As the first CDS takes charge, I pay homage to all those who have served and laid down their lives for our nation. I recall the valiant personnel who fought in Kargil, after which many discussions on reforming our military began, leading to today’s historic development.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) January 1, 2020

    On 15th August 2019, from the ramparts of the Red Fort, I announced that India will have a Chief of Defence Staff. This institution carries tremendous responsibility of modernizing our military forces. It would also reflect the hopes and aspirations of 1.3 billion Indians.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) January 1, 2020

    Creation of the Department of Military Affairs with requisite military expertise and institutionalisation of the post of CDS is a momentous and comprehensive reform that will help our country face the ever-changing challenges of modern warfare.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) January 1, 2020

    ****


    VRRK/KP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1598133) Visitor Counter : 1471
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Malayalam