      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      India and Bangladesh ink key agreements in Information & Broadcasting sector.
      Posted On: 14 JAN 2020 6:00PM by PIB Delhi


    India and Bangladesh signed key agreements in the field of Information and Broadcasting at the Information and Broadcasting Minister’s meet 2020, in New Delhi today. In the presence of Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting, Shri Prakash Javadekar and his Bangladeshi counterpart Muhammad H Mahmud a formal co-production agreement was signed on the biopic of “BangaBandhu”, Sheikh Mujibur Rehman, which will be released during the birth centenary year of Bangabandhu. Bangladesh has decided to celebrate the ‘Mujib Year’ from March 17, 2020 to March 17, 2021 to mark the centenary year of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the first President of Bangladesh.


    Deepening India’s engagement with Bangladesh, an airtime exchange programme between Prasar Bharati and Bangladesh Radio Betar was also launched. With today’s launch content from Maitree service has started airing in Dhaka and reciprocally content from Bangladesh Radio Betar has started airing on All India Radio in Kolkata.


    Terming Indo Bangladesh friendship as organic, Union Information and Broadcasting minister, Shri Prakash Javadekar said that both countries share a great legacy. “We look forward to engage further with Bangladesh TV (BTV) and Betar in co-production of content, also India will extend all possible cooperation to Bangladesh in setting up the BongoBandhu film city”, said Shri Javadekar.


    Happy to inform that a formal MoU for the co-production of a film on BangaBandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman was inked today.The film, to be directed by eminent director/producer Shri Shyam Benegal, will be completed on time & released as part of centenary celebrations of BangaBandhu. pic.twitter.com/veiKqvr00c

    — Prakash Javadekar (@PrakashJavdekar) January 14, 2020

    The information minister of Bangladesh Muhammad H Mahmud said that the relationship between New Delhi and Dhaka has reached new heights under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina.”Without the support of India, the liberation of Bangladesh would never have been possible; our relationship is historic”, said Shri Mahmud in his inaugural address.


    ***


    GK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599366) Visitor Counter : 758
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali