      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad to inaugurate NIC TechConclave 2020
      
      This year’s theme: Technologies for NextGen Governance
      
      Posted On: 20 JAN 2020 3:53PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister for Law & Justice, Communications and Electronics & Information Technology, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad to inaugurate the 2nd edition of ‘NIC TechConclave 2020’, a two-day event being organized by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), at Pravasi Bhartiya Kendra, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi tomorrow. The Secretary – MeitY, Shri Ajay Sawhney and the President, CISCO (India and SAARC), Shri Sameer Garde will also grace the occasion.


    This year’s theme is ‘Technologies for NextGen Governance’.


    The NIC has been instrumental in steering application of Information and Communications Technology (ICT) at various levels in the Government. This application is an important component of Digital India, a flagship program of the Government to transform India into a digital nation. Besides setting up National ICT Infrastructure for the Government, NIC has also designed and developed solutions/platforms for various sectors of the Government at the Centre and State. This facilitates wider transparency, data driven planning & management and enhancement in the quality of Services.


    The ICT landscape in the country has changed tremendously due to the emergence of new technologies and path-breaking innovations, facilitating efficient service delivery to citizens and transparent dissemination of information. The adoption of these technologies will be instrumental in the digital transformation of the country.


    This Conclave will contribute immensely to the capacity building of Government officers across the country and help in delivering high-quality citizen-centric services.


    The speakers in the Conclave are experts from the IT industry who will share their expertise on various areas like Cyber Security, Hyperscale Architecture, Design Thinking etc.


    ***


    BN/BK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599846) Visitor Counter : 745
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi