      Ministry of Education

      Prime Minister interacts with Students from India and abroad in this year’s edition of Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020
      Posted On: 20 JAN 2020 5:53PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi interacted with Students from India and abroad in this year’s edition of Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020 held at Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi today. Students were thrilled after receiving valuable tips from the Prime Minister regarding beating stress in every walk of life. 50 Divyang students also took part in the interaction programme. The interaction, which lasted for over ninety minutes, saw students seeking guidance on various issues of importance to them from the Prime Minister. The Ministry of Human Resource Development of Government of India organized the Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020 programme. Union Minister for Human Resource Development Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, Minister of State for HRD Shri Sanjay Dhotre, Smt. Amit Khare, Secretary, MHRD and senior officials of the ministry were also present on the occasion.


    A painting and poster making competition was held on exam related issues for CBSE & KVS school students and around 725 posters and paintings were received. Around 50 paintings were selected and exhibited before the Prime Minister during the Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020.


    At the outset, the Prime Minister wished all the students a prosperous new year and a new decade. Explaining the importance of the decade, the Prime Minister said that the hopes and aspirations of the current decade rest on those students who are in their final years of schooling in the country.


    He said, “In whatever the country does in this decade, those children who are in 10th, 11th and 12th standards now have a very great role to play. To make the country reach new heights, to achieve new hopes, all this is dependent on this new generation”.


    Before beginning the interaction, the Prime Minister said notwithstanding that he attends various events and programmes, the one event which is dear to his heart is Pariksha Pe Charcha.


    “As Prime Minister one gets to attend numerous types of programmes. You get to learn a lot in such interactions. Each of them provides a new set of experiences. But, if someone asks me about the one programme that touches my heart the most, I would say it is this Pariksha Pe Charcha. I also love attending Hackathons. They showcase the power and talent of India’s youth”, he said.


    Dealing with demotivation and mood swings:


    Replying to a question from a student about losing interest while studying, the Prime Minister said most often students get demotivated due to factors that are external to them and also as they try to attach too much significance to their own expectations.


    Prime Minister asked the students to find out the reason for the demotivation and ponder over how to deal with it. He gave the example of the recent issue of Chandrayaan and his visit to ISRO.


    “Motivation, demotivation are very common. Everyone goes through these feelings. In this regard, I can never forget my visit to ISRO during Chandrayaan and the time spent with our hardworking scientists.


    He said, “We should not look at failures as setbacks or stumbling blocks. We can add enthusiasm to every aspect of life. A temporary setback doesn’t mean that we cannot succeed in life. In fact a setback may mean that the best is yet to come. We should try to convert our distresssituations as stepping stones for a bright future”


    The Prime Minister also gave examples of how cricketers Rahul Dravid and V V S Laxman batted in difficult situations during India – Australia match in 2001 and extracted India out of claws of defeat to clinch victory for the country.


    He also talked about how India bowler Anil Kumble bowled to India’s glory notwithstanding his injury.


    “This is the power of positive motivation”, he said.


    Balancing Extra- Curricular Activities and Studies:


    To a question on how to balance studies and extracurricular activities, the Prime Minister said the importance of co-curricular activities in a student’s life cannot be understated.


    He said, “Not pursuing extra-curricular activities can make a student like a robot”.


    But he also said that balancing studies and extracurricular activities would require a better and optimal time management by the students.


    “Today there are plenty of opportunities and I hope youngsters make use of them and pursue a hobby or an activity of their interest with proper zeal”, he said.


    However he also cautioned the parents not to make the extra-curricular interests of their children a fashion statement or a calling card.


    “What is not good is when the passion of the children become fashion statements for parents. Extra-curricular activities needn’t be glamour driven. Let each child pursue what he or she likes”, he said.


    Whether scores are all that matter:


    On a question on how to score marks in examinations and whether they are the determining factor, the Prime Minister said, “Our education system determines our success based on our performance in various exams. Even though we focus our attention on scoring good marks and our parents too, exhort us towards it. “


    Saying that there are several opportunities today, he asked the students to come out of the feeling that success or failure at exams determines everything.


    “Marks are not life. Similarly examination is not the determining factor for our whole life. It is a stepping stone, an important stepping stone in life. I pray to parents not to tell them that this is everything. If it does not happen, don’t behave as if you lost everything. You can go to any field. There are umpteen opportunities”, he said.


    Exams are important, but exams are not life. You should come out of this mind-set, he said.


    Importance of Technology in Education


    To a question on the importance of technology and its use in education, the Prime Minister said, that while the students should keep themselves updated with the latest in technology, the Prime Minister also urged them to be careful of the perils of its misuse.


    “Fear of technology is not good. Technology is a friend. Merely knowledge of technology isn’t enough. It’s application is as important. Technology is a part of our daily lives, but if we misuse it, it robs our valuable time and resources”, he said.


    Rights Vs Duties


    To a question on what are the rights of the students and on how to make the citizens aware of their duties, the Prime Minister said that an individual’s rights are embedded in his duties.


    Giving an example of a teacher, he said, if a teacher performs his duties then he is fulfilling the rights of the students.


    Referring to what the Father of the Nation opined on the issue, the Prime Minister said, “Mahatma Gandhi said that there are no fundamental rights but fundamental duties”.


    “Today, I am talking to students who would be playing a key role in India’s development in 2047, when we mark a hundred years since independence. I hope this generation takes it upon themselves to act on some of the Fundamental Duties enshrined in our Constitution”, he said.


    How to deal with pressure and expectations from parents and teachers?


    On how to deal with the pressure and expectations from parents and teachers, the Prime Minister urged the parents not pressurize the students but to pursue with them.


    “The way ahead lies in pursuing, not pressuring children. Inspire children to do things that bring out their inner potential”


    Best time to study and blanking out during the exam and Fear of Board Exams


    On a question on what is the best time to study, the Prime Minister advised that ample rest is as important as the study itself.


    He said, “While mind is as fresh early in the morning as the sky after rain, one should only follow that routine in which one is comfortable”


    On the issue of sudden blanking out during exams, the Prime Minister asked the students to be thorough in their preparation.


    “I would urge students to be confident about their own preparation. Do not enter the exam hall with any sort of pressure. Do not worry about what others are doing. Have faith in yourself and focus on what you’ve prepared”, he said.


    Future Career Options


    On the subject of future career options, the Prime Minister asked the students pursue their heart and work with zeal to deliver for the nation and its development


    “Careers are very important, everyone has to take some responsibility. We can always contribute to the nation while delivering our responsibilities”, he said.


    Speaking on the occasion, Union Minister for Human Resource Development Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said that India has one of the largest educational systems in the world with around 1000 universities, 40000 plus degree colleges, 16 lakh schools, 1 crore teachers, 33 crore students and the Ministry of HRD has taken a number of initiatives to provide holistic and quality education to all the students across the country. He expressed his gratitude to the Prime Minister for taking out time for the students with the view to imbibe self-confidence in the tough days of the examinations and relieve stress in challenging environment. He said that it is a matter of pride that under the leadership of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, India's image has enhanced in a big way and now India isproviding leadership to the entire world, whether it is in the field of climate change or solar energy or strengthening of democratic values. Under the leadership of the Prime Minister, India is playinga decisive role in raising the voice against terrorism; propagating yoga and establishing peace in the world.


    In his welcome address, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’said that t he exam time is stressful and difficult for everyone but with determined strength and mental stability, we can face the challenge of examination. The Minister informed that more than 15 crore students from all the States and Union Territories of India;and students, parents, teachers from 25 countries from all over the world are watching this programlive.


    Online competition in ‘short essays’ was launched for students of classes 9 to 12 for the third edition of Prime Minister's Interaction Programme "ParikshaPeCharcha 2020”. The entries for the competition were invited online through www.mygov.in . More than 3 lakh children registered themselves out of which over 2.6 lakh students participated in the competition. 1.03 lakhs students had participated in the competition in 2019. Selected winners attended Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020 and interacted with Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


    For the above mentioned online competitions, students participated through
    www.mygov.in website on the following themes:


    Gratitude is great: A short write-up on the people who a student thinks has played an important role in his/her academic journey so far mentioning why he/she is grateful to them.


    Your future depends on your Aspirations: A short write-up on the goals and career aspirationsa student sets for himself/herself.


    Examining Exams: Opinion of students on prevailing examination system and suggestions on ideal examination system.


    Our Duties, Your Take: Write-up on duties of citizens and how one can inspire everyone to become more dutiful citizens.


    Balance is Beneficial: Write-up on balanced activities of students apart from studies.


    The First edition of Prime Minister’s Interaction Programme with school and college students "ParikshaPeCharcha 1.0" was held at Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi on 16th February, 2018. The second edition of the said Interaction Programme with school and college students "ParikshaPeCharcha 2.0” was also held at Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi on 29th January, 2019. Last year more than 8.5 Crore students from across the country viewed or heard the programme on DD/TV Channels/ Radio Channels. It was widely covered by print and electronic media. As per media reports, the interaction programme, became a raging hit on social media, and was the No. 1 trend conversation on “Pariksha Pe Charcha" which got more than 2.5 million impressions on twitter. It was widely viewed on youtube, Facebook Live, through webcasting, among others. Participation of Indian community abroad will also be encouraged, as done last year.


    ****


    NB/AKJ/AK/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599870) Visitor Counter : 433
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Malayalam