      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      An Industry Meet ahead of ‘Wings India 2020’ Kickstarts in Bengaluru today
      
      Bengaluru has the potential of becoming the aviation capital of India: Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation

      Posted On: 18 JAN 2020 4:05PM by PIB Delhi

    Indian aviation and technology leaders gathered in Bengaluru for industry meet ahead of “Wings India 2020”, Asia’s largest civil aviation event. Shri Pradeep Singh Kharola, Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation, Government of India, Smt. Usha Padhee, JS, Ministry of Civil Aviation, Dr. S Unnikrishnan Nair, Chairman, Director, Human Space Flight Centre ISRO along with other senior government officials graced the occasion.


    Addressing the event, Shri Pradeep Singh Kharola, Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation, Government of India said " Over the last decade, India has witnessed a robust civil aviation market, and through this event we aim to provide a congenial forum that will cater to the rapidly changing dynamics of the sector, focusing on new business acquisition, investments, policy formation and regional connectivity.”


    He added, “Bengaluru being the IT capital of India, it has the potential of becoming the aviation capital of India”.


    Wings India 2020, a flagship event of the Indian Civil Aviation industry will be held at Begumpet Airport, Hyderabad from 12-15 March 2020.


    ‘Wings India 2020’- a four-day event themed: “Flying for All’’ is an international platform focused on the new business acquisition, investments, policy formation and regional connectivity in the civil aviation industry.


    Speaking at the event, Dr. S. Unnikrishnan Nair, Director, Human Space Flight Centre ISRO, said “India is set to trigger revival of the global aviation sector. The civil aviation and space industry together will have a world class training facility for pilots and astronauts. We are sure that the exhibition for aviation as well as space fraternity is a platform to develop new growth spots that can be targeted to ensure a positive curve."


    Earlier, welcoming the dignitaries, Usha Padhee JS, Ministry of Civil Aviation, Government of India, said


    “This summit aims to bring all players, facilitators, and regulators of aviation fraternity under one roof to explore opportunities together. It’s a platform for all civil aviation sector stakeholders to achieve greater synergies; learn from best practices of each other”.


    Wings India 2020 is also Asia’s largest and most popular gathering in the industry. Organized by the Ministry of Civil Aviation, Govt. of India, AAI and FICCI the event is expected to attract top leaders, special invitees in foreign ministers for civil aviation and global CEOs, suppliers, strategic partners, organizations and the media.


    ***********


    RJ/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599762) Visitor Counter : 1097
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi