      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Launch of Paperless Licensing process for Petroleum Road Tankers to provide ease of doing business
      
      Boost to Digital India Campaign Championing the cause of Digitisation and Modernisation
      
      Move to Curb Red Tapism and Bureaucratic Hurdle with faster response time

      Posted On: 10 JAN 2020 3:36PM by PIB Delhi

    In line with the vision of Prime Minister, Narendra Modi’s Digital India and Ease of Doing Business, the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Ministry of Commerce and Industry, has launched paperless licensing process through Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) for road tankers for transportation of petroleum under the Petroleum Rules, 2002.


    This is a significant move towards paperless and green India that will provide simpler mechanism, ease of living and business to the petroleum road tanker owners . Moving towards digitisation, the process will include filing the applications online. This will also include online payment of fees which will go directly to the concerned officer’s ID without any manual interface. Applicants, at each stage of processing of the application, will be intimated via SMS and email, whether discrepancy or grant of licence or approval. This will be in addition to the same being reflected in the applicant’s profile.


    The new process will update the applicant at each stage triggering an e-mail and SMS immediately when the licence is granted by the officer concerned and is dispatched electronically. All this process will be without any need for printing and physical dispatch.


    This extraordinary and forward looking initiative is directly going to benefit more than one lakh petroleum road tanker owners who together hold more than half of total licences issued under the Petroleum Rules, 2002. An added advantage of this move is that the authenticity of the licence can be verified through public domain available on PESO’s website. This automation is going to revolutionise the petroleum & gas industry benefitting it immensely.


    ***


    MM/ SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1599017) Visitor Counter : 1595
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali