      Ministry of Shipping

      Shri Mansukh Mandaviya participates in the Round-table of UNAIDS on the theme “Access for all: Leveraging Innovations, Investments and Partnerships for Health”
      
      Innovative Technologies and Solutions can play a key role in bridging Economic Inequalities: Shri Mansukh Mandaviya

      Posted On: 21 JAN 2020 4:28PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of State for Shipping (I/C) and Chemical & Fertilizers Shri Mansukh Mandaviya today participated in the High-level roundtable of UNAIDS (The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS) on the theme Access for all: Leveraging Innovations, Investments and Partnerships for Health at World Economic Forum at Davos , Switzerland .


    In a one-hour long discussion Shri Mandaviya stated that, “Health needs to be accessible for all and innovative technologies and solutions can play a key role, including in bridging economic inequalities”. Shri Mandaviya is on a Four-day official visit to Davos to attend World Economic Forum.


    The Minister of State for Shipping (I/C) and Chemical & Fertilizers Shri Mansukh Mandaviya attended the High-level roundtable of UNAIDS (The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS) at World Economic Forum at Davos , Switzerland today.


    Shri Mansukh Mandaviya in the High-level roundtable discussed about what Government of India has done for Health Access to All in the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. He mentioned various schemes initiated by Government of India for ‘Creating a Healthy India’. He deliberated about the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (Ayushman Bharat) - the largest healthcare programme in the world and Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Pariyojana – to provide affordable quality medicines for all.


    Participated in the @UNAIDS roundtable, in @wef, described various schemes initiated by the GoI under able leadership of PM Sh @narendramodi ji. Discussed Jan Aushadhi Pariyojana and Ayushman Bharat aiming to Affordable Quality Healthcare for all. #wef20 #LeaveNoOneBehind pic.twitter.com/IdjaVIFLvi

    — Mansukh Mandaviya (@mansukhmandviya) January 21, 2020

    Earlier in 2015, Shri Mansukh Mandaviya had delivered his key-note address in United Nations on “2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”. In his address he mentioned how Government of India is changing the scenario of health-sector, and the policy changes driven by Government for Affordable and Quality Health Access to All.


    UNAIDS provides the strategic direction, advocacy, coordination and technical support needed to catalyse and connect leadership from governments, the private sector and communities to deliver life-saving HIV services. UNAIDS is leading the global effort to end AIDS as a public health threat by 2030 as part of the Sustainable Development Goals.


    ****


    NB/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599994) Visitor Counter : 671
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Gujarati