      Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises

      Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises Minister Inaugurates ELECRAMA 2020
      Posted On: 18 JAN 2020 4:39PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Heavy Industries &Public Enterprises, Environment, Forest and Climate Change and Information & Broadcasting, Prakash Javadekar today inaugurated ELECRAMA 2020, at India Expo Mart in Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh. Minister of Power and New and Renewable Energy (Independent Charge) R K Singh and Minister of Industries in Uttar Pradesh Government, StatishMahana were also present on the occasion. ELECRAMA is the flagship showcase of the Indian electrical industry and a platform to connect the world with Indian industry in respect of technology, new trends and innovation for future energy transition.


    In his special address, Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises said that the annual growth of energy should be 10% for many years to come even if the country’s economy grows at the rate of 6% annually. Referring to demand for more relief by the industry, he said that industry’s cause must translate into societal cause for the benefit of society as well as the industry. He said that electricity for a poor household is not only a facility but also an empowerment and main source of inspiration. The Minister also referred to electrification of 18 thousand unelectrifiedvillages and congratulated the Power Minister, RK Singh for fulfilling this commitment of Prime Minister Narendra Modi within a time frame of 1000 days. He further stated that 3.5 crore households were given power connections under SAUBHAGYA (PradhanMantriSahajBijliHarGharYojana) scheme.


    The Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises Minister asked the electrical industry to focus on quality of electrical equipment stating that main cause of fire incidents in many cases is poor quality of equipment and faulty wiring. The Minister urged the power industry to become part of product chain and not just supplier of spare parts. He mentioned the success story of LED bulbs which led to saving of thousands of crores of rupees in power bills to the customers and also protecting environmentthrough installation of 400 million LED bulb. Shri Javadekar said that energy efficiency is a big issue and to tackle the adverse impacts of climate change tools of energy efficiency must be used.


    Emphasising on the quality of electrical goods, Shri Prakash Javadekarsaid there can be no compromise on quality. People want ease of living and new facilities for which electricity is an asset, the Minister pointed out. People will need more electricity and more electrical equipment and therefore demands of power as well as electrical goods are bound to go up, said the Minister. He said that the per capita consumption of energy is very low in India as compared to developed countries.


    The Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises Ministersaid that electrical vehicle is the future of India and the work on it has begun. Electrical vehicles will reduce environmental pollution and also lead to efficiency in use of energy. He informed that there are around 5 lakh electrical vehicles including two wheelers and four wheelers in the country.


    Speaking on the occasion, Power Minister R.K. Singh said that the electricity sector has been transformed in the last few years and the whole country has been connected with one grid and one frequency. Now India has become power surplus country and is exporting power. He said that investment in transmission and distribution system is continuing and will pick up pace. The Power Minister said that per capita consumption need to be tripled to reach the global average of 3600 units. He said that government is revamping energy tariff policy and any subsidy, that has to be given to any category of electricity consumers by the State Governments, should be done through direct benefit transfer scheme. The Power Minister also spoke about the need of reform in the power distribution system. He said that the government is coming out with a new trajectory of loss reduction and distribution companies will have to follow this trajectory if they want to get further grants from the Central Government or if they want to access loans from the Power Finance Corporation.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599767) Visitor Counter : 1100
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi