      Ministry of Culture

      Prime Minister Dedicates Four Refurbished Heritage Buildings in Kolkata to the Nation
      Posted On: 11 JAN 2020 10:29PM by PIB Delhi


    The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi dedicated to the nation Four Refurbished Heritage Buildings in Kolkata today. These are Old Currency Building, the Belvedere House, the Metcalfe House and the Victoria Memorial Hall. The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Culture and Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel and Governor of West Bengal Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar were also present on this occasion.


    Photo Caption: The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi addressed at the dedication ceremony of the four refurbished Heritage Buildings to the nation, in Kolkata.


    Speaking on the occasion, Prime Minister termed it as a special day, as it begins a nationwide campaign to preserve India's art, culture and heritage, and to Reinvent, Rebrand, Renovate and Rehouse them. Shri Modi said that India always wanted to protect and modernize its cultural heritage and structures. It is with this spirit that the Union Government has taken up the endeavour to develop India as major centre of Heritage Tourism in the World. He mentioned that five 5 Iconic Museums in the country will be made in keeping with the International standards. This is being started from the Indian Museum in Kolkata, which is one of the oldest museums in the world, he added.


    Kindly click the link for the full speech of Prime Minister


    Photo caption: The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi unveiled the ‘Ardhnarishwar’ sculpture at Old Currency Building in Kolkata in the presence of the Union Minister of State (I/C) for Culture and Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel and Governor of West Bengal Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar.


    Speaking on the occasion the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Culture and Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel said that it is a great privilege that the Prime Minister is dedicating these historical and heritage buildings in Kolkata to the Nation. The minister lauded the dedicated efforts of the officials of the Culture Ministry which helped the refurbished structures to come into being within the stipulated period. The renovated four heritage buildings are now open for the public. Our museum and the objects placed in it are the heritage of all of us. We all need to take care of them together, he added. Shri Patel also praised the art-works curated Old Currency Building, named Ghare Baire, from where the Prime Minister dedicated three other iconic and historical buildings of Kolkata, namely, Belvedere House, Victoria Memorial Hall and Metcalfe House.


    Kindly click the link for details of the renovated heritage buildings


    *****


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599173) Visitor Counter : 572
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi