      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Third Day of Special Outreach Programme Begins in J&K
      
      Opportunity to Meet People and Understand their needs:Debasree Chaudhuri

      Posted On: 20 JAN 2020 6:58PM by PIB Delhi

    The Minister of State for Woman and Child Development, Debasree Chaudhuri today said that the Central Government aims to promote good governance, generate employment and ensure all the beneficiary oriented schemes reach the citizens in Jammu & Kashmir (J&K). Addressing a public meeting, during the third day of the Central Government’s special public outreach programme to disseminate information about the implementation of its policies and programmes for the overall development of Jammu and Kashmir and its people at Marh, Jammu, Debasree Chaudhuri said that it is a great opportunity given by the Prime Minister to elected representatives to meet people and understand their needs.


    The Minister further stated that all the pending approvals for the developmental work in J&K have been cleared, farmers have been compensated for their crop losses and many thousand kilometres of roads have been constructed under PMGSY. She further said that all the centrally sponsored schemes and programmes will be given top priority in J&K.


    Debasree Chaudhuri said that Integrated Child Development Services is an ambitious initiative of Central Government which provides food, pre-school education, primary healthcare, immunization, health check-up and referral services to the children and their mothers. She also said that other centrally sponsored schemes including Mid-Day Meals, Pulse Polio, Child Protection and Development, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao can be game changers for the people of J&K if implemented properly in UT.


    Giving details of some centrally sponsored schemes, the Minister said that 2.5 lakh toilets have been constructed under Swach Bharat, Ujjwala scheme has reached hundred percent targets 3.5 lakh golden cards have been distributed under Ayushman Bharat scheme in less than 6 months and rate of disbursal of pensions for Divyangjan and widows has increased from 62% in 2018 to 80% till date.


    Stating that democracy at the grass root level is the need of the hour for the development of J&K, the Minister reiterated that the conduct of Block Development Council Elections in J&K was a historical step which has empowered people and given them a say in the decision making in the local Government. She further said that the Panchayat elections that were held in 2018, despite various challenges, proves that J&K desires development in every sphere and believes in the policies and programmes of the Government.


    During her visit, the Minister also laid the foundation stone of two road projects from Machaini- Domana to Chibba Chowk and from Gajansoo to Lohrichak Rathana.


    Various delegations called on the Minister of State for Women and Child Development and submitted memorandum of their demands and problems, which include issues like 4 percent reservation quota and separate schools for physically challenged community and all other facilities which are applicable in different States and UTs for welfare of Divyangjan persons.


    ***


    MM/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599886) Visitor Counter : 424
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi