      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NDRF celebrates its 15th Raising Day
      
      NDRF saved more than one lakh lives in its 3100 operations: MoS Shri Nityanand Rai

      Posted On: 18 JAN 2020 2:25PM by PIB Delhi

      The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) celebrated its 15th Raising Day here today . The Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Nityanand Rai was the chief guest on this occasion and Shri G.V.V. Sarma, Member Secretary, NDMA was the Guest of Honor.


      MoS, Shri Nityanad Rai while appreciating the role of the NDRF in saving the human lives and national property in disaster response operations said that Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister , Shri Amit shah have full faith in the NDRF and it has always been in the forefront to tackle any kind of disaster occurring in the country. The force has earned good name and fame nationally and internationally with its selfless service and unmatched professionalism in disaster management, he said.


      While congratulating the Force on its 15th Raising Day, the Minister said that since its inception in 2006, NDRF has saved more than One lakh lives in its 3100 operations and rescued/evacuated over 6.7 lakh people during disasters.


      He again said that PM, Shri Narendra Modi is proud of the service done by the NDRF to the nation and praised it for its role in the field of Disaster Management. The Minister said that this force has done commendable job in last few years to save the lives of people in distress by demonstrating high level of professionalism, determination and hard work by countering multiple challenges with bravery.


      The Minister also suggested that following the PM, Shri Narendra Modi's directions, NDRF should work in coordination with State SDRFs and collect information of all the available resources and equipments near the disaster prone areas.


      Speaking on the training and awareness programmes of the Force , Shri Nitayanad Rai said that NDRF has so far imparted training to more than 4000 volunteers and has a target to give training to more than 70000 volunteers by 2024 at the local levels in different parts of the country.


      Member Secretary, NDMA, Shri G.V.V. Sarma also appreciated hard work, sincerity and dedication of Force personnel and applauded its efforts in disaster risk reduction. He also emphasized on the capacity building with SDRFs and procuring the modern equipment and technology for disaster management.


      Director General, NDRF Shri S N Pradhan while complementing the NDRF for its role in saving the lives from disasters striking the country during last year, said that it is most visible face in the disaster management as it has always lived up to the expectations of people of the country over the years.


      On this occasion, MoS for Home Affairs Sh. Nityanand Rai presented the medals to the awardees of Distinguished Service Medals and trophies to the winner of school safety and best battalion sports competition. A booklet on SOPs was also released on the occasion.


      A workshop was also be conducted on ‘Urban flooding & challenges’ and ‘Biological Emergencies & New Technology in Disaster Management’. The program was attended by the Heads of premier disaster management Institutes, senior officers of Central Police Forces and dignitaries from various central agencies..


      *****


      SNC/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599752) Visitor Counter : 932
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi