      Ministry of Education

      Prime Minister to interact with students for another exciting edition of “Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020” tomorrow
      
      50 Divyang students will also take part in the interaction programme at Talkatora Stadium

      Posted On: 19 JAN 2020 6:18PM by PIB Delhi

    The third edition of the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi's Town Hall interaction programme Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020 with students from India and abroad to beat exam stress will be held tomorrow at 11 a.m. at Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi. Around 2000 students are participating from all over India in Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020.


    A lot of excitement and enthusiasm is being seen among the students to not only participate in the unique event but also to receive valuable tips from the Prime Minister who is keen to ensure that the students take exams in a relaxed atmosphere and do not come under stress, to ensure better results in the long run.


    The HRD Ministry in partnership with MyGov launched a ‘short essay’ competition on five different themes for students of classes 9 to 12 for the third edition of Prime Ministers Interaction Programme "ParikshaPeCharcha 2020”.The entries for the competition were invited online from 2nd December, 2019 to 23rd December, 2019 through www.mygov.in More than 3 lakh children registered themselves out of which over 2.6 lakh students participated in the competition.1.03 lakhs students had participated in the competition in 2019. Selected winners stand a chance to attend Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020 and interact with Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. This year 50 Divyang students will also take part in the interaction programme at Talkatora Stadium


    A painting and poster making competition has been held on exam related issues for CBSE & KVS school students, out of which selected painting/posters will form a part of exhibition before the Prime Minister during the Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020. Around 725 posters and paintings have been received, out of that around50 selected paintings/postersare being displayed at the venue of the programme Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi. The Prime Minister will view this exhibition before the start of the programme.


    To make this programme more student centric first time students will moderate the one hour long program of Prime Minister. This year, four Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) schools students will compere the programme. These four students of KVS were shortlisted from the EK BHARAT SHRESTHA BHARAT Parv debate competition organised by the KVS last year. Among these four students two are girls and two are boys.


    Format for this year : PPC2020 will have the same Town Hall’ format as in previous two events, which is unique in itself wherein the Prime Minister interacts with school students at the Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi. This format was a huge success during the last 2 years. About 2000 school students will be participating in the programme PPC2020.


    For the above mentioned online competitions, students participated through
    www.mygov.in website on the following themes:


    Gratitude is great: A short write-up on the people who a student thinks has played an important role in his/her academic journey so far mentioning why he/she is grateful to them.


    Your future depends on your Aspirations: A short write-up on the goals and career aspirationsa student sets for himself/herself.


    Examining Exams: Opinion of students on prevailing examination system and suggestions on ideal examination system.


    Our Duties, Your Take: Write-up on duties of citizens and how one can inspire everyone to become more dutiful citizens.


    Balance is Beneficial: Write-up on balanced activities of students apart from studies.


    Students from all over the country from class VI to XII are being requested to see/hear the broadcast on Doordarshan (DD National, DD News, DD India)/on radio channels (All India Radio Medium Wave, All India Radio FM Channel).


    The First edition of Prime Minister’s Interaction Programme with school and college students "ParikshaPeCharcha 1.0" was held at Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi on 16th February, 2018. The second edition of the said Interaction Programme with school and college students "ParikshaPeCharcha 2.0” was also held at Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi on 29th January, 2019. Last year more than 8.5 Crore students from across the country viewed or heard the programme on DD/TV Channels/ Radio Channels. It was widely covered by print and electronic media. As per media reports, the interaction programme, became a raging hit on social media, and was the No. 1 trend conversation on “Pariksha Pe Charcha" which got more than 2.5 million impressions on twitter. It was widely viewed on youtube, Facebook Live, through webcasting, among others. Participation of Indian community abroad will also be encouraged, as done last year.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599802) Visitor Counter : 710
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Urdu , Hindi