      Ministry of Shipping

      Prime Minister attends the grand Sesquicentenary Celebrations of the Kolkata Port Trust, launches multimodal development projects for Kolkata Port
      
      
      Launches the Port Anthem
      
      Coasts are gateways to development, says PM
      
      Prime Minister names Kolkata Port Trust after Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee
      
      Hands over Cheque of Rs 501 Crore towards pension fund of employees of the Kolkata Port Trust
      
      Inaugurates Kaushal Vikas Kendra and Pritilata Chhatra Avas for Tribal girl students of Sunderbans
      
      More than Rs1200 crores spent on Infrastructure development, better rail connectivity and Modernization of Kolkata Port: Shri Mansukh Mandaviya

      Posted On: 12 JAN 2020 5:53PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi participated in the grand Sesquicentenary Celebrations of the Kolkata Port Trust today.


    The Prime Minister Narendra Modi attends the 150 th Anniversary Celebrations of Kolkata Port Trust in Kolkata, West Bengal. The Governor of West Bengal, Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar is also seen.


    Prime Minister unveiled a plaque at the site of original Port Jetties to commemorate 150 years of the Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT).


    Shri Modi termed that it is a privilege to be a part of the 150 th anniversary celebrations of the KoPT a historic symbol of the country's water power.


    "This port has stood witness to many a historical moment in the country like India getting independence from foreign rule. From Satyagraha to Swachhagraha, this port has seen the country changing. This port has not only seen consignors, but also the carriers of knowledge who have left a mark on the country and the world. In a way, this port of Kolkata symbolizes India's aspiration for industrial, spiritual and self-reliance", the Prime Minister added.


    The Prime Minister also launched the Port Anthem during the event.


    PM stated that the long coast line of India from Gujarat's Lothal Port to Kolkata Port was not only engaged in trade and business but also in spread of civilization and culture across the world.


    "Our government believes that our coasts are gateways to development. This is the reason the government started Sagarmala project for modernizing infrastructure and improving connectivity of the Ports. Thirty six hundred projects worth more than Rs 6 lakh crore have been identified under this scheme. Out of these, more than 200 projects worth more than Rs 3 lakh crore are underway and about one hundred twenty five have been completed. Kolkata Port is connected to the industrial centers of eastern India due to the construction of river waterways. And trade has become easier with countries like Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Myanmar", PM added.


    The Prime Minister Narendra Modi releasing the commemorative stamp marking celebrations of 150 years of Kolkata Port Trust in Kolkata,West Bengal. The Governor of West Bengal , Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar and the Minister of State for Shipping (Independent Charge) and Chemical & Fertilizers, Shri Mansukh Mandaviya are also seen.


    Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Port Trust


    PM also announced Kolkata Port Trust to be named after Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee. "Dr. Mukherjee, the son of Bengal, laid the foundation for industrialization in the country and has been very instrumental in the development of projects such as Chittaranjan Locomotive Factory, Hindustan Aircraft Factory, Sindri Fertilizer Factory and Damodar Valley Corporation. I also remember Babasaheb Ambedkar. Dr. Mukherjee and Baba Saheb gave a new vision to post-independence India", PM said.


    150 साल के इस सफर दौरान पोर्ट ने बंगाल राज्य और देश के अर्थतंत्र को मजबूती दी है। देश की प्रथम आधुनिक उद्योग साहसिकता की नीव इस पोर्ट से ही रखी गई थी। कोलकाता पोर्ट ने लाखों लोगों को प्रत्यक्ष एवं अप्रत्यक्ष रोजगार दिए है: @mansukhmandviya #150YearsOfKolkataPort pic.twitter.com/MO0qolUr1g

    — Ministry of Shipping (@shipmin_india) January 12, 2020

    150 साल के इस सफर दौरान पोर्ट ने बंगाल राज्य और देश के अर्थतंत्र को मजबूती दी है। देश की प्रथम आधुनिक उद्योग साहसिकता की नीव इस पोर्ट से ही रखी गई थी। कोलकाता पोर्ट ने लाखों लोगों को प्रत्यक्ष एवं अप्रत्यक्ष रोजगार दिए है: @mansukhmandviya #150YearsOfKolkataPort pic.twitter.com/MO0qolUr1g

    — Ministry of Shipping (@shipmin_india) January 12, 2020
    Shri Mandaviya said that in last 15 years, for the first time, this year Kolkata Port has made profit. He said, under the guidance of Prime Minster Shri Narendra Modi and his visionary Sagarmala Project, more than Rs1200 crores has been spent on Infrastructure development, better rail connectivity and Modernization of Kolkata Port in the last five years.


    5 साल के बाद कोलकाता पोर्ट ने, 15 सालों में पहली बार इस साल प्रोफ़िट किया है। बीते पाँच साल में हमने क़रीब ₹1200 करोड़ से ज़्यादा का ख़र्च करके पोर्ट इन्फ्रास्ट्रक्चर ठीक किया है, रेल कनेक्टिविटी दुरस्त की है, पोर्ट को आधुनिक बनाया है: @mansukhmandviya#150YearsOfKolkataPort pic.twitter.com/Xhxsg5qMPI

    — Ministry of Shipping (@shipmin_india) January 12, 2020

    Welfare of the Pensioners of KoPT


    Shri Narendra Modi also handed over a Cheque of Rs 501 Crore towards final instalment to meet the deficit of pension fund of retired and existing employees of the Kolkata Port Trust.


    Prime Minister also felicitated two oldest pensioners of the Kolkata Port Trust, Shri Nagina Bhagat and Shri Naresh Chandra Chakraborty (105 and 100 years respectively).


    The Prime Minister Narendra Modi handing over a cheque of Rs501 crore towards final instalment to meet the deficit of Pension funds of retired and existing employees of Kolkata Port Trust in Kolkata, West Bengal. The Governor of West Bengal, Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar is also see.


    Prime Minister inaugurated Kaushal Vikas Kendra and Pritilata Chhatra Avas for 200 Tribal girl students of Sunderbans.


    PM said that every effort is being made by the Central Government for the development of West Bengal, particularly for the development of the poor, underprivileged and the exploited. He said that as soon as the West Bengal state government approves of the Ayushman Bharat Yojana and PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, people of West Bengal will also start getting benefits from these schemes.


    The Prime Minister also inaugurated the upgraded Ship Repair Facility of Cochin Kolkata Ship Repair Unit at Netaji Subhas Dry Dock.


    PM inaugurated the Full Rake Handling Facility and dedicated the upgraded Railway Infrastructure of Kolkata Dock System of KoPT for smooth cargo movement and improving turnaround time.


    PM also launched the Mechanisation of Berth No.3 at Haldia Dock Complex of KoPT and a proposed riverfront development scheme.


    *****


    VRRK/NB/VJ/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599197) Visitor Counter : 708
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali