      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister attends the grand Sesquicentenary Celebrations of the Kolkata Port Trust, launches multimodal development projects for kolkata Port.
      
      Launches the Port Anthem
      
      Coasts are gateways to development, says PM
      
      Prime Minister names Kolkata Port Trust after Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee.
      
      Hands over Cheque of Rs 501 Crore towards pension fund of employees of the Kolkata Port Trust.
      
      Inaugurates Kaushal Vikas Kendra and Pritilata Chhatra Avas for Tribal girl students of Sunderbans.

      Posted On: 12 JAN 2020 2:52PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi participated in the grand Sesquicentenary Celebrations of the Kolkata Port Trust today.


    Prime Minister unveiled a plaque at the site of original Port Jetties to commemorate 150 years of the Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT).


    Shri Modi termed that it is a privilege to be a part of the 150 th anniversary celebrations of the KoPT a historic symbol of the country's water power.


    "This port has stood witness to many a historical moment in the country like India getting independence from foreign rule. From Satyagraha to Swachhagraha, this port has seen the country changing. This port has not only seen consignors, but also the carriers of knowledge who have left a mark on the country and the world. In a way, this port of Kolkata symbolizes India's aspiration for industrial, spiritual and self-reliance", the Prime Minister added.


    The Prime Minister also launched the Port Anthem during the event.


    PM stated that the long coast line of India from Gujarat's Lothal Port to Kolkata Port was not only engaged in trade and business but also in spread of civilization and culture across the world.


    "Our government believes that our coasts are gateways to development. This is the reason the government started Sagarmala project for modernizing infrastructure and improving connectivity of the Ports. Thirty six hundred projects worth more than Rs 6 lakh crore have been identified under this scheme. Out of these, more than 200 projects worth more than Rs 3 lakh crore are underway and about one hundred twenty five have been completed. Kolkata Port is connected to the industrial centers of eastern India due to the construction of river waterways. And trade has become easier with countries like Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Myanmar", PM added.


    PM @narendramodi presenting commemorative stamp marking celebrations of 150 years of Kolkata Port Trust. pic.twitter.com/uOoELkvmAA

    — PIB India (@PIB_India) January 12, 2020

    Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Port Trust


    PM also announced Kolkata Port Trust to be named after Dr. Shyama Prasad Mukherjee. "Dr. Mukherjee, the son of Bengal, laid the foundation for industrialization in the country and has been very instrumental in the development of projects such as Chittaranjan Locomotive Factory, Hindustan Aircraft Factory, Sindri Fertilizer Factory and Damodar Valley Corporation. I also remember Babasaheb Ambedkar. Dr. Mukherjee and Baba Saheb gave a new vision to post-independence India", PM said.


    PM @narendramodi handing over a Cheque of Rs 501 Crore towards final instalment to meet the deficit of pension fund of retired and existing employees of the Kolkata Port Trust. pic.twitter.com/ZEsK1W1sVW

    — PIB India (@PIB_India) January 12, 2020

    Welfare of the Pensioners of KoPT


    Shri Narendra Modi also handed over a Cheque of Rs 501 Crore towards final instalment to meet the deficit of pension fund of retired and existing employees of the Kolkata Port Trust.


    Prime Minister also felicitated two oldest pensioners of the Kolkata Port Trust, Shri Nagina Bhagat and Shri Naresh Chandra Chakraborty (105 and 100 years respectively).


    PM @narendramodi felicitating two oldest pensioners of the Kolkata Port Trust- 105 years old Shri Nagina Bhagat and 100 years old Shri Naresh Chandra Chakraborty for their contribution towards the Kolkata Port Trust. pic.twitter.com/oiEdacHx0A

    — PIB India (@PIB_India) January 12, 2020

    Prime Minister inaugurated Kaushal Vikas Kendra and Pritilata Chhatra Avas for 200 Tribal girl students of Sunderbans.


    PM said that every effort is being made by the Central Government for the development of West Bengal, particularly for the development of the poor, underprivileged and the exploited. He said that as soon as the West Bengal state government approves of the Ayushman Bharat Yojana and PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, people of West Bengal will also start getting benefits from these schemes.


    The Prime Minister also inaugurated the upgraded Ship Repair Faciility of Cochin Kolkata Ship Repair Unit at Netaji Subhas Dry Dock.


    PM inaugurated the Full Rake Handling Facility and dedicated the upgraded Railway Infrastructure of Kolkata Dock System of KoPT for smooth cargo movement and improving turnaround time.


    PM also launched the Mechanisation of Berth No.3 at Haldia Dock Complex of KoPT and a proposed riverfront development scheme.


    *****


    VRRK/ VJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599184) Visitor Counter : 760
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada