      Ministry Of Law & Justice

      Nationwide activities continue as part of yearlong celebrations of the 70th anniversary of the adoption of the Indian Constitution
      
      NDRF and Public Sector Banks conduct Awareness Programmes on Citizens Duties
      
      Posted On: 13 JAN 2020 7:28PM by PIB Delhi


    As part of the yearlong Activities relating to Citizens Duties launched on November 26, 2019 to commemorate the 70 th anniversary of the adoption of the Indian Constitution by the Constituent Assembly, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the largest singular & specialised disaster response force in the world, organised an Awareness Programme on Fundamental Duties for Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS) Volunteers of Tripura state. Sixty NYKS Volunteers participated in the programme conducted at the 1 st Battalion NDRF located in Guwahati, Assam, on January 10, 2020 from 1045 hrs to 1245 hrs.


    The next day, the 1 st Bn NDRF Unit conducted a Quiz Competition on Fundamental Duties for NDRF personnel from 1100 hrs to 1300 hrs. Eighteen NDRF personnel including six Staff Officers (SOs) and 12 Other Ranks (ORs) personnel participated.


    The Unit also conducted a Debate Competition on Fundamental Duties for NDRF personnel from 1030 hrs to 1330 hrs in which SOs-06 and ORs-12, total-18 personnel of NDRF participated.


    Public Sector Banks (PSBs) have also been conducting programmes as part of the yearlong celebrations. Syndicate Bank’s Rural Self-Employment Training Institute (RSETI) at Kadapa, Andhra Pradesh conducted a Valedictory Function of its Women’s Tailoring Batch with a Mass Reading of the Preamble of the Constitution on January 10, 2020. A total of 30 trainees of the 298 th Tailoring Batch enthusiastically participated.


    State Bank of India (SBI) RSETI in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh also organised a Mass Reading of the Preamble of the Constitution on January 10, 2020.


    Indian Overseas Bank RSETIat Virudhunagar inTamilNadualso organised a Mass Reading of the Preamble of the Constitution on January 10, 2020. A batch of the Unemployed Youth Employment Generation Programme consisting of 28 candidates participated. The Director, Faculty and all the staff members of RSETI participated in this event. The importance and uniqueness of the Indian Constitution especially the Fundamental Duties was the focus of this event.


    The Department of Justice under the Ministry of Law & Justice has circulated Action Points to all Central Ministries/Departments/Subordinate Offices and the Uniformed Forces for various activities to be undertaken during the period November 26, 2019 to November 26, 2020 to celebrate the 70 th anniversary of the adoption of the Indian Constitution. The events include organising talks/conferences/seminars and rallies/walks/runs focused on Citizens’ Duties.


    The Department of Justice has also directed the State Departments of School Education (Ministry of School Education and Literacy,MHRD, Government of India to coordinate) to organize Mock Parliament, State/district level debate and essay competition / cultural programmes on citizens duties & themes related to Constitution & rewarding the winners at State Level. Drawing competition / quiz / skit /Olympiad competitions at all levels have also been planned and students encouraged to participate in them. Talks by eminent persons, lawyers & legal scholars on citizens’ duties & related themes will also be organised in the schools. Cultural programmes & exhibitions on India’s Constitution or/and biography of Dr. B.R. Ambedkarwill also be conducted during the period.


    States and HRD Ministry have been asked to include one page on fundamental duties in state text books in addition to the Preamble.


    ***


    RCS/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1599315) Visitor Counter : 467
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi