      President's Secretariat

      General Duty Medical Officers of The Central Health Services Attending 4th Foundation Training Programme Call on The President
      Posted On: 23 JAN 2020 6:38PM by PIB Delhi


    General Duty Medical Officers (GDMOs) of the Central Health Services attending the 4 th Foundation Training Programme at the National Institute of Health and Family Welfare, called on the President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, today ( January 23, 2020 ) at Rashtrapati Bhavan.


    Addressing the young doctors, the President said that our country has made great strides in providing healthcare to our people. Diseases such as polio and smallpox, which once claimed so many lives, have been defeated. Our immunisation programme is gaining strength. We have brought down the Maternal Mortality Rate and Infant Mortality Rate. Yet, we still face many challenges and have a long way to go in evolving a holistic healthcare system, one which is uniformly affordable and accessible to our citizens both in rural and urban areas. In this regard, it is a matter of satisfaction that the government has made Universal health coverage a priority. The rollout and success of the Ayushman Bharat Yojana is a critical step in this direction. We have to keep building on this great momentum and doctors will play an important role in doing so.


    The President said that the disease burden in our country is undergoing an evolution. We have to tackle widespread diseases such as TB, malaria and dengue, and at the same time deal with the rising incidence of lifestyle diseases like diabetes, obesity, hypertension, depression etc. He urged doctors to work towards a multidisciplinary approach to health – from prevention, wellness, cure, community empowerment to research and innovation.


    The President said that as doctors, they can play a major role in encouraging healthy lifestyles. We can address the increasing stress in our lives with regular exercises and physical activity, practicing Yoga and Meditation. Doctors can be a major influencer in promoting such lifestyles and bringing about a culture of wellness.


    Click here to see the President's speech


    ***


    VRRK/KP/SKS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1600376) Visitor Counter : 460
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi