      Ministry of Shipping

      Shri Mansukh Mandaviya meets Secretary General of International Maritime Organisation (IMO) Mr. Kitack Lim at the 50th Annual Meeting of World Economic Forum at Davos, Switzerland
      
      Mahatma Gandhi’s bust being set-up at IMO Headquarters, London coinciding with 150thBirth Anniversary Celebrations: Shri Mansukh Mandaviya

      Posted On: 23 JAN 2020 6:36PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State for Shipping (Independent Charge) and Chemicals &Fertilizers Shri Mansukh Mandaviya today met the Secretary General of IMO Mr. Kitack Lim at the 50th Annual Meeting of World Economic Forum at Davos, Switzerland.


    Shri Mansukh Mandaviya Shipping (I/C) and Chemical & Fertilizers with theSecretary General, IMO Mr. Kitack Lim in meeting at the 50th Annual Meeting of World Economic Forum at Davos, Switzerland


    In this meeting, mutual discussions were held regarding various Global Maritime issues concerning India like Ban on Single Use Plastic by India for reducing Marine Pollution, Availability of low Sulphur fuel complying to IMO 2020 Convention and installation of Mahatma Gandhi Bust at IMO Headquarter, London.


    As India is celebrating 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, Shri Mandaviya impressed upon setting up of the ‘Mahtama Gandhi Bust’ at the IMO Headquarters, as a mark of respect to the great global leader. Secretary General, Mr. Kitack Lim consented for setting up the bust at IMO headquarters, London. “This will be one of the prominent busts of Mahatma Gandhi at UN headquarters in the world. It is indeed a matter of great honor and proud moment for India”, Shri Mansukh Mandaviya stated there during media briefing.


    Met Secretary General of IMO, Mr. Kitack Lim at @wef. India’s accession to Hong Kong Convention & enactment of the Recycling Act 2019 were appreciated. Issues regarding banning of single use plastic & #MahatmaGandhi bust at @IMOHQ were also discussed. #WEF20 pic.twitter.com/8R0HcKdDEM

    — Mansukh Mandaviya (@mansukhmandviya) January 22, 2020

    Further, India’s engagement with IMO and role with the International community in the global maritime scenario was applauded by the Secretary General, IMO. India’s recent initiatives for accession to Hong Kong Convention and enactment of the Recycling Act 2019 were also greatly acknowledged and appreciated. Mr. Kitack Lim has assured to extend his full co-operation for the Indian Seafarers injail / custody in different countries.


    Shri Mansukh Mandaviya is presently on his four-day official visit to Davos to attend the Annual World Economic Forum Meeting 2020 and having one-on-one meetings with all important World leaders and CEOs of the global companies.


    ****


    NB/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1600375) Visitor Counter : 434
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi