      Ministry of Education

      Central Government is fully committed for the development of Jammu and Kashmir: Shri Sanjay Dhotre
      Posted On: 22 JAN 2020 7:32PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State for HRD, Communications, and Electronics & Information Technology Shri Sanjay Dhotre said that the Government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi had sanctioned a development package of Rs. 80,000 crore for Jammu and Kashmir, which is enabling opening of IIT, IIM and AIIMs and allowing development of highways, power generation and irrigation projects. And those projects which have been lying dormant for last several decades are also being revived in a speedy manner.” He stated this while addressing the Central Government’s special public outreach programme to disseminate information about the implementation of its policies and programmes for the overall development of Jammu and Kashmir and its people today at Kalakote.


    During his 2 days visit at Jammu & Kashmir Shri Dhotre visited Kalakote and Naushera blocks of the Rajauri district. Heinteracted with the general public and also inaugurated many government projects there. During this trip, he also visited various establishments, reviewed the ongoing schemes and interacted with senior J&K officers along with the senior officers of departments under his all three ministries.


    Main objectives of this visitwere to discuss with the general public about various developmental schemes of the Government of India; to accelerate the projects being executed under the Prime Minister Development Package (PMDP); to execute effective implementation of various schemes targeting the individual beneficiaries; to restart the long-pending projects by removing the obstacles that have been holding such projects; and, to ensure effective administration with transparency.


    Shri Dhotre apprised people of J&K about the various steps taken by the Union Government for the rapid progress of the region, especially after the abrogation of the Article 370 and creation of the new Union Territory. An important objective of such special public outreach programme is to take more than fifty central schemes to all the people of Jammu and Kashmir. Effective popularisation and implementation of these schemes will lead to equal opportunities, educational and economic development, employment creation and industrial development in the new Union Territory.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1600283) Visitor Counter : 401
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi