      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      Thermal Screening of passengers arriving from China including Hong Kong expanded to Seven airports now
      
      Passengers to fill up ‘Self Reporting Form’ before disembarkation
      
      Advisory issued for Strict implementation at Seven identified airports on ‘Novel Corona Virus Disease’
      Posted On: 21 JAN 2020 5:36PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) has directed for all logistics support and arrangements to be made immediately with regard to screening of passengers arriving in India from China including Hong Kong at the identified airports i.e. Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Cochin apart from three airports at Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata identified earlier. This is in continuation to the Advisory from Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and National Centre for Disease Control, Directorate General of Health Services, under Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India regarding threat of ‘Novel Corona Virus Disease (nCoV) in Wuhan, Hubei province of China.


    MoCA has called for immediate implementation of the action plan and strict adherence by identified airports and all concerned airlines. The action plan among others includes the following


      * In order to facilitate early isolation, In-flight announcements to be made by the airlines (which are directly coming from any airport in China including Hong Kong) requesting passengers with history of fever and cough and history of travel to Wuhan City in last 14 days to self-declare at port of arrival or to State Health Authorities.

      * Airlines staff to guide the passengers in filling up the self-reporting forms before disembarkation so that the filled up format can be checked by APHO staff on arrival.
      * Airport signage to be displayed boldly at the strategic locations of these seven identified airports
      * Health Screening at Airports: Thermal Screening of passengers to be undertaken. Provision of space at the pre-immigration area with logistics to install the thermal cameras to be made at these airports. Airlines staff to bring the passengers to the Health counters before the immigration check.
      * Operational procedures recommended by International Air Transport Association (IATA) with regard to managing suspected communicable disease on board an aircraft.
      * All passengers and crew who are otherwise healthy should be allowed to continue their onward journey. If the ill passenger or crew member is confirmed as a probable case of Wuhan Corona Virus, public health authorities should be notified about the contacts using the Passenger Locator Form.

    NOVEL CORONA VIRUS ALERT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
For All Travellers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Who Have Visited China,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
particularly through Wuhan City,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Hubei Province of China                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
during past 14 days and                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  * are having one or more of the following symptoms:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Acute onset of Fever, Cough, Shortness of Breath                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
SHOULD REPORT TO AIRPORT HEALTH UNIT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  * for other Travellers (Those Without Any Symptoms)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Travellers, who have visited the affected CITY and do not have any symptoms on arrival, but develop above mentioned symptoms within 28 days of arrival in India, should visit nearest hospital facility and report to the State/District Health Authorities and concerned Airport Health Officer.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 

    RJ/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1600015) Visitor Counter : 1775
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi
    
    
    

* 
  
*