      Prime Minister's Office

      PM to interact with winners of Rashtriya Bal Puraskar 2020
      
      To Participate in At Home with Tribal Artists, NCC cadets, NSS Volunteers and Tableaux Artists
      
      Posted On: 23 JAN 2020 4:15PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi will meet and interact with the 49 Children who are winners of the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar 2020, tomorrow i.e January 24, 2020.


    The 49 awardees are from various of states of India including one each from Jammu & Kashmir, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh.


    The children are winners in the fields of art & culture, Innovation, Scholastic, Social Service, Sports and Bravery.


    Government of India acknowledges children as one of the most important partners in nation-building. Their hopes and aspirations are to be acknowledged and their achievements are to be rewarded.
    
    Although every child is precious and his or her achievements have to be appreciated, there are some whose achievements will serve as an inspiration to many others.


    Towards this end the Government gives these awards every year to recognize exceptional achievements of our children in various fields.


    Any child with an exceptional achievement in the fields of innovation, scholastic achievements, social service, arts & culture, sports and bravery can apply for the award. Also, any person who knows about a meritorious achievement by a child can recommend this child for the award. A high-level committee selects the winners after careful consideration of each application.


    President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, presented the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar yesterday, i.e January 22, 2020.


    At Home with Tribal Artists, NCC Cadets, NSS Volunteers & Tableaux Artists


    The Prime Minister would also interact with over 1730 Tribal Artists, NCC Cadets, NSS Volunteers and Tableaux Artists who are going to participate in the Republic Day Parade in a At Home event on the 24th Of January, 2020.


    VRRK/ VJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1600323) Visitor Counter : 635
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada