      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President greets the nation on the eve of Republic Day
      Posted On: 25 JAN 2020 2:53PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has greeted the nation on the eve of Republic Day. In a message to the people of India, he paid rich tributes to our freedom fighters and called upon the citizens to further fortify the unity and integrity of nation so as to build an inclusive, prosperous, progressive and harmonious India.


    Following is the full text of Vice President’s message -


    “I convey my warm greetings and best wishes to all citizens of our nation on the joyous occasion of Republic Day celebrations. It was on this historic day in 1950 that our Constitution came into being.


    Today, as we celebrate our freedom, let us also pay respectful tributes to those heroic men and women who laid down their lives for the cause of independence for this country.


    Our Constitution is a sacred document that acts as our guiding light and moral compass. Today, let us reaffirm our commitment towards the Constitution and the cherished ideals of liberty, equality, fraternity, and justice for all, which formed the bedrock on which this great nation was built.


    Let us pledge to faithfully discharge our constitutionally mandated Fundamental Duties and be responsible citizens who will be proactive partners in the nation’s development.


    As India makes steady progress and assumes a greater role in this contemporary world on the strengths of a modern economy, progressive society, and diverse and vibrant cultural ethos, let us once again, solemnly resolve that we, as a nation, shall remain united to overcome emerging challenges together and forge ahead on our development journey.


    Let this Republic Day further fortify the unity and integrity of this vast and diverse nation. Let this strong bond of unity of purpose be the driving force of all our endeavors to build an inclusive, prosperous, progressive, peaceful and harmonious nation.”


    ****


    VRRK/MS/MSY/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1600516) Visitor Counter : 381
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi