      Ministry of Education

      Reaching out, taking education to the last mile – Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank'
      
      Union HRD Minister e-inaugurates 45 projects including setting up of degree colleges, upgradation of infrastructure, construction of hostels, 25 smart schools equipped with state of the art learning and teaching facilities in Srinagar today
      
      HRD Minister also e-inaugurates Centre for Interdisciplinary Research and Advanced Instrumentation and Sheikh ul Alam Chair at Centre for Sheikh ul Alam Studies at the University of Kashmir
      
      208 teachers’ hostels will be constructed at 26 places, Rs 26 cr sanctioned- Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank'

      Posted On: 24 JAN 2020 9:33PM by PIB Delhi

    In continuation of Union Government’s outreach initiative, Union Minister of Human Resource Development Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘ Nishank’ today inaugurated NISHTHA (National Initiative for School Heads’ and Teachers’ Holistic Advancement), a two day orientation workshop for the teachers of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir at SKICC, Srinagar. Besides, a number of completed projects and initiatives were e-launched by the minister on the occasion.


    Shri Pokhriyal said that NISHTHA is a benchmark programme that will raise the standards of education throughout the country. It will prove to be helpful in inculcating creativity among children and stimulate their imagination as well as physical and mental wellbeing. The programme devised in Urdu language for J&K will bring in a positive change in the region, he said.


    NISHTHA has already been launched in 20 states of the country and around 21000 e-resource persons have been trained so far. The main objective of the initiative is to help overall development of students as better citizens. The art modules included in the programme instill cooperation and spirit of unity with responsibility.


    The minister appreciated the efforts of NCERT for providing all possible support to a programme of such magnitude. The programme will provide training to 37,000 government teachers. This is the largest teacher training exercise of such kind that will be carried out in a cascading manner.


    The minister e-inaugurated about 45 projects including setting up of degree colleges, upgradation of infrastructure, construction of hostel and other facilities among others. These include 25 smart schools equipped with state of the art learning and teaching facilities in Srinagar.


    Shri Pokhriyal said that the initiatives announced today as part of the current outreach programme of the government will greatly help in improving the overall education scenario in J&K. He said that the government is committed towards taking education to the last mile. Elaborating further, the minister said that our aim is to reach out to the Gram Sabha level ensuring that no child remains deprived of education.


    Centre for Interdisciplinary Research and Advanced Instrumentation and Sheikh ul Alam Chair at Centre for Sheikh ul Alam Studies at the University of Kashmir were also e-inaugrated by the minister. Besides, Engineering College at Safapora, Degree College at Zakoora, two hostels at NIT Srinagar, Transit Campus of IIM at Srinagar were also e-inaugrated.


    Terming teachers as builders of the nation, the minister expressed his contentment for being part of the gathering. He appreciated the role of teachers of Jammu & Kashmir who work tirelessly despite challenges and said that there is a need to provide them all possible support so that the nation is on course. He informed the gathering that 208 teachers’ hostels will be constructed at 26 places for which Rs 26 crores have already been sanctioned. The government is looking into the regularization of services of 35000 teachers as well.


    Shri Pokhriyal said that the Prime Minister has a vision for the youth of Kashmir and desires to see them at the top. Going by the trend, we are seeing the results in that direction, he commented. Lauding the efforts of the Education department, the minister expressed satisfaction over the functioning and progress made towards realization of core objectives. He also expressed satisfaction over the achievements of University of Kashmir, National Institute of Technology, IIM, Central Universities and other academic institutions.


    JB/GA/AN/MW

    
    
    (Release ID: 1600498) Visitor Counter : 486