      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of PM’s interaction with Students at "Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020"
      Posted On: 20 JAN 2020 8:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Namaste, your friend is once again amongst you. First of all, I extend my best wishes to you for 2020, the new year. This is not just a new year of 2020, it’s a new decade. This decade is as important to India as it is to you. It means the students of Class 10 and 12 will contribute majorly to what the country does in this decade. A lot depends on this generation for making this decade important and reaching new heights with new dreams, new promises, new aspirations and new principles. And therefore, I convey my best wishes to you for this decade.


    I am associated with the government for a long time. I was chief minister for a long time, and now again you have entrusted me with this responsibility. Therefore, I have to go to several programmes. I get an opportunity to meet various kinds of people. And every time, it is a new experience. I get to know and learn. Every programme has its own importance. But if somebody asks me to choose the most cherishing programme and one that is very close to my heart, then I will say it is “Pariksha Par Charcha” (Discussion on Exam). I really like when you send me something in writing while preparing for it. There are thousands of schools and hardly any tehsil of the country which does not partake in programme. I can feel what the young minds across different parts of the country think, want and what they can do. I enjoy the most when children tell me things so well.


    Similarly, when I go to a hackathon meet with the young, I can feel that India has a bright future and can move ahead with a new imagination. There is also an opportunity for me to learn whenever I get to meet the youth and the young generations at such programmes. Had I not done the “Pariksha Par Charcha”, there was no danger to the Prime Minister’s Chair and no editorial in any newspaper would have commented on what the Prime Minister does? This I have decided on my own. When you are about to qualify your ninth class, your parents tend to worry about Class 10 th , 11 th and 12 th . Don’t they tell you, you are a grown-up….you are in 12 th class. You must be hearing this dialogue 100 times in a day. Isn’t it? Therefore, I decided that I should lessen the burden of your parents. Since I am part of your family, I thought why don’t I do the same in a collective way what they do otherwise. There is a saying in Gujarati -- “पारकी मां कान विंधे” – which means when our ears are pierced. I also used to wear it. Mother used to put a small twig of neem. Students often complain that their parents repeat the same thing every day. But if somebody from outside the family says, it gets registered properly. May be, I also do the same what your parents, guardians and teachers do. But I do it differently with a sense of belongingness – by becoming your friend, partner and your colleague. Therefore, I also find satisfaction that I am no burden to you.


    I hope you are not thinking what the Prime Minister will say, will we have to do the same after reaching homes. So, today we start the discussion without any filter. We will talk in the same way as you do amongst your friends. There would be no pressure, only light-hearted discussion. There may be mistakes. I can also commit. And if I do, then TV journalists will have a field day. I can’t please them very much, but if they find some pleasure out of it, I also enjoy. Ok friends, let’s begin. Who is asking the first question?


    Presenter: There is an air of festivity in this assembly hall after your enthusiastic and motivational address. More than 30 crore students, teachers and parents from 25 countries along with thousands of students in this assembly hall are going to benefit from it. Sir, with your blessings and permission, we would like to begin a series of questions beneficial to all the students, teachers and parents.


    So, we now move to the special episode of “Pariksha Par Charcha” 2020 with the permission of the Prime Minister.


    Sir, Yashri, a 10 th class student from the land of dignity and glory, Rajasthan, is present here and she wants your guidance. Ask your question Yashri.


    Questioner – Good Morning Sir, I am Yashri from Swami Vivekanand Government Model School, Rajasthan. My classmates and I are appearing for board exam this year. Many a time, our mood gets turned off. So Sir, please motivate us and give some suggestions to face the exams without any stress and nervousness. Thank You.


    Presenter – Thank you Yashri. Respected Prime Minister, Yashri wants to know that the thought of Board examination turns her mood off. How should she motivate herself to work hard?


    PM – I was thinking that youngsters should not have their mood off. But have we ever thought why there are mood swings? Is the reason due to oneself or due to some external factor? Many a time, you must have noticed that sometimes the mood becomes off, one does not feel like doing anything. In most of the cases, it is due to external factors. For example, if you tell your mother to prepare tea at 6 o’clock as you are studying. But did you notice that you might be studying but your eyes are watching the clock in between to check the time. The problem starts from there. And if the mother gets late, a storm builds up inside you. What does the mother think; she just does not understand that I am preparing for Class 10 th exam. I had asked for tea at 6 o’clock – and then your mood gets spoiled. Now think it differently. All these things happened, but you thought – Oh! Mother works so hard, she is always concerned about me; something must have happened that’s why Mother could not bring tea at 6 o’clock. Let me check the mother whether she is alright. Now tell me, your mood will become spoiled or charged up. It is because you have not tied your desire so much so that even if it does not get fulfilled, your mood would not get spoiled.


    If we make it a habit … You must have seen if five-six friends have planned some game and are going to play it and if one of them does not come by then. You must have noticed that of the five who have reached there, there must be two others who would throw tantrums that he has not come, he is late and we also have to return early. There would be three others who would say don’t be upset, he will come. How do we manage our mind? Every person in his life has to go through mood swings as far as motivation and de-motivation is concerned. One has to go through this several times. Sometimes, we are very motivated to do something, but get de-motivated in case of failure.


    See, all of you were awake in the night during the Chandrayaan mission. Was there any contribution from you to send Chandrayaan? No. But all of you were glued before TV sets as if it was your accomplishment. Was it not this feeling? And when the mission did not succeed, then all of you, the scientists and the entire India became de-motivated. Sometimes failure leads us to this feeling. I was also present there that day. Today, I will share one secret with you. Some people advised me not to go there as there was no guarantee of the success of the programme. What will you do if you go there and the mission fails? I told them this is precisely why I should go there. In the last few minutes, I saw changes on scientists’ faces; I could sense tension as they were looking at each other. I could make out that there was some mishap. I am not a scientist, but I could make out something untoward was happening by looking at their faces. Then they came to me and told me about it. I told them you are trying. It’s fine. I am sitting here. Then after ten minutes, they told me that their efforts did not yield results. Then I sat together with the scientists, made a round inside and told them not to worry. By the time I reached hotel, it was 3 a.m. But I was not at peace with myself, did not feel like sleeping. Our PMO staff had retired to their rooms. I spent about 30-45 minutes strolling. Then I told them to call everybody. I called them who had already slept off. I told them we will change our departure programme early morning. We will not leave early morning, but will leave after some time. I asked them whether I could meet these scientists at around 7.30-8 a.m. I could have got up in the morning and left. Nobody would have taken note of it. There was no such requirement. But I could not explain myself. Therefore, I met those scientists in the morning, expressed my feelings and encouraged them for their hard work. I talked with them about the dreams of the country. The whole atmosphere changed. It was not there alone, the mood changed all over India. I don’t want to say further, but you must have watched it on your TV. What I want to say is that we can learn lessons of success from failures too. We can work with enthusiasm in every effort. If you don’t succeed in something, it means you are on way to success. If you get stuck there, no amount of tractors can pull you out. If you decide yourself, you can come out of that situation. So, this is all about motivation and demotivation. You must be aware of a 2001 cricket match in Kolkata between India and Australia. Many of you were not born then. India was in a pathetic situation and it was made to follow-on. When India came out to bat again, wickets started tumbling. The atmosphere was full of demotivation. The audience also keeps on expressing its resentment. It forgets that these are their own people who are playing and should be encouraged. Then Rahul Dravid and V.V.S. Laxman played a wonderful innings and continued playing till the evening and changed the situation. Not only this, India went on to win the match. Though the atmosphere was depressing, but one resolution – how could we lose, we will fight together and show our prowess to each and every ball. And the result was victory. In 2002 also, India’s very good bowler Anil Kumble’s jaw was hit due to a bouncer when India had gone to West Indies. You can understand the pain. Everybody was worried whether Anil would be able to bowl or not. He did not care for the pain. Had he simply sat crying and not played, nobody would have blamed him. But he decided to play no matter how much pain he was enduring. With bandage all over his face, he took to the field again. You know it would have been a very big achievement then to scalp the wicket of Brian Lara. And he changed the complexion of the game by taking Lara’s wicket. One person’s resolution can become a big reason of motivation for others. You must have faced several such incidents in your life. It depends how you manage your emotions, how you look at it? If we can control it, there will be mood swing, but in the next few moments you will be able to manage it. Then you will be able to continue with a fresh mind. Thank you.


    Presenter —Sir, you have cleared all the hurdles which come while chasing goals. Now the mood has been refreshed, Sir. Thank you. Sir, Mayank Negi, the 10 th class student of Blooming Vale Public School from Honorable Prime Minister’s spiritual place Kedarnath in Uttarakhand state, wants your guidance. May we have the question, please?


    Questioner – Good morning, Honorable Prime Minister. I am a Class 10 student of Blooming Vale Public School, Kotdwar, Uttarakhand. Successful people like Bill Gates, Thomas Edison and Mark Zuckerberg were not successful in their early life. One cannot judge somebody on the basis of marks scored in examination. Honorable Sir, my question is how much should we concentrate so as to secure good marks in examination? Thank you.


    Presenter – Thank you, Mayank. Respected Prime Minister, Mayank wants to know whether marks secured in exams are the only criteria for success.


    PM – Your concern is valid and perhaps every student has to face this whether at home or in school. As far as education is concerned, we are knowingly or unknowingly moving towards a direction where marks have become turning point as far as success or failure is concerned. Therefore, it is in the back of mind that getting marks is more important. Parents also create this atmosphere that once you score good marks in Class 10, there will be no problem and your path will become clear. And when a student is in Class 11, they will say Class 12 is very important and put your maximum efforts. The same thing happens when one prepares for entrance exams. Actually, their aim is to motivate and encourage their children. It could have been a correct approach at one time. But today, the world has changed and there are huge possibilities. Life is not about marks in exams. Similarly, any examination is not life, it is just a halt. This should be considered as an important point, but one should never think that this is everything in life. I request parents please don’t do it. This has been done, fine, but could have been better. But to think that your world is lost because it did not happen accordingly is not appropriate in today’s time. There are so many scopes. You can choose any of them in your life.


    You must have noticed. A farmer, who may not have adequate school education, but he learns, experiences, adopts technology, changes the patterns of farming, modernizes and makes life so valuable. Therefore, I would like to make it clear that exams are very important, but life is not about examination only. We should come out of this thinking. There are several things in our life. We can move ahead with those.


    Presenter – Thank you, honorable Prime Minister. Your words are source of inspiration for all of us. The next question comes from the heart of India, the State of Madhya Pradesh. Prajakta Atankar, a student of class IXth of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Jabalpur, joins us to ask her question. Could we have the question please?


    Questioner -- My name is Prajakta Atankar and I am from Kendriya Vidyalaya, Jabalpur MP. My question to honorable Prime Minister is that the balance between co-curricular activities and studies is very important. But these activities distract the children. Is it so?


    Presenter – There is somewhat similar question. Riya Negi, the ninth standard student of Government Girls Senior Secondary School No. 2, Delhi, wants answer to her question. Riya is in the auditorium. Riya, please ask your question.


    Questioner – Honorable Prime Minister, I, Riya Negi, am student of Class nine. I study in Government Girls Senior Secondary School No. 2. I am from Delhi and my question to you is what will be the future of those students who are not very good in studies, but are brilliant in other fields like sports, or music? Please give your opinion.


    Presenter – Thank you Riya. Sir, there is another question which is very much similar to it. A resident of Hugli, Kolkata, the land of Great Saint Vivekanand and Noble Laureate Guru Dev Rabindranath Tagore, Anamika Bhunia of Jawahar Navodaya Vidalaya is here with us in the audience to ask her question. Anamika, please ask your question.


    Questioner -- Honorable, Prime Minister Sir, I am Anamika Bhunia, studying in class XIth Science. I am from Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Hugli, West Bengal. My question is, how can we make a balance between our extra-curricular activities and academic activities? Sir, please give us some suggestions. Thank You.


    Presenter – Thank you, Anamika. Sir, Prajakta, Riya and Anamika are anxious to know how to make a balance between extra-curricular activities and academic activities?


    PM – Okay, I want to ask you a question. Will you answer? How many amongst you believe that if I do extra-curricular activity, then it affects my studies. How many are there who believe in it? Nobody! Okay, how many are those who believe that studies are important, but other activities are equally important in life? Okay, there is less enthusiasm. Okay, third question – How many are those who believe that there should be extra-curricular activity and who do it regularly? We have to change this situation. See, the education that we get opens doors to a huge world. We enter the world though that only. When a child learns alphabets, A or क, it means he is entering into a new world. He will learn alphabet first, after that he will learn two letter words, then three letter words; after that he will learn two-two words. He started with क, but where did he reach? For, that was an entrance point. Our complete education gives us the opportunity to do and learn something. We have to move forward on the basis of it. If somebody perfects ‘Sa, Re, Ga, Ma, Pa, Dha, Ni, Sa’ and India’s top-most people from the world of music appreciate him… ‘Sa, Re, Ga, Ma, Pa, Dha, Ni, Sa’ is an entrance point to the world of music. Once he masters it, he gets an opportunity to experience all the disciplines of music. But if he says that I have learnt music, know ‘Sa, Re, Ga, Ma, Pa, Dha, Ni, Sa’, now I will not have to do anything. What will happen? Whatever we learn should be tested daily. One should not only get tested in question-answers of the teacher, but should be tested on the yardsticks of life. If it has been taught in class to speak less as it is beneficial then one should give it a try. If you commit a mistake and your parents are rebuking you, then you should try whether it will be of any use here to speak less as told to you in your class. If you don’t do any extra-curricular activity, you will become a robot and will do the same work from morning to evening as the robot does according to the software which has been installed in it. Do we want that our country’s youths become robots? No. Our youths should be full of energy, should have dreams, and should display courage and ability. If he does not possess these qualities, nothing will happen. Therefore, we should not be indifferent towards other activities. This is true that there should proper management of time, there should be balance. But never trash other activities. There was a time when there were not many opportunities. People then believed that books will open doors. Today, it is not like this. Today, there are so many opportunities. We can surely get the results if we make genuine efforts. Therefore, I would like that extra-curricular activities should be promoted. But there is an enormity these days and which is very serious. Extra-curricular activity has become a fashion statement for parents. When parents sit amongst their friends, they enjoy while talking about their son who goes for cricket coaching in the morning, plays tennis at 10 a.m., then he goes for swimming at 11 a.m., and then he learns Manipuri dance at 5 p.m. Sometimes, parents think that extra-curricular activity is glamour driven and looks nice in the form of a celebrity. They think that they will also ask their children to do such activity. What happens then? As the parents pressurize their children regarding studies, they are now putting pressure on extra- curricular activity. Some of you must be going through it? Okay, you won’t tell me.


    I know you predicament. You must be thinking what if our parents saw it on TV if we said something. Parents also have a duty to find out interests in their children and should try to guide them to such activities. But getting hitched to extra-curricular activity should be done in a well structured way. Only then you can evaluate yourself and find satisfaction in life. You may have seen many people in the age group of 35-40 saying it has become difficult to pursue something now. They regret that we did not do this or that during our school days. We don’t know anything. Then life becomes a burden.


    If you make a habit of living a life with diversities during your school days, then it becomes very useful in the later part of your life. As the classroom education becomes important, so does these activities after the age of 35-40. Therefore, one should not consider either of the two as each other’s enemy. First, one should not consider that it is doing any damage. We should do some extra-curricular activity. Secondly, I will tell the students of Class 10 and 12 to do something extra. Even if you do it for 5, 10 or 15 minutes, your mind will be refreshed. If you get immersed in books, and repeat the same thing 10-20 times, you will be tied down. So, please don’t let this happen.


    Presenter – Thank you Prime Minister for your guidance. K.Divya is a class 10 th student of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Andaman. She seeks respected Prime Minister’s view points on certain issues. Could we have the question please?


    Questioner -- Honorable, Prime Minister Sir, Namaskar. I am K. Divya of Class 10 from Government Model Secondary School, Andaman and Nicobar Island. My question to you is what should be the role of modern technology in a student’s life?


    Presenter -- Question comes from Deepesh Rai, a student of class XIIth of Namchi Secondary School, South Sikkim, and who has travelled all the way from Sikkim to be here with us in the audience. Deepesh, please ask your question.


    Questioner -- Good Morning every one. Honorable, Prime Minister. My name is Deepesh Rai, studying in class XII from Namchi Secondary School, Sikkim. Sir, my question is that many children in the world are using educational technology to learn better. So, how can we have it?


    Presenter – Thank you, Deepesh. Sir, Divya and Deepesh want to know how science and technology can be helpful to the students. Please guide us.


    PM – Perhaps, since the last period of the last century and the beginning of this century, science and technology have completely transformed life. In a way, life has also become technology-driven. Therefore, now, one should not have any fear regarding technology. What will I do, if the new technology comes? It should not be allowed. And secondly, if the technology came then my entire life will be ruined. Earlier, I used to think like that and would do accordingly. How will I cope if a new thing comes up?


    No. Consider technology as your friend. We should try to understand the changes in technology, we should be proactive. Thirdly, will the knowledge of technology be used just only as a show-off amongst friends? Because, I know what is happening in the world, a new camera has come, or a new mobile phone has been launched. No. Effort should be made to make the best use of technology in the work. Will technology consume my time? Many are sharing their experiences that technology kills their time.


    How many of you use smart phones? Tell me, don’t hesitate, your teachers are not watching. Now, you tell me how much of your time is consumed by this smart phone? And if you just reduce the time on it by 10 percent, and spend that time with your mother and grandparents. I am just asking for 10 minutes, not more than this. If you take just 10 minutes out of your smart phone and spend that time with your mother and grandparents, then what will be useful – Technology or the time spent with your grandparents? What will happen? We should see to it that our time is not eaten up by technology. We should have the will power to keep technology in our command.


    I will use technology as and when I wish. You go to a railway station and there is an information counter at the railway station. There are many officials sitting there to answer queries regarding the timings of train, registration, etc. Above that there is a huge electronic billboard. It has all the information regarding train’s name, its destination, the platform where it will come, whether it is late or on time. But we who belong to the older generation, what do we do. We will stand in a queue outside the window. We will look upon the billboard but won’t read the message. The response to my query is there, it is displaying all the information on Delhi Express, Jammu-Tawi Express, like when it will depart, when it will arrive on which platform, or is late by 5-7 minutes.


    You must also have seen many people who after messaging will call the person to check whether he has received the message? What does the new generation do? It uses technology. It already checks on mobile phone and finds out all the relevant information about time and decides when to leave from house. Do they do it or not? What I want to say is he has made the right use of the technology. See the difference. There is one generation which does not want to see what is there right in front of it, and then there is the new generation which is not ready to ask as it believes in technology. It means they know the usefulness of the technology.


    One should have very good vocabulary. I will request you to choose either your mother language or any language which you like – be it English or Hindi – and use the dictionary in your mobile phone to learn the spelling and meaning of at least 10 new words. Now tell me, technology is useful or not. But you must also try to avoid such a situation when your parents fight with you over time being spent with your friends or on phone.


    There was a time when social networking was considered to be very essential. People used to leave their homes for at least 1-2 hours in the evening to go to a function or meet friends. They used to meet people so as to remain connected with the society, which benefits both sides. This is a normal order. But slowly and slowly, social networking has been distorted. Now WhatsApp is doing our social networking. The present social networking is the distorted version of the original. Earlier, we would go to our friend’s place early morning to surprise him on his birthday. Now at 12 in the night, we use technology to send the message and go off to sleep. If technology takes over our life, then our life will become very idle. Therefore, while there should be maximum use of technology, we should not become its slave either. But technology is changing every moment. If you have to take your life forward, you should have interest and knowledge towards new technology. You should also ask others about the new technology. This interest should be developed from the days of student life. You will benefit a lot. As far as I am concerned, I have deep interest and curiosity in technology even though I don’t know much about it. I listen to people and ask them. Now-a-days, I don’t get that opportunity as I am tied down in governance. But earlier, when I used to travel in a plane, I would ask the person sitting next to me about anything which would be with him. What is its usefulness, how it is used? I always had the curiosity and I have benefited a lot due to that. I would like you to make technology as your life’s friend. But don’t allow the technology to become part of your life. You must have seen there is a family of three people and all the three are sitting in three different corners and everybody is busy on mobile.


    Can you do two things? Will you do? What will you do because I have not told you about the work? First, you will decide to keep technology away from you for one-two hours when you are free. Every day, one or two technology-free hours… Can you do it? No gadget, nothing. Whatever hour you choose, you will spend that with your family, friend, in garden, and with a pet like dog or a cat if you have one. There are some very poor families who have two-three rooms and they have no problem with technology. Once you go home today after this function, you will sit with your parents and decide upon a room where there should be no entry for technology. Can you do this? Whosoever goes to that room will sit there without any gadget. You do this and your life will be full of experiences. While I emphasize on the importance of technology, at the same time, I am also concerned that the person inside me does not become a robot. Therefore, there are ways to make a balance between the two, which I have shared with you.


    Presenter – Thank you sir. We will find success in our life with your cooperation. From the land of Rising Sun, Arunachal Pradesh, Tapi Aku from JNV Papumpare is present here. She wants to ask you a question, honorable Prime Minister, Aku, please ask your question.


    Questioner -- Honorable Prime Minister, very warm greetings from the land of Rising Sun, Arunachal Pradesh. I am Tapi Aku studying in standard 12th from JNV Papumpare Arunanchal Pradesh. Mr. Prime Minister, I very much liked you speech in parliament on rights and duties. How can we create awareness among the countrymen regarding duties? Thank you.


    Presenter – Thank you Aku. There is another question similar to this one. We have with us Shailash Kumar from KV Chennai. He is a class XIth student from Tamil Nadu, a state famed for its heritage temples. The next question is from him. Could we have the question please?


    Questioner -- Namskar Sir. My name is P Shailash Kumar. I am a student of class XIth in Kendriya Vidyalaya, Chennai. Sir, being a student, what are my rights and what duties I need to perform?


    Presenter – Thank you Shailash. There is one more question similar to this one. Sir, from the esteemed Gujarat which boasts of personalities like the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi, Dayanand Saraswati and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Gunakshi Sharma from Maharaja Agrasen School wants to ask you a question. Gunakshi, please ask your question.


    Questioner – Good morning. My name is Gunakshi Sharma. I am a student of Class 10. I study in Maharaja Agrasen School, Ahmedabad, Gujarat. Sir, I want to ask you a question that I have studied about the citizen’s rights and duties in civics. Please tell, what is more important between the two? Thanks.


    Presenter – Thanks Gunakshi. Respected Prime Minister, request you to solve the curiosity of Shailash, Gunakshi and Aku regarding citizen’s duties.


    PM – This question has been asked by the daughter of Arunachal Pradesh, so it is natural for the daughter of Arunachal Pradesh to ask this question. I don’t know whether anybody from you have visited Arunachal Pradesh. Arunachal Pradesh is the only state in the country where people greet each other with Jai Hind. This is very rare in India. This change happened after the 1962 war. Similarly, besides their own language, people there have mastered English and Hindi languages. I request you to visit North-East once during vacation. I know, first you will go to Singapore, then Dubai. Yes, after that you will go there, if an opportunity came. You will do like this, no? Our country is very amazing and you should experience it.


    When I came here, children were telling me about different paintings which they have drawn. And the pleasant experience was that the children were introducing themselves in another language besides their own mother tongue. A girl from Maharashtra was introducing herself in Oriya, whereas another girl from Dehradun was introducing herself in Malayalam language. While we are emphasizing on “Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat” (One India, Best India), these children have made good attempts. I will request you all that you should know your mother tongue, English, Hindi and at least one more language. Our country is full of resources. Now the topic is duty. Problem arises when we speak the words Rights and Duties simultaneously. It appears as if both rights and duties are two different expressions. It’s not like that. All our rights are subsumed in our duties. If I do duty as a teacher, then the rights of students are protected or not. So, there is no argument between rights and duties.


    Mahatma Gandhi would very respectfully say that there are no fundamental rights, but there are fundamental duties. If we carry out our duties honestly then we will not have to beg for our rights, because our rights will be protected. Secondly, sometimes, we have some obligations. Like in a family, parents have their own obligations, child has his own. Our neighbours also fulfill their obligations, but the discussion is not limited here. We have some duties towards such a big nation which we should be obliged to offer. Shouldn’t we do something to take our country forward? In 2022, our independence is completing 75 years and 100 years in 2047. Have you ever thought where you will be in 2047 when the country will be celebrating the 100 th year of its Independence Day? You will be playing some role in your capacity. Leadership does not mean to work like a frog. There is leadership in every sphere of the life. A cricket captain also offers leadership. A kabaddi captain also provides leadership. The person who works with 200 workers in a factory also offers leadership. The students who are in Class 10 and 12 will be holding the position of leadership when the country will celebrate the centenary of independence. Now think, when the country will celebrate 100 years of independence, you will be leader. And will it be good if you inherit a dilapidated system and you are told to lead? Should not we have a strong set-up? Who will benefit if the country becomes strong? Will it benefit a person who is of 80-90 years old now? Who will benefit if the country’s environment is protected? The country will benefit if its resources are properly utilized. Who will benefit if the country’s economy grows?


    In 2022, the country will complete 75 years of independence. Many people sacrificed their lives for the country. Many embraced death by being hanged. People spent their lives in the jails of Andaman-Nicobar. They did it for the country’s independence. Independence does not only mean the change in the country’s flag. We become self-reliant, our self-pride grows and we live with self-esteem. What are the duties I should do which strengthens this resolve. We should observe those duties. For example, can we decide that when the country completes 75 years of independence, we will buy everything which is local, will buy Make in India product. We will buy it from outside only if the product is not available in India. Now tell me, is this not a duty, will it not benefit the country, will the country’s economy get a push or not? But if we import ready-made goods and even crackers which we will burst, what will happen?


    You must have seen there are some people, who are very aware, they are very conscious of cleanliness. They get up early morning and clean the entire house. What do they do after cleaning the house? They go out and try to find out whether the neighbour is sleeping or awake, and will quietly put the garbage there. They did their duty. But was it in the interest of the nation? No. The people who get up later will realize that somebody has put garbage near their house; they will then throw it somewhere else. There will not be cleanliness because garbage will continue to be littered here and there, because I am not fulfilling my responsibility towards the nation. There are very small issues. If we don’t allow misuse of electricity, water and don’t travel in trains without ticket. These are some of the issues. The country can develop faster if we do these things in our life. Now syllabus has been changed. Earlier during our school days, we were taught about civics. But it is our duty that being a citizen we should give priority to our duties. Not only will it be useful to ourselves, but to the society as well. You must have noticed that the new generation will stand in a queue at the airport and will not jump the queue. And if somebody does it, they get angry, because they are fulfilling the duty of discipline. If this becomes our character, the nation will benefit largely.


    Presenter –Thank you Prime Minister Sir for your guidance. Sir, Chaved, a class 10 student of Andhra Pradesh’s Jawahar Navodaya School, wants to ask you a question. Could we have the question please?


    Questioner – Namaskar Sir, my name is Chaved Power. I am the student of class 10th JNV Yetapaka. My question is how can we overcome the pressure that comes from both teachers and parents during examinations?


    Presenter – Thanks. Amongst us is 11 th standard student Karishma from Jammu-Kashmir’s Government Girls Higher Senior Secondary School who wants to ask a question to Honorable Prime Minister. Karishma, please ask your question.


    Questioner – Respected Prime Minister, myself Karishma Naina, a class 11 student of Jammu-Kashmir Girls School, Nava Bagh. Next year, I am appearing for my board exam. My question is my parents have some expectations from me that I should score good marks and achieve success. My question is how can I fulfill the expectations of my parents? How can I come out of this stress which follows? Thanks.


    Presenter – Thank you Karishma. There is another similar question. Monica Baiga, a class 12 student from Chhattisgarh’s D.A.V. Mukhyamantri Public School, is keen to ask the question to the Prime Minister. Could we have the question, please?


    Questioner – My name is Monica Baiga. I am class 12 student of D.A.V. Mukhyamantri Public School, Janakpur, district Koriya, Chhattisgarh. Honorable Prime Minister, how should the parents behave with their children so that they can avoid exam pressure and anxiety? Thanks.


    Presenter – Thanks Monica. Sir, please solve the problems of Jammu’s Karishma, Andhra’s Chaved and Chhattisgarh’s Monica regarding the exam pressure.


    PM – Is this question for you or for your parents? You think that what you could not tell your parents should be told to them by Modiji. I would like to tell the parents and guardians, I don’t like any pressure and I don’t want to spoil their children that they develop a habit of rebelling against their parents. I don’t want this either.


    We must have seen that pulling a steel spring to a limit is useful. But if it is pulled beyond, it will become a wire. Will it then work as a spring? Both parents and teachers should think about it. The way they behave with the child, they should try to find out what is his capability? They should encourage the child. Therefore, my suggestion to the parents, no matter how aged they are, is that they should introspect how they used to treat their children when they were of 3-4 years. You wanted your child to walk. What you used to do then? Standing afar, you would call him to come to you. Ok, now run. Didn’t you do this? Did you put any pressure on your child to run? No. You used to inspire and encourage him, and awaken his inner strength. Tell me, did you slap your child if he fell while walking? Does any mother say that I have been telling you for half an hour and you are not walking and now you have fallen down? How many times should I help you stand up? No. Rather, she claps if the child falls down. If there is some very intelligent person, he will comment, see what kind of a mother she is. The child has fallen down and she is clapping. But that mother knows that he has just fallen down, she has to encourage him. Therefore, I will tell the parents to accept the reality that the children have grown up and they are no longer 2-3 years’ old. You should keep that psyche alive, don’t let it die down, how you used to help your children when they were of 3-4 years’ old. The parents should always encourage their children in all their endeavours and help them pursue their dreams. There is a very narrow line between persuasion and pressure. I will request both the children and their parents to strike a balance. Parents should call home for tea all those with whom their children feel comfortable, be it grandparents, uncles and aunties, or a teacher. And after some time, leave your child with them and you leave the room quietly. Tell that guardian to have an open discussion with the child and find out his interest. He should then tell the parents separately what was the outcome of that meeting, what is going inside the child and attempt should be made to address that. If this mechanism can be developed … Earlier such a mechanism existed due to joint families in homes. India’s child is super politician. If he wants to watch a film, he will go to his grandmother because he knows his father will refuse him. He knows if he has to buy new clothes, he will go to his father, because his mother will refuse him. He knows it very well how to approach family members. He develops this tendency. This does not mean that he should not be encouraged. No. It does not mean this either because Modiji had said not to interfere with them. Try to understand him and tell him what is his strength and quality. Tell him to channelize it. The more you encourage him, the better results will follow. More the pressure, the problem will accentuate. Now parents and teachers have to decide whether to accentuate the problem or turn it into his strength by encouraging him. They should encourage each student, highlight his strength. I will stress on this.


    Presenter -- Thank You Honorable Prime Minister Sir, for being a friend and mentor. We hope our parents are watching this program. Prerna Manwar, a class XII student, comes from a city well known for UNESCO heritage caves. She studies in Jawahar Navodaya School, Kannad, Aurangabad, and joins us with her question. Could we have the question please?


    Questioner -- Good Morning Sir. My name is Prerna Manwar. I am a student of class XII science from Jawahar Navodaya School, Kannad, Aurangabad, Maharashtra. Sir, my question to you is that my parents always say that I should wake up early in the morning for study but I am a night owl. I can’t wake up early in the morning. Sir, what should I do? Thank You, Sir.


    Presenter – Thanks Prerna. There is a similar question. Honorable Prime Minister, Stanzin, a class 12 student of Government Higher Secondary School from Union Territory Ladakh, is present here and he wants to ask you a question. Stanzin, please ask your question.


    Questioner -- Good afternoon Sir, My name is Stanzin. I and studying in XII class and my school name is Government Higher Secondary School and I am from Leh-Ladakh. Sir, my question is in your opinion what is the best time to study? Is it early morning or late night? Can you suggest us?


    Presenter – Thanks, Stanzin. A similar question. I am calling Shubhashish Chakma, a student of Jawahar Navodaya School from Tripura. Shubhashish, please ask your question.


    Questioner -- Honorable Prime Minister Sir, good afternoon. This is Shubhashish Chakma of class XI studying at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya under Shillong Region. Sir, actually my elder sister always scolds me because I often go for late night study and cannot wake up early in the morning. Sir, my question is whether I am doing something wrong? Please, tell me Sir, What do you say? Thank You.


    Presenter – Thanks Shubhashis. Sir, Prerna, Stanzin and Shubhashish want to know from you when is the best time for studies?


    PM – What an innocent question has been asked to me? A thought came to my mind from this question. This question indicates that programme “Pariksha Par Charcha” is a success. It shows that our young generation is wary of asking such questions to their teachers or people from the teaching community. There seems to be some vacuum. I would like parents and teachers to develop a relationship with the students so that they are able to share their smallest problems also with them. The more they open up, the better it will for their development. I am very grateful to my young friends that they have asked me such an important question. But still several people will tell them that you had an opportunity and what question did you ask him. But I give importance to this question and I feel satisfied that today children considered me one among them. The question that they asked me, they could have asked their mother, father, or elder sister. The feeling of belongingness is blissful and I can feel it. Now it is very difficult for me to answer this question. This is an issue whether to stay awake in the night or wake up early. I am only 50 percent entitled to answer this question. Why I am entitled for 50 percent is that because I get up very early in the morning and therefore I am entitled to speak on rising early. But at the same time, I am not 50 percent entitled because I cannot sleep early due to my work. Therefore, I am able to follow half of the ideal situation. Since, I myself can’t do this, so I do not have the moral authority to tell you what to do. But you also know that the entire day is spent with so much of work, exertion and events. Slowly, these things get entwined. You can imagine how much your mind is engaged in the evening. And if you persist to study late night, will your mind be fresh. No. Your mind will be pre-occupied with so many things. There will be action-reaction of all those events in your mind. It is possible that you won’t be able to focus in the night. But this is true that you feel refreshed after a good sleep. I will not say that get up at 3 a.m. and start studying, because then you will ask your mother for tea at 3 a.m. But if you get up before the sunrise and start studying, then your mind is very healthy. The mind is akin to sky which becomes so clear after the rains. Will it not register better if you study at that time? Experience tells us and this is the belief globally. I don’t have any scientific analysis. I also believe that the morning is the best time, there is freshness, no fatigue, and if you start the day with studies it is good. But I don’t think many students have this problem. It is not important whether you have to study at night or in the morning. Everybody has his own characteristics, habits. You should do according to your comfort. Experience says that morning hours are fine, but if you are not comfortable then why to worry? Study at night. Otherwise, you know what will happen when results will come? You will tell your sister that you did not score well as she was not allowing you to study at night and insisted that I study in morning. So, it should not happen. Secondly, most of the students have this experience. May be, you don’t have this experience, I can’t give any judgment. But when I used to study, it used to happen with me. When the new classes would start after the results, we would promise to start our studies with the opening of the schools. Then, it would be like I will start from next month, or after the first test. But there are some others -- what they do? They decide to study at night. They would tell their mothers not to cook heavy meal which could make them sleep. Pasta will do. Mother also feels that if he has to study at night she would make whatever he asks for – pizza, pasta, water balls, etc. Then you feel that you are not enjoying, so you tell your mother to wake you up at 6 a.m. The poor mother gets up at 5 a.m. and starts making preparation for tea, coffee, or milk. Then you tell your mother that since you did not get good sleep at night, so you will rather study at night. This keeps on happening to wake your mother at night, or in the morning. And we keep on changing our timetable. I think this is injustice to oneself. The problem is not when to study, whether at night or in morning. The bigger problem is we tend to look for excuses not to study and as a result burden the entire family. If we change our habits, it will be beneficial. This is my own experience. Have you heard the sounds of chirping of birds at sunrise or sunset carefully? There is a difference. The tone is different. It means there is some effect of the nature. I think we should adjust our life according to the nature and should avoid any conflict with the nature. Nature itself will help you in your progress. Therefore, we should try to find nature-friendly time. Thank you.


    Presenter -- Thank you Prime Minister Sir for your enlightenment. Honorable Prime Minister Sir, Shaikha Khan from Indian School -- Dar-es Salaam joins us from Tanzania to ask her question. Could we have the question, please?


    Questioner -- Good morning Sir, I am Shaikha Khan from Indian School -- Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. At times we go blank after receiving a question paper. How do we overcome such a situation? Thank you Sir.


    Presenter – Sir, Shobhit Tyagi is a class 12 student of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Sector 4, R.K. Puram, New Delhi. He wants to ask you something. Shobhit, ask your question.


    Questioner — Good morning Sir. I am Shobhit Tyagi, a class 12 student of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Sector 4, R.K. Puram, New Delhi. I am from Shahjahanpur, Uttar Pradesh. My question is when we go to examination hall, we start forgetting answers to the questions. I get tensed due to this. Please help me in this regard.


    Presenter – Thanks, Shobhit. Sir, both Shaikha and Shobhit are suffering from the problem of forgetfulness during exams. We also face similar situation. Please guide us.


    PM – You have asked the right question. Most of the students go through this. Some of the time is lost when they look at question paper. But I want to tell you something in a jovial way. You must have seen that your elder brother or your father trying to kick start the scooter in the morning when they have to go somewhere. But the scooter does not start. Have you seen this or all of you have cars? You must have noticed that your parent or your brother will move the scooter here and there, or shake the scooter. There is no technology in the world that scooter can be started just only by shaking. But he thinks it will. And what happens? After a while, the scooter starts. What he does during those 1-2 minutes is not scientific, but most of the people do this. Those who ride scooter, they do it undoubtedly. This is not science or technology, but they do it and the scooter starts. There are so many sports programmes running on TV. Children watch them and it is good. You must have seen a tennis player who would have been an Olympic player. But before the start of the game and there is no ball, he goes to the tennis table and makes some gestures. So does his opponent. There is no ball, but both of them pretend to be playing. Similarly with cricket! No matter how much successful the batsman is, when he arrives at the pitch from the pavilion, he swings his bat as if he is hitting the ball. There is no ball and the game has not started yet. He adjusts his bat. Why? Because, he looks for comfort zone. In the same way, the bowler does the same thing. He does not have the ball, but he runs and pretends to bowl. You must have seen it happens almost in every game. What is this? This is everybody’s own method to bring oneself into the comfort zone. When the question paper is given to you, just think about your father’s method of starting the scooter. Spend one or two minutes going through the paper and check your pen. This is the simplest solution to avoid stress. Secondly, if you carry your burden to the examination hall, all your experiments will fail. Instead, you should go with confidence. The more the confidence in you, the more composed you will be. There is not a student who has not been taught by his teacher to approach 10 questions in one-and-a-half hours with the easier ones. Don’t they tell you this? Nobody says that you have to start with the first question, then second question, and accordingly. If you find the sixth question easy, try that first to save time. If you start with the easier questions, you get accustomed, and then you can answer the rest of the questions easily. Therefore, self-confidence is very important. Never allow exams to become burden in your life. Secondly, if you are focused then there will be lesser problems. Sometime, what happens is that your mind gets distracted. You look around and find your fellow student is attempting the first question. Don’t look at others what they are doing. You concentrate on yourself, what you have to do. Within a minute, you will start hitting the road. There will be no problem.


    Presenter – Thanks, Sir. Your words are source of inspiration for all of us. Honorable Prime Minister, Abhishek Kumar Gupta, a Class 12 science student from Varanasi’s Central Hindu Boys School is with us and Abhishek wants answer to his question. Abhishek Kumar Gupta, ask your question.


    Questioner – Namaskar, honorable Prime Minister. My name is Abhishek Kumar Gupta and a Class 12 student of Central Hindu Boys School, Varanasi. My question to you is sir, I and some of my friends do not have clarity regarding our capabilities and career options. When we think about it, nothing comes to mind. We are good in studies sir, but have not been able to decide about our future plans. Sir, please guide us. Thanks.


    Presenter – Thank you, Abhishek. Sir, there is another similar question. Joining us in this chain is Julie Sagar, an 11 th standard student from Bihar’s Jawahar Navodaya School, who is keen to ask her question to honorable Prime Minister. May we have the video, please?


    Questioner – Namaskar. Myself Julie Sagar, a student of Jawahar Navodaya School, Bihar. Respectable Prime Minister, I want to know from you how we students can analyse our hidden capabilities. Thank you, Sir.


    Presenter – Thanks, Julie. Sir, there is another similar question. Irin Dominic of class IX from Carmel Public School, Kerala, is here with us and seeks your guidance. Irin, ask your question.


    Questioner -- Good afternoon Honorable Prime Minister Sir. I am Irin Dominic, studying in class IXth of Carmel Public School and I am from Kerala. My question is we have to choose the right career, so how will we realize our inner potential. Kindly guide us Sir, Thank you.


    Presenter – Thank you, Irin. Respectable Sir, Julie, Abhishek and Irin want guidance regarding their talents and career options. Please help.


    PM – Your question is very serious, because it is very difficult to know oneself. I recall an old incident. Once, Lions Club people had called me for a speech. This must be about 40-year-old incident. As it happens, they ask you for your introduction. I was speaker in that programme and there was a chartered accountant who was head of that programme. He also received a letter to send his introduction. He sent a 10-page bio-data detailing everything about his work experience. I also received the letter. Then I wrote on a postcard that you have asked me to write about myself, I am still trying to know myself, therefore, will not be able to tell you right now. Interestingly, it took 10 minutes to read his introduction as against less than 10 seconds of mine. It is right that it is very difficult to know self. But what is the method to know self? We can know about ourselves if we come out of our comfort zone and protective life and take ourselves to a challenge mode, then we realize whether we will be able to do this or not. Whether I have the capability to do this or not! Secondly, we can follow this. We can write a diary for a week and list all the works which we did. Then we should find out which work gave us the maximum pleasure and which did not. If you maintain a diary for a year, then you yourself will realize your aptitude. You will realize which work you can do better and you don’t need the help of others. I congratulate the department staff who have allowed the students to organize this programme and they are doing really well. There is a possibility that after this programme some people may realize that I can also do this work. Their teachers will also realize that whenever there is any such programme in school, we will consider him. Meaning, he gets an opportunity and he prepares himself for this. It will boost his self-confidence and he will realize that he has talent in him. Before this programme, he would not have thought that he could this. But he will now consider that he can also do this. Maybe, he decides to make this a profession. You will see he will read 50 things, will prepare a note of several literature books and think that if he has to go to a function like this, he has to speak this. Will he prepare or not? Meaning, he got to realize his capability. There must have been several moments in your life when you were given such an opportunity. If you get the feeling of success then you should nurture yourself and develop that talent. Secondly, there is no doubt that career has its own importance. Everybody can’t be a saint of a fakir. Everybody has to take care of some responsibilities. And sometimes, we can help the nation by fulfilling our responsibilities. Therefore, career has an important role in one’s life. Just because somebody is good at something, or he does that, so I should also do the same. It will only lead to discontentment. Now you see, if a boy tells his mother that he enjoys cooking and if he goes to the kitchen and observes how his mother cooks. Initially, his mother will feel happy that he is helping her. But after some time, his mother will be irritated. She will tell him to study rather than doing this work and bars his entry into kitchen. But the child knows that he has this talent in him. Suppose, if he puts in great efforts and becomes a popular chef. Then the same mother will say I had prepared him since he was very young.


    No work is bad. This is true that his childhood friends may feel that he remains in the kitchen for 2-2 hours. But it may also happen that a small interest may bring about a change in his life. And if he has a sense of social responsibility, he will become a good chef, and may also decide to work on the nutrition of children, what they should eat, how the food should be cooked. Now, tell me, how much important he will become in social service. A person can live his life by traversing different paths.


    Secondly, when you sit for exams, be confident. There should never be pressure of examination, never ever have any fear of exams. Instead, one should prepare for it. If one does not succeed in clearing one entrance test, it does not matter. Lakhs of people sit for it and there will be some who will not be able to clear it. There is no need to build such tension. There can’t be a worse situation than this that one does not put his feet down for fear of it. Our state of mind should be to make every effort to move forward in life. If we fail, we will learn, and will attempt next time. This should be the trait of the student. And a student does not remain student till his student life. Even when he is 24-25 years of age, he is student. One should keep the student in you alive all through your life. The student in you should not die even at the age of 80. This is the best way to live a life – to learn, know and identify new things.


    Presenter – Thanks, honorable Prime Minister for your guidance. Nisha Agarwal, a class 12 student from mineral-rich and a tourist attraction, Jharkhand, wants to ask a question to honorable Prime Minister. Could we have the question please?


    Questioner – Myself Nisha Agarwal, a student of class 12 of Smriti Vidya Mandir, Ghatshila, Jharkhand. My question to honorable Prime Minister is that the board exams are on the anvil and I am also thinking about UPSE, JEE and PMT. But sometimes, one does not get success in these exams. Please guide us. Thanks.


    Presenter – Thanks Nisha. We are very grateful to you Sir that you have solved several of our queries and curiosities. But after listening to statesman like you, we are still discontented. Considering your precious time, I invite class 12 student of GGSC Maluka, Batindha, Hardeep Kaur from the land of five rivers, land of gurus, Punjab, to ask the last question of Pariksha Par Charcha 2020. Hardeep, please ask your question.


    Questioner – Sat Sri Akal, Sir. I am Hardeep Kaur, a student of class 12, Government Senior Secondary School, Maluka, Punjab. I can score good scores in Board exams, but Sir, I am worried and nervous for competitive exams. I want your suggestion in this regard. Thanks.


    Presenter – Thanks, Hardeep. Sir, guide Hardeep and Nisha for their queries.


    PM – Sat Sri Akal. My request to all of you is to read my book, not because I have written that book. I will request you to read the book Exam Warriors in these two days of Pariksha Par Charcha, if it is possible. Actually, it is not my book. It is due to all of you that the book has been developed as new aspects keep on adding to it. You read it twice in the next two-three days. Then there will be no worries about your next exams once you do well in your 12 th exam. What is this worry? This worry is not about your exams. This is about the ambition, a strong desire within you to become somebody. You consider exam as an issue of life and death due to that ambition. If I fail then all my doors for the future will be closed. You don’t have the tension of the success of the exam. Your tension is that you have identified youself with a career that you have chosen and you fear that you will become useless if you are not able to do it. If you read the book Exam Warriors, it has a very simple answer. I often tell about myself that never ever dream to become somebody. There is always a possibility of disappointment if we don’t become what we aspire to become. But if we dream to do something, then whatever we do, we will feel like doing it better. So, rather than dreaming about becoming somebody, we should dream about doing something. If you dream about doing something then there will never be pressure of exams. It is just a window, a door which opens up for our progress. But there is just not a single way, there are several means, there are several spheres. If you live with this belief that the entire world is ready to accept your capability, I am sure, you will never experience tension.


    I once again congratulate the HRD ministry from my heart. I thank the country’s schools, particularly the teachers. I also thank all the parents who have made great efforts to make this Pariksha Par Charcha programme a success, and to take it forward, and all the states of India have played a constructive role.


    Whenever I, you all come here, I see a new India in front of me. Students from different parts of India are here. When the country celebrates the centenary of its independence, leadership will be in your hands. They are the ones who are sitting here. And when you will be at the peak of your success, and if I am alive and meet you, then I will say with pride that the people who are providing leadership to the system, changing the situation, gifting new things to the world through their works in labs, they are the people who I had the opportunity to meet on 20 th January 2020. I will feel proud when the country’s leadership will be in your hands and I will say it with pride that I had met them earlier. What can be a bigger satisfaction in my life than this?


    With this satisfaction and belief, I say that exams are not life; they are stepping stones of life. I will tell lakhs of education institutions, crores of children, and children from the world who have connected with this programme through internet and technology, that future belongs to you. It is because of your efforts and hard work that future belongs to India. With this belief, we all move ahead in our lives. My many many best wishes to all of you.


    Most of the children must be having this question in their minds and some of them would have given TV interviews regarding the questions they were going to ask the PM and would not have got the opportunity today. I apologise for this as due to time constraint I am not able to give opportunity to everybody. But I understand your feelings. I read your questions, and try my best to connect with you, which I will continue to do so in future also.


    With this sense, many many best wishes to all of you. Many many thanks.


    ***


    VRRK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1600589) Visitor Counter : 906
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Punjabi