      Ministry Of Law & Justice

      A Round-up of Activities on celebrating Constitution Day and Fundamental Duties
      Posted On: 29 JAN 2020 1:55PM by PIB Delhi


    As part of the yearlong celebrations of Constitution Day, various Ministries and Departments have been organising a number of programmes involving Staff, Students and General Public in different parts of the country. The Department of Justice, being the nodal department, has been closely monitoring the activities.


    Following are the some of the activities taken up during the last week:

     1. Ministry of External Affairs

    I. The Consulate General of India, NEW YORK : Fundamental Duties celebrated on the occasion of Pravasi Bharatiya Divas on January 09, 2020 and 'Chalo Consulate' - An Interaction with Community Members on January 13, 2020.


    2. Ministry of Law & Justice


    I. NATIONAL JUDICIAL ACADEMY, BHOPAL : During its Orientation Programme held for the Junior Division Judges from January 10-16, 2020, the National Judicial Academy, Bhopal devoted its first session to the theme of "Constitutional Vision of Justice", held on January 10, 2020. Mr. Justice Ravi Tripathi, Former Member, Law Commission of India and Dr. V.K. Dixit, Visiting Professor, National Law Institute University, Bhopal were the Resource Persons.


    3. Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports


    I. DEPARTMENT OF YOUTH RESOURCES AND SPORTS, GOVERNMENT OF NAGALAND

    a. Reading of the Preamble: The Department of Youth Resource and Sports hosted the North East NSS festival 2019 at Kohima Science College, Jotsoma from December 8-12, 2019 with the Theme ‘Step up Empowering Young Minds’. The Keynote Address at the festival followed by the administration of pledge was conducted by Mrs. Khanrinla T. Koza, Secretary, Justice & Law. In her Keynote Address, Mrs. Koza, spoke, explained and expounded on the Preamble of the Constitution and Fundamental Duties to the College students. She also led them in reading the Fundamental Duties before administering the reading of the pledge. The event had about 300 students from various colleges from the Seven North Eastern States including Sikkim. The event as well as the awareness program received wide publicity in the local media in Nagaland.
    b. Awareness Walk: On December 9, 2019 at 10:00 A.M., an Awareness Walk was organized on Constitution and Fundamental Duties. The Advisor, Youth Resource & Sports, Govt. of Nagaland, Er. Zale Neikha Flagged-off the Awareness Walk.


    4. Ministry of HRD – Department of School Education & Literacy


    I. VINAY NAGAR BENGALI SCHOOL, NEW DELHI: 15 students participated in the Essay Writing competition on the topic - “RELEVANCE OF THE IDEAS OF THE CONSTITUTION IN OUR TIME” and 13 students from Class VIII to XI consisting of 3 groups took part in a Quiz Competition.


    II. JAWAHAR NAVODAYA VIDYALAYA-I, UKHRUL, MANIPUR : 47 students participated in the Essay Writing competition on the topic - “Fundamental Duties” on January 18, 2020 in three languages- English, Hindi and Manipuri


    5. Civil Society


    I. ABHYUDAYA NGO, BENGALURU : Abhyudaya, an education project for socially deprived children conducted an interactive session for students on January 4, 2020 at Bengaluru with Capt. Manivannan IAS (Secretary- Labour department, Secretary-Information and Public relation, Government of Karnataka). 200 students from Abhyudaya’s free learning centre attended the program that began with the reading of the Preamble to make all students aware about the Citizens’ duties. Capt. Manivannan explained the preamble of the country in very simple terms. Each and every word of the preamble was explained in detail in a way any students could understand. He explained how constitution is framed and importance of voting. He also explained the importance of the Constitution for the national development and to maintain harmony among people. Finally, the session concluded with a question and answer session. The questions asked by the students were really thought provoking ones. This was the moment where Capt. Manivanna felt very happy after hearing thoughtful questions from the young students; he also delightfully answered all the questions.


    6. Ministry of Railways


    

    III. EAST CENTRAL RAILWAY, SONPUR DIVISION : A foot march was organized in Sonpur division over East Central Railway on January 20, 2020. About 1000 people including all division officials, other employees, sports players, Members of Unions and Associations, school students, Members of Bharat Scout & Guide participated in the March, urging the public to perform their Fundamental Duties.


    ***


    
    BN/BK
    

    
    (Release ID: 1600924) Visitor Counter : 626
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi
    
    
    

1.