      Prime Minister's Office

      Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister chairs a high level meeting on Coronavirus outbreak
      Posted On: 25 JAN 2020 7:29PM by PIB Delhi


    On the instructions of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister Dr. P. K. Mishra chaired a high level meeting on the Coronavirus outbreak in China.


    During the meeting, the officials apprised the Principal Secretary on the recent developments, preparedness and response measures associated with the spread of Coronavirus.


    Ministry of Health and Family Welfare briefed the Principal Secretary on hospital preparedness, laboratary preparedness, measures taken for the Capacity Building of the Rapid Response teams and the extensive surveillance activities undertaken by the Ministry.


    Principal Secretary also reviewed the preventive measures taken by other Ministries like the Ministry of Civil Aviation.


    The officials assured the Principal Secretary that the situation is being closely monitored by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, in close coordination with various other Union ministries as well as State governments and Union Territories.


    So far, 20,000 people from 115 flights at 7 international airports have been screened. National Institute of Virology labs all over the country are fully equipped to test the virus. All State and District health authorities have been alerted and are in the loop.


    Cabinet Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba, Secretary Home Affairs Shri Ajay Kumar Bhalla, Secretary External Affairs Shri Vijay Gokhale, Secretary Defence Shri Ajay Kumar, Secretary Health and Family Welfare Ms. Preeti Sudan, Secretary Civil Aviation Shri Pradeep Singh Kharola and several other top officials attended the meeting.


    ***


    VRRK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1600552) Visitor Counter : 999
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Punjabi , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada , Malayalam