      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister Interacts with Tribal Guests, NCC cadets, NSS Volunteers and Tableaux Artists who would be showcasing India at 71st Republic Day Parade
      Posted On: 24 JAN 2020 6:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today interacted in an At Home event with over 1730 Tribal Guests,, NCC Cadets, NSS Volunteers and Tableaux Artists who would be a part of the 71st Republic Day parade in the National Capital.


    Referring to the large enthusiastic gathering, the Prime Minister said they would be showcasing a Mini India at the Republic Day Parade. Saying that the world would see the essence of India during their performance in the Parade, the Prime Minister said India is not a mere geographic or demographic entity.


    यहां आप जितने भी साथी एकत्र हुए हैं, आप एक प्रकार से Mini India- New India को showcase करने वाले लोग हैं। भारत असल में क्या है, ये हमारा देश और पूरी दुनिया आपके माध्यम से समझती है: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/SAIzXmDvKT

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) 24 January 2020

    India is a Way of Life On Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat, Prime Minister said that it should be remembered that India is not only home to 130 crore people but also a nation with a vibrant tradition.


    जब हम एक भारत, श्रेष्ठ भारत की बात करते हैं, तो हमें ये भी याद रखना है कि भारत असल में है क्या। भारत क्या सिर्फ सरहदों के भीतर 130 करोड़ लोगों का घर भर ही है? नहीं, भारत एक राष्ट्र के साथ-साथ एक जीवंत परंपरा है, एक विचार है, एक संस्कार है, एक विस्तार है: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/bEZeiIZrsH

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) 24 January 2020

    He said India is a way of life, an idea, a confluence of several philosophies and a metaphor for a rich global & universal perspective. He said, “India means one Global Family, India means Equanimity for all Religions, India means Triumph of Truth, India means an idea that permits understanding of the One Truth in different ways, India means the one that loves and protects Flora and Fauna, India Means Self Reliance, India believes that only those who sacrifice can remain blissful, India means the one which believes in welfare of everyone, India means one which worships women, India means one which believes that motherland is more virtuous than Gold” Belief in Unity and not Uniformity The Prime Minister said India’s strength is its diversity in geological and social fabric. He compared India to a floral garland where different flowers stitched together through a common thread of Indianness. He said, “India believes in Unity and not Uniformity. “ Shri Modi said, “Strengthening that thread of unity and preserving it is our continuous effort and toil” He said as a New India progresses, the effort is to see that no one is left behind and no region is left behind. Striving for Fundamental Duties The Prime Minister said that it is time now to give importance to our fundamental duties. “If we deliver our duties sincerely, then there would be no necessity for fighting for our rights'' he said.


    यहां जितने भी युवा साथी आए हैं, मेरा आपसे आग्रह रहेगा कि राष्ट्र के प्रति अपने कर्तव्यों की ज्यादा से ज्यादा चर्चा करें। चर्चा ही नहीं, बल्कि खुद अमल करके, उदाहरण पेश करें। हमारे ऐसे ही प्रयास न्यू इंडिया का निर्माण करेंगे: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/rvxAfggq1W

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) 24 January 2020

    Prime Minister Shri Modi also witnessed a cultural programme showcased by the Tribal Guests, NCC Cadets, NSS Volunteers and Tableaux Artists


    ***


    
    VRRK/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1600468) Visitor Counter : 423
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Marathi , Marathi , Kannada , Bengali , Hindi , Punjabi , Gujarati