      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister chairs the 22nd Meeting of the Central Zonal Council held at Nava Raipur, Chhattisgarh
      
      Adhere to the 2-month timeline for completion of investigation of heinous offences under POCSO: Shri Shah to State Governments
      
      In-depth scrutiny of issues related to Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana was done, especially in LWE affected areas
      
      Shri Shah urges State Governments to provide brick-and-mortar banking facilities in LWE affected areas

      Posted On: 28 JAN 2020 9:56PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Home Affairs, Shri Amit Shah chaired the 22 nd meeting of the Central Zonal Council (CZC) held at Nava Raipur (Chhattisgarh) today.


    The Home Minister visualised that this would be a fruitful meeting where all the issues having Centre-State and inter-State ramifications will be resolved with consensus. He emphasised on the need of regular meetings of the Zonal Council. He assured all the Chief Ministers that the issues raised by them would be suitably addressed by the Central Government within the Constitutional framework & administrative feasibility.


    During the meeting, Shri Shah exhorted the members to expeditiously resolve the issues relating to forest clearance and provide brick-&-mortar banking facility within 5 kms radius in each village – particularly in Naxal areas. He called upon the States to adhere to the timeline of 2 months for completion of investigation of offences under POCSO Act. The Home Minister reminded the States to send suggestions for comprehensive amendments of CrPC and IPC, for which he has already written to all the Chief Ministers. Shri Shah further called for prompt payment to farmers and assured the States in the region that their issues relating to procurement of grains and their disposal would be resolved quickly and informed that a high level committee was already seized of the matter.


    The meeting was also attended by the Chief Ministers of Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and various Ministers from these States. While welcoming the participants, the Chief Minister, Chhattisgarh expressed hope that the spirit of cooperative federalism as envisaged in the Constitution will be strengthened.


    Union Home Secretary, Chief Secretaries & senior officers of the four States and senior officers from the Central Government attended the meeting where detailed discussion was held in congenial atmosphere. Sh. Sanjeev Gupta, Secretary, Inter State Council Secretariat, Ministry of Home Affairs made an elaborate presentation on the agenda items.


    The Council deliberated upon various issues including acceptance of procured coarse grain under Price Support Scheme (PSS), revision of “State Cap” fixed for the implementation of NSAP (Pension) Scheme, holding Inter State coordination meeting to take prompt action against criminals, Amendment in Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) guidelines, amendment in Section 78 of the Information Technology Act and declaration of certain castes and tribes as Scheduled Castes & Scheduled Tribes. Detailed discussion was held on issues relating to Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana – particularly in LWE affected areas. Other major issues discussed were:

      * Land acquisition for development of Bilaspur Airport in Chhattisgarh
      * Granting permission for tree cutting and land acquisition for Railway Projects.
      * Equation of norms between Central & State agencies regarding compensatory afforestation
      * Appointment of Controlling Authorities under Private Security Agencies (Regulation) Act, 2005
      * Public Financial Management System (PFMS).

    Besides participating in the discussions on the agenda items, the Chief Ministers raised certain additional points, to which the Home Minister assured that the matter will be examined as per the extant administrative norms and sincere efforts will be made to resolve such issues.


    *****


    VG/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1600892) Visitor Counter : 484
    
    
    
    
    

*