      Ministry Of Law & Justice

      Cabinet approves MoUs among India, Tunisia and Papua New Guinea Electoral Commission for elections for cooperation in the field of electoral management and administration
      Posted On: 22 JAN 2020 3:42PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for the proposal of the Legislative Department for allowing the Election Commission to enter into Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) with the Independent High Authority for Elections of Tunisia (ISIE) and the Papua New Guinea Electoral Commission(PNGEC) for elections for cooperation in the field of electoral management and administration.


    Impact:


    The MOUs would promote bilateral cooperation, aimed at building technical assistance/ capacity support for the Independent High Authority for Elections of Tunisia (ISIE) and the Papua New Guinea Electoral Commission(PNGEC) for elections for cooperation in the field of electoral management and administration, envisaging cooperation in the field of electoral management and administration and providing a leg-up to such bodies in conducting elections in their respective countries. This would also result in bolstering India's international relations.


    Background


    The Election Commission has been participating in promoting cooperation in the field of election matters and electoral processes across the world with certain foreign countries and agencies by adopting the mode of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by the concerned parties. The Election Commission, a constitutional body, conducts the largest electoral exercise in the world. It is the responsibility of the Election Commission to organise free and fair elections in the country of about 85 crore voters with diverse socio-political and economic backgrounds. In recent years, the role being played by the Election Commission ensures greater participation of people in political affairs. India, today, is considered as the world's 'largest' democratic country. The success of democracy in India has attracted the attention of almost every political system around the world.


    In its pursuit of excellence, the Election Commission has been receiving various proposals from foreign electoral bodies for developing bilateral relations in the field of election and matters connected therewith. The Election Commission forwarded a proposal to the Ministry of Law and Justice, Legislative Department relating to signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) by it with the Election Commission of Maldives on cooperation in the field of electoral management and administration.


    These MoUs contain standard articles/clauses which broadly express promotion of cooperation in the field of electoral management and administration including promotion of exchange of knowledge and experience in the field of organizational and technical development of electoral process; support in exchanging information, institutional strengthening and capacity building, training of personnel, holding regular consultations; etc.


    *******


    VRRK/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1600105) Visitor Counter : 187
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil , Kannada