      Ministry Of Law & Justice

      Tax Invasion is a Social Injustice to fellow citizens: Chief Justice of India
      
      Tax Judiciary plays an important role in resource mobilization of the country;
      
      Artificial Intelligence is a new hope for Public Institutions;
      
      Inaugurates 79th Foundation Day Celebrations and All India Members' Conference of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal
      Posted On: 24 JAN 2020 6:33PM by PIB Delhi


    The Chief Justice of India, Mr. Justice S.A. Bobde has said that the Tax Invasion is a Social Injustice to follow citizens and arbitrary or excessive tax is also results in injustice to tax payers. He was addressing the gathering after inaugurating the 79th Foundation Day Celebrations and All India Members' Conference of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT), here today. The Justice, Supreme Court of India, Mr. Justice M.R. Shah, the President, ITAT, Mr. Justice P.P. Bhatt, the Solicitor General of India, Shri Tushar Mehta, the Secretary, Ministry of Law and Justice, Shri Anoop Kumar Mendiratta, the Vice President, ITAT, Delhi Zone, Mr. Justice, P.P. Pannu and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    Saying speedy justice is being one of the important aspects in the civilised world, Mr. Justice Bobde said that ITAT is playing an important role in dispute resolution in an effective manner. He further said that Tax Judiciary plays a very important role in resource mobilization of the country and a just and speedy dispute resolution is perceived as a tax incentive by the tax payer.


    Mr. Justice Bobde said that giving importance to infrastructure is the need of the hour. Good infrastructure is a prerequisite for an institution is like healthy mind to the healthy body. You must upgrade your skills constantly, he added.


    While saying use of technology in judicial functioning is another fascinating area, the Chief Justice of India said that Artificial Intelligence can play a significant role in judicial functioning and it is very helpful in docket management and decision making. But we should never allow artificial intelligence substitute the human intervention which is a necessary for a just decision making, he cautioned. Several countries are experimenting and implementing Artificial Intelligence in their respective justice delivery systems and the Artificial Intelligence is a new hope to drive our Public Institutions, he added.


    The Solicitor General of India, Shri Tushar Mehta said that the Tribunal is governed by the rules of evidence; it’s a combination of Judicial Officers and Accounting Members. He further said that this combination of functioning has been able to evolve satisfactory solutions for problems arising in taxation. Early resolution of disputes shall ultimately in the interest of tax payers and for the country’s economy, he added.


    The President, ITAT, Mr. Justice P.P. Bhatt, in his welcome address, said that we need to rededicate ourselves in serving the society in dispensation of justice in the field of direct taxes in the expected and appropriated manner. Our motto - Nispaksh, Sulabh and Satvar Nyay are not merely a set of words but they reflect values aspirations on which our organization work, he added.


    The two-day event has several sessions of interaction in which eminent speakers will address and variety of subjects.


    ***


    BN/BK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1600469) Visitor Counter : 611