      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister Attends the National Cadet Corps Rally in Delhi
      
      Calls for a youthful mindset & thinking to meet the aspirations of Young India
      Posted On: 28 JAN 2020 4:05PM by PIB Delhi


      Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today attended the National Cadet Corps Rally in Delhi today.


      At the rally, Prime Minister inspected the Guard of Honour and reviewed the March Past by the various NCC contingents and also from Cadets from other friendly and neighbouring countries.


      Along with a cultural performance, NCC cadets also presented before the Prime Minister their capabilities in fields such as adventure sports, music and performance arts. Prime Minister distributed awards for the meritorious NCC cadets.


      Watch Live! https://t.co/373eCtDhx5

      — PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2020

      Addressing the gathering, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi said that NCC provides a good platform to strengthen the spirit of Discipline, Determination and Devotion of the youth towards the country. He said such values will help in the development of the country.


      NCC, देश की युवाशक्ति में Discipline, Determination और देश के प्रति Devotion की भावना को मजबूत करने का बहुत सशक्त मंच है। ये भावनाएं देश के Development के साथ सीधी-सीधी जुड़ी हैं: PM @narendramodi

      — PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2020

      Prime Minister termed India as one of the youthful countries in the world as more than 65% of its population is below 35 years of age. “We are proud of this fact, but it should also be our responsibility to think young,'' he said. Prime Minister said this would mean that there would be no place of procrastinating and finding immediate solutions to any issue. “This is what a young mind craves for and this what a young India is”, he said.


      आज विश्व में हमारे देश की पहचान, युवा देश के रूप में है। देश के 65 परसेंट से ज्यादा लोग 35 वर्ष से कम उम्र के हैं। देश युवा है, इसका हमें गर्व है लेकिन देश की सोच युवा हो, ये हमारा दायित्व होना चाहिए: PM @narendramodi

      — PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2020

      He said, “We should while facing the challenges of the past and taking care of the necessities of the present, we should work towards our aspirations of the future”. He said India is today going ahead with a youthful zest and mind. “Today India has a youthful mindset and heart, and that’s the reason why it conducts surgical strikes, air strikes and directly attacks terror camps”. He said youthful mindset wants to progress by taking everyone along and not leaving anyone behind. “It is with this spirit that we signed the Bodo Agreement, where in all the stakeholders were consulted and the agreement was signed”


      आज युवा सोच है, युवा मन के साथ देश आगे बढ़ रहा है, इसलिए वो सर्जिकल स्ट्राइक करता है, एयर स्ट्राइक करता है और आतंक के सरपरस्तों को उनके घर में जाकर सबक सिखाता है: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/Scm7kxlY8d

      — PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2020

      Speaking on the development efforts of the North East PM highlighted that along with the development of the North East region, started negotiations with all stakeholders have been started with a very open mind and an open heart. Bodo agreement today is the result of this. “This is the thinking of young India. We are taking the country forward by taking everyone along, developing everyone, gaining everyone's trust,” he said.


      हमने एक तरफ नॉर्थ ईस्ट के विकास के लिए अभूतपूर्व योजनाओं की शुरुआत की और दूसरी तरफ बहुत ही खुले मन और खुले दिल के साथ सभी Stakeholders के साथ बातचीत शुरू की। बोडो समझौता आज इसी का परिणाम है: PM @narendramodi

      — PMO India (@PMOIndia) 28 January 2020

      ***


      VRRK/AKP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1600810) Visitor Counter : 426
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Malayalam