      Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs

      Prime Minister says Government open for discussion on all issues in the forthcoming Budget Session of Parliament
      
      Says greater focus should be on economic issues to let the country gain from the prevailing global situation
      
      Government holds All-Party Meeting on the eve of the Budget Session of Parliament; Session to have 31 sittings till 03rd April
      Posted On: 30 JAN 2020 5:58PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today said the Government is open for discussion on all issues in the forthcoming Budget Session of Parliament. He was addressing the all party meeting on the eve of the Budget session which is beginning on the 31st of January 2020.


    In his concluding remarks the Prime Minister welcomed the suggestions of most of the Members that the session should focus on the prevailing economic situation in the country.


    He said, “Most of the members have asked for discussion on the Economic situation concerning the country. I welcome this and we need to discuss the economic issues as suggested by you all.”


    Prime Minister urged the members to see how the country can gain from the prevailing global economic scenario.


    He said, “We should focus on how we can turn the global scenario in favour of India”


    “And in this budget session, and in the beginning of the New Year if we can give a proper direction to the country’s economy it would be in the best interest of the country”, he said.


    On the other issues raised by the members the Prime Minister said, “I agree with you all on the other important issues raised by you. And I would like to say that there should be an open discussion on all such issues.”


    Further the Prime Minister requested the Members to see to it that they contribute to increasing the productivity of the session and the Parliament.


    Referring to the last two sessions the Prime Minister said, “This is about the productivity of the session and the Parliament. In the last two sessions we saw the increased productivity and the great public response in favour of it. As people’s representatives, it is our responsibility to increase the productivity of the House, while we discuss all issues with an open mind. ”


    Briefing media persons after the All-Party Meeting, Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines, Shri. Pralhad Joshi said that the Government is always ready to discuss on the floor of the both the Houses of Parliament, any issue as permitted under Rules of Procedure and sought the cooperation of all parties for smooth functioning of both Houses.


    Giving details about the ensuing Budget Session, Shri Joshi said the Budget Session, 2020 of Parliament is scheduled to commence on Friday, the 31st of January, 2020 and subject to exigencies of Government Business, the Session may conclude on Friday, the 3 rd of April, 2020. He informed that during this period, both Houses of Parliament will be adjourned for recess on Tuesday, the 11 th of February, 2020 to reassemble on Monday, the 2 nd of March, 2020 to enable the Standing Committees to examine the Demands for Grants of various Ministries/ Departments and make their Reports thereon.


    Shri. Joshi added that the Session will provide a total of 31 sittings (9 sittings in first part and 22 sittings in second part) spread over a period of 64 days. The Minister further stated that the Session will mainly be devoted to the Financial Business relating to Union Budget for 2020-21 and discussion on the Motion of Thanks on President’s Address. However, essential Legislative and other Business will also be taken up during the Session. The Economic Survey of India will be presented to Parliament on Friday, the 31st January, 2020 . The Union Budget for 2020-21 will be presented to Lok Sabha on Saturday, the 1st February 2020 at 11.00 A.M .


    The Minister told media persons the government has identified 45 Bills and 07 financial items for being taken up during the ensuing Budget Session. Shri Joshi added that two Bills replacing Ordinances namely (i) the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2019 and (ii) the Mineral Laws (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 have been promulgated during the inter-session period which are required to be replaced by Acts of Parliament within a period of six weeks from the reassembly of Parliament.


    The all-party meeting was attended by the Union Defence Minister Shri Rajnath Singh, the Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Thawar Chand Gehlot, the Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution Shri. Ram Vilas Paswan, the Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal and the Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs and External Affairs Shri V. Muraleedharan, along with other leaders.


    Leaders of various Political parties made a number of suggestions during the meeting highlighting different issues. The leaders echoed the need for ensuring smooth functioning of the Parliament .


    *****


    RCJ/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1601145) Visitor Counter : 397
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Telugu