      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      GSI’S REPORT ON EARTHQUAKE IN DELHI-NCR
      Posted On: 04 FEB 2019 6:48PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 04 February 2019


    A moderate earthquake of magnitude 5.8ML (5.7 Mb) occurred at a depth of 213.6 km in Afghanistan on 2nd February 2019 at 17hrs: 34min: 32.7sec.(IST). The epicentre of the earthquake has been located at Latitude 36.4550N and Longitude 70.4690E using data recorded at eight Seismo-geodetic observatories of GSI located at Agartala, Itanagar, Jaipur, Jammu, Lucknow, Pune, Trivandrum and Nagpur. The epicentre of the earthquake is located in Hindukush region of Afghanistan and shown on the map of the region.


    Dr. Dinesh Gupta, Director General of Geological Survey of India (GSI) elaborated that the earthquake was felt in Pakistan, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan, Northwestern part of India including Delhi-NCR region. The epicentre lies beneath the Pamir-Hindu Kush Mountains of northern Afghanistan. In this region, past earthquakes are found to occur at depths as great as 200 km as a result of remnant lithospheric subduction. The presence of deeper earthquakes upto 213 km indicates the subduction of Indian plate might have gone to 213 km depth in this region.


    The DG, GSI has also said that continuous movement of Indian plate against Eurasian plate in the north and Burma plate in the east has resulted a number of damaging earthquakes in the north-western, northern and north-eastern regions of India. This necessitates continuous monitoring of stress and strain build-ups in the subcontinent to delineate zones of future earthquakes.


    Geological Survey of India is now establishing seismo-geodetic network covering the entire India to understand crustal dynamics. In first phase, it is planned to establish 35 numbers state-of-the-art broadband seismometers and high precision GPS stations. 10 numbers of seismometers and 19 numbers of high precision GPS instruments are already established at different locations and are in operation. Location of earthquakes in and around India are continuously done through broadband seismometers, while strain build-up areas are demarcated through high precision GPS network, which are vulnerable for future earthquakes. First-hand information obtained from the study indicates high strain rates both in the western and northeastern Himalayas and its adjoining areas. More detailed work is being carried out in the GSI laboratories, the Director General said.


    CG/SC/dk/kol

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562616) Visitor Counter : 6