      Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises

      IIT Kharagpur to Have Centre of Excellence in Advanced Manufacturing Technology with an Industrial Research and Innovation Unit
      Posted On: 03 FEB 2019 8:58PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, February 3, 2019.


    The Centre of Excellence in Advanced Manufacturing Technology at Indian Institute of Technology at IIT Kharagpur is coming up with a Research and Innovation Unit to encourage utility of Technology for the development and growth of the industrial manufacturing sector. Union Minister of State for Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, Shri Babul Supriyo while interacting with media in Kharagpur, said that the facilities form the central point for development of people. He said that industrial facilities will play a pivotal role for connecting the centre of excellence to people. He emphasised Industrial Research and Innovation Unit will encourage MSMEs (Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises) and startups for entrepreneurial initiatives. He also said that it will be of utility for the Make in India initiative of Central Government. He emphasized that IIT Kharagpur has a name for itself in the domain of high-end research, scientific know-how and technological research.


    Congratulating the leadership team of IIT Kharagpur while visiting the Centre of Excellence in Kharagpur, Shri Supriyo said that the Centre of Excellence has the planning in place to be one of the best. He said that IIT Kharagpur has worked in industrial domain specific to high end Manufacturing Technology in area of training, engineering and has helped in cost-effective solutions for affordable and accessible technology to industry and people. He emphasised that it will also be encouraging industrial transformation in entire value chain including high end technology and employment opportunities.


    Prof. Partha Pratim Chakrabarti, Director IIT Kharagpur, said that the Utility of Industrial monitoring, Robotics and high end technology for the solutions is another area where the progress will help development and growth of industrial sector as a whole. He said that the industrial domain technology areas including high end analysis of the manufacturing will be quintessential component where Centre of Excellence will provide solutions for manufacturing.


    Other Officials and staff of IIT Kharagpur were also present on the occasion.


    *****


    SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562468) Visitor Counter : 48
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali