      Ministry of Railways

      IIT Kharagpur and South Eastern Railway Hospital sign MoU for cooperation and collaborative medical research, education and clinical care
      Posted On: 06 FEB 2019 5:11PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata: February 6, 2019


    The MoU will enable faculty and students from IIT Kharagpur in the domain of medical science and technology to access in-patient and out-patient wards, clinics and laboratories for clinical exposure, patient contact, teaching and validation studies which will help medical research and development of medical technologies. The two institutions will provide diagnostic services support to each other and take up joint research projects.


    Prof. Suman Chakraborty, Head of School of Medical Science and Technology, IIT-Kharagpur stated, “Validation of the medical technology developed by us is very important and that requires enormous amount of patient data. Such validation can happen only if we have a large hospital such as the SE Railway Hospital in our collaborative ambit.” Concurring with Prof. Chakraborty, Mr K.R.K. Reddy, Divisional Railway Manager, Kharagpur Division, said, “We can also benefit from IIT Kharagpur’s expertise given that we are also trying to set up a post-graduate institute of medical educational research.”


    There will be mutual exchange programs involving faculty, medical professionals, doctors, researchers and students. IIT Kharagpur will also support SE Railway hospital for conducting post-graduate training in various medical disciplines in its premises. The development corresponds to IIT Kharagpur’s emphasis on medical research and education and the upcoming 400 bed super-speciality hospital inside its campus. Various departments of IIT Kharagpur, particularly the School of Medical Science and Technology, are engaged in research projects and the development of medical technology. IIT Kharagpur is also developing a Common Research and Technology Development Hub, supported by the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, Government of India that will help transfer technologies to Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises.


    The MoU also assures IIT Kharagpur emergency medical services from SE Railway Hospital for all patients referred to it by the Institute and complete in-patient services.


    *****


    CC/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562868) Visitor Counter : 3