      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      IIT Kharagpur to set-up an MSME Hub for Healthcare Technologies in collaboration with Department of Scientific and Industrial Research
      Posted On: 01 FEB 2019 5:53PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, February 01, 2019


    Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur is going to set-up an Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) Hub for Healthcare Technologies in collaboration with Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR). The initiative will be aligned with the upcoming 400-bed super specialty hospital at IIT Kharagpur.


    In a press conference here today, Prof. Suman Chakraborty, Head of School of Medical Science and Technology, IIT Kharagpur said that, the projects related to Common Research and Technology Development Hub, involves identifying the MSMEs and their specific need in the healthcare and medical sector. He emphasized that IIT Kharagpur has a name for itself in the domain of high-end research, scientific know-how and technological research. He said that the IIT Kharagpur has worked in medical domain specific to medical science and technology training and helped in cost-effective solutions for affordable and accessible healthcare and medical sector. He said that the emphasis is on connecting technology from laboratory to the medical domain. Prof. Chakraborty emphasized that aspects related to the medical market identification and manufacturing which are technology driven will result in efficient and effective business and economic development. In the value chain of business and economy of MSMEs, the technology know-how and utility is quintessential for better overall result, he said.


    Dr. Satadal Saha, Visiting Professor at the School of Medical Science and Technology at IIT Kharagpur, informed that the initiative will enable accessibility of high-end medical technology to people. He emphasized that it will transform lives of people in health care and quality health care in the medical domain. The MSMEs will be involved in the value chain of technology ecosystem in medical sector, he said. Dr. Saha emphasised Technology and science plays a pivotal role in development of the country. The Economy and the business will have positives of the rural medical development resulting from the technology utility in day to day work of MSMEs, he said.


    ***


    SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562295) Visitor Counter : 106
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali