      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Conference held for better implementation of Deendayal Disabilities Rehabilitation Scheme in East and North-east
      Posted On: 18 FEB 2019 4:38PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 18 February, 2019


    A regional conference on implementation of Deendayal Disability Rehabilitation Scheme (DDRS) in eastern and north-eastern states was held in Kolkata today. The conference was attended by Dr. Prabodh Seth, Joint Secretary in the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD), State Government Secretaries and State Welfare Officers, Disability Commissioners, District Welfare Officers-in-charge of DDRS and the programme implementation agencies which are mostly NGOs. The State Government representatives of West Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura participated in the conference. This is the third of a series of Regional Conferences held across the country and the exercise will culminate in a National Conference to be held on 1 st March, 2019 at New Delhi.


    DDRS, a central scheme has been operational with the objective of ensuring effective implementation of the Rights to Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (earlier Persons with Disabilities Act, 1995) through creating an enabling environment and encouraging programme implementing agencies through financial assistance. With a view to inclusion of persons with disabilities in the mainstream of society and actualizing their potential, the thrust is now on education and training programmes. The scheme was thus revised and the revised scheme was made effective from 1 st April, 2018. The day-long deliberations with all stakeholders focussed on an in-depth understanding and better implementation of the scheme in terms of better facilities to end beneficiaries, that is, persons with disabilities in the region. About 26 percent of total NGOs under DDRS and 46 percent of Special School for Children with Intellectual Disabilities are from Eastern and North-eastern states.


     1. at the inaugural session of the conference, Dr Seth described NGOs of DDRS as important partners in the mission of empowerment of persons with disabilities. He said, the number of type of disabilities has been increased from 7 to 21 in the revised Act and that the percentage of reservation for disabled persons has also gone up in government jobs and higher education institutes. Referring to the Cochlear Implant Programme under the scheme, Dr Seth informed, more than 12 lakh implants worth Rs 750 crores has been done. In his presentation, Dr. Seth highlighted the provisions of the revised scheme such as increase in the cost norms by 2.5 times, streamlining the procedure of application, increase in the funding of projects from 75% to 90% of their total cost, extending special benefits to special areas such as Left Wing Extremism affected districts, removal of limit in increase of number of beneficiaries etc.


    The dignitaries who participated in the conference included Shri Ramanuj Dey, Under Secretary to the Government of India, Shri Vikash Prasad, Director – DEPwD and Dr. Abhishek Biswas, Director, National Institute of Locomotor Disabilities (NILD).


    *****


    CG/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1565039) Visitor Counter : 7
    
    
    
    
    

1.