      Ministry of Culture

      India’s first Fulldome 3D Digital Theatre inaugurated at Science City
      Posted On: 18 FEB 2019 4:35PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, February, 18, 2019.


    Fulldome 3D Digital theatre at Science City was inaugurated by the Union Minister of State for Culture, Dr. Mahesh Sharma today. This facility is the first of its kind in the country. In tune with the technological advancement taking place around the world, the Space theatre has now switched over from a 2D celluloid based film projection system to a digital projection system as part of upgradation, fully funded by the Ministry of Culture, Government of India at a cost of Rs. 20 crores.


    After inaugurating the theatre through video conferencing, Dr. Sharma said, poor and disabled children visiting the theatre will be allowed to watch the movie free of cost. He stated that Central government under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is fully committed to upgrade the technology in the country and making efforts to make it accessible to each and every citizen of the county. This theatre is a part of PM’s technology upgradation vision which came true today, Dr. Sharma added.


    Introducing the fulldome theatre, Shri A.D Choudhury, Director General, National Council of Science Museum (NCSM) said, this system is capable of screening high resolution, fulldome digital 2D and 3D content and planetarium shows by utilizing six, high end, Christie Mirage projectors with an effective sreen resolution of at least 28 million pixels.


    Carl Zeiss AG, Germony was commissioned t renovate the Space Theatre. Zeiss is also responsible for the state-of-the-art LED dome lighting, surround sound system and ergonomically designed seating arrangements.


    2D and 3D films will be screened in this theatre with a seating capacity of 360 per show regularly from 11:00 A.M to 07:00 P.M. ticket rates for the general visitors would be Rs. 100/- for 2D show and Rs. 120/- for 3D show. A combo rate for both 2D and 3D show will be Rs. 180/-. Ticket rates for visitors in a group of 20 or more are Rs. 80/- for 2D and Rs. 100/- for 3D respectively. Student groups with a letter from the school authorities will have to pay Rs. 40/- for 2D and Rs. 50/- for 3D shows respectively.


    ****


    CG/MSA/bb…..

    
    
    (Release ID: 1565038) Visitor Counter : 31