      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Renowned Historian of Science & Technology, Ashish Lahiri Inaugurates Exhibition on “Gandhi & Science”
      Posted On: 28 FEB 2019 5:37PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, February 28, 2019


    An exhibition titled ‘Gandhi and Science’ exploring scientific aspects of Mahatma Gandhi was inaugurated by Shri Ashish Lahiri, renowned Historian of Science & Technology on the occasion of National Science Day at Science City today and as a part of the celebration of 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.


    The exhibition was organised to explore the views of Mahatma Gandhi on Science and Technology.


    The exhibition has four different sections- Gandhi & Science-Technology-Innovation, Gandhi’s Views on Science & Technology, Gandhi, Appropriate Technology and Sustainable Development, Gandhi & Contemporary Indian Scientists.


    The sub-sections of the exhibition further explores views of Gandhi on Industrialisation, Modern Tools of Science, Medical Science and Morality, Use of Appropriate Technology for Sustainable Development, Nature and Environment, Education etc., said Shri Subhabrata Chaudhuri, Director, Science City, Kolkata.


    There is also a section on Charkha as a great tool for experimentation and innovation and another how Gandhian philosophy of Innovation, Appropriate Technology and Self Reliant India were the inspiration behind the first pharmaceutical company in India, Bengal Chemical & Pharmaceuticals, set up by Acharya PC Ray more than 100 years ago.


    A Lecture on ‘Gandhi & Science’ was also delivered by Shri Ashish Lahiri. Other programmes organised on the occasion were- a Sit and Draw Contest for the students of Class-I and IV on the topic “A View of a Steam Operated Train", on the topic “A View of an Electric Operated Machines in any Kitchen for the students of Class V and VII and on the topic “A View of inside a Space Shuttle”, for the students of Class-VIII and X.


    With this, Exhibit Hunt Contest for all, Open House Balloon Burst Quiz on Science & Technology in India and an interactive demonstration on Magic of Tesla Coil were also organised. Students of various schools of Kolkata participated in the program.


    The Exhibition will continue for a month in the Science Exploration Hall of Science City, Kolkata.


    *********


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566664) Visitor Counter : 110
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali