      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Mutual Fund industry holds ample scope for further penetration in Indian market, says Executive Director of SEBI
      Posted On: 23 FEB 2019 8:29PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata , 23 February, 2019


    Mutual funds have played a significant role in stabilizing Indian economy and has ample scope for further penetration in the Indian market, stated Executive Director of Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) Shri S.V. Murlidhar Rao in Kolkata today. While participating in an interactive session on the subject “Indian Mutual Fund Industry: The Next Phase of Growth” organized by Merchants’ Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Shri Rao spoke about the size of Indian mutual fund market having assets under management worth 43 lakh crore rupees in 43 active mutual funds having 1900 schemes under various categories like equity, debt and so on.


    Shri Rao mentioned that SEBI has taken investor protection measures and also steps for further improvement of the mutual fund regulatory framework of India, which has grown from Rs 1.17 lakh crore in 2013-14 to Rs 3.78 lakh crore in 2017-18. Further SEBI is looking into geographical diversification and penetration of the mutual industry in beyond top 30 cities. Further, SEBI has directed fund houses to charge the additional 30 bps applicable on B30 cities only on retail AUM, stated the Executive Director. He also mentioned about SEBI’s policy of segregated portfolio.


    Speaking about SEBI’s Go-Green intiative, which means NAVs are now sent over e-mail and by electronic means instead of being published, he also mentioned that an investor can take a call regarding having physical documents or e-mail. Further, has also mandated Performance Disclosure and Total Return Index to be made available to the investors. Further, keeping up with RBI’s stipulations, e-wallet and online registration facility has been made available to investors. SEBI has also given directions to the industry to take up initiatives for investor education, awareness generation and promotion of the mutual fund industry, he further said.


    *****


    CG/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566095) Visitor Counter : 6