      Vice President's Secretariat

      A stint of service in National Cadet Corps has to be made compulsory in all educational institutions: VP;
      The training provided by the National Cadet Corps assures better future for the nation: VP
      
      The National Cadet Corps stands for the timeless values of universal brotherhood, national integration and secularism: VP
      
      The Vice President Congratulates the National Cadet Corps for their outstanding drill display
      Inaugurates NCC Republic Day camp in New Delhi
      Posted On: 07 JAN 2019 2:29PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India Shri. M Venkaiah Naidu said that a stint of service in National Cadet Corps (NCC) has to be made compulsory in all educational institutions. He was addressing the cadets of the National Cadet Corps at the inaugural ceremony of the Republic Day camp in New Delhi today.


    Shri. Naidu congratulated the cadets for their enthusiasm and energy, for their outstanding drill and their confidence. He observed that the Camp, which would foster feelings of unity and patriotism, would serve as a memorable and motivating learning experience. The Vice President urged the cadets to make the best possible use of the camp by participating in all activities conducted at the Camp with sincerity and commitment.


    Shri. Naidu said that the training provided by NCC since its inception has played a vital role in inculcating the qualities of discipline, leadership, camaraderie, team spirit, adventure and national integration, thereby leading to the holistic development of the Nation’s youth and assuring a better future.


    He added that the camp would be a unique opportunity not only to understand the country better, but also to widen one’s horizons and foster lasting friendship with fellow cadets from other nations.


    Highlighting the timeless values of universal brotherhood, national integration and secularism for which NCC stood for, Shri. Naidu applauded the selfless service undertaken by the cadets of NCC in times of crisis and natural disasters like earthquakes, cyclones, floods, etc.


    The Vice President also appreciated the crucial role played by NCC Cadets in educating the masses about Government driven Social Programmes like the Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan, AIDS Awareness, Adult Education, Anti Dowry, Anti Leprosy and Anti corruption campaigns etc. Expressing complete faith in the hard work done by the cadets of NCC, Shri. Naidu said that their efforts would definitely strengthen our social fabric.


    Congratulating the cadets for excelling in all walks of life, the Vice President applauded the exceptional performance that the NCC Cadets have displayed in the field of sports, especially shooting. He expressed hope that NCC would keep grooming outstanding sports persons who would make our country proud in the times to come.


    The Vice President interacted with cadets at the Republic Day Camp and appreciated their participation in the camp. The Director General of NCC Lt Gen PP Malhotra, officers and more than 500 cadets took part in the inaugural ceremony


    ***********


    AKT/BK/MS/RK


    The following is the full text of the speech:


    It gives me immense pleasure to be here at the Republic Day Camp of the National Cadet Corps. At the outset, I wish you and your families a very happy and prosperous 2019.


    I am happy to see the bright and young faces of our youth, smartly turned out and beaming with confidence.


    The National Cadet Corps is the largest uniformed youth organisation in the world and its training since inception has played a vital role in inculcating the qualities of discipline, leadership, camaraderie, team spirit, adventure and national integration, thereby leading to the holistic development of the Nation’s youth.


    The ambience of this Camp fosters the feeling of unity and patriotism. This Camp will be a memorable motivating and learning experience for each one of you. It should be your endeavour to participate in all activities conducted at the Camp with sincerity and commitment.


    It will give you an opportunity to interact with cadets, not only from other parts of the country, but also from friendly foreign countries, who will be arriving during the course of this Camp.


    This will be a unique opportunity not only to understand your country better, but also to widen your horizon and foster lasting friendship with fellow cadets from other nations.


    This Camp highlights the essence of universal brotherhood, transcending through national and international boundaries.


    All human societies have their own typical challenges and so does our country.


    Your contribution in times of crisis and natural disasters like earthquakes, cyclones, floods, etc has been recognized and commended by the Nation. Efforts towards community development and social upliftment are noteworthy.


    NCC Cadets are involved in educating the masses about the Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan, AIDS Awareness, Adult Education, Anti Dowry, Anti Leprosy, Drug Menace, Vigilance Awareness, Pollution and Anti corruption issues, which have been appreciated by one and all.


    These efforts will definitely improve the social fabric and I have full faith that your hard work will bear fruits in the near future.


    The National Cadet Corps is a shining example of National Integration and Secularism and you are the pillars of our Nation. It was heartening to learn that the NCC cadets have been participating in large numbers in all Government driven Social Programmes.


    It is a matter of deep satisfaction that you have excelled in all walks of life. The encouraging performance of NCC cadets in the field of sports, especially shooting, is a sure sign of the bright future of our sports in the years ahead. I am sure NCC will continue to groom ever better sports persons who will do our country proud.


    Today, I urge you all to continue with this hard work and always carry out the tasks entrusted with dedication and distinction.


    I am deeply impressed by your turnout and smart drill and I congratulate you all for the same.


    It is indeed heartening and my pleasure to inaugurate the Annual National Cadet Corps Republic Day Camp 2019


    JAI HIND

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558851) Visitor Counter : 1154
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil