      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship to recognize India’s Most Promising Entrepreneurs and Individuals at National Entrepreneurship Awards 2018
      Posted On: 03 JAN 2019 5:28PM by PIB Delhi

      * Winners to be awarded at the award ceremony in New Delhi on January 04, 2019
      * Entrepreneurs and Ecosystem builders will be felicitated in 43 categories
      * The award includes trophy, certificate and cash prize of Rs. 5 to 10 lakhs

    The Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) will host third edition of the National Entrepreneurship Awards (NEA) on January 4, 2019 at Dr. Ambedkar International Centre, Janpath, New Delhi. The awards aim to recognize and honor outstanding young first-generation entrepreneurs and those who have contributed immensely in building the entrepreneurship ecosystem. The ceremony will be chaired by Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, and Shri Anantkumar Hegde, Minister of State for Skill Development & Entrepreneurship. Shri Suresh Prabhu, Minister of Commerce & Industry and Civil Aviation will be the Chief Guest at the award ceremony.


    This year, a total of 43 awards will be presented, including 39 awards for Young Entrepreneurs in different sectors and 4 awards for Entrepreneurship Ecosystem Builders. The winners will receive a trophy, certificate and cash prizes ranging from Rs. 5 to 10 lakhs. The awards are classified into three investment categories - below Rs 1 Lakh, between Rs 1 Lakh to 10 Lakhs and between10 Lakhs to Rs 1 Crore; covering small to big first-generation entrepreneurs below the age of 40 years. This is to ensure that entrepreneurs from every socio-economic category take part in the award and they are duly recognised for their meaningful contribution to the economy of the nation.


    MSDE has partnered with premier institutes and organizations such as XLRI, Jamshedpur; IIT Bombay, Mumbai; IIT Delhi; IIT Guwahati, Assam; IIT Kanpur; and IIT Madras, Chennai. Other national level organizations are TISS, Mumbai; MANAGE, Hyderabad; IRMA, Anand; RSETI, Bangalore; NABARD, Mumbai; National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad to ensure due diligence in the nomination and evaluation process.


    The award nominations have been subjected to rigorous three-level assessment methodology backed by detailed study of the nominated companies, based on actual market parameters and performance indicators. Finally, a jury panel represented by eminent thought leaders and industry experts has collectively assessed the results of these evaluations to select outstanding awardees.


    To be eligible for these awards, the nominee must be under the age of 40 years; he/she must be a first-generation entrepreneur and must hold 51% or more equity and ownership of the business. There are special awards for women, persons with disability, scheduled caste/ tribes and entrepreneurs from areas with limited opportunities. The women entrants must individually/collectively own 75% or more of the enterprise.


    The NEA is a platform focused on driving innovation, ushering in a positive change for youth in entrepreneurship across all the industries, thus differentiating it from other awards programs. The awards will acknowledge an Entrepreneur and Entity/ Individual Supporting Entrepreneurs exceptional growth, strategies and products, dedicated customer focus, etc. to inspire and promote growth of entrepreneurs in India. For more information on the nomination and categories, please visit - http://www.neas.gov.in/ .


    ********


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558492) Visitor Counter : 727
    
    
    
    
    

*