      Ministry of Education

      7 agreements/MoUs were signed between Indian and Australian Institutions in the 4th Australia-India Education Council Meeting (AIEC)
      Posted On: 07 JAN 2019 5:26PM by PIB Delhi


    In the 4 th AIEC meeting held on 29 th June 2018 at Adelaide, Australia, both the sides reviewed the progress on the four key thematic areas –(i) Higher Education, Research and Student Mobility, (ii) Quality Assurance and Qualifications Recognition, (iii) Skills, and (iv) Schools. A joint Communique was adopted by both the sides emphasizing the need for enhanced bilateral cooperation in -


    i. Academic research collaboration between institutions on both sides


    ii. Online education, including by means of sharing of massive open online courses on each other’s platforms.


    iii. Skill development and vocational training


    iv. Greater mobility of faculty and students through Government of India schemes like Global Initiative of Academic Network (GIAN).


    v. School education, especially in the curriculum revision and development of pedagogies.


    A total of 7 agreements/MoUs were signed between Indian and Australian Institutions. Amongst them, three agreements were signed by Deakin University, Australia with Central University of Jammu, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, and Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Pondicherry. Two agreements were signed by Curtin University, Australia with Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati and National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), New Delhi. One agreement was signed between Western Sydney University, Australia and Centurion University, Odisha. One agreement was signed between University of Adelaide, Australia and O. P. Jindal University.


    There is growing collaboration between Australian and Indian Institutions on joint research projects and PhD programmes in areas of mutual interest. At the 4th Australia-India Education Council Meeting, it was agreed to further strengthen the partnership of Australia and India in the area of research collaboration to allow greater mobility of researchers, academics and scholars to support our mutual interest in high quality research outputs.


    Under the newly initiated Scheme for Promotion of Academic and Research Collaboration (SPARC) programme of this Ministry. 157 Joint research proposals between reputed Indian Institutions and Australian Institutions have been received and in the process of approval. Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur is the Nodal Institute for helping, handholding and coordinating with participating Indian educational Institutions to forge alliances with the Australian educational Institutions for academic and research collaboration.


    The issue regarding Mutual Recognition of Academic Qualifications between the two countries is under consideration, through discussions between both the countries.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/LS-4165

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558928) Visitor Counter : 578