      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Leadership development measures for youth
      Posted On: 07 JAN 2019 4:36PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India has taken several initiatives and carried out certain targeted interventions towards increasing leadership skills among the youth of India. Some of the programmesinclude: -

     1. National Programme for Youth and Adolescent (NPYAD) Scheme which has a component namely ‘Youth Leadership Personality Development Training’ to develop leadership qualities, national character, comradeship and personality development among the rural youth.

     1. NYKS conducts programmes such as Training on Youth Leadership and Community Development and Nationwide Declamation contest on Patriotism and Nation Building to develop leadership and increase leadership skills amongst the youth and to make them responsible citizens .


    Necessary campaigns for conduct of these programmes are held.


    Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development at Sriperumbuduris conducting various programmes towards increasing leadership skills amongst the youth.During the last two years, RGNIYD conducted the following programmes :-(i) Workshop on Constituency Management;(ii) Conference on youth Development;(iii) Training of Trainers (ToT) on Life Skills and Personality Development;(iv) Consultation for Rejuvenation of Youth Clubs;(v) Aakansha Lecture: Youth Leadership Development through Social Action;(vi) Entrepreneurship and Rural Development: An exposure visit for delegates from 19 countries;(vii) Workshop on Turning Ambitions into Reality, Training on Leadership and Personality Development through Adventure Sports, etc.


    Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development (RGNIYD) is a statutory institution incorporated under RGNIYD Act, 2012 (No. 35 of 2012). It imparts instructions for specified academic degrees. Youth from all over India participate in the programmes conducted by RGNIYD subject to selection process. It conducts various training programme for NSS/NYKS officers and trainees in volunteerism. Besides, the participants invited also belong to the higher secondary level. It has a regional centre at Chandigarh.


    This information was given by Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Youth Affairs and Sports Col. RajyavardhanRathore (Retd) in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha today.


    ******


    YKB/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558898) Visitor Counter : 531
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

1.