      Election Commission

      PGIMER New Academic Session inaugurated
      
      Constant upgradation is essential for any Institution: Sunil Arora, Chief Election Commissioner of India
      Posted On: 07 JAN 2019 1:33PM by PIB Delhi


    The Chief Election Commissioner of India, Shri Sunil Arora said that constant upgradation of oneself in every respect is very essential in any Institution to be at par with the ever-changing technological advancements in the world. He was delivering the inaugural address- "The Road Ahead- Opportunities and Challenges''at the New Academic Session of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education &Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh today. January marks the beginning of the new academic session at the Institute which annually trains 400 postgraduate students in different specialties and super specialties in its various 50 departments. He congratulated PGI for being ranked No. 2 amongst medical colleges of the country in the NIRF (National Institutional Ranking Framework), 2018. In this competitive world an institution has to constantly upgrade itself to stay abreast of the times, he said.


    He further stated that future medicine will possibly treat the human body in more dignified and less invasive manner and expressed belief that PGIMER Chandigarh will play its worthy role in this matter.


    Shri Arora urged the Medical students to keep their morale up even when challenged. He emphasized that ideas rule the world. Today we are not so much limited by access or resource as much by our own imagination. “Today’s medicine was yesterday’s research; and today’s research will become tomorrow’s medicine. So think out of the box”.


    “The PGIMER already has a glorious history of more than 50 years. The question is where we see it in 10, 20 and 50 years from now. The foresight, resolve and zeal of its present leadership will determine that”, he added.


    Prof. Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER, Chandigarh also addressed the august gathering.


    ***


    DPS/PS/NK/NEGI

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558841) Visitor Counter : 970