      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Two new Skill Development Scheme approved
      Posted On: 07 JAN 2019 4:54PM by PIB Delhi


    Two new Skill Development Schemes have been approved namely (i) Skills Acquisition and Knowledge Awareness for Livelihood (SANKALP); and (ii) Skills Strengthening for Industrial Value Enhancement (STRIVE). The details of the two schemes are as under:


    (i) Skills Acquisition and Knowledge Awareness for Livelihood (SANKALP)


    The Skills Acquisition and Knowledge Awareness for Livelihood (SANKALP) is a Centrally Sponsored Scheme with a project of total size US Dollar 675 million, including World Bank assistance of US Dollar 500 million, in two tranches of US Dollar 250 million each, with a six-year implementation schedule. At present, the first tranche has been approved for implementation. Accordingly, the Loan Agreement of US 250 Million Dollar for the project was signed between Government of India and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) on 13th December, 2017 which came into effect from 19th January, 2018. SANKALP is a project to reform the skill development landscape, strengthen institutions at Central and State levels, enable greater decentralization of skill development governance, and improve industry connect of skill development programs. The main objectives of the project are:


    (a) Creating convergence among all skill training activities, both State-led and Government of India funded, at the state level;


    (b) Improving quality of skill development programs through enablers such as building a pool of quality trainers and assessors, developing model curriculum and content, and standardizing assessment and certification;


    (c) Establishing robust monitoring and evaluation system for skill training programs;


    (d) Providing access to skill training opportunities to the disadvantaged sections; and


    (e) Creating industry led and demand driven skill training capacity.


    (ii) Skills Strengthening for Industrial Value Enhancement (STRIVE)


    Skills Strengthening for Industrial Value Enhancement (STRIVE) project is a World Bank assisted-Government of India project with the objective of improving the relevance and efficiency of skills training provided through Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) and apprenticeships. The financial agreement was signed between Government of India and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) on 19 th December, 2017 and the closing date of the project is November, 2022. It is a Central Sector Scheme (CSS) with a budget outlay of INR 2200 Crore covering the following 4 result areas:

      * Improved performance of ITI.
      * Increased Capacities of State Governments to support ITIs and Apprenticeship Training
      * Improved Teaching and Learning.
      * Improved and Broadened Apprenticeship Training.

    Operational guidelines in the form of an Operations Manual (OM) has been completed to ensure smooth implementation of scheme.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri Anantkumar Hegde in a written reply to the Lok Sabha today.


    *********


    YKB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558910) Visitor Counter : 1291
    
    
    
    
    

*