      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Posts Equivalent to Group A
      Posted On: 02 JAN 2019 3:09PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Financial Services have notified the principles for determining the equivalence in respect of Public Sector Banks (PSBs), Public Financial Institutions (PFIs) and Public Sector Insurance Companies (PSICs) on 06.12.2017 which are as under:


     1. Junior Management Scale-I of PSBs, PFIs and PSICs will be treated as equivalent to Group A in the Government of India; and


    (b) Clerks and Peons in PSBs, PFIs and PSICs will be treated as equivalent to Group C in the Government of India.


    The Department of Public Enterprises have issued an Office Memorandum on 25.10.2017 conveying the guidelines for establishing equivalence of posts in Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) with posts in Government. As per the guidelines, all the executive level posts in CPSEs i.e. Board level executives and below Board level executives, which are managerial level posts, will be considered as "Creamy Layer", subject to the proviso that those executives whose annual income, as per criteria given in DoPT OM dated 08.09.1993, is less than Rs. 8 lakh (as amended vide DoPT OM No. 36033/1/2013-Estt.(Res) dated 13.09.2017), will not fall under the Creamy Layer criteria.


    As per the guidelines issued by the Department of Personnel and Training vide Office Memorandum dated 08.09.1993, sons and daughters of the persons falling in the Creamy Layer are not entitled to the benefit of reservation available to the Other Backward Classes.


    The data on the number of officers and employees working in the Undertakings under the administrative control of the Government, (whose sons and daughters are not entitled to the benefit of reservation for Other Backward Classes), is not maintained centrally.


    This information was provided by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/PK/JMS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1558125) Visitor Counter : 963
    
    
    
    
    

1.