      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Seven books published by Publications Division released in World Book Fair, New Delhi
      
      While internet gives us information, books give us true knowledge and broaden our understanding: Shri Amit Khare, Secretary, Ministry of I&B

      Posted On: 05 JAN 2019 5:50PM by PIB Delhi

    Publications Division, Ministry of I&B is participating in the New Delhi World Book Fair being organized at Pragati Maidan, New Delhi from 5 th to 13 th January, 2019. Seven books brought out by the Division were released today during the World Book Fair by Secretary, Ministry of I&B Shri Amit Khare.


    The list of books released is as under:

     1. Bapu ke ashirwaad – a compilation dedicated to the importance of thoughts and their possible impact in dealing with every-day life’s tribulations. The USP of the book is that it contains original handwritten thoughts and messages of Mahatma Gandhi.
     2. 2500 years of Buddhism –it gives an inclusive account of Buddhism in the last 2500 years. Its Foreward was written by world-renowned philosopher and India’s second President Dr. S. Radhakrishanan when it was first published in 1956. The present edition has been brought out with several illustrations after the inclusion of the book in the prestigious limited list of India publications which have been selected by Ministry of External Affairs for Indian Missions and libraries abroad under its ‘Bharat ek Parichay’ programme.
     3. Portraits of Strength – it salutes bravery against odds. It is about the hitherto unheard, unsung women from far flung parts of India, whose contribution has been hailed by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi in Mann ki Baat.
     4. Hindi Swadesh mein aur Videsh Mein – about the coming of age of Hindi language and its literature not just within the country but even beyond. The book is at once simple and lucid despite being a well-researched scholarly work.
     5. Rang Birangi Kahaniya – a quintessential children’s book .
     6. Badal ki Sair – a collection of short stories written keeping the growing up child in mind. The stories are essayed in a manner to highlight the lucid story-telling style made popular by Munshi Premchand.
     7. Aao Paryavaran Bachayen aur Dhra ko Swarg Bnayen – about saving the environment amidst the cross–fire of development. A product of co-publishing arrangement with the Sasta Sahitya Mandal, the book deals with the hazards of defying nature.

    Stressing on the importance of reading books, Shri Amit Khare, Secretary, Ministry of I&B said that while one may get information from the internet, one always comes to books to attain true knowledge and broaden one’s understanding. Appreciating the good work done by Publications Division, he said that the Division not only gives opportunities to good writers from across the length and breadth of country, but also helps spread Indian literature abroad. Shri Khare was also extremely appreciative of the wide representation of women in the event, including representatives of Publications Division as well as authors present, adding that this was indeed a representation of women’s empowerment in the true sense.


    Dr. Varsha Das, former Director of National Gandhi Museum, Dr. Reeta Rani Paliwal, Secretary, Sasta Sahitya Mandal, Dr. Sadhana Rout, Director General, Publications Division and other s enior officials of Publications Division were also present on the occasion.


    The books of Publications Division can be accessed at the World Book Fair at Stall Numbers 125-138 in Hall Number 10, Pragati Maidan, New Delhi.


    ***


    AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558763) Visitor Counter : 791
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

7.