      Department of Atomic Energy

      Gorakhpur Atomic Power Plant
      Posted On: 02 JAN 2019 3:22PM by PIB Delhi


    Presently excavation is in progress in Gorakhpur Haryana Anu Vidyut Pariyojana (GHAVP) Units -1&2 (2X700 MW) at an advanced stage. Orders have been placed for long delivery equipment like End shields and Steam Generators. The Main Plant Civil Work and several other packages are at various stages of tendering. Land acquisition has been completed at the Gorakhpur site in Haryana.


    The first phase of the project comprising of two units GHAVP-1&2 (2X700 MW) is expected to be completed in 2025.


    The expenditure incurred on the project till November 2018 was ₹ 1484 crore. The approved completion cost of the project is ₹ 20594 crore. The project is expected to generate employment (direct and indirect) for about 2000 persons on becoming operational. In addition, large employment potential is generated with the contractors/ vendors and from business opportunities that emerge consequent to the increase in economic activity at the site. During construction, large numbers of contractor manpower are employed (following a bell curve with about 8000 persons at the peak).


    Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL), a Public Sector Undertaking under Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), pursues welfare activities under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in and around its nuclear power plants in four major areas of education including skill development; health and sanitation; infrastructure development and environmental sustainability in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. Under the CSR programmes at GHAVP, some of the key initiatives taken up are, support to the meritorious students by way of award of scholarship, pedagogical aids, construction of inter-connecting roads, construction of toilets in schools and public places, including some Panchayats and mid-day meal shelters in the schools. Special efforts were also made, based on the need identified by the locals, for construction of cow-sheds and renovation of Gaushalas. One of the important programmes was providing assistive devices to the differently abled persons in the area. More welfare works including augmentation of construction of toilet blocks in schools, providing of equipment for gymnasium in Gorakhpur State Stadium, construction of drinking water tanks, etc. are identified as an ongoing exercise under CSR at Gorakhpur.


    This information was provided by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/SS/sk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558158) Visitor Counter : 2051