      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      National Entrepreneurship Awards 2018 presented to India’s Most Promising EntrepreneursandIndividuals
      Posted On: 04 JAN 2019 7:09PM by PIB Delhi


    National Entrepreneurship Awards 2018, aimed at recognizing and honoring outstanding young first-generation entrepreneurs and those who have contributed immensely in building the entrepreneurship ecosystem, were presented here today by the Minister of Commerce and Industry & Civil Aviation Shri Suresh Prabhu and the Minister of state for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri Ananthkumar Hegde.


    In this third edition of National Entrepreneurship Awards, this year, a total of 43 awards were presented, including 39awards for Young Entrepreneurs in different sectors and 4awards for Entrepreneurship Ecosystem Builders. The winners received a trophy, certificate and cash prizes ranging from Rs. 5 to 10 lakhs. The awards are classified into three investment categories- below Rs 1 Lakh, between Rs 1 Lakh to10 Lakhs and betweenRs10 Lakhs to Rs1 Crore- covering small to big first-generation entrepreneurs below the age of 40 years. This is to ensure that entrepreneurs from every socio-economic category take part in the award and they are duly recognised for their meaningful contribution to the economy of the nation.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Suresh Prabhu said that there has been changes world-wide, as people are moving away from the fixed income jobs to entrepreneurial activities. In India also, big opportunities are knocking and people should take advantage of it. He said that gone are the days, when licenses, permissions and big-money were required for building an enterprise. All one need is an Idea, which can be converted into an enterprise, and one has to live with it, believe in it and it will flourish. Shri Prabhu said that the Government is fully supportive of new entrepreneurs. Talking about the ease of doing business, the Minister said that work is being done to take the concept to the State and district levels. In five states, baseline is being created for the purpose. Resources and skills available in districts are being identified so that they could be harnessed. He said a solution will soon be worked out on the issue of Angel tax. Start-up yatras are being taken out in the country to promote entrepreneurship so as to create conducive ecosystem. Talking about the GEM web-portal, which is used by the Government department for procurement of Goods, Shri Prabhu said that start-ups will be given full support from it. He said that efforts are being made to smoothen out the regulatory and financing issues for the enterprises.


    Shri Ananthkumar Hegdesaid that we should move away from being job-seekers to job-providers. He said that a good beginning has been made, but this has to be taken to newer heights. The Minister said the country has resilience and big strengths like democracy, large market, purchasing capacity, and skills, which can propel the entrepreneurs. He said that the Government is for the inclusive development of all its citizens, and is helping new venture and entrepreneurs. He called upon the entrepreneurs to work harder and take their ventures to new dimensions. He congratulated all the winners, and conveyed best wishes to all the contenders.


    Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship had partnered withpremier institutes and organizations such as XLRI, Jamshedpur; IIT Bombay, Mumbai; IIT Delhi; IIT Guwahati, Assam; IIT Kanpur; and IIT Madras, Chennai for the selection of awardees. Other national level organizations are TISS, Mumbai;MANAGE, Hyderabad; IRMA, Anand; RSETI, Bangalore; NABARD, Mumbai; National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad to ensure due diligence in the nomination and evaluation process.


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558709) Visitor Counter : 640