      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Organisations Banned Under UAPA
      Posted On: 02 JAN 2019 3:09PM by PIB Delhi


    In exercise of the powers vested in the Central Government under Section 3 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (UAPA), the Government, on being satisfied that the organizations have become Unlawful, has declared the following Organizations as Unlawful Associations during the last three years:

     1. Islamic Research Foundation (IRF)
     2. National Liberation Front in Tripura (NLFT)
     3. All Tripura Tiger Forum (ATTF)

    In exercise of powers vested in the Central Government under Section 35 of UAPA, the Government on being satisfied that the organization is involved in terrorism, has added the following organizations to the First Schedule of UAPA during the last three years:

     1. Al-Qaida in Indian Sub-continent (AQIS) and all its manifestations
     2. Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP)/ ISIS Wilayat Khorasan/ Islamic State of Iraq and the Sham-Khorasan (ISIS-K) and all its manifestations
     3. Khalistan Liberation Force and all its manifestations

    The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested 418 accused persons under UAPA during the last three years. However, the States Police also detain accused persons under UAPA, the details of which are not maintained by the Central Government.


    The Government has not removed any organisation from the list of banned organisations under the UAPA during the last three years.


    The Government has not released any person detained under UAPA. However, the data of persons detained under UAPA and released on the order of the competent courts is not maintained by the Government.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir in written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/PK/AK/2308

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558124) Visitor Counter : 1762
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi
    
    
    

3.