      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      MoS Dr Jitendra Singh lauds DoPT for expediting Promotion of about 4,000 employees
      Posted On: 01 JAN 2019 8:17PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Personnel & Training (DoPT) has recently issued Promotion orders of about 4,000 officials of various level . The total number of promotions in Central Secretariat Service (CSS) has been 1,756 and in Central Secretariat Stenographers’ Service (CSSS) it has been 2,235. Total number of officials promoted in last few days has been 3,991 and this is a historic number. Never before in life of these two service cadre, such a large number of officials have been promoted in such a short time. This has resulted in happiness amongst the large and diverse sections of Central Secretariat Government Staff.


    Describing the promotions as a New Year Gift to the Central Government employees, the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh said this will help improve the motivation level of these officials and reflect in the performance of the Government.


    These promotions include higher level positions like Director (122), Deputy Secretary (340) and Under Secretary (300) in Central Secretariat Service (CSS) and Senior Principal Private Secretary (Sr PPS) (approx 300), PPS (680) in Central Secretariat Stenographer Service (CSSS) and Section Officers (SO) and Private Secretary (PS) & PA at lower level in these two key service of Central Government.


    Promotions for staff of Central Secretariat was held up for sometime due to litigation regarding service matter. In addition to resolving the legal issues Government has restructured both CSS and CSSS cadres to remove stagnation in these cadres. Government appointed 3 rd Cadre Restructuring Committee and accepted the report submitted by the committee. This has resulted in availability of additional vacancies at higher level to accommodate career aspirations of Government Staff.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh appreciated the efforts of DoPT for completing the administrative processes by 31 st December. The promotion of another 584 officials is in process and the orders are expected to be issued soon, he added. The Minister said the DoPT will further clear the backlog of pending promotions with implementation of the Cadre Restructuring recommendations.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558093) Visitor Counter : 1100