      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      International Civil Aviation Organization Predicts 100 % Increase in Global Air Travel by 2030
      
      More than 1000 Delegates from Global Aviation Fraternity Likely to Participate
      
      “Flying For All” Global Aviation Summit on 15-16 Jan 2019 in Mumbai: Two-Day Summit Provides Platform for Collaborative Efforts
      Posted On: 07 JAN 2019 6:17PM by PIB Delhi


    With hundreds of millions of people joining the global middle-class, the demand for air travel is witnessing an unforeseen upsurge. The International Civil Aviation Organization has predicted a 100 percent increase in global air travel by the year 2030, creating a need for extensive efforts to bring the entire aviation ecosystem to pace. To ride this strong tailwind of growth and pave the way forward for the sector, the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA), in collaboration with FICCI is organizing a Global Aviation Summit with an overarching theme of “Flying for all” on 15-16 January 2019 in Mumbai, the financial capital of India.


    The Summit is supported by International Civil Aviation Oganization (ICAO), Federal Aviation Administration of USA (FAA), International Air Transport Association (IATA), CiviI Air Navigaion Services Organisation (CANSO), Airports Council International (ACl) and Association of Asia Pacific Airlines (AAPA). The two-day summit will host a conference, expo and will endeavour meaningful engagements via G2G, G2B, B2B meetings and other networking opportunities.


    The global aviation industry is in a high-growth trajectory, ushering an era of rapid expansion. Going forward, the biggest driver of demand will be the emerging economies, which will need to cater for air travel for the nearly 6 billion people. To commensurate this fast growth of the sector, the Global Aviation Summit provides an exclusive platform for collaborative efforts on a global magnitude. The Summit aims to focus on the celebration of ‘Flying for All’ and to provide a platform to the aviation fraternity to showcase the challenges of the sector in the newly developing growth spots and understand how the technology-driven innovations will change the air travel in future. The Summit also aims to be the most comprehensive platform for civil aviation, witnessing a vivid representation from the global aviation ecosystem entailing global leaders from airlines, manufacturers, investors, vendors, cargo, space industry, banking institutions, skill development agencies and states & UTs of India.


    The platform will bring together prominent thought leaders from across the world to share their experiences on strengthening national aviation ecosystems. “They will share success stories and learnings, emphasizing on principles that will apply across countries. Policymaking approaches that balance market forces with the public interest will be highlighted”. Prominent Transport Ministers from across the world will share their experiences on enhancing the Aviation ecosystem and put forth key analytical inputs on their success stories, experience and knowledge to develop aviation in their respective countries. Civil Aviation Authorities of the World will also discuss how to ensure that safety and security standards are maintained across a fast-growing and vast aviation ecosystem. The event will also examine the future of drones, sustainable growth of aviation, cargo and logistics in the aviation industry – all the factors behind building great aviation business. More than 1000 delegates from global Aviation fraternity are likely to participate in first of its kind Global Aviation summit 2019.


    An official mobile application for Global Aviation Summit 2019 was launched by Shri Jayant Sinha, Minister of State for Civil Aviation, on 19th December, 2018. The GAS 2019 mobile application is available on Playstore and iOS. It provides a holistic glimpse of the Summit and can be used to access latest updates about the mega event. The application enables users to interact with the co-delegates and speakers. It would be an excellent platform for networking through personal and group chats.


    ***


    RJ/KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558966) Visitor Counter : 1534