      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of PM’s inaugural address at the 106th Indian Science Congress
      Posted On: 03 JAN 2019 8:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Governor of Punjab Shri V.P. Singh ji, my cabinet colleague Dr. Harshvardhanji, other dignitaries, the students present here and the delegates; greetings for the New Year!


    I am happy to inaugurate the hundred and sixth session of the Indian Science Congress. It is a pleasure to be in the company of the eminent scientists, scholars and students.


    Although I tried to be on time, I was late due to the heavy fog.


    Friends,


    I am really glad that the Indian Science Association has chosen an apt theme - 'Future India, Science and Technology' this year on this land of prosperity. I believe that India's glory is not only in our knowledge and science but its greatness also lies in linking science, technology and innovation to the society.


    Friends, The Indian Science Congress has a rich legacy. Some of India’s finest minds including Acharaya J.C. Bose, C.V. Raman, Meghnad Saha and S.N.Bose have been associated with it. They have served the people with their inventions and ideas in the age of minimum resources and maximum struggle. Even today, we are learning from their commitment and creativity.


    In 1917, Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose had established India’s first dedicated Scientific Research Centre, the Bose Institute of Calcutta. His inaugural speech was a reflection of his holistic views of science. He said, “I dedicate today this institute not merely a laboratory but a temple to the nation”. The life and works of hundreds of Indian Scientists are a compelling testament of integration of deep fundamental insights with technology development and nation building. It is through our modern temples of science that India is transforming its present and working to secure its future.


    Friends, our former Prime Minister, Lal Bahadur Shastri Ji gave us the slogan, 'Jai Jawan Jai Kisan'. Twenty years ago in a historic address at Pokhran, our great Prime Mnister Atal Ji had recognized the contributions of science and technology for India. He added ‘Jai Vigyan’; ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan, Jai Vigyan’.


    I believe it is now time to take one more step forward. I wish to add ‘Jai Anusandhan’. Therefore, the slogan now becomes, ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan, Jai Vigyan, Jai Anusandhan'.


    Indeed the pursuit of vigyan is fulfilled through achievement of two objectives. The first is, generation of profound or disruptive knowledge. The second is consumption of that knowledge for socio economic good. As we push our discovery science eco-system, we must also focus on innovation and startups.


    Our government has launched the Atal Innovation Mission to promote innovation among our scientists. More technology business incubators have been established in the last four years than in the forty years before that. Industry must now contribute by providing timely direction, vision, mentorship and partnership to the Startups. Our scientists must commit themselves to addressing problems of affordable health care, housing, clean air, water and energy, agriculture productivity and food processing. While science is universal, technology must be local for providing solutions relevant to the local needs and conditions.


    Friends,


    The National Research Laboratories and Scientific Organizations need to find easy and affordable solutions for dealing with the social and economic challenges. Let me give you a few examples. The number of farmers having less than 2 hectares of land is extremely high in our country. They need the technology to produce more with minimum labour the most. We have made a huge progress in agricultural science. Productivity has increased and the produce is nutritious but a lot needs to be done to fulfil the needs of New India.


    Our focus should be on the use of big data analysis, artificial intelligence, block chain and all the technology related to communication in low cost. Now, as per today's demand we must help our farmers by creating a package of technologies like sensor technology, drones, satellite imaging and artificial intelligence. Our farmers will be able to take all the decisions related to their crops, cereals, irrigation, fertilizer, transport and pesticide with the help of today's scientific methods.


    Friends,


    Just as we are making strides in ease of doing business, we must work rapidly on enhancing the 'ease of living' of crores of Indians. We need to brainstorm over a certain set of questions to find the direction. Can we work on drought management in rain deficit areas in a scientific manner? Can we improve upon our prediction of rainfall, cyclones and other hazards? This will not only benefit agriculture but will also save many lives.


    Can we find a better technological solution to improve the decades-old problem of the malnutrition? Can we find solutions that will ensure better health for our children? Can we find a way to get India rid of diseases like Chikungunya and Encephalitis? Can we develop an effective technique that will turn waste to energy and which will be cheap and income generating technique for cleanliness? Can we develop a new technique related to recycling and conservation to deal with the problem of water scarcity? Can we develop such a system that will strengthen the Cyber security of our sensitive institutions so that those cannot be hacked? Can we find solutions for the use of solar energy so that it is available to the poorest of poor people at very low prices? We have to find answers to these questions.


    We have to dovetail science with the lives of ordinary human beings. In the rapidly changing world, India cannot stop. Whether anyone uses it or not, we will use it. We have to take up the leadership and show the world. We have to find solutions in accordance with time and within the time frame.


    Friends; 2018 was a good year for Indian science. Among our achievements this year are the production of aviation grade bio-fuel; 'Divya Nayan', a machine for visually impaired; inexpensive device for diagnosis of cervical cancer, TB, dengue; a real time land slide warning system in the Sikkim, Darjeeling region. There is however a long way to go. We need strong pathways to commercialization that leverage our research and development achievements to industrial products. The future is about conversions and connected technologies. We should catalyze, harness and manage change for the nation’s prosperity. Scopus data indicates that India is positioned among the top five nations of the world in terms of the number of scientific publications. This is no mean achievement and deserves whole hearted appreciation. This is the strong foundation to build 'Unnat Bharat, Adhunik Bharat, Vaigyanik Bharat'.


    Friends


    To create an 'Unnat Bharat' (advanced India), we must develop science into something ambitious in India. We should not only compete but also show superiority. Research just for the sake of it will not do. We have to take the research work to such levels where the world will start following it.


    To achieve this, we have to create a profound eco-system of research. Today, we have the greatest need for such a mechanism. Whether it is climate change or artificial intelligence, population dynamics or biotechnology and digital market place; today, through this eco-system we can take advantage of the potential of our country's talent pool.


    If we want to be one of the world leaders of knowledge society in the future, then the country has to do everything possible to increase its research capacity. We will have to do an interdisciplinary research by setting targets.


    Friends,


    A nation's intellectual creativity and identity are shaped by its history, art, language and culture. In such a scenario, we have to be free from the bondage of the genres. Now there is a need for research in which there is a fusion of innovations in arts and humanities, social science, science and technology. This can make our country's identity strong and glorious.


    Friends,


    We must always remember that our ancient knowledge has been based on research. Indian scholars have enlightened the world from science to mathematics, from art to literature, from linguistics to logic and medicine to philosophy. Now the time has come for India to get the same place in the world. This is possible only when we become one of the three largest economies in the world and we give direction to the world through our research and innovation.


    Friends, our strengths in research and development are built on the backbone of our national labs, central universities, IIT, IISs, TIFR and ISER. However, over 95 per cent of our students go to state universities and colleges where research is still limited. A strong research eco-system must be developed in these universities and colleges. I call upon the Prime Minister’s Science Technology and Innovation Council to discuss these issues in detail and formulate an action plan in consultation with the Ministry of Human Resource Development to push research in our colleges and state universities.


    Friends, in the Tirupati Session of Indian Science Congress I had spoken about the global rise of cyber physical systems. This had the potential to pose an unprecedented challenge to our demographic dividend. We can turn it into the huge opportunity by research, training and skilling in robotics, artificial intelligence, and big data analytics. The government has approved a national mission on interdisciplinary cyber physical systems with an investment of over three thousand six hundred crores. The mission will cover in a seamless way, R&D, technology development, human resource and skills, innovation, Startup Eco System and strong industry and international collaborations.


    Data is the engine that drives artificial intelligence. Our scientists working with relevant ministries should evolve effective data policy and practices that holistically cover the ground from data generation to data flow, to data protection, to data sharing, to data uses.


    Friends,


    Our capabilities and skills in science and technology have been recently exhibited by the successes of Space Mission. Recently, 30 satellites have been launched which are associated with navigation, communication and hyper spectral imaging, including the CARTOSAT 2 series satellite. By 2020-22, the preparations are in full swing for sending three Indians to the space in our Gaganyaan.


    ISRO has also demonstrated a special technology called 'crew escape system' for this. I have complete faith in my scientists that our dream of Gaganyaan will be fulfilled in the due time.


    Friends,


    There are many areas where scientific and technological intervention can lead to changes in the lives of ordinary human beings. Can we not create a continuously operating reference stations network with the power of technology so that we can get high resolution Geo Spatial Digital Data at a faster pace? This will enable us to provide better data to our sailors, scientists and people in planning. They can make planning, monitoring, management and implementation of development plans more effective.


    Friends,


    The last time when the programme of Indian Science Congress was held at Imphal, then I had appealed to all scientists to find a cheap, easy and effective treatment for the problem of sickle cell anaemia. Our tribal community usually suffers from this disease. I am glad that CSIR and DBT have started a campaign against this. Scientists of both the institutions are now developing gene therapy with the aim of prevention and treatment for this disease, which will help in curing the haemoglobin disorders.


    Friends, India needs a new futuristic road map for science and technology and innovation. With these objectives we have recently made the Prime Minister’s Science, Technology and Innovation Advisory Council. This council will help formulate appropriate science and technology interventions, catalyse collaborations across stake holders, ministries and implement multi stake holder policy initiatives. Government is in the process of improving the quality of education with particular focus on higher education sector. We have liberalized the higher education sector. UGC has brought out graded autonomy regulations to give functional and financial autonomy to well performing universities and colleges. We are in the process of setting up institutions of eminence that can compete with the best in the world. These efforts will infuse competition, bring private investment and improve quality of higher education institutions. We have launched the Prime Minister Research fellows. The schemes under which a thousand bright minds from the best institutions in the country will be offered direct admission in PhD programme in IITs and IISC. The scheme will catalyse quality research and address shortage of faculty in the premier education institutions.


    Friends, I wish to recall a quote of our Late President Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam: “With vivid imagination and consistent efforts, the forces of universe can be made to work for an inspired mind. How do we fire up the minds of Indian youth who are the foundation for cutting edge research and usher in renaissance in Indian science?”


    India is brimming with a new generation of creative, energetic and confident minds. The government is committed to provide them an enabling environment for building a New India through science. An India that is fully ready to take the challenges and opportunities of the present and the future; An India that is bubbling with ideas, knowledge, wisdom and action; An India that is stronger, confident, prosperous and healthier; An India that is compassionate and inclusive.


    I wish you all a creative and rewarding new year 2019.


    Thank You. Thank you very much.


    ***


    AKT/VJ/IG/MG/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558575) Visitor Counter : 1404
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil , Bengali , Assamese