      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Strengthening of Irrigation System
      Posted On: 03 JAN 2019 3:11PM by PIB Delhi


    Water resources projects are planned, funded, executed and maintained by the State Governments themselves as per their own resources and priorities. In order to supplement the efforts of the State Governments, Government of India provides technical and financial assistance to encourage sustainable development and efficient management of water resources through various schemes and programmes such as Accelerated Irrigation Benefits Programme (AIBP) etc. under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) as per the guidelines of the scheme.


    During 2016-17, ninety-nine (99) on-going Major/Medium irrigation projects under PMKSY-AIBP having ultimate irrigation potential of 76.03 lakh hectare and balance estimated cost of Rs.77595 crore [Central Assistance (CA) component of Rs.31342 crore] have been prioritized in consultation with States for completion in phases up to December, 2019 along with their Command Area Development & Water Management (CADWM) works. Funding mechanism through NABARD has also been approved by the Government for both Central and State share.


    Out of 99 prioritized projects, 4 projects are in the State of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K).Ultimate potential of these projects is 61.44 thousand hectares (Th.Ha.). CADWM works envisage enhanced utilization of irrigation systems being created through these projects. Three prioritized projects in the State of J&K have been included under CADWM Programme to cover Culturable Command Area (CCA) of 2.460 Th. Ha. as per the proposals received from the State Government.


    This information was given by Union Minister of State for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NP/SKP/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1558412) Visitor Counter : 959
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi