      Department of Atomic Energy

      INDO-France Pact For Sustainable Development
      Posted On: 03 JAN 2019 5:09PM by PIB Delhi


    During the recent visit of French Foreign Minister to India, both the Governments noted that satisfactory progress had been made in pursuance of the Industrial Way Forward Agreement in 2018 between Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL) and Electricite de France (EDF) and adopted the Status of Progress for implementation of Industrial Way Forward Agreement.


    India and France are today the leading nations in the fight against climate change. The joint hosting by India and France of the Founding Conference of the International Solar Alliance (ISA) on 11 th March 2018 in New Delhi and the first General Assembly in New Delhi from 2 nd to 5 th October 2018 has bolstered our joint resolve to fight climate change.


    The ISA has now transformed into a treaty based international and intergovernmental organization headquartered in India. Out of 71 countries that have signed Framework Agreement of the ISA, 48 countries have deposited the instrument of ratification. India and France share a common interest to cooperate and collaborate for the stability and prosperity of Africa, including through development oriented initiatives such as capacity building programs and joint projects.


    The second India-France Dialogue on Africa, which took place on 11 th December 2018, provided both countries an opportunity to exchange views on the latest developments in Africa as well as to explore possibilities for joint endeavour to contribute towards peace, stability and prosperity in Africa.


    During the visit of French President Mr. Emmanuel Macron to India in March 2018, both leaders reiterated their willingness to implement common projects in Africa. Discussion on projects to be implemented on ground are currently being discussed by the two sides.


    This information was provided by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558479) Visitor Counter : 1958