      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Cabinet approves ‘The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2018’ for revision in list of Scheduled Tribes of Arunachal Pradesh
      Posted On: 02 JAN 2019 5:47PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the introduction of a Bill namely The Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2018 in the Parliament for certain amendments in the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950 so as to modify the list of Scheduled Tribes (STs) of Arunachal Pradesh.


    The following changes will be made in list of Scheduled Tribes of Arunachal Pradesh:

     1. Deletion of 'Abor' in serial No. 1, as it is the same as 'Adi' in Serial No. 16.
     2. Replace Tai Khamti' instead of 'Khampti' at serial No. 6.
     3. Inclusion of 'Mishmi-Kaman' (Miju Mishmi), Idu (Mishmi) and Taraon (Digaru Mishmi) in serial No. 8.
     4. Inclusion of Monpa, Memba, Sartang, Sajolong (Miji) in serial No. 9 in lieu of 'Momba'.
     5. Inclusion of 'Nocte', "Tangsa', Tutsa', 'Wancho' in lieu of 'Any Naga Tribes' in serial No. 10 in list of Scheduled Tribes of Arunachal Pradesh.

    The rationale for the proposed amendments are:

     1. Deletion of Abor – Removal of duplication
     2. Replace Khampti – There is no tribe called ‘Khampti’
     3. Inclusion of Mishmi-Kaman, Idu and Taraon – Existing entry is only of ‘Mishmi’. There is reportedly no such community.
     4. Inclusion of Monpa, Memba, Sartang, Wancho – Existing entry is of ‘Any Naga Tribes’. These are reportedly the only Naga tribes in the State.
     5. Inclusion of Nocte, Tangsa, Tutsa, Wancho – Existing entry is of ‘Any Naga Tribes’. These are reportedly the only Naga tribes in the State.

    After the Bill becomes an Act, member of the communities newly listed in the revised list of Scheduled Tribes of Arunachal Pradesh will also be able to derive benefits meant for STs under the existing schemes of the Government. Some of the major schemes of this kind include Post Matric Scholarship, National Overseas Scholarship, National Fellowship, Top Class Education, Concessional Loans from National Scheduled Tribes Finance and Development Corporation, Hostels for ST boys and girls etc. In addition to above, they will also be entitled to benefits of reservation in services and admission to educational institutions as per Government policy.


    *****


    AKT/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558206) Visitor Counter : 675
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada
    
    
    

5.