      Ministry of Education

      Only teachers can change education scenario of the country and make education more relevant by their innovative methods – Shri Prakash Javadekar
      
      Innovation is needed in every field of life – Dr Satya Pal Singh

      Posted On: 04 JAN 2019 7:23PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri Prakash Javadekar today said that innovation in teaching is very important and only teachers of this country have the capabilities to change education scenario of the nation. He also said that only teachers can make education more relevant by their innovative teaching methods. The Union Minster was speaking on the occasion of National Awards for Innovation in Educational Administration (NIEPA) in New Delhi today. Minister of State for Human Resource Development, Dr Satya Pal Singh was also present on the occasion.


    Shri Javadekar congratulated all the awardees and said that a country grows with innovation and sustainable growth can be achieved only through innovation. He also said that this is the time for the new slogan ‘Jai Anusandhan’ for the country which was given by the Prime Minister recently and we have to work upon it seriously.


    Dr Satya Pal Singh, the Minister of State in HRD presented awards to the awardees. While speaking on the occasion he said that Ministry of HRD has taken so many steps for innovation but innovation is not only needed in the field of education but it is needed in every field of life. Innovation is essential to ensure bright future of any country. He further said that we should encourage the children to be innovative since it is very difficult to become innovative in the later phase of life. So, we should provide them such environment so that they can think innovatively.


    The scheme of National Awards for Innovation in EducationalAdministration is one of the important initiative of NationalInstitute of Educational Planning and Administration. It aims to reachout the grassroots educational functionaries at District and Blocklevel for recognising the contribution of the field level educationaladministrators in improving and strengthening the the functioning ofpublic education system. It was launched in 2014. Since then manyinnovative ideas and good practices have beenshared by participantsfrom different states and UTs and have been awarded for theirsignificant contribution. In continuation NIEPA organised theprogramme on 3rd -4th January 2019 in which 34 participants have beenawarded and 12 participants have been given Appreciation ofCertificates for the year 2017-18 from different States and UTs


    Secretary, School Education and Literacy Ms. Rina Ray and Prof. N.V. Varghese Vice Chancellor, NIEPA were also present during the award ceremony.


    *****


    NB/AKJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1558717) Visitor Counter : 587