      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, Shri Ram Vilas Paswan chairs Consultative Committee Meeting of Members of Parliament on National Sugar Institute, Kanpur
      Posted On: 03 JAN 2019 8:45PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, Shri Ram Vilas Paswan today chaired the meeting of Consultative Committee of Members of Parliament attached with the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution. The Consultative Committee Meeting reviewed the functioning of National Sugar Institute established at Kanpur. The institute which is a subordinate office of the Ministry performs the main functions of teaching, training, consultancy, research and preparation of Standards for Sugar.


    Addressing the Chairman and other members of the committee, the Director of the institute asserted that the institution is working hard to convert the dream of Union Minister Shri Ram Vilas Paswan of transforming the institution into one of global eminence into reality. He stressed that the goal of the institution is to introduce one new course every year based on the needs and requirements of the industry. He also stated that another target is to ensure that atleast one new patent is filed annually. A brief presentation on the functioning of the institution was also presented before the Committee Members.


    Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Shri Ram Vilas Paswan, addressing the gathering after the presentation stated that a future roadmap for growth and development of the institution must be made with optimum planning to ensure that all resources available with the institute are efficiently and efficaciously utilised.


    The Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Shri C. R. Chaudhary praised the institution for the good job done in the avenues of training, research and consultancy. Shri Chaudhary exhorted that along with being a premier institution, it should also check on the employability factor of its students/scholars and also laid stress on the productivity aspect. He further stressed on the importance of taking research to the industries and factories.


    Shri Chaudhary thanked Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and Union Minister Shri Ram Vilas Paswan for the various schemes that have been introduced for the benefit of the Sugar farmers and improving the sustainability of the Sugar Industry. He said the focus should be on waste to wealth management as has been done by the institute for Bagasse and Filter cakes which help produce bio-gas.


    *****


    APS/AS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1558549) Visitor Counter : 791
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu