      Ministry of Textiles

      Outreach Event of Textiles Ministry
      Posted On: 04 JAN 2019 4:19PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Textiles is organizing a two-day event, on 5 th – 6 th January 2019 in New Delhi,to highlight the achievements of the textiles sector. The two-day event will be inaugurated with a textiles show “Artisan Speak” at Lal Qila.


    In the programme on 6 th January 2019 an outreach event of the “Accomplishments and Way Forward for Textiles Sector” will be inaugurated by Minister of Textiles, SmritiZubinIrani. Minister of State for Textiles, Ajay Tamta, Secretary Textiles, Raghvendra Singh and other senior officers of the Textiles Ministry and other Ministries/ Departments of Government of India will also attend the programme.


    A short film on the achievements of the Ministry will be screened during the inaugural session of the day-long event on 6 th January 2019. Participants from the Government and industry will address the inaugural session which will be followed by panel discussions on subjects related to the textiles sector like technical textiles, ease of doing textiles business and access to global markets and supply chains.


    Weavers, artisans, investors and corporates have contributed immensely towards the achievements in the textiles sector and to express gratitude for their contribution the function will conclude with an award ceremony presided over by the Vice President of India, M.Venkaiah Naidu on the evening of 6 th January 2019.


    The two-day event will also chart out a road map for building new capabilities for sustainable and resource efficient growth of the textiles sector.


    The last four and half years have been transformational for thissector. Industry specific policies, technological upgradations, focus on research & development, investment in human resources and strategic intervention for market promotion have made Indian textiles most desirable and trusted brand on the global map.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558618) Visitor Counter : 529