      Ministry of Defence

      Artificial Intelligence
      Posted On: 02 JAN 2019 3:14PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Defence has initiated the process of preparing Indian defence forces for use of Artificial Intelligence. To study the whole gamut of issues on the implications of Artificial Intelligence (AI) on National security and defence needs, a multi-stakeholder Task Force on Strategic Implementation of Artificial Intelligence for National Security and Defence represented by members from the Government, Defence Services, Academia, Industry Professionals, Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO), Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs), National Cyber Security Coordinator (NCSC), Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO), Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) and Start-ups was constituted in February, 2018.


    Task Force has studied research and innovation in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and outlined its adoption in defence sector including future roadmap on how to integrate and embed AI strategy with core defence strategy.


    In addition the Defence Public Sector Undertakings and Ordnance Factories have been assigned a roadmap for developing AI enabled products.


    There is no specific fund allocation on yearly basis. However, funds are allocated for various projects on case to case basis. Some of the projects are as under:

    * A project has been sanctioned to Centre for Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Robotics (CAIR), a DRDO based laboratory, to develop AI based solutions for signal intelligence to enhance intelligence collation and analysis capabilities to the armed forces. The total cost of the project is Rs.73.9 crore.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
    * A project named, Energy Harvesting Based Infrared Sensor Network for Automated Human Intrusion Detection (EYESIRa), which is partially based on the principles of IoT, has been sanctioned for Rs.1.8 crore.                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

    Artificial Intelligence (AI) based tools would aid the defence forces constructively in areas such as decision support, sensor data analysis, predictive maintenance, situational awareness, accurate data extraction, security etc. These tools will assist defence personnel in better operations, maintenance and logistics support.


    This information was given by Raksha Rajya Mantri Dr. Subhash Bhamre in a written reply to Shri PR. Senthil Nathan and others in Lok Sabha today.


    Nampi/DK/HS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1558146) Visitor Counter : 2289
    
    
    
    
    

  * 
    
  *