      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      Paint Your Toilet
      
      Unique Countrywide Exercise by Swachh Bharat Mission

      Posted On: 04 JAN 2019 3:57PM by PIB Delhi

    In an effort to promote ownership and sustained usage of toilets and also provide a facelift to the crores of toilets built under the Swachh Bharat Mission, the Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation has launched a month-long campaign, “Swachh Sundar Shauchalaya” that commenced on 1 st January. The campaign comprises a unique Contest, under which, households are being mobilised to paint and decorate their toilets. It will be spearheaded by Gram Panchayats and coordinated by district administrations. The campaign will involve rural communities in the 2.5 lakh Gram Panchayats across the country. Individual households, Gram Panchayats and Districts will be awarded on the basis of number of toilets painted and the quality and creativity of their work.


    Through the month, each household owner shall be motivated to beautify their toilets by freshly painting and decorating it creatively, including Swachh Bharat logos and safe sanitation messaging. The campaign has been rolled out across rural India and the Ministry is monitoring the progress through a specially designed portal. This campaign is one more innovative step by the Government to reinforce Swachh Bharat as a Jan Andolan as envisaged by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


    The sanitation coverage in rural India has already crossed 98%,with over 9 crore toilets built under Swachh Bharat Mission (Grameen) since its launch.Access to toilets is an important step towards the adoption of safe sanitation practices and an Open Defecation Free (ODF) nation.It is also true that well-kept, well-maintained and beautiful toilets encourage people towards sustained usage. Swachh Sundar Shauchalaya is being seen as a strong move towards quality and sustainability in the mode of people’s participation.


    <><><><><>


    AK/SNC/SD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1558600) Visitor Counter : 1426