      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Medical Facilities Provided to Border Guarding Forces
      Posted On: 02 JAN 2019 3:13PM by PIB Delhi


    Generally the working hours in the Central Armed Police Forces are 8 hourly shifts. However, troops are also required to remain alert and sensitive to any emergency situation due to operational reasons. Necessary leave/ training reserve is built in the structure of Battalions so that the personnel get rest and leave. Measures have been taken to implement a transparent, rational and fair leave policy and to regulate duty hours to ensure adequate rest and leave. Health care facilities are provided to personnel deployed in border areas and their families.


    The Medical facilities provided to Border Guarding Forces are as follows:

     1. The personnel of Border Guarding Forces (BGFs) and their dependents are provided primary health care or first level health care through Battalion Hospitals. Whenever required, the patients are sent to the nearest Composite Hospitals or CGHS empanelled hospitals for taking secondary level and tertiary level treatment. In case of non-availability of Specialists at Composite Hospital, the patients are referred to nearest Government Hospitals and Medical Colleges for treatment.
     2. At present, at primary level, 10/20 bedded MI Rooms are available in Battalions, Training Centres etc. At secondary level, there are 32 numbers 50 bedded and 6 number 100 bedded Composite Hospitals available in CAPFs. At tertiary level, one 200 bedded referral hospital at Greater Noida under ITBP has been sanctioned in 2004.
     3. Government has approved establishment of CAPFIMS along with 500 Bed General Hospital, 300 Bed Super Specialty Hospital, a Nursing College and a school of Paramedics at Maidangarhi, New Delhi at a cost of Rs.1368.53 Crores.
     4. There is also provision of air evacuation of sick personnel from BoPs by helicopters of Indian Air Force and this facility is being used as per requirement.
     5. Budget is provided to the Forces for purchase of medical equipments and medicines as per their specific operational requirements. The forces regularly organised seminars and lectures regarding adopting precautionary measures among the troops against various diseases and create awareness.

    The rate of Risk and Hardship Allowances to CAPFs/AR personnel are at par with the rate of allowances admissible to Armed Forces. However, Army is entitled to Military Service Pay (MSP), which is not given to CAPFs/AR personnel.


    Some of the measures taken to improve working conditions of CAPFs/AR personnel are as follows:

     1. Transparent policies pertaining to transfer and leave of CAPFs and AR personnel. The hospitalization period due to injuries while on duty is treated as on duty. Choice posting is considered to the extent possible after the personnel served in hard area.

    (ii) Regular interaction of officers with troops to find out and redress their grievances.


    (iii) Ensuring adequate rest and relief by regulating the duty hours.


    (iv) Improving living conditions for troops, providing adequate recreational/ entertainment, sports, communication facilities etc. Crèche facility is also provided at various establishments (where feasible) to facilitate the female employees.


    (v) Facility of retention of government accommodation at the place of last posting (for keeping the family) while posted in NE State, J&K and LWE affected areas (except State Capitals).


    (vi) Providing better medical facilities, also organizing talks with specialists to address their personal and psychological concerns and organizing Meditation & Yoga routinely for better stress management.


    (vii) Adequately compensating the troops deployed in difficult areas.


    (viii) Other welfare measures like facility of Central Police Canteen (CPC), scholarship for wards etc. Also air courier service has been provided to CAPF personnel deployed in NE States, J&K and LWE affected areas as welfare measure.


    (ix) Designating retired CAPF personnel as ex-CAPF personnel for better identity and community recognition.


    (x) Promotions are released regularly to eligible personnel as & when the vacancies arise. Financial benefits under Modified Assured Career Progression (MACP) are given in case promotion does not take place for want of vacancies at 10, 20 & 30 years of service.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju in written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/PK/AK/2317

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558142) Visitor Counter : 430
    
    
    
    
    

1.