      Ministry of Defence

      DG NCC Highlights Role of Cadets in Nation Building
      Posted On: 05 JAN 2019 3:03PM by PIB Delhi


    Director General National Cadet Corps (DG NCC) Lt Gen P P Malhotra addressed the media at Republic Day (RD) Camp here today. He highlighted the major achievements of the NCC in youth and nation building, social awareness campaigns, community development, sanitation, environment protection, sports and adventure.


    Lt Gen Malhotra also mentioned that the training philosophy of the cadets had been refined to accommodate the changing aspirations of our youth and expectations of the society. The focus is now on personality development, leadership traits and improving soft skills of cadets so as to equip them for their future requirements.


    A total of 2,070 cadets, including 695 girl cadets drawn from all 29 States and seven Union Territories are participating in the month long RD Camp. It also includes 102 cadets from Jammu & Kashmir and 162 cadets from the North East. Lt Gen Malhotra said the Camp is in a way reflection of ‘Mini India’. The Camp will be visited by a large number of dignitaries, including the Vice President, Raksha Mantri, Raksha Rajya Mantri, Chief Minister of Delhi, Tri- Services Chiefs.


    It may be noted that the RD Camp 2019 commenced at the Cariappa Parade Ground, Delhi Cantt on January 1, 2019. The DG NCC addressed the cadets and officials on the occasion and called upon the cadets to participate wholeheartedly and derive maximum benefits from each activity in the Camp, which is unique with no parallel.


    The aim of the RD Camp is to provide an exposure to the rich culture and traditions of our nation through the important events that take place in the National Capital, during the run up for the Republic Day, as well as enhance the personal traits of cadets and strengthen their value system. The cadets attending the Camp participate in a number of activities like cultural competitions, national integration awareness programme and various Institutional training competitions. This varied and demanding array of activities culminates with Prime Minister’s Rally on January 28, 2019.


    Nampi/DK/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558753) Visitor Counter : 500