      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Availability of funds for youth and sports activities among girls
      Posted On: 07 JAN 2019 4:40PM by PIB Delhi


    All Sports Promotional Schemes of Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports (Department of Sports) are gender neutral and funds are not allocated gender wise. All sportspersons either male or female are treated at par and provided with same facilities during the training camps and national/international tournaments/championships.However, the Ministry has been implementing some schemes, which have women component, the details of which are as under:


    Rajiv Gandhi Khel Abhiyan (RGKA):


    Rajiv Gandhi Khel Abhiyan (RGKA) Scheme was implemented during 2015-16. RGKA, inter-alia , provided for financial assistance to States/UTs for conducting Women Sports Competition. Rs.3.07 crore was released to States/UTs for the same during 2015-16.


    Khelo India – National Programme for Development of Sports :


    The “Khelo India – National Programme for Development of Sports” Scheme revamped in October, 2017 with twelve components, inter-alia , includes a dedicated vertical “Sports for Women”, which provides for financial assistance for holding sports competitions for women.


    Apart from the specific components mentioned above, both RGKA and Khelo India / revamped Khelo India Scheme were/are gender neutral and therefore accurate segregation of funds spent on boys and girls is not possible.


    Sports Authority of India (SAI)’s Training Centre and Special Area Game Schemes:


    In order to pay special emphasis for promotion of sports among the women sportspersons, SAI has established three SAI Training Centre & one SAG Centre exclusively for women as indicated below:


    SAI Training Centre (STC):-

     1. STC Badal (Punjab) having 67 women trainees (Athletics, Basketball, Hockey & Volleyball)
     2. STC Dharamshala (Himachal Pradesh) having 61women trainees (Athletics, Hockey, Kabaddi & Volleyball)
     3. STC Medikeri (Karnataka) having 42 women trainees (Athletics & Hockey)

    SAG Centre:-

     1. SAG Tellicherry (Kerala) having 119 women trainees (Athletics, Basketball, Fencing, Gymnastics, Volleyball & Wrestling).

    Indian women sportspersons have represented the country at international level in following sports recognised by the Ministry: -


    Archery, Athletics, Badminton, Ball Badminton, Baseball, Basketball, Billiards & Snookers, Body Building, Boxing, Bridge, Chess, Cycling, Equestrian, Fencing, Football, Handball, Hockey, Judo, Kabaddi, Kayaking & Canoeing, Karate, Kho-Kho, Lawn Tennis, Mallakhamb, Netball, Para Sports, PencakSilat, Polo, Roll Ball, Roller Skating, Rowing, Sepaktakraw, Shooting, Softball, Soft Tennis, Squash, Swimming, Table Tennis, Tenni-Koit, Ten-Pin Bowling, Triathlon, Tug of War, Volleyball, Weightlifting, Wrestling, Wushu& Yachting.


    This information was given by Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Youth Affairs and Sports Col. RajyavardhanRathore (Retd.) in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha today.


    ******


    YKB/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558900) Visitor Counter : 536
    
    
    
    
    

1.