      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Administrative Reforms Undertaken by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas
      Posted On: 07 JAN 2019 4:23PM by PIB Delhi


    The major policy initiatives and reforms taken by the Government during the last about four years to achieve the overall objectives of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MoP&NG) include:

     1. Finalisation of Hydrocarbon Exploration Licensing Policy and Open Acreage Licensing Policy
     2. Formulation of Discovered Small Field Policy
     3. Survey of un-appraised area of sedimentary basins
     4. Setting up of National Data Repository
     5. Policy framework for exploration and exploitation of unconventional hydrocarbon
     6. Policy for early monetisation of coal-bed methane
     7. Policy for enhancing and improving oil recovery methods
     8. Reforms in gas pricing, marketing and pricing freedom
     9. Streamlining of production contracts and fiscal incentives
    10. Developing National Gas Grid
    11. Thrust to City Gas Distribution Network
    12. Promotion of LNG / CNG in transportation sector
    13. Pradhan MantriUjjawalaYojana to provide PG connections
    14. Rationalisation of subsidy outgo excluding LPG consumers having taxable income of Rs.10 lakh and above
    15. Subsidy delivery to LPG consumers through PAHAL
    16. Declaration of 8 States / UTs as kerosene free
    17. Direct Benefit Transfer in PDS kerosene
    18. Massive improvement in downstream and midstream infrastructure
    19. Automation of retail outlets
    20. Promotion of digital payments
    21. Implementation of auto fuel policy
    22. Daily dynamic fuel pricing to promote efficiency and transparency
    23. Citizen centric initiatives to promote ease of living
    24. Leapfrogging to BS VI fuel
    25. Fuel policy norms for Heavy Duty Vehicles
    26. Setting high standards of Corporate Social Responsibility towards nation building
    27. Thrust to Ethanol Blended Petrol Programme
    28. Promotion of Bio-diesel programme
    29. Promotion of 2G ethanol through Lignocelluloses
    30. Setting up Hydrocarbon Sector Skill council
    31. Policy to provide purchase preference linked with local content
    32. Engagement in hydrocarbon sector with large number of countries
    33. Expanding hydrocarbon footprints through overseas acquisitions

    The above measures have significantly contributed towards energy access, energy efficiency, energy sustainability and energy security.


    This information was given by Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan in a written reply to the Lok Sabha today.


    ******


    YKB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558886) Visitor Counter : 598
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi
    
    
    

33.