      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Promotion of Sports
      Posted On: 03 JAN 2019 4:10PM by PIB Delhi


    ‘Sports’ is a State subject and promotion of sports in the country, including promotion of Sports among rural youth and promotion of rural sports in rural areas is primarily the responsibility of the State Government concerned. The Central Government complements/supplements the efforts of the State Governments and the National Sports Federations (NSFs).


    Sports Authority of India (SAI), an autonomous organization under the aegis of the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports, is running several sports promotional schemes across the country to identify talented sports persons in the age group of 8-25 years and nurture them to excel at national and international competitions. Many of the sports persons identified under SAI Sports Promotional Schemes belong to the rural, tribal, backward, coastal and inaccessible hilly areas of the country and are provided with training facilities in the form of expert sports coaches, requisite playing facilities, boarding & lodging, sports kit, competition exposure, educational expenses, medical/insurance and stipend as per the approved norms.


    The Khelo India Scheme implemented by this Ministry provides for promotion of sports in the entire population including among youth of rural & hilly areas. Also, the scheme has a dedicated vertical, viz., Promotion of rural and indigenous/tribal games which provides for financial assistance to NSFs / Non Government Organizations (NGOs) etc. for promotion of sports in the country including rural and hilly areas. Under this vertical various NSFs have been provided financial assistance to hold competitions in various parts of the country including those in rural areas. During 2018, a total number of 36 such competitions / exhibition events had been held. It is a demand driven scheme and State/UT-wise allocation is not made.


    Government jobs are provided to the medal winners as per the orders of Department of Personnel & Training (DoPT).


    Meritorious sportspersons are recruited by various Ministries / Departments / Public Sector Undertakings / autonomous organizations under Government of India in accordance with the prevailing rules on the subject. This Ministry does not maintain any statistics on the number of sportspersons so recruited.


    This information was given by Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Youth Affairs and Sports Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore (Retd.) in a written reply to the Lok Sabha today.


    ******


    YKB/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558450) Visitor Counter : 640