      Ministry of Railways

      Shri Piyush Goyal holds a high level review meeting with the entire Railway Board, all General Managers of Zonal Railways & Divisional Railway Managers
      
      The Minister emphasizes on timely delivery and vigorous monitoring of Railway projects and activities

      Posted On: 04 JAN 2019 5:49PM by PIB Delhi

    Minister of Railways & Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal held a high level review meeting with the entire Railway Board, all General Manager of Zonal Railways & Divisional Railway Managers of all the 68 Railway divisions (DRMs were linked through Video Conferencing) yesterday on 03rd January’ 2019 at Rail Bhawan.


    While reviewing the performance during the current year so far, the Minister gave directions for the road map of forthcoming January-March 2019 quarter. The Minister emphasizes on timely delivery and vigorous monitoring of Railway projects and activities.


    The deliberations covered subjects pertaining to safety, passenger services, passenger amenities, revenue generation, infrastructure development, staff welfare and transparency at all levels of functioning.

      * Road Map for upcoming January-March 2019 quarter.
      * Intergrated Dashboard to monitor ongoing projects by Railway officials- the Dashboard also to be made available for viewing by the public for a more transparent functioning.
      * Wi-fi to be provided at 2000 Railway stations.
      * Single helpline number for all complaints.
      * Reservation chart to be made available in public domain.
      * Commissioning of about 600-700 Kms of both eastern and western DFC to be ensured in this quarter.
      * PoS Machines with swipe and bill generating machine should be distributed in all trains to each catering staff and TTEs as soon as possible.
      * Redevelopment of 68 stations should be done by February 2019
      * 3D Digital Museums at 100 stations to be completed before 15 th February’ 2019.
      * Welfare measures for Coolies.

    While reviewing the performance during the current year so far, the Minister gave directions for the road map of forthcoming January-March 2019 quarter, which are as under:-


    Time bound work


    Railway Minister called upon the top Railway officials to gear up their machinery to complete various projects and activities in a time bound manner adhering to the notified deadlines. The Minister called upon to focus on subjects pertaining to safety, passenger services, passenger amenities, revenue generation infrastructure development, staff welfare and transparency at all levels of functioning.


    Online monitoring


    Emphasising on the need to complete projects in time, Shri Piyush Goyal mentioned that it is equally necessary to vigorously monitor the progress and suggested that an integrated dash board portal displayable on a screen should be put in place by 15th January 2019. This needs to be done across entire railway network and efforts are to be made for providing viewing access of this Dashboard to general public also at the earliest. The pictures of before and after works are to be uploaded online on regular basis at the Dashboard.


    Dedicated Freight Corridor Commissioning


    Taking note of substantial progress in the construction of Dedicated Freight Corridor, Shri Goyal said that commissioning of 777 Kms of both eastern and western DFC should be ensured by the end of February 2019.


    Catering Improvement


    The Minster also advised that PoS Machines with swipe and bill generating machine should be distributed in all trains to each catering staff and TTEs by 31st March 2019. He said that this will take care of the complaints of overcharging by the caterer. All trains with catering facility should have rate list displaying prices of menu inclusive of GST and printed on a tin plate by March 2019. The following lines also to be written on the tin plate - No tips please, if no bill, your meal is free.


    Transparent Reservation System


    With a view to make ticket booking further transparent, the Minister directed that reservation chart should be made available in public domain as soon as possible. He also said that possibility of booking tickets even after schedule departure of trains or after boarding the train should be explored if seats are available.


    Wi-fi


    Mentioning that the 723 Railway stations provided with wi-fi have proved very useful to the public and directed that such wi-fi facility should be provided in at least 2000 Railway stations across the country in the near future and all stations ultimately. He said that Division Railway Managers will be suitably awarded for early completion of wi-fi works at stations.


    Single help line number


    Referring to the Railways helpline numbers, Shri Piyush Goyal said that a single helpline number for all non-security complaints should be developed for the convenience of passengers by the end of January 2019.


    Revenue Generation


    Talking about revenue generation, the Minister added that efforts should be made to increase incremental freight loading. He also said that efforts for generating more non fare revenue should be undertaken. He said the targets for generating revenue from scrap disposal should be increased and all zones should strive to achieve ‘Zero Scrap Balance’ by the end of this financial year.


    Station Development


    Referring to station redevelopment the Minister said that redevelopment of 68 stations should be done till February 2019 with provisions to monitor their progress on integrated dashboard along with the current photographs.


    Train upgradation


    Emphasing on train upgradation, the Minister said that the work of retro-fitment and making Swarn & Utkrisht rakes should be expedited on a priority basis. Referring to the recently developed Vistadome coaches with all glass body for tourist purposes, the Minister said that such coaches could be introduced on more routes and directed all Railway divisions to assess their requirements urgently.


    Cleanliness


    On toilets the Minister said that photographs of all completed toilets be uploaded from 4th January, 2019 onwards. All toilets should be brightly lit, clean with adequate supply of water and devoid of any broken pots/ urinals. He also suggested that efforts should be made to provide Bio vacuum toilets in all the new coaches to be manufactured in future.


    Faster trains


    He said that the trials of running Rajdhani trains using two engines (one in front and one in rear) on push-pull mechanism should be completed in time so that journey time of travel by Rajdhani could be reduced.


    Station improvement


    The Minister said that activities like LED lighting in cost efficient manner, installation of CCTV in kitchens, retiring rooms etc., improving overall ambience and infrastructure in and around railway stations, installation of tall national flags in all A-1 category stations, display hoardings to achievements of railways in recent years should be completed in time. He said that 3D Digital Museums at 100 stations should be completed before 15 th February’ 2019.


    He said that all ideas from DRMs and GMs should be put on Good Works Portal. Best practices of zones should be shared among all zones.


    Staff Welfare


    Talking about staff welfare, he said that healthcare should be provided in the most effective manner. He said that RPF barracks should be upgraded in time bound manner. He also directed to make a plan for welfare measures for Coolies.


    He said that works on automatic coach washing plants and quick watering facilities should be implemented at the earliest.


    The daylong conference of GMs and DRMs deliberated on all issues thread bare and prepared a comprehensive Road Map for the coming quarter January-March 2019. The Chairman Railway Board Shri V. K. Yadav outlined the agenda of the conference.


    *****


    SVS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558674) Visitor Counter : 1120
    
    
    
    
    

*