      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Genomic chips developed by Brazil can be very useful for implementing genomic selection for our indigenous breeds
      
      To develop breeding techniques, 4 animal breeding Centers of Excellence have been established in the country

      Posted On: 08 JAN 2019 5:53PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shri Radha Mohan Singh met a 5-member delegation from Brazil led by Dr. Jose Ribamar Felipe Marques, Director, Buffalo Research and Development, Brazil, today. The main objective of this meeting was to promote technical cooperation between India and Brazil for the rapid growth of the production and productivity of indigenous breeds.


    On this occasion, the Minister said that the help of Brazil will be sought in Embryo transfer technology (ETT) , promotion of In Vitro Fertilization (IVF), sex-sorted semen production


    Of Indian indigenous breeds, and training of professionals in the country so that the production and productivity of indigenous breeds can be increased rapidly. He explained that by adopting modern breeding technologies and implementing scientific breeding programs, Brazil has achieved an increase in the productivity of indigenous breeds of India. In this way, genomic chips developed by Brazil can be very useful for implementing genomic selection for our indigenous breeds.


    Shri Singh informed that in the latest development in breeding techniques, four animal breeding Centers of Excellence (COE) are being set up for ETT, IVF, sex-sorted semen, genomics and training of skilled manpower. These centers will not only serve as training centers but also work as centers of research and development. Germplasm produced at these centers will be made available to all the states. Two Excellence Centers in Kalsi Uttarakhand and Central Agricultural University, Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) Motihari are being established with the help of Brazil.


    *****


    APS/RCS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559141) Visitor Counter : 1833