      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      6th Women of India Organic Festival of WCD Ministry concludes today
      
      Women of India Organic Festivals being organised by government to empower women farmers and entrepreneurs : Maneka Sanjay Gandhi
      Posted On: 14 JAN 2019 6:00PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development aims to encourage Indian women entrepreneurs and farmers to connect with more buyers through organizing ‘Women of India Organic Festivals’ across the country. This was stated by Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi, Union Minister for Women and Child Development after visiting various stalls and Food Court on the concluding day of 6 th ‘Women of India Organic Festival’ held at Leisure Valley, Sector-10, Chandigarh.


    The Minister further said that through this festival, the Ministry also aims to educate people about its various initiatives and schemes relating to women and children development. The Women of India Organic Festival has been held annually in New Delhi since 2015 and has made its debut in Chandigarh this yearto showcase the varied products of women farmers and entrepreneurs.She said thatit would empower them through financial inclusion, while promoting organic farming in India.


    The Union Minister, Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi along with Member of Parliament from Chandigarh Smt. Kirron Kher interacted with the participating women farmers and entrepreneurs also and inspected about their products. Over 200 women farmers and entrepreneurs from different parts of the country put up 72 stalls of various farming and organic products in this three day festival besides 15 food stalls in the food court. The Festival showcased over 1,000 varied organic products, including fabric, wellness, grains, seeds, jewellery, bakery items and a lot more.


    Addressing the media,the WCD Minister stressed upon the need for promoting organic farming throughout the country for better, healthy and environment friendly lifestyle especially encouraging women farmers and entrepreneurs with a well-knit marketing infrastructure for organic farm products. She informed that the women entrepreneurs have got a very good response of the people during the festival.Visitors showed their keen interest to purchase various products exhibited in the festival.


    ***


    PS/SAPNA/NEGI


    

    
    (Release ID: 1559896) Visitor Counter : 568
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu