      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Fish Production and Consumption
      Posted On: 08 JAN 2019 3:20PM by PIB Delhi


    The fisheries and aquaculture production contributes around 1% to India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and over 5% to the agricultural GDP. According to Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) report “The State of World Fisheries and Aquaculture 2018” apparent per capita fish consumption in India[average(2013-15)] lies between a range of 5 to 10 Kg.


    Keeping in view of the potential fisheries resources in the aquaculture, inland fisheries, coastal & marine fisheries and substantial scope of export augmentation, The Fisheries division of Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India is implementing various developmental schemes under the umbrella of “Blue Revolution Scheme” for overall development of fisheries sector, including enhancement of production and productivity, improving the livelihood of the fishers and welfare of fishermen for realizing “Blue Revolution” in the country. Besides, Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs (CCEA) has also approved the setting up of a dedicated Fisheries and Aquaculture Infrastructure Development Fund (FIDF) worth Rs.7,522 crore on 23 rd October, 2018 to fill the large infrastructure gaps in fisheries sector in the country through developing infrastructure projects such as fishing harbours/ fish landing centres, fish seed farms, fish feed mills/plants, setting up of disease diagnostic and aquatic quarantine facilities, creation of cold chain infrastructure facilities such as ice plants, cold storage, fish transport facilities, fish processing units, fish markets, etc.


    The funds released under the various schemes supported by the fisheries division of the Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India to to promote fisheries in the country during the last three years and current year as below;

                                                    
Financial Year       Funds Released ( In Rs. Crores)
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
2015-16              416.80                         
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
2016-17              424.11                         
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
2017-18              337.53                         
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
2018-19 (till date)  312.80                         
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
Total                1491.24                        
                                                    
                                                    

    The objectives of National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) are as below;-

     1. To provide focused attention to fisheries and aquaculture (production, processing, storage, transport and marketing).
     2. To achieve sustainable management and conservation of natural aquatic resources.
     3. To apply modern tools of research and development including biotechnology for optimizing production and productivity from fisheries.
     4. To provide modern infrastructure mechanisms for fisheries and ensure their effective management and optimum utilization.
     5. To train and empower women in the fisheries sector and also generate substantial employment.
     6. To enhance the contribution of fish towards food and nutritional security.

    National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) is being implementing various schemes and components since its inception in the year 2006 for development of Fisheries in the country namely Intensive Aquaculture in ponds and tanks, reservoir fisheries development, Coastal Aquaculture, Mariculture, Seaweed cultivation, Infrastructure: Fishing harbor and Fish Landing Centres, Fish dressing centers and solar drying of fish, Domestic marketing, Technology upgradation Projects, Human resources development programs in fisheries sectors, Deep sea fishing and tuna processing, Ornamental Fisheries, Innovative Projects Quality seed dissemination program, Cage and pen culture in open water bodies etc. However, from 2016-17 onwards the NFDB scheme has been subsumed in umbrella scheme of the Centrally Sponsored Scheme on “ Blue Revolution: Integrated Development and Management of Fisheries ” and National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) has become one of the major component of the said restructured scheme. Further, there is no component-wise specific outlay made including for Inland Fisheries and Aquaculture as the schemes are demand driven. However, Under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme on “ Blue Revolution: Integrated Development and Management of Fisheries ” an amount of Rs. 3000 Crores has been approved towards budget outlay for a period of five (5) years from 2015-16 to 2019-20.


    This Information was given by the Minister of State for Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Smt. Krishna Raj in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    APS/RCS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559072) Visitor Counter : 1642
    
    
    
    
    

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
6.