      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      9th International Conference on Micro Irrigation to be held at Aurangabad
      Posted On: 14 JAN 2019 4:20PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Government of India is organizingthe 9 th International Micro Irrigation Conference on Modern Agriculture at Aurangabad in Maharashtra from January 16–18, 2019, in association with International Commission on Irrigation and Drainage (ICID), Indian National Committee on Surface Water (INCSW) and WAPCOS Limited, a CPSE under the Union Ministry of Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation.


    Shri Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping and Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation will be the Chief Guest of the event and Shri DevendraFadnavis, Chief Minister of Maharashtra will preside over the conference.ShriRadha Mohan Singh, Union Minister for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare and Dr. Mahendra Reddy, Minister for Agriculture, Rural & Maritime Development and Waterways & Environment, Government of Fiji will be the Special Invitees. Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal, MoSWater Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation and Parliamentary Affairs and Ministers from several state government will be Guests of Honour


    The event will be a multi-disciplinary dialogue in the form of a conference discussing issues related to micro irrigation for modern agriculture and various related issues like new techniques in micro irrigation for increased crop productivity, micro irrigation in cluster level farming etc.A large group of eminent international and national experts and local farmers will be sharing their experiences in the fields of latest developments in micro irrigation technology to enhance crop production and water management for optimal use in agriculture, technical and sociological interventions for sustainable water, food & agriculture. National and international organizations, Central/State Government organizations, public sector undertakings, industrial organizations, equipment manufacturers, entrepreneurs, financial and funding institutions, consulting and construction organizations will present their technical capabilities in the area.


    The Conference will provide a forum for discussions and deliberation through seminars, exhibitions and sessions and will serve to build awareness regarding large-scale use of micro irrigation, strategies for water conservation, advanced crop technology, engineering techniques, etc. The event will aim to address problems of developing as well as developed nations in the context of present-day challenges.


    Irrigation Minister’s Roundtable, Farmer’s Pavilion & NGO Sessions, Handcrafts Mela, Workshops on specific Crops and specific Agro-Climatic Zones will be organized during the Conference, apart from presentation of Micro Irrigation Awards to Farmers, Practitioners, Companies and Government.


    Shri U.P. Singh, Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation, Government of India; Shri S. Masood Husain, Chairman, Indian National Committee on Surface Water (INCSW), Central Water Commission; Eng. Felix Reinders, President, International Commission on Irrigation and Drainage (ICID) and Shri A. B. Pandya, Director General, International Commission on Irrigation and Drainage (ICID) will also be present during the events.


    *****


    NP/SKP/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559859) Visitor Counter : 1215