      Ministry of Defence

      Exhibitor of the Year Award for DRDO at 106th Indian Science Congress
      Posted On: 07 JAN 2019 8:52PM by PIB Delhi


    The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) pavilion received ‘Exhibitor of the Year Award’ at 106 th Indian Science Congress held at Lovely Professional University (LPU), Phagwara, Punjab. The pavilion narrated the saga of self-reliance & national pride with the ‘Make in India’ spirit was a big attraction among people, especially students visiting the pavilion and getting opportunity to interact with DRDO scientists.


    The DRDO Pavillion at the mega science expo was inaugurated on January 03, 2019 byGovernor of Punjab Shri VP Singh Badnoreand Union Science and Technology MinisterDr Harsh Vardhan. They took keen interest in DRDO products and technologies displayed. Secretary, Department of Defence R&D and Chairman DRDO Dr G Satheesh Reddywas present during the inaugural function.


    Later in the day, a special address on the present and future technologies in defence systems and opportunities for the young researchers was delivered by Dr G Satheesh Reddy.


    Director General (Naval Systems & Materials) Dr Samir V Kamatand Director General (Life Sciences) Dr AK Singhdelivered lectures on ‘Materials Technologies for Future Defence Systems’ and ‘Evolving Landscape in Life Sciences’ respectively. Director General (Production Coordination & Services Interaction)Dr S Guruprasad was also present.


    DRDO’s outdoor exhibits included surface-to-air missile system - Akash, model of BrahMos missile, remotely operated vehicle - Daksh, heavy weight torpedo - Varunastra, Laser Ordnance Disposal System (LORDS) and Vehicle Mounted Dazzler etc. Indoor exhibits of DRDO included models of various missile systems including Prithvi, Astra, Nag, HELINA and LRSAM; Rustom UAV, MBT Arjun Mk 1A, Armoured Engineer Recce Vehicle, 155mm Advanced Towed Artillery Gun System, PINAKA- Multi Barrel Rocket Launcher, Plastic Bullet, Multi-Mode Hand Grenades, SONAR systems, Radars, Night Vision Devices, Bullet Proof jackets and Helmets, Micro Wave Power Module, Integrated Multi-Function Sight. Life Sciences Products included Portable Chemical Agent Detector, Individual Underwater Breathing Apparatus for T-90 tank crew, Full body protector for female, Bukhari, Alocal Cream, Ready-to-Eat Packaged Foods etc.


    DRDO pavilion also had a dedicated stall on Technology Development Fund (TDF) Scheme for promoting public/private industries especially MSMEs so as to create an eco-system for enhancing cutting edge technology capability for defence application. Details of the same are available on https://tdf.drdo.gov.in. The pavilion also provided information on ‘Kalam’s vision: Dare to Dream’ the pan India online contest for engaging young minds in emerging technologies namely Artificial intelligence, Cyber security, Robotics, Autonomous Systems, etc. The objective is to unearth disruptive ideas and concepts in emerging technologies identified by DRDO for enhancing defence capabilities. The scheme will facilitate open competition for students and Startups. Details of the same are available on DRDO website.


    Nampi/DK/Rajib


    

    
    (Release ID: 1559005) Visitor Counter : 1435