      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Shri Dharmendra Pradhan attends Global Skill Summit at Ranchi; More than 1 lakh youth of the state get job offers
      Posted On: 10 JAN 2019 8:11PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas, &Skill Development and Entrepreneurship today attended the Global Skill Summit 2019 held in Ranchi, Jharkhand today, organised by the State Government. On this occasion, in total 1,06,619 youths of Jharkhand were given symbolic offer letter for jobs in the private sector, surpassing the target of giving jobs to 1,00,000 youths.


    Governor of Jharkhand Smt. Droupadi Murmu was the chief guest in this one day Global Skill Summit, 2019 which was also attended by Chief Minister of Jharkhand Shri Raghubar Das. Dr. Neera Yadav, Minister, Higher, Technical Education and Skill Development Department, other senior officials of Jharkhand Government, industry leaders, international representatives from 17 countries were also present at the event, attended by a large number of skilled youth who got job offers.


    On this occasion Shri Dharmendra Pradhan said that India, with its pool of talented youth, has the potential to cater to the ever-growing demand for skilled manpower in the world. Jharkhand is a melting pot, with enormous potential in a myriad sectors like manufacturing,tourism,services etc. The state is blessed with a demographic dividend and an abundance of natural resources. The Government’s initiatives and programs have given wings to people’s hardwork and dreams. He said that the Government of Jharkhand deserves praise for its achievements in skilling the youth of the state and enabling their employment. Shri Pradhan said that Jharkhand is poised to scale greater heights under the able leadership of Chief Minister Shri Raghubar Das.


    Governor Smt. Droupadi Murmu in her address wished the selected one lakh youth for the jobs from the state for their success and bright future. She highlighted the qualities of the youth of Jharkhand as diligent, credible and hard-working. She also said that achieving this ambitious goal of providing jobs to one lakh youth has become possible because of the devotion of skilled and energetic youth of Jharkhand


    Shri Raghubar Das, Chief Minister, Jharkhand, said that the Government of Jharkhand is empowering the youth by providing appropriate skills, making them future-ready. It will make young talent self-reliant. He thanked the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship ably led by Shri Dharmendra Pradhan for providing opportunities to the youth to for skill development and making available avenues of jobs.


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559461) Visitor Counter : 585
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu