      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Workshop On Public Sector Enterprises on CSR held
      Posted On: 09 JAN 2019 3:00PM by PIB Delhi


    A One Day Workshop on Public Sector Enterprises on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) was held under the aegis of the National Water Mission (NWM), in partnership with the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) at New Delhi yesterday. Around 30-35 Navratna Companies and other PSUs were present in the workshop along with Corporates such as Reliance Foundation and organizations like TERI, CII Water Institute etc.


    Shri U.P. Singh, Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation made an appeal to all the PSEs, PSUs and the corporate sector to partner with NMCG in whatever way they can to take forward this National Mission. He said, NMCG has utilized banking networks of SBI, UBI, HDFC, ICICI and Yes Bank for displaying Clean Ganga messages. He also mentioned that Corporates like HCL, Indorama, Yes Bank, SCI, Indus Ind Bank are associated with NMCG on Ganga projects. HCL has taken up afforestation projects in Noida and Greater Noida as well as Rudraksha plantation in Uttarakhand in association with INTACH.


    Shri Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, DG, NMCG speaking on the occasion gave an overview of NMCG’s activities and as well underlined the enormous scope of PSUs and PSEs to join hands with NMCG in the cause of bringing about Nirmalta and Aviralta in the entire Ganga basin.


    During the workshop NMCG showcased the efforts being carried out for Ganga Rejuvenation, which aim at a holistic vision of restoring the wholesomeness of Ganga through attaining Nirmalta and Aviralta. In fact, the Namami Gange Program launched in 2015, is an integrated Ganga conservation mission, which has made significant strides and achieved key milestones during 2018-19.


    NMCG is the first mission which is looking at urban as well as rural areas, dealing with a complete range of pollution abatement measures for all kinds of domestic and industrial pollution, rural sanitation, afforestation and conservation of biodiversity, ghats and crematoria, water quality monitoring, use of modern technology, sustainability of investment by including long term Operation and Maintenance as part of the project cost, Public Private Partnership projects and involving all stakeholders through proactive public outreach activities.


    *****


    NP/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559234) Visitor Counter : 555
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi