      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Two new AIIMS for Jammu and Kashmir, One for Gujarat
      
      People in the region will have Super specialty healthcare closer to their homes: J P Nadda

      Posted On: 10 JAN 2019 8:47PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for a proposal for establishing three new AIIMS at Vijaynagar, Samba, Jammu at a cost of Rs 1661 Crore; Awantipura,Pulwama, Kashmir at a cost of Rs 1828 Crore and Rajkot, Gujarat at a cost of Rs 1195 Crore.


    Expressing gratitude to the Prime Minister for his visionary leadership and constant support, Shri J P Nadda, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare said that the approval follows our Prime Minister’s vision and upholds the spirit of ‘SabkaSaath, SabkaVikas’. “Two new AIIMS,one each for Jammu Region and Kashmir Region in the State of Jammu & Kashmir was announced by the Hon’ble Prime Minister under the Prime Minister’s Development Package and AIIMS in Gujarat was announced by the Finance Minister in his Budget Speech,” Shri Nadda added.


    Shri Nadda further stated that setting up of new AIIMS would not only transform health education and training but will also address the shortfall of health care professionals in the region. The establishment of new AIIMS will serve the dual purpose of providing super specialty health care to the population closer to their homes,while also help create a large pool of doctors and other health workers in this region that can be available for primary and secondary level institutions / facilities being created under National Health Mission (NHM). Construction of new AIIMS is fully funded by the Central Government. The Operations & Maintenance expenses on new AIIMS are also fully borne by the Central Government,” Shri Nadda elaborated.


    Terming it historic, the Union Health Minister further said that setting up new AIIMS in the states will lead to employment generation for nearly 3000 people in various faculty & non faculty posts in each of the AIIMS. Indirect employment generation will take place due to facilities and services like shopping centre, canteens, etc. coming in the vicinity of new AIIMS. The construction activity involved for creation of the physical infrastructure for the various new AIIMS is also expected to generate substantial employment in the construction phase as well. ,”ShriNadda stated.


    Shri Nadda further stated that each new AIIMS will add 100 UG (MBBS) seats and 60 B.Sc(Nursing) seats, and the new AIIMS will have 15-20 Super Specialty Departments. “Each new AIIMS will add around 750 hospital beds.As per data of current functional AIIMS, it is expected that each new AIIMS would cater to around 1500 OPD patients per day and around 1000 IPD patients per month,” he mentioned.


    ***


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559476) Visitor Counter : 710
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Urdu