      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Inaugural issue of Jal Charcha released
      
      E-version of the magazine also launched
      
      Shri Gadkari stresses on the need to implement successful practices in water conservation

      Posted On: 08 JAN 2019 1:20PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Nitin Gadkari released the inaugural issue of the monthly magazine of the Ministry – Jal Charcha – in New Delhi today.


    Stressing on the need to implement successful practices in water conservation around the World, Shri Gadkari said that several steps in this direction have been taken in states like Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka and positive results are visible in the form of recharged wells resulting in improvement in socio-economic conditions of the people.


    Reiterating the importance of recycling of water and Waste-to-Wealth, Shri Gadkari informed that in his constituency in Maharashtra 350 play grounds and 78 gardens have been identified where recycled water is to be used for sprinkling purpose, which will automatically conserve fresh water. Recycled water will be used in construction works also. He mentioned the MoU between National Mission for Clean Ganga and Indian Oil for reuse of recycled water in Mathura.


    Shri Gadkari added that Delhi government has also expressed its desire to reuse the treated water from Okhla at Yamuna’s Wazirabad stretch. All this shows that awareness on water conservation is building up. There is need to include NGOs, social organizations and states in this serious issue of water conservation, he added.


    Shri Gadkari said that the key to success in water sector is cooperation, coordination and communication and he hoped that this magazine will provide a suitable forum to promote water conservation.


    Minister of State, Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Dr. Satya Pal Singh launched the e-version of the magazine which is available on mowr.gov.in.


    Secretary Shri U.P. Singh informed the audience that Jal Charcha is the third magazine being published by the Ministry. The first is Namami Gange by National Mission for Clean Ganga and second is Jalansh by Central Water Commission.


    The 25-page inaugural issue of Jal Charcha is the start of a journey that aims to engage with the people of India in informed decision-making at the central level. The magazine will be shared with people not just at the state level, but also at the grassroot level.


    The magazine is also an effort to bring best practices in water sector to the national stage and move ahead in the direction of creating water consciousness in the minds of the people of the country. Given the vastness of the subject, while the theme of the magazine would change with every issue, effective management of water resources in an integrated manner will remain at the helm. Three regular series – Rivers, Dams and Conservation – will inform readers about the country’s rivers and water storage projects and best practices. The idea is to provide opportunity to all stakeholders to express themselves on pressing matters of water management.


    *****


    NP/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559034) Visitor Counter : 1067
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi