      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Discussion on ‘Children’s Literature and Young Readers Trapped in Electronic Gadgets’ organized by Publications Division at World Book Fair
      
      Ten books released by Publications Division at World Book Fair
      Posted On: 10 JAN 2019 4:46PM by PIB Delhi


    Publications Division, Ministry of I&B is participating in the New Delhi World Book Fair being organized at Pragati Maidan, New Delhi from 5th to 13th January, 2019. The Division today organised a discussion on ‘ Children’s Literature and Young Readers Trapped in Electronic Gadgets’ at the World Book Fair.


    The discussion highlighted the importance of books and their impact on children who in today’s times are often found preoccupied in the world of modern day gadgets. A key point highlighted in the discussion was that while technology limits a child’s imagination by presenting a fixed set of images, books magnify the child’s imagination manifold by letting him build up the world he is reading about on his own.


    Publications Division also released ten books during the event – Saral Panchatantra Part I; Children’s Vivekananda; Children’s Mahabharat in English; Shekhawati ki Lok Sanskriti; Hamare Samay me Upanishad; Haar Ki Khushi; Maa Ka Janamdin; Bapu ki Vani; Ved Gatha; and Bal Mahabharat in Hindi.


    Saral Panchatantra Part I occupies pride of place in children’s literature across the globe. Originally compiled in Sanskrit more than two millenniums ago, these inter-related fables teach the basic nuances of politics, governance along with everyday common sense.


    Children’s Vivekananda is a biographical sketch of Swami Vivekananda, the spiritual ambassador of India, presented in an interesting and lucid manner. It covers, in brief, all important phases of his life.


    Children’s Mahabharata – The book tells the story of Mahabharata, one of the greatest epics of the world, written keeping children in mind. Bal Mahabharat presents the timeless tale for the young readers in Hindi.


    Shekhawati ki Lok Sanskriti is a title that deals with Shekhawati – a semi-arid but historical region of Rajasthan. This land of industrious and hard-working people has contributed in a big way to the Rajputana culture. The book highlights this contribution.


    Hamare Samay me Upanishad tells the story of Upanishads. The book is an attempt to initiate the readers – of any age group – into this ancient world of knowledge.


    Haar Ki Khushi and Maa Ka Janamdin are children’s books. While Maa Ka Janamdin is a collection of poems, Haar ki Khushi is a collection of short stories which have been written keeping the growing up child in mind. The stories are essayed in a manner to highlight the lucid story-telling style made popular by Munshi Premchand.


    Bapu ki Vaani tries to bring forth Gandhiji’s life and thoughts for the young readers.


    Ved Gaatha presents Vedas in a simplified format keeping young readers in mind. The book delves into the ancient world of knowledge and spirituality.


    Dr. Sachchidanand Joshi, Member Secretary, Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA), Dr. Sadhana Rout, Director General, Publications Division, several renowned authors and senior officials of Publications Division participated in the event.


    The books of Publications Division can be accessed at the World Book Fair at Stall Numbers 125-140 in Hall Number 10, Pragati Maidan, New Delhi.


    ***


    AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559375) Visitor Counter : 573