      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Three-day 6th ‘Women of India Organic Festival’ organized by WCD Ministry to begin tomorrow at Leisure Valley, Chandigarh
      Posted On: 11 JAN 2019 5:48PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development is organising the three-day 6 th ‘Women of India Organic Festival’ from tomorrow at Leisure Valley, Sector-10, Chandigarh, to celebrate and promote women farmers and entrepreneurs in the organic sector from the remotest parts of India.


    Shri B.L. Sharma, Secretary, Women and Child Development, UT Chandigarh will be the Chief Guest while Smt. Anuradha Chagti, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Women and Child Development, Govt. of India will be the Guest of Honour for inaugural function of the 6 th “Women of India Organic Festival”.


    On 14 January 2019,Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi, Union Minister for Women and Child Development will inaugurate National Institute of Public Cooperation and Child Development (NIPCCD) Mohali Regional Centre in the morning. She will also visit various stalls and Food Court atthe 6 th ‘Women of India Organic Festival’ in the afternoon at Leisure Valley,Sector-10, Chandigarh.


    “The festival aims to encourage Indian women entrepreneurs and farmers to connect with more buyers and thus, empower them through financial inclusion, while promoting organic culture in India. Through this festival, the Ministry also aims to educate people about its various initiatives and schemes relating to women and children,” said Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi, Union Minister for Women and Child Development.


    Over 200 women are coming together at Leisure Valley, which will become the epicentre of an organic extravaganza. The Festival will showcase over 1,000 varied organic products, including fabric, wellness, grains, seeds, jewellery, bakery items and a lot more. Visitors to the festival will also get to visit the food court, which promises to offer a wide variety of sumptuous delights. The timings of the Festival are 10:30AM to 10PM.


    The Women of India Organic Festival has been held annually in New Delhi since 2015, and makes its debut in Chandigarh this year, bringing the joy of going organic to the evergreen Leisure Valley, which is a continuum of gardens, to showcase the varied products of women farmers and entrepreneurs. With each year, the sales and footfalls at the Organic Festival have only increased, indicating a growing interest in organic produce.


    ***


    DS/PS/MS/NEGI


    

    
    (Release ID: 1559643) Visitor Counter : 906
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi