      Ministry of Culture

      A proposal to declare NSD as an Institution of National Importance is under consideration of the Government: Dr. Mahesh Sharma
      Posted On: 08 JAN 2019 5:47PM by PIB Delhi


    The Broad-Based Committee (Vision Committee) set up by the National School of Drama (NSD) Society in February 2005, inter-alia, had recommended opening of five regional centres of the NSD across the country. On the basis of these recommendations, the decision to establish five regional centres during the 11 th Five Year Plan period (2007-2012), one each at Kolkata, Mumbai/Goa, J&K, and North-East, besides upgrading the existing Regional Resource cum Research Centre, Bengaluru to a full-fledged regional centre, was taken by the Government. These regional centres were to be established in consultation with concerned State Governments, who were required to provide land/accommodation for the purpose. So far, only Government of Karnataka has provided land/accommodation in 2013 at Bengaluru for the purpose. Till date, no other concerned State Government has provided land to the NSD for opening of its regional branches.


      Under NSD’s Out-reach/Extension Programme, two Centres, one at Gangtok (Sikkim) and another at Agartala (Tripura), are functioning and are also conducting one year theatre training course in addition to the one being conducted at Bengaluru (Karnataka).


      A proposal to declare NSD as an Institution of National Importance is under consideration of the Government. Till such time a final decision is taken in the matter, the NSD has decided to defer the opening of regional centres.


      The above information was given by Minister of State (independent charge) for Culture and Minister of State for Environment, Forest and Climate change Dr. Mahesh Sharma, in reply to an Unstarred Question in the Rajya Sabha, today.


      **********


      NB/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559138) Visitor Counter : 597
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu