      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Six States to Sign Agreement for Renukaji Multipurpose Dam Project Tomorrow
      
      The Dam will Augment Water Availability for Delhi, Haryana, UP, HP, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan
      
      Concession Agreement also to be Signed for Namami Gange Projects in Prayagraj

      Posted On: 10 JAN 2019 5:32PM by PIB Delhi

    An a greement for Renukaji Dam Multipurpose Project will be signed here tomorrow among six states - Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand in the presence of Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Road Transport & Highways and Shipping Shri Nitin Gadkari. All the s ix Chief Minister s will also be present on the occasion.


    In addition to this a concession agreement will also be signed for Namami Gange projects for the city of Prayagraj, under Hybrid Annuity Mode and One City One Operator Concept. The Prayagraj Agreement will be signed between U.P. Jal Nigam, NMCG and Prayagraj Water Pvt. Ltd.


    Renukaji Multi Purpose Project:


    T hree storage projects are proposed to be constructed on the river Yamuna and two of its tributaries - Tons and Giri in the hilly regions of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh of Upper Yamuna Basin. These include Lakhwar project on river Yamuna in Uttarakhand , Kishau on river Tons in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh and Renukaji on river Giri in Himachal Pradesh.


    These three projects were identified as National Project s in 200 8 under which 90% funding of the cost of irrigation & drinking water component will be provided by the Govt. of India as central assistance and the rest 10% cost of the irrigation and drinking water component will be borne by the beneficiary s tates.


    In continuation to it, an a greement in respect of sharing of cost and benefits of Lakhwar MPP amongst basin States viz. Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and NCT of Delhi was signed by the Chief Ministers of these s tates in the presence of Union Minister, Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation at New Delhi on 28 th August, 2018. A s imilar agreement is scheduled to be signed tomorrow for the implementation of Renukaji Dam Project.


    Renukaji Dam project has been conceived as a storage project on Giri River (tributary of river Yamuna) in Sirmour District of Himachal Pradesh. The project envisages construction of 148 M high rock filled dam for supply of 23 cumec water to Delhi and other basin s tates. The project will also generate 40 MW of power during peak flow. The project is proposed to be executed by Himachal Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd. (HPPCL). The live storage of Renukaji MPP is 0.404 MAF and total submergence area is about 1508 hectares in the territory of HP.


    After the construction of the said dam, the flow of river Giri will increase about 110% which will meet the drinking water needs of Delhi & other basin s tates up to some extent in lean period. Stored water of Renukaji Dam will be used by UP, Haryana & NCT of Delhi from Hathnikund Barrage, by NCT of Delhi from Wazirabad Barrage and by UP, Haryana and Rajasthan from Okhla Barrage.


    Investigation works in respect of Renukaji dam project was started in 1976. But, due to some unavoidable reasons, the construction works could not be started. The total cost of the project was estimated on Price Level 2015 is Rs. 4596.76 Crores out of which the cost of irrigation/drinking water component is Rs. 4325.43 crores and the cost of power component is Rs. 277.33 crore. The 90% cost of irrigation/drinking water component of the project i.e. Rs. 3892.83 crore will be provided by the Central Govt. and rest 10% of the above cost i.e. Rs. 432.54 crore will be provided by the basin States of Haryana, UP/UK, HP, Rajasthan & NCT of Delhi in the proportion as allocated in MoU dated 12.05.1994 signed by the CMs of the basin s tates for the allocation of surface water of river Yamuna up to Okhla Barrage. The shares of these s tates viz. Haryana, UP / UK, HP, Rajasthan and NCT of Delhi are 47.82%, 33.65%, 3.15%, 9.34% and 6.04% respectively. Govt. of NCT of Delhi has agreed to fund 90% of the cost of power component of the said project.


    For the investigation and land acquisition of the project, Central government has released Rs. 446.96 crore, Govt. of Delhi has released Rs. 214.84 crore & Govt. of Haryana has released Rs. 25 crore till date. All the mandatory clearances in respect of Renukaji dam project except Stage-II forest clearance, invest clearance and approval from CCEA have been obtained.


    Projects for Concession Agreement:


    The trans-Ganga/Yamuna areas in Prayagraj (namely Naini, Phaphamau & Jhunsi) currently do not have any sewage treatment facility and thereby pollute rivers Ganga and Yamuna.


    Prayagraj town already has a comprehensive sewerage network and sewage treatment facilities. However, these are with different operators and without long term sustainable mechanism for Operation and Maintenance (O&M).


    Accordingly, two projects have been sanctioned for sewage management in the trans-Ganga/Yamuna areas and O&M of existing sewerage assets costing Rs. 908.16 crore. These projects will lead to creation of I&D network and 3 STPs of total capacity 72 MLD (Naini - 42 MLD, Phaphamau - 14 MLD and Jhunsi - 16 MLD) and O&M of all the sewerage assets for 15 years. These two projects are under One City One Operator concept for implementation on Hybrid Annuity based PPP mode for the sewerage management of the town in sustainable and accountable manner and improve governance.


    These projects would lead to creation of new capacity of 72 MLD, rehabilitation of 80 MLD, operation & maintenance of existing STPs of 254 MLD capacity and 10 Sewage Pumping Stations.


    *****


    NP/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559390) Visitor Counter : 2541