      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President asks railway officials to expedite works on various projects
      
      Interacts with railway officials during train journey between Renigunta and Venkatachalam, Nellore

      Posted On: 08 JAN 2019 9:10PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has interacted with top railway officials and enquired about the progress of various railway projects in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, including the railway line between Obulavaripalle and Krishnapatnam port.


    The Vice President discussed the progress of the projects with South Central Railway GM, Shri Kulshrestha and other senior officials while travelling by train from Renigunta to Venkatachalam in Nellore today. Shri Naidu reached Venkatachalam to attend on Wednesday the 10th day ceremony of his mother-in-law, Smt. Alluru Kousalyamma, who left for heavenly abode on December 30.


    Shri Naidu advised the officials to expedite the works of various projects and wanted the Obulavaripalle-Krishnapatnam line to be completed by February 25. He recalled that following his suggestion the Railway Minister and the Railway Board had agreed to allow the running of passenger trains on the Obulavaripalle-Krishnapatnam Port line, which was originally envisaged for goods trains.


    Once completed, the Obulavaripalle-Krishnapatnam line will reduce the distance by 72 km. The Vice President also inspected the progress of the works at Venkatachalam rail over bridge.


    Shri Naidu was informed by the railway officials that only the tunnel work was pending and the remaining work was completed. They stated that four stations between Krishnapatnam to Rapur would be ready soon and trial run of the train would also be undertaken. He was also told that high speed wi-fi would be provided soon at Nellore, Gudur and Renigunta stations.


    The officials also stated that a detailed project report (DPR) has been prepared for building a Rs.400 crore multi-storied commercial complex at Tirupati Railway Station. The proposed complex would house five star and budget hotels and shopping areas among others.


    Shri Naidu also asked about the progress of Nadikudi-Srikalahasti railway line and was informed that land acquisition was pending with Andhra Pradesh government in the districts of Prakasam, Guntur and Nellore. He was also informed that work has commenced on the third line between Gudur and Vijayawada.


    Following a suggestion by the Vice President not to charge exorbitantly the tickets for Suvidha specials run for Sankranthi from Secunderabad to Andhra region, the railway officials agreed to examine the proposal.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559202) Visitor Counter : 685