      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vivekananda an embodiment of Hindu Culture;
      
      He was a social reformer and was against religious dogmas: VP
      
      Bring down walls that create differences among people
      
      Vivekananda’s teachings more relevant today than ever before
      
      Preserving the invaluable heritage of India is true nationalism
      
      Pays homage to Swami Vivekananda on his Birth Anniversary
      Posted On: 12 JAN 2019 5:14PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu has said that preserving the invaluable heritage of India was true nationalism and India can provide a sheet-anchor and a spiritual compass to the world witnessing unprecedented changes. He said that India could provide honey of wisdom gathered from different flowers by different bees to the world filled with bitterness.


    Interacting with youth on the occasion of National Youth Day celebrated to commemorate the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda at Swarna Bharat Trust in Hyderabad, Shri Naidu said that Vivekananda believed in the uplift of humanity, irrespective of caste or creed and emphasized the importance of spiritualism for the survival and progress of mankind. Swami Vivakananda was a social reformer and was against religious dogmas, he added.


    Talking about Swami Vivekananda’s teachings that resonate with youth of all times, Shri Naidu said wanted the youth to be healthy, enlightened, and confident. He stressed upon the need to popularize teachings of Swami Vivekananda among the younger generation so that they realize and assimilate the greatness of India’s culture, spiritual heritage and traditions.


    Recalling Swami Vivekananda’s words: “Give me 100 energetic young men and I shall transform India”, Shri Naidu said that youth must follow the path laid down by Swami Vivekananda and lead by the ideals of Tyaga (Sacrifice) and Seva (Service) to transform India. Propagate and practice the teachings of Swami Vivekananda, he added.


    Describing Swami Vivekananda as an embodiment of Hindu Culture, the Vice President opined that his address to the World’s Parliament of Religions 125 years ago was a momentous event and played a major role in introducing Hinduism to the West. His Chicago speech encapsulated the timeless values of Indian culture and its eternal relevance, he said.


    The Vice President said that there was a need to bring down walls that create differences among people in the name of religion, bigotry, caste or region in present time more than in any other time. He said that religious tolerance was of paramount importance for peaceful co-existence of people of all faiths and for celebration of religious diversity.


    Shri Naidu said that Swamiji saw education as an important medium to empower people and wanted measures to educate the masses and the poor. “If the poor boy cannot come to education, education must go to him”, he said quoting Vivekananda. He also urged the youth to strive for building a strong India. Earlier, he paid floral tributes at the statue of Swami Vivekananda.


    ***


    AKT/RK


    The following is the full text of the speech: (Please see the attachment)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559724) Visitor Counter : 1358