      UPSC

      Central Armed Police Forces (Assistant Commandants) Examination, 2018 – Declaration of Written Exam Results
      Posted On: 10 JAN 2019 2:32PM by PIB Delhi


    On the basis of the result of written part of CAPF (ACs) Examination, 2018 held by UPSC on 12 th August, 2018, the candidates with the under-mentioned Roll Numbers have qualified for Physical Standards Test/ Physical Efficiency Tests and Medical Standards Tests. The candidature of all the candidates whose Roll Numbers are shown in the list is Provisional, subject to their being found eligible in all respects. The candidates will be required to produce the original certificates in support of their claims pertaining to age, educational qualifications, community etc. at the time of the Personality Test. They are, therefore, advised to keep the said prescribed certificates ready.


    The Sashastra Seema Bal (Nodal Authority nominated by Ministry of Home Affairs) will intimate to the candidates about the date, time & venue of the Physical Standards Tests/ Physical Efficiency Tests (PET) & Medical Standards Tests, to be conducted by them. In case, any candidate does not receive the call letter for Physical Standards Tests/ Physical Efficiency Tests (PET) & Medical Standards Tests (MST) by the 12th February, 2019, he/she may contact the HQ, DG, Sashastra Seema Bal on Telephone No./ FAX No. 011-26104291 & e-mail ID adrectt.ssbdel@nic.in and U.P.S.C. through letter or FAX immediately, to facilitate delivery of communications to them promptly.


    The candidates who have been declared qualified in the written examination are required to get themselves registered on the relevant page of the website before filling up the Detailed Application Form (DAF) ONLINE along with uploading of the scanned copies of relevant certificates/documents in support of their eligibility, claim of reservation etc. through the Commission’s Website http://www.upsc.gov.in. Online Detailed Application Form will be available on the Commission’s website from 14.01.2019 to 28.01.2019 till 6.00 P. M. Important instructions regarding filling up of the DAF and submitting the same ONLINE to the Commission are also available on the website.


    A hard copy of the On-line filled Detailed Application Form, along-with relevant documents like proof of Date of Birth, Educational Qualification, Caste, Civilian Central Govt. Service Employee/Ex-servicemen, resident of J&K etc. is to be submitted by the candidates to the SSB authorities at the time of conduct of their PST/PET/MST; which, in turn, would forward applications, along-with supporting documents & certificates, of those candidates who have either been declared Medically Fit or their Appeal for Review Medical Test have been accepted by the Appellate Authority in the SSB to the Commission.


    Candidates are advised to intimate change in their address, if any, to the HQ, DG, Sashastra Seema Bal, East Block-V, R. K. Puram, New Delhi – 110066 or contact at Telephone No./ FAX No. 011-26104291 & e-mail ID adrectt.ssbdel@nic.in and U.P.S.C. through letter or FAX immediately, to facilitate delivery of communications to them promptly.


    The marks-sheets of all candidates who have not qualified will be uploaded on the Commission’s website after the publication of final result (after conducting Personality Test) and will remain available on the website for a period of 30 days.


    The candidates can access their marks-sheet after keying in their Roll Number and date of birth. The printed/hard copies of the marks-sheet would, however, be issued by UPSC to candidates based on specific request accompanied by a self-addressed stamped envelope. Candidates desirous of obtaining printed/hard copies of the marks sheets should make the request within thirty days of the display of the marks on the Commission’s website, beyond which such requests would not be entertained.


    Click here for full list


    ****


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559339) Visitor Counter : 1741
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi