      Ministry of Education

      Prime Minister to interact with a cross section of Students, Teachers and Parents for another exciting edition “Pariksha Pe Charcha 2.0” on 29th January, 2019
      
      An online competition organized from 7th January to 17th January, 2019 for interaction with Prime Minister during “Pariksha Pe Charcha 2.0”

      Posted On: 10 JAN 2019 7:23PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will be interacting with a cross section of Students, Teachers and Parents for another exciting edition - Pariksha Pe Charcha 2.0 at Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi on 29 th January’19.


    Salient features of “Pariksha Pe Charcha 2.0”-


     1. It is a unique interaction where students, parents, teachers and Prime Minister , Shri Narendra Modi will come together to discuss issues relating to exam life and stress connected with that.

     2. An online competition has been organized from 7 th January to 17 th January, 2019, for students of classes 9 to 12, graduate and undergraduate college students, their parents and their teachers, in which they can participate through www.mygov.in website on the following themes :

    Students from Class 9 to 12 and Students in graduate and undergraduate classes, below 25 years of age


    a. Catchy Caption Contest


    To suggest a punchy, witty, and meaningful caption for the image upto 150 characters. Selected winners will have an opportunity to meet the Hon’ble Prime Minister at the venue of the Pariksha pe charcha 2.0 event.


    b. I am Inspired Contest for Classes 9 to 12


    c. My Success Mantra for Graduate and undergraduate classes


    Under this if the students have benefited from the insights Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave in his book ‘Exam Warriors’, was there something in the book that made them look at exams, or life, differently? It could be a mantra, it could be a concept, or it could be the whole ‘Exam Warriors’ book itself and students can share their experiences in maximum 500 characters


    For Teachers


    Teachers’ Thoughts


    Teachers can share the experiences, whether it is something from the syllabus or in facing the challenge of exams, which can be a punchy and short mantra for exam success to students, can be shared , which should not exceed 500 characters. Selected winners will have an opportunity to meet the Hon’ble Prime Minister.


    For Parents


    Learning from my Exam Warrior


    Parents can share the experience as to how they taught their children. Or there is a lot that they learn from their children as well also : what is it that they have learnt from the young Exam Warrior at home. The answers cannot exceed 500 characters. Selected winners will have an opportunity to meet the Hon’ble Prime Minister

     1. Unlike last year, Pariksha Pe Charcha 2018, this year only the selected students , parents and teachers who have won the contest will be interacting with PM
     2. First time students from all over India are being called as compared to last year where only Delhi / NCR students participated
     3. This year a cultural programme of 10 minutes has also been included in which the bright students winners (e.g. Dancers/Singers etc) from Kala Utsav contest will be performing.
     4. For the first time participation of Indian students residing abroad is also planned
     5. Arrangements are being made for live telecast of the programme on 29 th January in all Schools / Colleges
     6. Total 2000 students, parents and teachers will be participating from all over India in Pariksha pe Charcha 2.0

    *****


    NB/AKJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1559449) Visitor Counter : 617
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

6.