      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Launch of NCDC model for cooperatives as Modern banking unit will bring about financial inclusion of farmers in remote villages
      
      There is no minimum and maximum limit of financial assistance under this model devised by National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)

      Posted On: 09 JAN 2019 7:00PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shri Radha Mohan Singh has said that National Council for Cooperative Training (NCCT) besides being responsible for training, awareness and evaluation programmes of employees working in the cooperative sector also facilitates the same for other stakeholders in the cooperative sector in the country. The main objective of the NCCT is to facilitate the human resource development in the cooperatives in the country. The Minister was addressing 2 nd Governing Council meeting of National Council for Cooperative Training (NCCT) and launch of National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC’s) model for cooperatives as Modern banking Unit today.


    He said that VAMNICOM (Vaikunth Mehta National Institute of Cooperative Management) at the national level and five regional cooperative management institutes in Bengaluru, Chandigarh,


    Gandhinagar, Kalyani and Patna at the regional level and 14 cooperative management institutes in various parts of the country meet training requirements of senior and middle employees working in cooperative departments and organizations. The council has trained 46203 participants in 1340 programs by its various training units till December 2018.


    Shri Singh added that the government is giving special emphasis on the rapid socio-economic development of the North Eastern States and Sikkim. NCCT is playing a vital role in the development of human resources in co-operatives in the North Eastern States. The training requirements of North Eastern Region are being met by the cooperative training institutes in Guwahati, Imphal and Regional cooperative Institute in Kalyani.


    The Minister also launched the National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)’s model for Cooperatives as Modern Banking Units with an aim to strengthen cooperative banks at various levels and bring about financial inclusion of farmers in the remote villages of the country.He said that Modi government’s objective behind the Primary Agricultural Credit Co-operative Societies (PACS) computerization project is to provide a robust IT platform leading to automation of all activities of the PACS. For this, NCDC has taken a comprehensive step for strengthening of cooperative as Modern Banking Units.


    The model includes upgradation and new setup of IT and related infrastructure such as Data Centre, Enterprise Network and Security, Core Banking Solutions (CBS), ATMs, POS, e-Lobby, etc. It also includes assistance to cooperatives in capacity development through its dedicated Laxmanrao Inamdar National Academy for Co-operative Research & Development.


    *****


    APS/RCS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559280) Visitor Counter : 1654