      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Infiltration of Terrorists
      Posted On: 08 JAN 2019 5:09PM by PIB Delhi


    The steps taken by the Government to check infiltration across the borders are as follows:


    (i) Indo-China Border: Indo-China border is an inhospitable and high altitude open border having mix of IB and LAC. No incident of infiltration from across the border along Indo-China has been reported. Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) has been deployed along this border to monitor and check infiltration across the border.


    (ii) Indo-Nepal and Indo-Bhutan Border: Indo-Nepal and Indo-Bhutan borders are open borders with visa free regime. One Pakistani terrorist was arrested by SSB on 13/5/2017 from Sonauli, Maharajganj District (UP) on Indo-Nepal border. Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) has been deployed along this border to monitor and check infiltration across the border.


    (iii) Indo-Myanmar Border: Indo-Myanmar border is an open border with free movement regime (FMR) within 16 kms on both sides of the border. 563 insurgents have been apprehended and 47 insurgents have been killed along the Indo-Myanmar Border during the years 2015 to 2018. Assam Rifles (AR) has been deployed along this border to monitor and check infiltration across the border.


    (iv) Indo-Pakistan and Indo-Bangladesh borders: Indo-Pakistan and Indo-Bangladesh borders are fenced with physical barriers in almost all the feasible areas. In non-feasible areas like riverine gaps, technological solutions are under implementation to check infiltration in the vulnerable patches. Border Security Force (BSF) has been deployed along this border to monitor and check infiltration across the border. 24 armed infiltrators have been apprehended and 06 armed infiltrators have been killed along the Indo-Pakistan Border and Indo-Bhutan Border during the years 2015 to 2018.


    The following measures are in place to check infiltration along the land borders:


    (i) Effective domination of the borders by the Border Guarding Forces through round the clock surveillance viz. patrolling, laying nakas, establishing observation posts all along the border and strengthening of existing defence of the BOPs.


    (ii) The riverine segments of the International Borders of the country are being patrolled and dominated with the help of water crafts/speed boats/floating Border Out Posts (BOPs) of Border Guarding Forces (BGFs).


    (iii) Usage of Hi-Tech surveillance equipment along with day and night vision devices for further enhancing the border domination.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju in written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/SS/AK/4458

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559107) Visitor Counter : 429