      Ministry of Tourism

      Four more projects of Rs. 190.46 crore sanctioned under Swadesh Darshan and PRASHAD schemes of M/o Tourism
      Posted On: 11 JAN 2019 6:18PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Tourism has sanctioned four new projects for Rs. 190.46 Crores under the tourism infrastructure development schemes, Swadesh Darshan and PRASHAD in the states of Meghalaya, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh recently. Following are the sanctioned projects and the details.

     1. Under North East Circuit of Swadesh Darshan Scheme, the Ministry has sanctioned the project ‘ Development of West Khasi Hills (Nongkhlaw- Krem Tirot - Khudoi & Kohmang Falls – Khri River- Mawthadraishan, Shillong), Jaintia Hills (Krang Suri Falls- Shyrmang- Iooksi), Garo Hills (Nokrek Reserve, Katta Beel, Siju Caves)’ in Meghalaya for Rs. 84.95 crore. The above project focuses on development of lesser known destinations in Meghalaya in above Districts. Through this project the Ministry will be developing facilities like Festival Grounds, Tourist Facilitation Centre, Last Mile Connectivity, Public Conveniences, Cable Suspension Bridge, Cafeteria, Trekking Routes, Boating Facilities, Illumination, Solid Waste Management, Drinking Water Facility, Caving Facilities, Visitor Centres, Adventure Sports Activities, Craft Haats etc. in the state.
     2. Development of Gorakhnath Temple (Gorakhpur), Devipattan Temple (Balrampur) and Vatvashni Temple (Domariyagunj ) has also been sanctioned for Rs. 21.16 Crores under Spiritual Circuit of Swadesh Darshan Scheme. The facilities being developed under this project includes Tourist Facilitation Centre, Toilet Blocks, Pathways, Shelters, Landscaping, Gazebos, Illumination, CCTV Camera, Benches, Dustbins, Informative & Directional Signages etc.
     3. Under the PRASHAD scheme, the Ministry has sanctioned the project ‘ Development of Govardhan’ in District Mathura in Uttar Pradesh for Rs. 39.74 Crores. The sites taken up for development in the project include Govardhan Parikrama Marg, Kusum Sarovar, Chandra Sarovar and Manasi Ganga. The facilities like development of Bus Stand, Toilets, Illumination of Ghats, Parking, Pathways, Landscaping and Beautification, PA System, Benches, Toilets etc being developed under the project.
     4. The Ministry has also sanctioned the project ‘ Development of Pilgrimage Amenities at Somnath – Phase II’ for Rs. 44.59 Crores under the PRASHAD scheme. The facilities being developed under the project includes Development of pathways, seating arrangement, Drinking Water Facilities., lighting and illumination, Solid Waste Management etc.

    The Ministry of Tourism has launched the schemes of Swadesh Darshan - Integrated Development of Theme-Based Tourist Circuits and PRASHAD-Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual, Heritage Augmentation Drive in the year 2014-15 for the development of tourism infrastructure in the country.


    *****


    NB/JP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559651) Visitor Counter : 1675
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam
    
    
    

4.