      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Functioning of NIA
      Posted On: 08 JAN 2019 5:10PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has been constituted under the NIA Act, 2008 to investigate and prosecute offences affecting the sovereignty, security and integrity of India, security of State, friendly relations with foreign States and offences under Acts enacted to implement international treaties, agreements, conventions and resolutions of the United Nations, its agencies and other International organisations and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.


    The details of branches/Units of NIA functioning at present are as under:-

                                   
S.No.  Hqrs / Branches             
                                   
                                   
                                   
1.     NIA Hqrs, New Delhi         
                                   
                                   
                                   
2.     NIA branch office, Hyderabad
                                   
                                   
                                   
3.     NIA branch office, Guwahati 
                                   
                                   
                                   
4.     NIA branch office, Lucknow  
                                   
                                   
                                   
5.     NIA branch office, Mumbai   
                                   
                                   
                                   
6.     NIA branch office, Kochi    
                                   
                                   
                                   
7.     NIA branch office, Kolkata  
                                   
                                   
                                   
8.     NIA branch office, Jammu    
                                   
                                   
                                   
9.     NIA branch office, Raipur   
                                   
                                   

    Since its inception and till date, the Central Government has entrusted 242 cases to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for investigation.


    The manpower, financial and infrastructure requirements of NIA are reviewed from time to time and the necessary requirements are met as early as possible. An LWE Cell with 22 posts has recently been sanctioned along with 75 posts for NIA Headquarters to increase the efficiency of NIA.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir in written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/NK/JMS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1559109) Visitor Counter : 897