      Ministry of Railways

      Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav takes charge as new Chairman, Railway Board
      Posted On: 02 JAN 2019 11:30AM by PIB Delhi


      Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav, IRSEE (1980 Batch), has taken over as Chairman, Railway Board (Ministry of Railways) and ex-officio Principal Secretary to Govt. of India. The appointments committee of the Cabinet has approved the appointment of Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav as Chairman Railway Board on superannuation of Shri Ashwani Lohani. Prior to this, Shri Yadav worked as General Manager, South Central Railway.


      His academic qualifications including a Masters Degree in Business Administration –MBA (Technology Management) from La Trobe University, Australia and a Bachelors Degree in Engineering (Electrical Engineering) from Allahabad University, Uttar Pradesh. He holds immense experience in the fields of Project Management, General Management, Industrial Policy Formulation, Foreign Collaboration & Foreign Direct Investment, Management of Sector Specific International Technical Programmes and Co-ordination of World Bank and Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) Funding.


      Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav began his working carrier on Indian Railways as Assistant Electrical Engineer in February, 1982. During the course of his illustrious career, Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav held several important executive and managerial positions on Indian Railways and on deputation to various Organizations. On Indian Railways, he served as Chief Electrical Engineer, Planning/Traction Distribution, Northern Railway; Divisional Railway Manager, Lucknow Division, North Eastern Railway; Additional Divisional Railway Manager (Operation), Delhi Division, Northern Railway; Deputy Chief Electrical Engineer (Construction); Deputy Chief Electrical Engineer, Loco Workshop, Lucknow and as Senior Electrical Engineer (Construction).


      Amongst the assignments he held on deputation are – Executive Director, Railway Electrification Projects, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), New Delhi; Group General Manager (Electrical), Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited; Programme Manager, Technology Diffusion and Support Programme and as Project Director, International Centre for Advancement of Manufacturing Technology at United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO); he was also Director, Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion, Ministry of Industry, Government of India and as Deputy Chief Electrical Engineer (Electrical), Indian Railway Construction Company Limited (IRCON).


      He also held an important foreign assignment as Deputy Manager (Electrical), IRCON at Turkey, where he was instrumental in planning, execution and commissioning of Railway Electrification Project for Turkish Railway.


      Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav is recipient of the first ever “Best Transformation Initiative Award” of the Ministry of Railways, received from the hands of the Hon’ble Minister of Railways in April, 2018.


      ***


      SVS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559958) Visitor Counter : 204