      Election Commission

      Voter Awareness Forums for promoting awareness on electoral process
      Posted On: 14 JAN 2019 6:03PM by PIB Delhi


    Voter Awareness Forums will be set up in Ministries, Government Departments, Non-Government Departments and other Institutions to promote electoral awareness. Election Commission of India will be briefing the Nodal Officers of Ministries, Government of India and a representative from Federations on 16 th January 2019 at Pravasi Bhartiya Kendra, New Delhi.


    Similar briefing sessions are being held across the country by the Chief Electoral Officers and District Election Officers on the same day where nodal officers of Departments, Non-Govt Departments, CSOs, Corporate and Media Houses in the State and District are being briefed respectively.


    Voter Awareness Forums are informal Forums for generating awareness around electoral process through activities like discussions, quizzes, competitions and other engaging activities. All employees of the Organisation are expected to become members of the VAF with the Head of the Organisation acting as Chair of VAF.


    VAF is part of the Electoral Literacy Club programme of ECI. Launched on the 8 th National Voters Day, 25 th January 2018, the ELC programme envisages setting up of Electoral Literacy Club in every educational institution and Chunav Pathshala at every booth to cover those outside the formal education system. Around 2.11 Lakh ELCs have already been established across the country in the first year of the launch of the programme.


    The ELCs and Chunav Pathshala activities are conducted by the Convener using a resource Guide where step by step instructions are given for conducting each activity. Separate Resource books have been developed for Class IX, X, XI and XII. A calendar of activities in a year has also be indicated. Total of 6-8 activities, with specific learning outcome, running into approximately 4 hours in all, have been identified for each class.


    …


    SBS/AC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1559897) Visitor Counter : 795
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali