      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog’s Atal Innovation Mission releases the Atal Tinkering Lab Handbook on eve of National Youth Day
      
      10 Month Student Entrepreneurship Programme with Dell EMC announced
      Posted On: 11 JAN 2019 12:38PM by PIB Delhi


    NITI Aayog’s Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) released the “Atal Tinkering Lab Handbook – Nayee Dishayen, Naye Nirman, Naya Bharat” on the eve of the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, also celebrated as the National Youth Day, to hail and take forward the spirit of Tinkering and Innovation across the country.


    The Atal Tinkering Lab Handbook was released by Mr. Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog, Mr. Ramanathan Ramanan, Mission Director, Atal Innovation Mission, Mr. Alok Ohrie, MD, Dell EMC and Dr. Anjlee Prakash, Chairperson, Learning Links Foundation (LLF).


    They also announced the 10 Month Student Entrepreneurship Programme , which is a fully-funded initiative to help the Top Six innovations of the Atal Tinkering Marathon 2017 to transform their innovative prototypes into functioning, scaled and Go-to-Market products.


    These innovations include prototypes across six crucial themes having broader social impact, namely, Clean Energy, Waste Management, Agritech, Healthcare, Smart Mobility and Water Resources.


    
    From a smart tap which monitors and purifies the water flowing through it to a low-cost ayurvedic herbal air spray which eliminates harmful microbes in the air, the Top Six innovations, which were designed in the Atal Tinkering Labs under AIM are poised to bring in fresh ideas to market and inspire a generation of entrepreneurs.


    The Atal Tinkering Lab Handbook captures the experiences of the young innovators of the country with the Atal Tinkering Lab. The book is a compendium of guidelines, resources, methodologies, key learning, case studies of the ATL ecosystem and the outcome and impact that is being created by the Atal Tinkering Labs has been showcased, including some case examples of celebrating and rewarding innovation, over the last two years.


    The handbook will serve as an action plan that can provide the basis for a smooth scale up approach for the Atal Tinkering Lab initiative, via the public-private-partnership and Centre-State cooperation. The document attempts bring together all stakeholders in the school and administrative ecosystem towards creating a sustainable and scalable approach for tinkering and innovation at the high school level.


    On the eve of the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, himself of paragon of scientific temper and pursuit of excellence, the ATL Handbook seeks to serve as guiding document for more innovation labs to be setup across the country.


    About Atal Innovation Mission of NITI Aayog


    The Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) is the Government of India’s flagship initiative to promote a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in the country. AIM is mandated to create an umbrella structure to oversee innovation ecosystem of the country and revolutionizing the innovation eco-system - touching upon the entire innovation life cycle through various programs. The Atal Tinkering Laboratories (ATLs) create innovators, Atal Incubation Centres and support to Established Incubation Centre ensure that innovations are taken to the market and help create enterprises around these innovations.


    *****


    AKT/SBP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559552) Visitor Counter : 2636
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Malayalam