      Ministry of Earth Science

      Govt. Launches Special Weather Services for Kumbh Mela at Prayagraj.
      
      Four Automatic Weather stations (AWS) and one mobile van AWS to provide information of the prevailing weather in real-time and forecasts 3 days in advance: Dr. Harsh Vardhan

      Posted On: 14 JAN 2019 5:08PM by PIB Delhi

    The government today launched special weather services for the benefit of people visiting Prayagraj during KumbhMela. The Kumbh Mela 2019 is going to be held at Prayagraj during January-March 2019.


    Union Minister of Science and Technology, Earth Sciences and Environment and Forests and Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan today in New Delhi launched special weather services for the benefit of people visiting Prayagraj during Kumbh Mela. The minister stated that to provide information of the prevailing weather and forecasts for next 3 days, four Automatic Weather stations (AWS) have been installed at four different locations at Prayagraj and have been made operational. In addition a mobile van (AWS) has also been made operational. “The real-time location specific weather information will not only be very helpful for the local and state authorities in the efficient management of the entire event but also benefit the pilgrims by keeping them abreast of the latest weather information.” said Dr. Harsh Vardhan.


    In addition the science and technology minister also launched a mobile application named "Kumbh Mela Weather Service" also has been developed to disseminate the live weather information (temperature, humidity, rainfall and winds) as observed in all the above four sites. In addition, the mobile app will also provide weather forecast and warnings if any for Prayagraj for next 3 days. The Mobile App will be available for downloading from Google Store.


    The observational sites are distributed in all four directions within 5-10 km radius and are located at: (i) Allahabad University, (ii) Delhi Public School, (iii) G.B. Pant Institute of Social Science and (iv) Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences ( SHUATS ).


    ***


    KSP/GK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1559869) Visitor Counter : 573