      Vice President's Secretariat

      Need for a cultural renaissance in the country: vice president
      
      Let us return to time-tested Indian customs and traditions
      
      Adopt traditional dietary habits and practice yoga for a healthy living
      
      Protect mother tongue and Indian family system
      Posted On: 13 JAN 2019 3:10PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday called for creating a cultural renaissance in the country by propagating and practicing India’s time-tested traditions and customs.


    Speaking on the occasion of Sankranthi and the second anniversary celebrations of Swarna Bharati Trust in Hyderabad, the Vice President said the time has come for all Indians to adopt changes in their lifestyles and return to the old traditional methods of healthy living. We need to follow the customs and practices of our forefathers and abandon the western-oriented lifestyles.


    He said the traditional food habits, flavours and customs were not only time-tested but healthy too as they were tailor-made to suit the requirements of each season and region. We need to create awareness and educate the youth for adopting healthy dietary habits and lifestyles by returning to our simple but effective ways of living. Similarly, the ancient Indian art of Yoga creates a fusion of a healthy mind and healthy body.


    Shri Naidu also called upon the youth to pay renewed attention to agriculture, which is the backbone of Indian economy. He said the need of the hour was to accord greater prominence to natural farming and reduce the use of chemical fertilizers.


    He said that agriculture sector has to be reoriented in a fundamental way to make it sustainable and remunerative. He said structural changes in agriculture were needed through policy interventions of the Centre and various State Governments.


    Referring to the importance of mother tongue and native languages, he said everyone should strive to protect, promote and propagate mother tongue.


    Observing that the traditional family system was the pride of India, he said there was a need to protect the family values. Our traditions and customs not only strengthen the social fabric, but also create a bonding among different sections.


    The Vice President said that Indians always believed in the philosophy of sharing, caring and worshipping nature. On this Sankranthi festival, let us all rededicate ourselves in the cause of building a healthy, strong, prosperous and inclusive India.


    To mark the festive occasion, Perini dance performance, musical recital, Rangoli competition and traditional art forms were showcased at the event. Stalls exhibiting decorated bulls (Gangireddulu) and dolls ( Bommalakoluvu) were also put up.


    The Union Minister for Electronics & Information Technology Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, the Chief Justice of Telangana High Court, Shri Thottathil B. Radhakrishnan, Shri Konda Visweswara Reddy, MP and Shri K. Srinivas, MLA were among those present.


    ***


    AKT/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559774) Visitor Counter : 745
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu