      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Sub-Categorization of OBCs
      Posted On: 08 JAN 2019 2:43PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government has constituted a Commission under article 340, on 2 nd October, 2017, to examine the issues of the sub-categorization of Other Backward Classes with the following terms of reference:

     1. To examine the extent of inequitable distribution of benefits of reservation among the castes or communities included in the broad category of Other Backward Classes with reference to such classes included in the Central List;
     2. To work out the mechanism, criteria, norms and parameters in a scientific approach for sub-categorisation within such Other Backward Classes; and
     3. To take up the exercise of identifying the respective castes or communities or sub-castes or synonyms in the Central List of Other Backward Classes and classifying them into their respective sub-categories.

    The composition of the Commission is as follows:-

                                                                                             
(i) Chairperson           Justice (Retd.) G. Rohini, Chief Justice (Retd.), Delhi High Court.
                                                                                             
                                                                                             
                                                                                             
(ii) Member               Dr. J.K. Bajaj, Director, Centre for Policy Studies, New Delhi.    
                                                                                             
                                                                                             
                                                                                             
(iii)Member (Ex-officio)  Director, Anthropological Survey of India, Kolkatta.               
                                                                                             
                                                                                             
                                                                                             
(iv) Member (Ex-officio)  Registrar General and Census Commissioner, India                   
                                                                                             
                                                                                             

    The Commission to Examine Sub-categorization of Other Backward Classes was to initially submit its report in twelve weeks from the date of assumption of charge by the Chairperson. Since considerable time was taken up in obtaining the data and thereafter in analyzing of the data, the tenure of the Commission has been extended from time to time and last till 31.05.2019 vide a Gazette Notification dated 29.11.2018 with the approval of Cabinet and President.


    The issue of survey is under consideration in the Commission to Examine Sub-categorization of Other Backward Classes


    The Government is implementing the following educational empowerment and economic development Schemes for Other Backward Classes (OBCs): -


    (i) Pre-Matric scholarship for Other Backward Classes.


    (ii) Post-Matric scholarship for Other Backward Classes.


    (iii) Construction of Hostels for OBC Boys and Girls.


    (iv) Assistance for Skill Development of Other Backward Classes (OBCs)/Denotified and Semi-Nomadic Tribes (DNTs)/ Economically Backward Classes (EBCs to voluntary organizations working for the welfare of OBCs.


    Free Coaching Scheme for SC and OBC Students.


    (vi) Dr. Ambedkar Scheme of Interest subsidy on educational loan for overseas studies for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and EBCs.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/SJ&E-1/08-01-2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559063) Visitor Counter : 1049
    
    
    
    
    

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
3.