      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Cyber Crime prevention against Women and Children
      Posted On: 08 JAN 2019 5:13PM by PIB Delhi


    The main objective of Cyber Crime Prevention against Women and Children (CCPWC) Scheme is to have an effective mechanism to handle cybercrimes against women and children in the country. The scheme has a total estimated outlay of Rs. 223.198 crores and main features of the scheme are given below:


      * Online cybercrime reporting platform

      * One national level cyber forensic laboratory
      * Training of Police officers, judges & prosecutors
      * Cybercrime awareness activities
      * Research & Development

    ‘Police’ and ‘Public’ are State subject as per the Constitution of India and States are primarily responsible for prevention, detection and investigation of crime through their law enforcement machinery. The Law Enforcement Agencies take legal action as per the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act, 2000 against the cyber fraud offenders. The online cybercrime reporting portal www.cybercrime.gov.in has been operationalized and since inception, more than 3800 complaints have been received on it.


    The helpline for reporting of such complaints under the said scheme is yet to be operationalized.


    Rs. 93.12 crore have been released to the States and UTs for setting up cyber forensic training laboratory in each State/UT, capacity building and training. Further, following actions have been taken for effective implementation of the scheme:


     1. Central Cybercrime Reporting Portal ( www.cybercrime.gov.in ) launched on 20 th September 2018 to report complaints pertaining to Child Pornography (CP)/Child Sexual Abuse Material (CSAM) or sexually explicit content.


     2. Training programmes prepared for Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs), public prosecutors and judges.


     3. Four workshops conducted for capacity building of LEAs and officials of Ministry of Women & Child Development (WCD) under CCPWC scheme.


     4. Handbook on Cyber Safety for Adolescents/Students has been released.


     5. Cyber Dost Twitter Handle (@CyberDost) and radio campaign across the country launched for spreading awareness against cybercrimes.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir in written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/NK/JMS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559115) Visitor Counter : 741
    
    
    
    
    

5.