      Ministry of Defence

      Children Performing on Republic Day at Rajpath Interact with Media
      Posted On: 14 JAN 2019 6:59PM by PIB Delhi


    On The eve of 70 th Republic Day 2019, three schools selected by Directorate of Education, Government of NCT of Delhi; Ministry of Defence and one item from East Zone Cultural Centre, Kolkata are presenting the colourful dances. Nearly 616 boys and girls are taking part in this programme. Some of these children and their teachers interacted with the media at a press preview for their upcoming performances here today.


    On this proud occasion, all these vibrant participants are feeling a sense of honour and pride to present their art and skill before President of India on 26 th January 2019. Through this presentation the children are paying their reverence to the Man of the Millennium and Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi whom children fondly call Bapu and imbibe the values inculcated by this great soul on his 150 th anniversary.


    Following are the troops taking part:


    Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya, Kishan Ganj, Delhi


    Ahimsa means avoiding violence not only external physical violence but also removing the aggression in our spirit. It is not just an attitude but a way of life. The father of our nation, Mahatma Gandhi strongly believed that a hisa is a human being’s highest duty and we must try to comprehend its spirit and consciously refrain from all forms of violence. We managed to win our freedom by following Gandhiji’s path of non-violence. Today, the vibrant students of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya, Kishan Ganj, Delhi, have come here to spread the message of peace and harmony, through their dance performance.


    Navy Children School Chankyapuri, New Delhi


    Its performance is a ‘Jai Ghosh’ - an acclamation of faith and assurance in the principles of the divine soul, Mahatma Gandhi, who by following the path of non-violence, humanity and truth led us to a well-defined and unique path of life. The ideology of Mahatma Gandhi is being celebrated globally on his 150 th anniversary. Paying the reverence to the Man of the Millennium, 170 students of Navy Children School, Chanakyapuri, Delhi, stride on the path shown by Bapu and imbibe the values inculcated by the great soul. Students will be presenting the enchanting Jai Ghosh, Ram Bhajan, values & attribute of Vaishnava, through their performance of Dance on "BAPU MAHAN".


    Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre, Kolkata


    Gandhi ji had many dreams for his independent India. These children, who represent modern India, trying to express their feelings through this song, realising the dream of a beautiful and vast India, based on cleanliness and truth-non-violence beyond society, caste and religion. Around 150 children of Government schools of Bihar Eastern Zone, Cultural Center, Kolkata (Government of India) are coming to dance on this song by reiterating this dream of 'Bapu'.


    Kendriya Vidyalaya, Paschim Vihar, Delhi


    Satyamev Jayate - truth always triumphs and ahimsa - non-violence are the twin cardinal principles of Gandhian thought and philosophy that shall prevail forever. Gandhi ji epitomises as the great hero of our freedom struggle, instrumental in making India free from colonialism. He dreamt of Clean, prosperous and developed India and laid the noble ideals and high principles for us to follow. Following his footprints and high ideals, our nation-India is progressing leaps and bounds. Gandhi ji dreamt of Ram Rajya and put his efforts for the same with his experiments with truth & Nonviolence and his famous Bhajan Ram Dhun 'Raghupati Raghav Raja Ram’ . Today when we are celebrating his 150 anniversary the children of Kendriya Vidyalaya Paschim Vihar are paying tribute, homage and reverence to Bapu's ideology through this scintillating dance performance.


    Nampi/DK/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559919) Visitor Counter : 471