      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Three-day 6th ‘Women of India Organic Festival’ inaugurated at Leisure Valley, Sector-10, Chandigarh.
      Posted On: 12 JAN 2019 4:27PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development is organising the three-day 6 th ‘Women of India Organic Festival’ from today, at Leisure Valley, Sector-10, Chandigarh, to celebrate and promote women farmers and entrepreneurs in the organic sector from the remotest parts of India.


    Shri B.L. Sharma, Secretary, Women and Child Development, UT Chandigarh and Smt. Anuradha Chagti, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Women and Child Development, Govt. of India inaugurated the 6 th edition of “Women of India Organic Festival”. addressing the gathering after the inauguration Shri B.L Sharma stressed the need for adopting and strengthening the organic farming for healthy, wealthy and environment-friendly lifestyle through a well- knit suitable marketing infrastructure with the backing of government, public and private partnership promoting entrepreneurship among women.


    Smt. Anuradha Chagti said that as many as 72 stalls of organic products are put up in the festival by women farmers and entrepreneurs besides 19 organic food stalls in the food court. She said that next such festival will be held at Hyderabad.


    On 14 January 2019, Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi, Union Minister for Women and Child Development will inaugurate National Institute of Public Cooperation and Child Development (NIPCCD) Mohali Regional Centre in the morning. She will also visit various stalls and Food Court at the 6 th ‘Women of India Organic Festival’ and interact with the women farmers, Entrepreneurs and media in the afternoon at Leisure Valley, Sector-10, Chandigarh.


    “The festival aims to encourage Indian women entrepreneurs and farmers to connect with more buyers and thus, empower them through financial inclusion, while promoting organic culture in India. Through this festival, the Ministry also aims to educate people about its various initiatives and schemes relating to women and children,” said Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi, Union Minister for Women and Child Development.


    Over 200 women have come from all over India together at Leisure Valley, which has become the epicentre of an organic extravaganza. The Festival is showcasing over 1,000 varied organic products, including fabric, wellness, grains, seeds, jewellery, bakery items and a lot more. Visitors to the festival are also visiting the food court, which offers a wide variety of sumptuous delights. The timings of the Festival are 10:30AM to 10PM.


    The Women of India Organic Festival has been held annually in New Delhi since 2015, and makes its debut in Chandigarh this year, bringing the joy of going organic to the evergreen Leisure Valley, which is a continuum of gardens, to showcase the varied products of women farmers and entrepreneurs. With each year, the sales and footfalls at the Organic Festival have only increased, indicating a growing interest in organic produce.


    ***


    PS/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559712) Visitor Counter : 992