      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Enough Water available, Key is efficient Water Management: Nitin Gadkari
      
      MoU signed for Renukaji Multipurpose Dam Project among Six States
      
      Concession agreement for Namami Gange projects in Prayagraj also signed

      Posted On: 11 JAN 2019 1:35PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Shipping and Road Transport & Highways today signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Chief Ministers of Uttar Pradesh - Shri Yogi Adityanath, Rajasthan –Sh. Ashok Gehlot, Uttarakhand -Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat, Haryana- Shri Manohar Lal, Delhi - Shri Arvind Kejriwal, and Himachal Pradesh - Shri Jai Ram Thakur in New Delhi for the construction of Renukaji Multi-Purpose Dam project in the Upper Yamuna Basin.


    Shri Gadkari also presided over the ceremony of signing of concession agreement for Namami Gange projects in Prayagraj under Hybrid Annuity Mode and One-City-One-Operator concept. The agreement was signed amongst Shri Akhil Kumar from National Mission for Clean Ganga, Shri Anil Kumar Srivastava from U.P. Jal Nigam and Shri Dilip Pormal from Prayagraj Water Pvt. Ltd.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Gadkari said that there is enough water available in the country but the real issue is effective water management. Terming the signing of Agreement for Renukaji Dam project a historic moment, he said that the government will try to get the Cabinet approval as soon as possible.He added that a consensus on Kishau Multi Purpose project on River Yamuna has also been developed and soon an agreement for it will also be signed. He also informed about the Lakhwar Multi Purpose project for which agreement was signed on August 28 th , 2018 among six basin states.


    Extending his gratitude to all Chief Ministers, Shri Gadkari said that these projects will benefit all basin states and it is a win-win situation for everyone. He added that these projects will also ensure more flow in River Yamuna which is the need-of-the-hour.


    Ministers of State for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal and Dr. Satya Pal Singh along with Secretary, Shri U.P. Singh were also present on the occasion. During the event, documentaries on Renukaji Multi Purpose Dam project and Namami Gange projects in Prayagraj were shown.


    Renukaji Dam project has been conceived as a storage project on Giri River (tributary of river Yamuna) in Sirmour District of Himachal Pradesh. The project envisages construction of 148 M high rock filled dam for supply of 23 cumec water to Delhi and other basin states. The project will also generate 40 MW of power during peak flow. The project is proposed to be executed by Himachal Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd. (HPPCL). The live storage of Renukaji MPP is 0.404 MAF and total submergence area is about 1508 hectares in the territory of HP.


    After the construction of the dam, the flow of river Giri will increase about 110% which will meet the drinking water needs of Delhi & other basin states up to some extent in lean period. Stored water of Renukaji Dam will be used by UP, Haryana & NCT of Delhi from Hathnikund Barrage, by NCT of Delhi from Wazirabad Barrage and by UP, Haryana and Rajasthan from Okhla Barrage.


    Investigation works in respect of Renukaji dam project was started in 1976. But, due to some unavoidable reasons, the construction works could not be started. The total cost of the project was estimated on Price Level 2015 is Rs. 4596.76 Crores out of which the cost of irrigation/drinking water component is Rs. 4325.43 crores and the cost of power component is Rs. 277.33 crore. The 90% cost of irrigation/drinking water component of the project i.e. Rs. 3892.83 crore will be provided by the Central Govt. and rest 10% of the above cost i.e. Rs. 432.54 crore will be provided by the basin States of Haryana, UP/UK, HP, Rajasthan & NCT of Delhi in the proportion as allocated in MoU dated 12.05.1994 signed by the CMs of the basin states for the allocation of surface water of river Yamuna up to Okhla Barrage. The shares of these states viz. Haryana, UP/UK, HP, Rajasthan and NCT of Delhi are 47.82%, 33.65%, 3.15%, 9.34% and 6.04% respectively. Govt. of NCT of Delhi has agreed to fund 90% of the cost of power component of the said project.


    All the mandatory clearances in respect of Renukaji dam project except Stage-II forest clearance, invest clearance and approval from CCEA have been obtained.


    Renukaji Dam project is part of three storage projects which are proposed to be constructed on the river Yamuna and two of its tributaries - Tons and Giri in the hilly regions of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh of Upper Yamuna Basin. The other two include Lakhwar project on River Yamuna and Kishau project on River Tons.


    These three projects were identified as National Projects in 2008 under which 90% funding of the cost of irrigation & drinking water component will be provided by the Govt. of India as central assistance and the rest 10% cost of the irrigation and drinking water component will be borne by the beneficiary states.


    An agreement in respect of sharing of cost and benefits of Lakhwar Multi Purpose Project amongst among basin States viz. Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and NCT of Delhi was signed by the Chief Ministers in the presence of Shri Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister, Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation at New Delhi on 28 th August, 2018.


    Signing of concession Agreement for Namami Gange projects in Prayagraj


    Shri Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Shipping and Road Transport & Highways today also presided over the ceremony of signing of concession Agreement for Namami Gange projects in Prayagraj.


    The trans-Ganga/Yamuna areas in Prayagraj (namely Naini, Phaphamau &Jhunsi) currently do not have any sewage treatment facility and thereby pollute rivers Ganga and Yamuna.


    Prayagraj town already has a comprehensive sewerage network and sewage treatment facilities. However, these are with different operators and without long term sustainable mechanism for Operation and Maintenance (O&M).


    Accordingly, two projects have been sanctioned for sewage management in the trans-Ganga/Yamuna areas and O&M of existing sewerage assets costing Rs. 908.16 crore. These projects will lead to creation of I&D network and 3 STPs of total capacity 72 MLD (Naini - 42 MLD, Phaphamau - 14 MLD and Jhunsi - 16 MLD) and O&M of all the sewerage assets for 15 years. These two projects are under One City One Operator concept for implementation on Hybrid Annuity based PPP mode for the sewerage management of the town in sustainable and accountable manner and improve governance.


    These projects would lead to creation of new capacity of 72 MLD, rehabilitation of 80 MLD, operation & maintenance of existing STPs of 254 MLD capacity and 10 Sewage Pumping Stations.


    Director General, NMCG Shri Rajiv Ranjan Mishra informed the gathering that six projects in Prayagraj have already been completed which include Sewerage & Non sewerage Scheme for pollution abatement of river Ganga at District 'B' & 'E' with STP Capacity 85 MLD and sewer network 10.88 km, Sewerage Schemes for pollution abatement of river Ganga at District 'A' with STP Capacity 20 MLD and sewer network 9.24 km, Sewerage work in Sewerage District 'E' with sewer network 109.2 km , Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) at Salori (14 MLD) , Sewer network of 42.66 km in District E of Prayagraj - Part 2 (Additional Work) and Sewerage System of 134.19 km in Sewerage District 'C' & Allahapur. Besides, two projects will be completed by March 2019 which include Sewerage works of 241.63 km in Sewerage District 'A' and Sewerage System with Sewer network of 214.88 km in Sewerage District 'B'.


    For Kumbh 2019, several interventions have been made under Namami Gange programme which include installation of 25,500 toilets and 20,000 urinals costing Rs. 113 crore, installation of 16,000 dustbins & lining bags for solid waste management, bioremediation of drains project for 53 drains etc.


    *****


    NP/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559576) Visitor Counter : 1196
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi