      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Boost to Healthcare Infrastructure
      
      Cabinet approves setting up of 3 new AIIMS
      
      New AIIMS to come up at
      1. Vijaynagar, Samba in Jammu,
      2. Awantipur, Pulwama, Kashmir,
      3. Rajkot, Gujarat
      Posted On: 10 JAN 2019 8:43PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for:


     1. Establishment of three new AIIMS at (i) Vijaynagar, Samba, Jammu at a cost of Rs.1661 crore (ii)Awantipura, Pulwama, Kashmir, at a cost of Rs.1828 crore and (iii) Rajkot, Gujarat at a cost of Rs.1195 crore. These AIIMS will be set up under Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY).


    (b) Creation of one post of Director in the basic pay of Rs 2,25,000/- (fixed) plus NPA (however pay + NPA would not exceed Rs 2,37,500/-) for each of the above three AIIMS.


    Time Frame:

                                                                                                                                                                                      
SL. No.  New AIIMS                     Time Frame for Construction and Details                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                      
1.                                                                                                                                                                                    
         Vijaynagar, Samba, Jammu      48 months                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                       - broadly comprising a pre-construction phase of 12 months, a construction phase of 30 months and stabilization / commission phase of 6 months.
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                      
1.                                                                                                                                                                                    
         Awantipura, Pulwama, Kashmir  72 months                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                       -broadly comprising a pre-construction phase of 12 months, a construction phase of 54 months and stabilization / commission phase of 6 months. 
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                      
1.                                                                                                                                                                                    
         Rajkot, Gujarat               45 months                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                       - broadly comprising a pre-construction phase of 10 months, a construction phase of 32 months and stabilization / commission phase of 3 months.
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                      

    Details:


     1. Establishment of new AIIMS involves creation of Hospital, Teaching Block for medical & nursing courses, residential complex and allied facilities/services, broadly on the pattern of AIIMS, New Delhi and other six new AIIMS taken up under Phase-I of PMSSY. The objective is to establish the new AIIMS as Institutions of National Importance for providing quality tertiary healthcare, medical education, nursing education and research in the Region.


    (b) (i) Each new AIIMS will add 100 UG (MBBS) seats and 60 B.Sc. (Nursing) seats.


    (ii) Each new AIIMS will have 15-20 Super Specialty Departments.


    (iii) Each new AIIMS will add around 750 hospital beds which will include Emergency / Trauma Beds, AYUSH Beds, Private Beds and ICU Speciality & Super Speciality beds.


    (iv) It is expected that each new AIIMS would cater to around 1500 OPD patients per day and around 1000 IPD patients per month.


    (v) There will be a Medical College, AYUSH Block, Auditorium, Night Shelter, Guest House, Hostels and residential facilities.


    Expenditure:


    Construction of new AIIMS is fully funded by the Central Government. The Operations & Maintenance expenses on new AIIMS will be fully borne by the Central Government.


    The establishment of the new AIIMS will create capital assets for which requisite specialized manpower will be created, based on the pattern of the six new AIIMS, for their maintenance and upkeep.


    Impact:

      * Setting up of new AIIMS would transform health education and training and address the shortfall of health care professionals in the region.
      * The establishment of new AIIMS will serve the dual purpose of providing super speciality health care to the population.
      * It will also help create a large pool of doctors and other health workers in this region that can be available for primary and secondary level institutions / facilities being created under National Health Mission (NHM).

    Employment Generation:

      * Setting up new AIIMS in Jammu & Kashmir and in Gujarat will lead to employment generation for nearly 3000 people in various faculty & non faculty posts in each of the AIIMS.

      * Indirect employment generation will take place due to facilities & services like shopping centre, canteens, etc. coming in the vicinity of new AIIMS.


      * The construction activity involved for creation of the physical infrastructure for the various new AIIMS is also expected to generate substantial employment in the construction phase as well.


    Background:


    The Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY), a Central Sector Scheme, aims at correcting the imbalances in the availability of affordable tertiary healthcare facilities in different parts of the country in general, and augmenting facilities for quality medical education in the under-served States in particular.


    Two new AIIMS, one each for Jammu Region and Kashmir Region in the State of Jammu & Kashmir was announced by Prime Minister under the Prime Minister's Development Package on 07.11.2015. AIIMS in Gujarat was announced by the Finance Minister in his Budget Speech for the year 2017-18.


    ****


    AKT


    

    
    (Release ID: 1559473) Visitor Counter : 524
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Telugu , Kannada
    
    
    

       
       
1.     
       
1.     
       
1.     
       
*