      Ministry of Railways

      Need to Explore the System of Online FIR in Railway Network: Rajnath Singh
      
      Concerted efforts should be made to make Rail travel as the Safest travel: Piyush Goyal
      
      Aspirational Goal of RPF should be Zero tolerance to Crime: Piyush Goyal
      
      Railway Protection Forces have improved performance & sensitive outlook towards passengers, enhancement of technological advancements is the need of the hour: Manoj Sinha
      
      An All India Conference on Railway Security was held
      Posted On: 16 JAN 2019 5:28PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Railways organized an All India Conference on Railway Security at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi on 16.01.2019. Shri Rajnath Singh, Minister for Home Affairs, Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister for Railways & Coal, Shri. Manoj Sinha, Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Communications & Minister of State for Railways, Sh. Vinod Kumar Yadav, Chairman Railway Board, Sh. Rajeev Gauba, Home Secretary, Government of India were present in the inaugural session of the conference. Shri Arun Kumar, IPS, DG/RPF welcomed the dignitaries and participants of the conference.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Rajnath Singh, the Minister of Home Affairs, said that the objective of today’s Conference is very significant as this gives an opportunity to identify & review the security preparedness of Railway security apparatus & how better our forces can serve the passengers. Shri Rajnath Singh suggested that we need to explore the system of online FIR which will expedite investigation and help in controlling crimes. Shri Rajnath Singh added that the train passes through the areas which are affected by Maoism, Insurgency affected areas and he therefore stressed upon the Paramilitary forces to have theatre specific SoPs to meet these challenges. He urged the participants of the conference to think over issues like regular patrolling, improvement in frisking, alerts in emergency situations. He assured the support of Ministry of Home Affairs in enhancing security of passengers over Indian Railways.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of Railways & Coal congratulated & complimented the paramilitary forces for their bravery & courage to serve the country in any condition. He stressed upon building the confidence of the passengers while travelling & RPF being friendlier towards passengers. He complimented women squads for doing exceptional work. He informed that 6000 CCTVs at stations are being procured and cyber crime cells are being made functional. He added that Modernization and leveraging technology in the RPF are some of the focus areas. He also highlighted the need for continuous training of the Force personnel. He added that concerted efforts should be made to make Rail travel as the safest travel. The Minister emphasized that RPF should strive towards Aspirational Goal of Zero Tolerance to crime.


    Shri Manoj Sinha, Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Communications & Minister of State for Railways stated that over the years the performance and passenger friendly behavior and sensitivity of RPF has seen a sea of change. He underlined the need to enhance the technological capacities of the force and stated that to achieve this goal, Ministry of Railways is procuring CCTVs at 6000 stations to create a digital perimeter over Railways.


    Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav, Chairman, Railway Board, speaking on the occasion lauded the exceptional work being done by the Railway Security Force across the entire network.


    Shri Arun Kumar, IPS, DG/RPF addressed the delegates and shared views on various issues pertaining to security of Railway system in general and about the safety and security of passengers in particular.


    Police Chiefs and Senior Police Officers from 23 states and 02 UT’s took part as delegates in the conference. The core issues deliberated in the Conference include, safety of the Railway Tracks and Railway Projects, problem of trespassing, encroachment and unauthorized crossing , measures to control offences against passengers ( theft, snatching/robbery, dacoity and drugging etc), prompt registration of FIR’s given by passengers, issues related to Inter-state transfer of cases registered by GRP, security of Women and Children who come in contact with Railways, assistance provided to specially abled passengers, use of technology and safeguard against cyber crimes, death and injuries in untoward incidents over Indian Railways, Co-ordination between RPF and GRP Security to Railway Passengers, Railway assets and smooth operation of the Indian Railways.


    The actionable points summed up on deliberations took place in the conference on various matters will be further pursued at Railway Board and Zonal level for Implementation and logical conclusion.


    ***


    SVS/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560153) Visitor Counter : 612