      Ministry of Panchayati Raj

      The Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) are the back bone of successful and good governance system for any country: Shri Narendra Singh Tomar
      
      The participation of women in Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) is a must for the meaningful development of our villages: Union Minister of Panchayati Raj, Rural Development, Mines& Parliamentary Affairs.

      Posted On: 18 JAN 2019 7:15PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Union Minister of Panchayati Raj, Rural Development, Mines& Parliamentary Affairs has said that the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) are the back bone of successful and good governance system for any country. Speaking on the occasion of inauguration of two day National Conclave for Elected Women Representatives (EWRs) of Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs), organisedjointly byMinistry of Panchayati Raj,UN Women and National Institute of Rural Development & Panchayati Raj (NIRD&PR) at VigyanBhawan, New Delhi today, he said the participation of womenin Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) is a must for the meaningful development of our villages. Shri Tomar said that the members of Self Help Groups (SHGs) in collaboration with the Elected Representatives of the Panchayats are contributing in poverty alleviation and economic development of our villages.


    2. On this occasion, Hon’ble Minister also released the “Guidelines of GPDP” (Gram Panchayat Development Plan). He said this book will be helpful to the Gram Panchayats for the preparation of their plans.


    3. The Minister said that Hon’ble Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi always has expressed concern for clean and self sufficient rural India. He said that under the recommendations of 14 th Finance Commission, Government decided to give more than Rs. 2 lac 192 crores to Gram Panchayats for five years period. Out of this more than Rs.1 crore have been released to them. He said Prime Minister has also launched a new scheme named “Rashtriya Gram Swaraj Abhiyaan" (RGSA). He said if India is to be a developed country then it is necessary that along with the cities, the rural India should also be developed, strengthened in capacity building, education and technical efficiency.


    4. Earlier Secretary, Shri Amarjeet Sinha delivering keynote address to the gathering said that under Sabki Yojna Sabka Vikas, the Government has initiated Gram Panchayat Development Plan (GPDP) to give a chance to the Gram Panchayats to participate in planning for themselves and to provide sufficient financial resources to them. He said under the scheme DeendayalUpadhyayGrameenAjeevika Mission, 5.80 Cr. women are associated with Self Help Groups. The Secretary expressed his happiness that a number of rural women are now contributing in the occupations, which till now were possible only for male members.


    5. Deputy Country Representative of UN Women, Ms. Nishtha Satyam speaking on the occasion, appreciated the efforts being done by the Union Government and the State Governments in India for the development of Rural Areas.


    

    *****


    APS/SNC/RB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560560) Visitor Counter : 892
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi