      Ministry of Culture

      An Exhibition on National Mission for Clean Ganga organised at Prayagraj Kumbh Mela
      Posted On: 19 JAN 2019 5:57PM by PIB Delhi


    A very informative and interesting exhibition has been organised by Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Government of India at Prayagraj Kumbh Mela to make aware people visiting the mela on keeping River Ganga Clean and to inform them about the many projects and schemes being implemented by different agencies to achieve the target under Namami Gange Mission.


    The Exhibition is located at main entry point of Mela from city side at sector one. It attracts most of the people visiting Kumbh with its lyrical presentation on River Ganga. Several details about project have been given through illustrative panels on activities of Wild Life Institute of India, Central Fisheries Research Institute and Ganga Task Force and their significance for the Mission. Ganga Task Force is active in Prayagraj, Varanasi and Kanpur districts in Uttar Pradesh to encourage people towards plantation of trees on the banks of Ganga. Several success stories are also regularly being screened. Details of projects being implemented in different States are exhibited. About 53 nullahsvhave been tapped at Prayagraj through Bio Remediation and Geo Bags Modular STP to provide pollution free water to devotees at Sangam and Ghats of the Ganga for bathing during Kumbh. Also 261 Projects are being implemented in different states to keep Ganga clean and pollution free. Of them 94 are implemented in Uttar Pradesh. Several projects have been implemented at Prayagraj in view of Kumbh including construction of 6 Ghats, tapping of nullahs, construction of 3 crematorium, deployment of trash skimmers and cleaning of 21 Ghats Of rivers of Ganga and Yamuna.


    Namami Gange Mission has extended financial assistance to Prayagraj Mela Authority for construction of toilets,urinals and solid waste management at Kumbh.


    The exhibition is very topical as devotees and tourists reaching Prayagraj Kumbh are very receptive to the issue of pollution in River Ganga.


    SS/ Prayagraj

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560607) Visitor Counter : 755