      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Awareness-Cum-Health Camp Organized by NCSK
      Posted On: 16 JAN 2019 6:00PM by PIB Delhi


    National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (NCSK), in collaboration with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and National Safai Karamcharis Finance and Development Corporation (NSKFDC), organized an Awareness-cum-Health Camp for Safai Karamcharis of South Delhi Municipal Corporation at the Auditorium of Civic Centre, New Delhi today. Chairman, NCSK Shri Manhar Valji Bhai Zala, Members of the Commission Smt. Manju Diler, Shri Ganaga Ram Ghosre, Mayor of SDMC attended the Camp. The CMD and DGM National Safai Karamcharis Finance Development Corporation were also present on the occasion, along with other dignitaries.


    The National Safai Karamcharis Finance and Development Corporation has apprised about various schemes being run by the Corporation for the welfare of Safai Karamcharis and their children. Chairman, NCSK exhorted the Safai Karamcharis present on the occasion to make full use of these schemes. He particularly emphasized on the need for Safai Karamcharis to give good education to their children so that they can lead respectable life.


    Mayor expressed hope that they will continue the good work and assured that their genuine demands such as Regularization, Medical Cashless Card, Payment of arrears have already been taken up in a positive way and shortly would be announced by the SDMC. Chairman, NCSK congratulated for its achievement.The members of the Commission as well as those of SDMC also expressed their views on the occasion.


    104 Safai Karamcharis of the SDMC who have made outstanding contributions in their work have been felicitated and honoured in form of appreciation Certificate, Memento, Safety Kits and flower during this event.


    The event concluded with a Health Camp which was organized by National Safai Karamcharis Finance and Development Corporation. A large number of Safai Karamcharis underwent elementary health tests in the Camp organized during the event.

  
  
  

    *****


    NB/SK/jk/SJ&E-16-01-2019


    

    
    (Release ID: 1560168) Visitor Counter : 533
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu