      Ministry of Culture

      PBD2019. Luxurious and Traditional Hospitality awaits NRI Guests at Varanasi
      Posted On: 19 JAN 2019 7:47PM by PIB Delhi


    PIB Varanasi. The Tent city in the outskirts of the spiritual capital of India, Varanasi is all set to welcome the NRI guests who will start reaching on 20th January. Commissioner of Varanasi Division and nodal officer of PBD 2019 Deepak Agrawal said that all the works at Tent City at Aidhey village have been completed. Only final touches for beautification and decoration are in progress which also will be over by 19th Jan evening, the Commissioner said. He further said that all the modern amenities like spa, gymnasium, medical hospital etc. have been put in place to give them the best of the comfort and hospitality. Thirty E- Rikshaws will be at disposal of the guests of Tent City who will enjoy by visiting various pandals and sectors of 43 acres of the Tent City. Besides, a help desk will work round the clock in order to provide all the information and facility to the guests who wish to visit various places of Varanasi. As it is the winter season in Varanasi, special arrangements have been made to light gas bonfire to save the guests from shivering cold. While almost all arrangements have already been completed at Deen Dayal Trade Facilitation Centre- TFC, the main convention center of PBD 2019 at Bada Lalpur of Varanasi. Exhibition halls, conference halls, meeting halls etc have been fully decked up to host the mega event. The entire campus has been decorated with the theme of 'Kashi Culture' depicting famous ghats, temples and above all- the ethos of the most ancient living city.


    Meanwhile various citizens' forums are taking out rallies and processions in Varanasi to appeal and sensitise the common people to not only keep the city surroundings clean but also give every guest a very welcome and hospitable touch which is the second nature of every Kashi Wallah. Most of the renowned shops and malls in Varanasi have also synced themselves with the theme of Pravasi Bhartiya with shopping festival. The NRI guests are also scheduled to visit various old Mohallas of Varanasi including Khojwan, Kshmiriganj and Assi to to watch the artisans and Craftsmen in action specially weaving and preparing the Banarsi Silk Saree, a Geo tagged product famous world over. Authorities say that wives of many heads of States visiting PBD 2019 have expressed desire to visit such houses where these products are prepared.


    Various ghats of Ganga at Varanasi including Assi,Dr. Rajendra Prasad Ghat and Assi have specially been decorated in view of ensuing PBD. Laser shows and cultural evenings among several other events will enrich their stay at Kashi and will surely etch into an ever lasting memory for all of the NRIs coming to PBD at Varanasi.


    ****


    SKT

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560621) Visitor Counter : 443