      Ministry of Defence

      71st Army Day Parade 2019
      Posted On: 15 JAN 2019 6:40PM by PIB Delhi


    Indian Army celebrated its 71 st Army Day today. General Bipin Rawat, Chief of the Army Staff reviewed the Army Day Parade at the Cariappa Parade Ground, Delhi Cantonment and awarded fifteen Sena Medals (including five posthumously) for individual acts of Gallantry and seventeen COAS Unit Citations for commendable performance of their respective units.


    Every year Indian Army celebrates 15 th January as ‘Army Day’ to commemorate the day when General (later Field Marshal) K M Carriappa took over the command of Army from General Sir FRR Bucher, the last British Commander-in-Chief in 1949 and became the first Commander-in-Chief of Indian Army post Independence.


    The Army Day parade was commanded by Maj Gen Rajpal Punia, Chief of Staff, Delhi Area. The leading contingent of the parade was formed of the recipients of the Param Vir Chakra and Ashok Chakra awardees. This was followed by army contingents which included T-90 tank BHISHMA, infantry combat vehicle BMP II, M 777 ultra light howitzer,K-9 Vajra guns, Akash missile system, Mobile transportable satellite terminal service vehicle, surface minimum clearing system, international sports awardees and seven marching contingents including mounted horse cavalry.


    The Veterans Tableaux, organized by the Directorate of Indian army Veterans, depicted their role and contributions towards the nation. A motorcycle display by “DARE DEVIL” team of the Corps of Signals was the other attraction during the parade. A paramotors display was also carried out by a team from the 50 (I) Para Brigade.


    The grand finale was a combat demonstration, which showcased combat techniques. Combat actions included strafing runs depicted by armed helicopter, combat manoeuvres by tracked combat vehicles and special operations including air insertion and extrication of soldiers behind enemy lines.


    Earlier in the day, wreaths were laid at Amar Jawan Jyoti, India Gate by the three Service Chiefs to commemorate the Army Day.


    Col Chiranjeet Konwer


    for PRO (Army)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560032) Visitor Counter : 573