      Ministry of Home Affairs

      The principle and practice of Swasthya (wellness) is inbuilt in our culture and tradition, says Shri Rajnath Singh
      Posted On: 19 JAN 2019 10:00PM by PIB Delhi


    “It is not just prevention of illness but also promotion of health and wellbeing. While the world has recognised and lauded it, we need to give it a rightful place. The successes from celebration of the International Day of Yoga should transition to practising Yoga every day. Since times immemorial, the rishis and munis have observed mind as the source and cause for several illnesses and health problems,” said Union Minister for Home Affairs Shri Rajnath Singh. He was addressing the gathering during the 23 rd convocation of NIMHANS, in Bengaluru today.


    “History has taught all of us very important and critical lesson: the wealth of a nation is its healthy citizens; the health of the citizens is dependent on the collective will of the polity which we all belong; Ensuring the health and well-being of our fellow human beings is dependent on our ability to muster and put together a comprehensive and integrated mechanism that serves to cater to those who need the services the most. When we are on the threshold to celebrate 75 years of our independence from British rule, we need to gear up and accelerate and put systems of health care that our country needs. The recent report by Indian Council of Medical Research has highlighted the need to factor the demographic and the illness transition that our country is going through. As the report notes, each state needs to develop its specific strategy under the broader national goals. The twin goals of government of India is not let illness push people into poverty and wellness as opposed to illness in our mantra at the village level.” he said.


    Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Shri Jagat Prakash Nadda, Shri P.C. Mohan, M.P (Bangalore Central constituency), Shri Rajeev Gowda, RajyaSabha member, Director of NIMHANS and other dignitaries were also present in the convocation of NIMHANS.


    ***


    BB/BAE

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560644) Visitor Counter : 303