      Prime Minister's Office

      PM inaugurates the Ahmedabad Shopping Festival-2019.
      PM says, the Government is constantly working to create a conducive environment for business in the country.

      Posted On: 17 JAN 2019 9:20PM by PIB Delhi

    The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi inaugurated the Ahmedabad Shopping Festival-2019 at the Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad. From the street vendors to shopping malls and from Craftsmen to hotels-restaurant-linked businesses, across the Gujarat, have come here to showcase and promote their products. The festival is unique since it is being organized simultaneously with the Vibrant Gujarat Summit.


    The Prime Minister addressed a public gathering on the occasion. He praised the event saying “ Usually, we get to see such big business Summit only abroad. Now vibrant Gujarat as well as the start of Ahmedabad shopping Festival, is a commendable initiative”.


    The PM added, “The Government is constantly working to create a conducive environment for business in the country. In the past 4 years, old laws have been abolished and hundreds of rules are made easier. It is because of such efforts that we have improved significantly on the Ease of Doing Business rankings from 142 to 77”. The PM added,“It is our constant endeavour to simplify procedures for small entrepreneurs. We are moving towards the system when the banks can give credit to small entrepreneurs on the basis of GST and other returns. We are clearing loans up to Rs one crore in 59 minutes”.


    Earlier today, the PM inaugurated the Vibrant Gujarat Global Trade Show at the Mahatma Mandir Exhibition cum Convention Center in Gandhi nagar. With this, the stage is set for 9th edition of Vibrant Gujarat Summit, scheduled to be held during January 18-20 in Gandhi nagar. The Summit will witness the participation of Heads of States, Captains of global industry and Thought Leaders. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will address the inaugural session of the summit tomorrow .


    *****


    AKT/ VJ/SKS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560423) Visitor Counter : 912
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Bengali , Assamese , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada