      Ministry of Culture

      Paush Purnima Bathing concludes peacefully today
      
      More than one crore devotees take holy dip on the occasion

      Posted On: 21 JAN 2019 7:30PM by PIB Delhi

    Second bathing festival of Paush Purnima of Prayagraj Kumbh concluded peacefully today. It was celebrated with religious fervor and enthusiasm. As per Chief Executive Officer of Prayagraj Kumbh Vijay Kiran Anand one crore 7 lakhs devotees took holy dip on this occasion. No untoward incident was reported from any part of the Mela area. Three devotees including a Italian woman were saved from drowning at Sangam area by NDRF personnel. Lakhs of devotees congregated on the banks of Sangam the confluence of rivers Ganga, Yamuna and mythical Saraswati to take holy dip. Bathing started from midnight and continued till late evening. Elaborate security arrangements were place for bathing.


    One month long from Paush Purnima to Maghi Purnima Kalpvas has also begun from today. Devotees spend one month on the banks of Sangam in worshipping their Lords and taking holy dip in the river Ganga and Sangam during Kalpvas. On second bathing festival Shahi Snan of Akharas does not take place.


    Newly developed Kinnar Akhara also took holy bath on the occasion. About 8 kilometre long Ghat has been developed at Sangam for today’s bathing. Similarly 35 bathing baths are developed on the banks of Ganga. CEO Prayagraj Mela Authority has said that devotees should come to the ghats near to their sectors to avoid huge rush at Sangam. He has said bathing ghats have been developed in several sectors including Arail area.


    DIG Mela KP Singh has said that spotters have been deployed in Mela area to act against anti social elements and criminals.


    Next bathing festival of Mauni Amavasya will be celebrated on February 4. It is most important bathing festival of Prayagraj Kumbh. Akharas will also take their second Shahi Snan on the occasion.


    *****


    SS/Prayagraj

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560824) Visitor Counter : 478
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi