      Ministry of Education

      Cabinet approves Revised Cost of Estimates (RCE) for 13 new Central Universities in the States of Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir (Two), Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Orissa, Punjab, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu, set up under Central Universities Act, 2009
      Posted On: 16 JAN 2019 4:06PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval forincurring an expenditure of Rs.3639.32 core for the 13 new Central Universitiesfor recurring cost and creation of necessary infrastructure for completion of the campuses. The work will be completed within a period of 36 months.


    The Cabinet has also given ex-post facto approval for an amount of Rs.1474.65 crore, being the amount spent over and above the earlier Cabinet approval of Rs.3000 crore for these Central Universities.


    The new Central Universities in the States of Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir (Two), Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Orissa, Punjab, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu were established under Central Universities Act, 2009. These include:

     1. Central University of South Bihar, Gaya, Bihar
     2. Central University of Haryana, Mahendergarh
     3. Central University of Jammu, Jammu
     4. Central University of Jharkhand, Ranchi
     5. Central University of Kashmir, Srinagar
     6. Central University of Karnataka, Gulbarga
     7. Central University of Kerala, Kasargod
     8. Central University of Orissa, Koraput
     9. Central University of Punjab, Bhatinda
    10. Central University of Rajasthan, Bandersindri, Rajasthan
    11. Central University of Tamil Nadu, Thiruvarur
    12. Central University of Gujarat, Gujarat
    13. Central University of Himachal Pradesh

    Impact:


    This would increase access to higher education and set exemplary standards for other Universities to emulate. It will also help in minimizing the regional imbalances in educational facilities.


    *****


    AKT


    

    
    (Release ID: 1560114) Visitor Counter : 300
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Telugu , Kannada
    
    
    

13.