      Ministry of Culture

      All set for second bathing festival of Paush Purnima at Prayagraj Kumbh Mela tomorrow
      
      Event to be broadcast Live by DD, UP

      Posted On: 20 JAN 2019 6:35PM by PIB Delhi

    All arrangements are in place for second bathing festival of Paush Purnima at Prayagraj Kumbh Mela tomorrow.


    One month long from Paush Purnima to Maghi Purnima Kalpvas begins from tomorrow. Devotees spend one month on the banks of Sangam in worshipping their Lords and taking holy dip in the river Ganga and Sangam- the confluence of rivers Ganga, Yamuna and mythical Saraswati. Kalpvasees are one of the major part of the Prayagraj Kumbh Mela- the world's largest congregation of humanity at one place. On second bathing festival Shahi Snan of Akharas does not take place. The first Shahi Snan or royal bathing of Akharas was held on the Makar Sankranti on January 15, which marked the beginning of Kumbh.


    Massive arrangements have been made by Mela administration for peaceful second bathing and elaborate security arrangements are also in place. Administration has announced ban on the entry of vehicles into Mela area from morning, today. Large number of devotees and Kalpavasees are continuously reaching the Mela area. Most of the Kalpavasees stay at the camps of priests of Prayag and saints and seers.


    Newly developed Kinnar Akhara will take bath tomorrow .


    8 kilometre long Ghat has been developed at Sangam for bathing tomorrow. Similarly 35 bathing areas are developed on the banks of river Ganga. State government has advised the VVIPs not to come at Kumbh Mela on bathing festival as no Protocol will be permissible to any one on day of bathing festival. Entry of commercial vehicles has been prohibited in Prayagraj city. 41 Special Trains and four thousand buses have been pressed into service to ferry the devotees. First time shuttle buses have been pressed into service to ferry devotees from seven entry points of Prayagraj town where makeshift bus stations have been erected at Prayagraj for the vehicles coming from Lucknow road, Varanasi road, Jaunpur Road, Mirzapur road, Kanpur road, Rewa road and Banda road. Only shuttle buses are allowed inside the Mela upto sector four.


    Police Chief Of the Mela DIG KP has said that shuttle buses will be in operation so that huge crowds do not create hurdles.


    CEO Prayagraj Mela Authority Vijay Kiran Anand has said that about 60 Lakh devotees and bathers are expected on second bathing festival, tomorrow.


    ****


    SS/ Prayagraj Kumbh

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560664) Visitor Counter : 503