      Ministry of Defence

      Work in Full Swing on Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra Stretch in Uttarakhand
      Posted On: 16 JAN 2019 6:37PM by PIB Delhi


    Border Roads Organisation (BRO) is engaged in construction of Tawaghat-Ghatiabagarh-Lipulekh axis in Uttarakhand that forms important part of Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra route. The road upto Lakhanpur from Tawaghat measuring 23 kilometres has already been connected. Similarly, the road beyond Budhi village upto Lipulekh pass is 51 kilometres long has also been connected. At present, BRO under project Hirak is engaged in constructing road between Lakhanpur to Budhi in 16.5 kilometres length, which passes through rugged and inaccessible terrain.


    Chief Engineer, Project Hirak, Shri Vimal Goswami has confirmed that BRO has connected Lakhanpur to Najang on 15 January 2019. This stretch is of 2.5 kilometres length and BRO has been able to connect Najang to mainland despite all odds. This has been possible due to unconditional support from the district administration, State Government and local Army formations. This portion of road assumes prime significance since the road alignment intersects the mule track and it has been a main issue of concern for the State Government in order to provide passage to locals residing in upper reaches, traders and migrants. Now, the construction work beyond Najang can continue uninterrupted without causing any difficulty to locals for their movements to Gunji & beyond, since the Mule track at Najang bifurcates to the left side while the road alignment traverses towards right side to Malpa, Lamari, Chankan villages enroute to Budhi village.


    The connectivity between Lakhanpur to Najang has been very challenging & difficult and heavy machines were inducted through riverbed to various attack point by taking them further up from riverbed below the proposed road level. There were four attack points created between Lakhanpur & Najang and the work was going on simultaneously on every point interspersed with virgin hilly terrain. The maintenance of logistic and supply line to each attack point alongside the induction of working force at each point has been very challenging but it has been made possible by the troops of 67 RCC and 765 BRTF engaged in the construction work so as to achieve this feat.


    Director General Border Roads (DGBR) Lt Gen Harpal Singh is confident that BRO shall be able to connect the complete stretch from Najang to Budhi as per planned timelines. The General officer said that the team of officers and staff engaged in construction of this prestigious project are very enthusiastic and full of zeal who will deliver this prestigious project to nation in a time bound manner.


    Nampi/DK/Rajib/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560267) Visitor Counter : 658