      Ministry of Panchayati Raj

      A Great Transformation has taken place in Rural Areas due to the participation of Elected Women Representatives (EWRs) in Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs): Dr. Bala Prasad, Special Secretary, Ministry of Panchayati Raj
      
      A new work culture has developed in Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs): Dr. Bala Prasad, Special Secretary, Ministry of Panchayati Raj

      Posted On: 19 JAN 2019 7:23PM by PIB Delhi

    Dr.Bala Prasad, Special Secretary, Ministry of Panchayati Raj has said that a Great Transformation has taken place in Rural Areas due to the participation of Elected Women Representatives (EWRs) in Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs). Delivering the valedictory remarks on National Conclave for Elected Women Representatives (EWRs) in Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) jointly organized by Ministry of Panchayati Raj (MoPR), UN Women and National Institute of Rural Development & Panchayati Raj (NIRD&PR) , which concluded in Vigyan Bhawan New Delhi today. He said that a new work culture has developed in Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs). Dr Prasad said the resource persons who participated in various session of the conclave have given very valuable suggestions to the Ministry. He said Ministry of Panchayati Raj will give proper attention to all the suggestions while making further plans for the villages.


    Earlier on the 2 nd day, during the various session of the conclave, important topics like Gender Analysis and Mainstreaming, Gender Budgeting, Capacity Building of EWRs, Livelihood generation for rural women for their economic development and SHG-PRI Convergence were discussed by the resource persons, participating in the conclave.


    Before the concluding session, it was overwhelming to see the EWRs and participants. During the conference, it was stressed that there is now need to move beyond mere gender representation to gender responsiveness of local democracy.


    During the deliberations, Ministry of Panchayati Raj and UN Women India, continued with the partnership that has been targeted at overcoming gender specific gaps and risks faced by women and towards promoting inclusive governance in all tiers of Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs).


    The outcome of the national conclave was as expected, which focused at the enablement of rural women leaders to fully and effectively participate in decision making and, in the development, and use of critical knowledge, tools and technologies for strengthening gender-responsive local governance.


    7. The event was an abundant forum for government, elected representatives of Panchayats and other entities with a mandate of promoting women’s rights,an opportunity to document the reality of women’s lives and understanding the progress and gaps in the implementation of the major flagships as well as emerging issues that affect women’s full participation in the PRIs. Thus, the overall objectives will be to have a discourse led by EWRs around the interventions that have worked and the need for further action.


    ******


    SNC/RB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560618) Visitor Counter : 795