      Ministry of Mines

      Union Minister of Mines, Rural Development, Panchayati Raj and Parliamentary Affairs, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar chairs Meeting of Parliamentary Consultative Committee for the Ministry of Rural Development and Mines
      
      Pradhan Mantri Khanijya Kalyan Kshetra Yojana has potential of changing the landscape of mining affected area and bringing qualitative changes to the lives of people: Shri Tomar
      Posted On: 21 JAN 2019 6:56PM by PIB Delhi


    Meeting of the Parliamentary Consultative Committee for the Ministry of Rural Development and Mines was held today under the Chairmanship of the Union Minister of Mines, Panchayati Raj, Rural Development and Parliamentary Affairs, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar. The Minister of State for Rural Development, Shri Ram Kripal Yadav, Sh. Anil Mukim, Secretary, Ministry of Mines and Sh. S.N. Tripathi, Secretary, Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs were also present. Shri Ram Kripal Yadav highlighted the various schemes being implemented by Ministry of Rural Development.


    Speaking on the occasion, Union Minister of Mines, Panchayati Raj, Rural development and Parliamentary Affairs, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar emphasized on the positive impact of auction regime in allocation of Mining Leases in the country. After introduction of auction as a method for allocation of Mining lease, 53 blocks having Minerals value of Rs., 2,25,851 crores have been auctioned. The auction has earned State revenue of Rs. 1,43,619 Crores as auction premium. Through the amendment to MMDR Act in 2015, this Govt. has established District Mineral Foundation in all the Districts affected by mining for the welfare of the people and development of area affected by Mining. Under DMF, 23606 crores has been collected till now. In coming 25 years, more than Rs.2.50 lakh crores would accrue to DMF for the implementation of Pradhan Mantri Khanijya Kalyan Kshetra Yojana which has the potential of changing the landscape of the area and bringing in qualitative changes in the lives of people of areas affected by mining.


    Shri Tomar stated that the dream of Prime Minister Narendra Modi led government is to ensure housing for all by 2022 and to achieve this, we are committed to construction of 1 crore houses by 2019. The Union Minister further asserted that the government has constructed houses four times more than the previous government had done. During the meeting CMD, NALCO made presentation on NALCO. A Coffee Table book titled 'The empathy on the CSR Activity of NALCO' was released on the occasion. The Mascot of NALCO 'ALUMOF', the Aluminum metal of future was unveiled by the Union Minister on the occasion. Members of the Committee participated in the meeting and gave their valuable suggestions. The meeting ended with the vote of thanks by the Secretary Mines and Parliamentary Affairs.


    *****


    APS/SNC/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560811) Visitor Counter : 394
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi