      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of PM’s speech at the inauguration of National Museum of Indian Cinema on 19 January, 2019
      Posted On: 19 JAN 2019 10:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Greetings to everyone from the cinema industry present here. Thank you for the grand welcome. This is the first time in my life that I got an opportunity to be among the stalwarts of the cinema industry and to converse with the creative world. I worked as the Chief Minister of Gujarat, but the opportunity never came. But today it happened by chance. In your direction, and because of your talent, cinema in India is constantly growing into new dimensions. And I hope this will continue. I also thank you and congratulate you all for the National Museum of Indian Cinema.


    For the past two decades this museum has been under discussion in some form or the other. Today with its launch, the dream of cherishing the golden past of our cinema is fulfilled. And I feel that all the very good things were left for me by my former occupants of this role that, only I get the opportunities of this sort.


    All of you are the builders of new cinema in a new India, and now that all the generations of artistes are here, older and new, I have a question in my mind. And now that I am here with you, maybe it’s better to ask it in this way.


    How is the Josh?


    How is the Josh ?


    Now-a-days your ‘ Josh’ is very much discussed in the country. For building a new India, this ‘ Josh’ matters a lot.


    The world of films is multicolored and has many aspects. Furthermore, the National film museum will show the countrymen these aspects, and will cater to those interested in the subject. At the National Film Museum, you will get detailed information about the glorious history of the industry, about famous films and celebrities and get a glimpse of the stories of their struggles.


    I understand that our young generation has a lot to see, learn, and understand from the National Film Museum. Some time ago I also saw the arrangements in this museum. I saw the first two floors, and then I felt like going to the third. It’s running in my mind, that you must have been waiting; But it is made such that, we feel like experiencing it till the end. That’s the reason I was late, and you had to wait, I apologize for that.


    This museum is as rich as our films. It has a respect for the history and also the drive for the future. It also has the value of antiquity, and the honor of modernity. Here this part of Gulshan Bahl building is a testament to our history, then the second modern building is a proof of our vision. The Gulshan Bahl's building tells a story of pride about the beginnings of Indian cinema. And I was told that in this part of the museum, there is footage of 30 hours showing the valor of our army in the second world war.


    I want to congratulate the Films Division for taking it from the army and has done the work of digitization. And through this digitization of the Second World War footage, the valor of 20 lakh Indian soldiers and officers will now known to our future generations will inspire them. Very few people know- we didn't have anything to do with that land, no reason to fight or die for any flag, nor had to die for us, but one and a half million of our country’s soldiers are martyred in the first and second world wars. Those things have been forgotten.


    That part of our history is revived here in this place in this new form. It will inspire the new generation and the world. When I talk to the people of the world, I say you do not teach us peace. For, we are those people, who have lost one and a half million soldiers for the peace of the world. This is our history, our saga that inspires the coming generations. And friends! in reality, both film and society are reflections of each other.


    What is happening in society is seen in films, and what is happening in films, can be seen in the society. Many times you must have also seen that people identify a change coming into the society. Even before that happens, one gets a glimpse of that in films, and I believe that this is a big deal. The world of art envisions tomorrow. We all remember, It is in the 60-70s, after independence that Mr. Manoj Kumar’s films were filled with patriotism. The long struggle for independence must have played a big role.


    Similarly, there is an entry of angry young man in the 70-80s. But when there is enough improvement in our living conditions, hopes and aspirations started rising. Even in films, this reflection was seen. With the change in society, films also changed in every phase. Today we are seeing a new trend.


    There used to be a time when there was always in the mainstream cinema, the hero is from a big city, big family, from Mumbai, from Delhi, used to be seen with a smooth appearance. But this trend has changed over the years. Tier-2, Tier-3 city towns and from a middle class families, such promising young people are emerging, who are giving a whole new life to the entire film industry through their art, through their skill. And by the way, and this is what I say, this emergence of youngsters from Tier-2, Tier-3 cities, - this is also a form of a changing India, that we have seen and experienced.


    Today, be it sports, startups, even 10th, 12th results, you will not see children big schools of big cities, but somewhere from a small place. That means that the country's strength is emerging. We have seen many films on India's poverty, also on India's helplessness. And I believe that this is a sign of a changing society that, now along with the problem, solutions are also being seen in the film; otherwise we are, by nature, those people who have considered poverty as a virtue. There should be torn clothes, if you see, in ‘ Satyanarayanvrat’, w hen we hear the story; it begins with a poor Brahmin from a poor village. Meaning, our psyche started to believe poverty as a virtue.


    But now, the changing India thinks differently, looks differently, also expresses differently. And it is clear today, that with society, this change is visible in films too. There are problems, but now their solutions are also there. If there is an obstacle, then there is also a passion to overcome it. India is changing; India is finding its own solution.


    If there are millions problems then there are billion solutions also. We can change, and our self-confidence is evident. This is the confidence due to which now, we take on subjects that are shaking the society. There is no hesitation in taking up the subject. We do not panic, nor do we hide them. Rather we try to overcome it by bringing it to the fore. This is the new belief of new India that fills an Indian with pride.


    Friends, You must have noticed another trend. In the past, making of films take eight to ten years or 10 to 15 years at a time times. And the identity of famous films was that, how much time it took to make it. That is, it was considered it’s criteria that it took 8 years, 9 Years, 12 years. People used to discuss this. Now films are made only in a few months.


    Now, the same is the case with the government’s schemes. This would not have happened with the plans before. They used to take 30 years, 40 years; this very museum also took 20 years. But, now you see how the government plans a fixed time, tries to complete it. You are watching it all. If I say that you have already developed yourself by anticipating the aspirations of the young generation of the country, then perhaps I will not be wrong. You are two steps ahead, and this power, plays big in building the nation.


    Friends, The content of our entertainment industry, displays human emotions, sensations, action-Reaction, comedy, tragedy, etc., and all the aspects that connect the world. After all, whatever the country, human emotions are the same and the Indian entertainment industry has made this felt.


    Once I was going abroad, fellow passengers were sitting in an airplane. A stranger asked me a question. He said – "I keep coming to India, I also watch films in India. So, why artists in your films weep on some one’s feet? Why do they go to the temple and weep? Why are they shouting?". It means, for him it was a wonder, that in India, what is this tradition is that the man immediately relaxes. It was strange for them. But our films, through their mastery have made possible the smooth flow of the emotions displayed by a common man. I believe that this is not a small or easy, and this is only possible when art, artists and literature are connected to the ground. Only then this seed of art germinates.


    Whether it is to create fun or to create fan ship, we also make our impact here. I truly congratulate the film industry, for this achievement. I wish them all the best. I see that if our youth is a fan of Batman , then along with that he’s also a fan of Bahubali . Our characters also have a global appeal now.


    Friends,


    An integral and important part of India's soft power is our films. They represent ‘Indian-ness’ in the eyes of the world. Our films have been an attraction to the whole world. Our films keep doing well at the box office, and moreover, play an enormous role in increasing the credibility, and in creating a brand for India.


    We all know that, not only in this country, but also abroad, Raj Kapoor's films have a craze, and I get to feel it directly when I go, meet people. I have seen the Presidents of some countries who sing songs of an entire Hindi film well.


    I had just gone to Israel, so I went to have dinner at the Prime Minister of Israel, and there were only two of us. We have a good friendship. We kept chatting till some 2:30 p.m. So he sang the full song of ’ Ichakdana ’!. Now, the Prime Minister of Israel, who does not know our language, not knowing it’s meaning sang this; even I don’t know the meaning of ‘ Ichkadana ’. This is the reach of our film industry.


    And I remember when I went to South Korea some time ago, The President had arranged food. And a children's performance was also arranged at the meal time. So the children of the school sang, ‘ Hathi-Mere Sathi’. They sang with action! So later I met the children, I asked them, do you know what you were singing? Some said, a baby elephant, the rest did not know. So I was wonder-struck! They did so well, I wondered how they worked so hard in such a short time.


    See the effect of our industry. When I came back, I arranged that song to be dubbed in Korean language and I sent it back to the school children there. See, this is your strength, and similarly our TV serials these days along with films has also created a special identity of its own. The TV serial ’ Kyunki saas bhi kabhi bahu thi ’ – if you think this must be viewed in India alone, then you’re wrong. The countries of the world that I have been and specially, I saw that in Afghanistan, there is hardly any family which doesn’t watch this serial.


    That is, the people of the countries around us are interested in seeing the normal life of India. They discuss it openly. I once met the Prime Minister of Vietnam, we were sitting together, I asked him, why did he come alone? Where’s his family? Now he is a communist - country is a communist, leader’s a communist. And, you know the communists, there will be some people here. This will hit some people (smiles). I spoke to him and I said that, you should have brought your wife, this is very good occasion. Now, this was on 26 January, when I invited representatives of all the countries, then there was talk. So he said “brother, there is a problem at my home”. He said - My wife watches ‘ Ramayana’ serial, which has been dubbed in our language, for hours. She’s not prepared to leave, and she refused to come with me. Can you imagine the impact we have? If we cannot recognize our strength, then I feel that we cannot blame anyone else.


    Friends, silent power of cinema, silent power is also that without being evident that it’s teaching you, tells you a new idea. A new thought which automatically plays the role of a catalyst agent. Many such films sow some new seeds of thought process in people. A few people come out with new ideas.


    Now you see, these days, a topic like toilet, a topic like women empowerment. Be it sports, aspects related to children's problems, awareness of serious diseases, or be it the subject, or the valor of our soldiers. Today some of the best films made by you are reaching the country through this medium. An idea, a revolution is reaching the audience.


    The success of these films has proved that films on social topics can also be successful at the box office. They can also contribute to nation building.


    Friends, the diversity of the country are honored through the process of production of your films. It respects the diversity of the country, and it strengthens the spirit of 'Ek Bharat-Shreshtha Bharat' . And I believe that the people of the film industry should attempt to reflect the diversity this country has.


    Everyone took advantage of Nepali language and Nepali artists in our Hindi films and entertainment, but every state of India has its own specialty. Even if two artists does this or some four sentences are also spoken in another language in the film, it carries the message of unity of the country, he feels related. For example, if someone from Nagaland appears on the screen and speaks in Naga language, it shows, a country with hundred languages, seventeen hundred dialects, which is absolutely rich in diversity.


    Now, how do we integrate it?, how to manifest the power of unity?. If an artist, for example, says a proverb, and the other immediately says it’s equivalent in their own language, the unity in diversity of the country is revealed automatically. Communication has this power.


    There are many tourist spots in the country that were known just because of the films that were shot there, like Rajvardhan Rathoreji just said. We should keep doing that too! Even today, people will call us if we go somewhere, to tell that this song was made here, that scene was shot here, etc,. They might not be sure and probably they may not have even been born at that time, but they will tell that the film was made there and Devanand sahib was here etc,.


    By bringing to the audience, different scenic locations of India in such a beautiful way, I believe that this industry can do a very big role in increasing tourism. And these days the growth of tourism in India is very good but yet the world does not have much information besides that of the Taj Mahal, and all this boils down to our psyche, which is made to believe that, there’s nothing much in our country to see. The world’s view is a mere reflection of this.


    To tell the world confidently, that “we too have a lot to show to the world”, the film industry can play a very big role. I believe tourism is one such industry which employs even the poorest of the poor, even a tea-seller earns.


    And I believe that in different parts of India, this is true what Rajvardhan ji mentioned, and I have also met some people recently, and came to know when they go to different places, they have trouble getting permissions to shoot. It happens, and the laws have to be loosened. There is a lot of spinning around, and the film’s time table is ruined. I came across this subject when I was told, and now that I know more of your world, I noticed. I told my officers about this, and I asked them if there is a way out.


    Today, I am with you, and I am happy to say that in the country, a single window clearance related to film shooting in different parts of India, is on way. We are working on creating a new system, and a special portal has been created for this. In which you will have to give all the information, then the concerned officer of NFDC (National Film Development Corporation) will do his work. And I think this effort from the government solves one of your great difficulties that you have laid before me.


    In future, I do not believe that you will have to salute fifty different people at the place and sometimes they will say, “let me get a photo with your hero, and only then I will give permission”. You won't express these, but such experiences might have come to you. You might also think that this is the cheapest way. But along with ‘ease of doing business’, you should also get ‘ease of filming’, and for that the government is vigilant and I will do my utmost, trust me!.


    Friends, for further strengthening Indian cinema, and for bringing positivity in our country, and to prepare a comprehensive discussion, the government is with you.


    Some of my friends had expressed concern over the introduction of GST. I met you at the Raj Bhavan. He was worried, and told me, “Sir, we are working so hard, but if the audience won’t come, what’s the use? What will we do?” Whoever has put in the money are the only ones interested in it, it’s a different class of people, but the rest of the creative class are more bothered about the audience and the reach of their art. They, as artistes, are least interested in money.


    When this matter came to me, I told the GST Council about this. Because, it’s not in my hands to change this, it’s in the hands of the GST Council. I'm glad that The GST Council has overcome this concern and for tickets costing above Rs 100, GST has been reduced from 28% to 18%.


    Friends, a subject has come up to me and that is piracy. I understand it is very natural of all of you to worry. Piracy is an insult to your labor and your ability. The government is trying to make some fast-paced changes in the Government Cinematograph Act 1952 to stop it. After this amendment that we are going to make, cam-recording will not just be a punishable offence, but the punishment will be harsh.


    Friends, in the past four and a half year, our government have ended more than 1400 old laws. You will be surprised to know, when I campaigned in 2013-14, when very government kept marketing on the laws that they made, or those that they are going to make. What happened to these laws later didn’t matter to them. I have resolved that, I want to bring a government that will abolish the obsolete laws, and I will end an obsolete law per day. These things may not have reached you because there are very good things that happen in the country that go unnoticed. In the past four and a half year, some obsolete 1400 laws have been abolished, with the aspiration to simplify the procedures. Because I did not understand why, citizens have to wrestle with the government all the time.


    Today, now that I’m with you, I need some help from you. And I am sure that those of you who worry about this industry will oblige. See, now the technology has changed, today you can listen to any radio in the world on a mobile phone, but still it is the law of the government, that radio should be licensed. Now there is a mismatch there.


    Well, I have annulled that law, but the point I want to put forward is, today technology has changed so much, but our laws are still from 1952. Should the people of the film industry think carefully on this subject, and produce a detailed note on those laws that are absolutely irrelevant in today's age, which are useless, but are still around, then I promise you my effort in ending some more of those obsolete laws which are hindering you, and those laws, which are not in line with the changing era.


    So I would like any of you to take the initiative. I want to tell you about another decision of the government, in the field of animation, our country is respected trough out, in animation and visual effects. I want to reiterate, ‘Make in India’ has it’s importance, and similarly ‘Design in India’, is important as well. Our creative talent can contribute a lot to the world. But to strengthen this, the government is working on setting up a national center for excellence in animation, visual effects, gaming and comics. I would also like to see the film industry come together in future and isn't it about time? that the film industry of India, which is such a big, creative world does something about that lack of human resource development in the industry.


    Today I feel that there is a need for the establishment of a university on communication and entertainment. I would like the people of the film industry to work on this further, to have a full-fledged university for this work, which has technology, which has scope for creativity, which is in effect with the changing world. Finance of films can also be a potential subject. If the government tries to do this, then you know what the government will do. It will have inclinations, and I don’t want that. I want something that works for the common man of this country, and if you come forward with some arrangement of this sort, then the government will also help you in doing this.


    Friends, during one such discussion with you, an important suggestion from some friends and I liked that suggestion. I want us to bring Mumbai out to the world and make ourselves international. The suggestion that came to me was, “just like Davos hosts a world economic summit, can the Indian film industry host an international summit in India every two years?”. As of now, creativity is the mainstay of these film festivals in India, but by making business the mainstay, a new market the mainstay, and have different seminars in the field of technology, on how finance can evolve and grow in this world, can a Global Film summit in India happen?


    The point I want to put forward is, about making the summit inclusive and wholesome, that includes the artistes and the whole spectrum of people involved and the livelihood of millions. Let it bring a global exposure to our industry.


    So I said at that time, that we should start and for the first one or two


    Years, our very own diverse film arrangements and different languages should be celebrated first. Let’s start with one such summit and then we make it global summit no less than Davos. Some people have this innate software right?, likewise my software is like this ever since I was born, I do not think small. Therefore this is one way to emerge as a global force. Our people will stand in front of the world and there will be talks and discussions, and the world will understand that this is 50,60,100 years of journey has not gone in vain. A summit like this can do a lot.


    Friends, often when one comes to think of the film world, only one aspect of it is in total focus- glamour, sparkle, dazzle - it is around this, but I believe that in the film world, there is a much bigger world beyond glamour and glare, which is a world of hope, expectation, pain, there is a lot. Today, when I was watching the museum, I saw the many difficulties that the film crew must have faced at that time - we had no knowledge of this subject. It’s only after seeing this is when I came to know that they used to do such things, used to work so hard, had to stand for so many hours. The world sees only artists, other things are not known. I think it’s time now, and I believe that our country has lost a lot by associating all aspects of our country to one political leader, and that did a lot of damage to the country. They have got more space and mention than needed, roads are built in their name, structures are built and got named after them etc,.


    I believe that there are many people in your industry, be it on the technical side, or the creative side, be in the field of art, be it performers, you are an institution in yourself. To make it this big in life you have worked a lot. For example we see and admire that Jitendraji that has maintained his body throughout, but to maintain that, the amount hard work he had to put in is not known by the common man.


    I understand that those who have brought their life to this stage by struggling, do not hesitate in sharing these things with your colleagues, and social media. Tell how your life started, the numerous difficulties you faced, what kind of troubles you faced back in the day, how many hours you had to work. For example in the Himalayas, you had to go to an icy place and shoot, the body is not cooperating but you had to laugh because the scene required you to, all these things you see.


    Otherwise, our new generation is being misled, it sees only the dazzle, but it doesn’t see the toil and sacrifice behind it; It is not known at all. I would like you to share these on social media as it reaches the youth. They will come to know that a person has not lived his life like this; they too will be inspired to do something in life.


    Do not underestimate yourself, sir. Today there is a very big section of youth that thinks of you as a role model, they can also be inspired by you if they are familiar with the truths of your life. I’m sure, there will be none of you who have not had to go through the most difficult of times, and that gives strength to the world.


    And that's why I also want from you today, when this young generation of our country, If it looks at you, it should also know that all these things have not just came your way. That a pretty face from birth has not brought you here, and that you had to do a lot of hard work. If these details are brought to our people, and I also believe that in life when such conversations happen, it helps in in life building and character building. I hope you will share your experiences with the youth.


    I would urge you all to curate and display the reach of Indian cinema, time period wise. For example, how the first 25 years of Indian film industry would have been? The struggle that went into making a film in that period? What has changed since then? So that people will get a chance to re-live those days through this.


    Today, in the 21st century, the way of making films, and the technology that goes into it has changed. So it is very important to preserve the information about those old ways. We also need to think about what we should do, so that in future generation’s tendency towards science and innovation increases. These are a separate genre of science movies. And when it comes to science-based movies, India needs a lot of work. They have become a source of great inspiration to our younger generation. These films have a big role in creating a scientific temper. You all make biopic, etc,. And motivate people in different sectors but It seems that science, innovation, and environment are those subjects in which we can work a lot on.


    Friends, You might have noticed that our government had changed it’s take on take the ‘ Padma ' Awards. In the last four years, we have searched and found such unsung heroes of the country who are selfless and were engaged in the service of humanity without any recognition. No newspapers, not even the regional ones, mentioned them. We searched them from all over the country, and we have given ‘ Padma Shri ’ to such people. Some of them were doing great work in the field of environment, some were providing free treatment to the poor, one was running a school, and all these were spending whatever little they had earned in their life on this. There are such people in our country and I respect such people. As much as we honor them, it would still be less. But did our film industry notice any of these? when you were making a biopic and when you look at their lives, you will get such case studies, that you cannot imagine. They can become a huge inspiration.


    For your stories, for your cinema, even a person lying in a remote forest can be a reason for inspiring our country. Stories like Dashrath Manjhi hold such power.


    Friends,


    There is one thing that should get our attention, the freedom struggle of 1857. We lack in being a history conscious society but if we look at the fight of Indian independence in 1857, the tribal's of our country had fought against the British. In fact one can say they led it. The tribal's and every tribal area till date have these stories passed on to them. 100-200 people were executed on the gallows and the record still exists. But the sacrifice of these great personalities who sacrificed for the country is lesser known. We don’t study them with a vigor like ‘Jallianwala Bagh’, but such stories are found everywhere.


    The government is working on a mission these days. I have decided that in those states which staged these events by the tribal societies, probing more into their contributions to the freedom struggle of 1857, we have to create a museum. These works are in progress in different states. I wanted to ask, as you have creative talent, can contribute something to this idea, for example a virtual museum, if you want to make it, you have mastery. The government will help you in doing the research. And I think we can do it via animation film or through a virtual presentation. It can do a lot for this generation. Today, for those masquerading as Naxals, if we give them something bigger to know about their ancestors, and their contributions to this country, I believe they will also come on to the right path.


    I would like to say something about the theater world, I know many of you are associated with theater somewhere in your lives. Theater in India has been a powerful tradition. From the time of ‘ Shakuntala ’ (a drama) till today, it has been in our scriptures as well. We have a lot to tell to the world. I don't believe that theater and film must be separated. We should integrate them and bring theatre’s history to the audience and to the world. It will be of great service to the art world, and the coming generation will also benefit from this. There are different forms of theatre in our country, and are seen in different languages. I believe that theatre and films should not be viewed very differently.


    If you can do something in this aspect through the new technology, then the theater also will acquire new strength and will have new opportunities for fresh talent.


    Friends, if any government in democracy thinks that it can do all the work alone, then I think that the government is fooling you and it is also doing wrong. To the government, everyone’s support is required for the development of everyone.


    I appreciate and I salute the contribution of Indian Film Industry, in increasing public participation, in reminding the country of its duties, in making the country aware. You have done great service to the country and coming here to celebrate that is a blessed moment for me too.


    No one has a right to give advice to you because, it is believed, even advice is against freedom of choice in this field. In spite of that, forgive me if I might have told you a little more than needed. But I call you to come, let us all work together for the country, and move forward with strength. This industry is of great importance. This industry is an invaluable asset to the country which is a result of 100 years of your hard work. The world is following you, and we have the responsibility to make the world aware, influence and inspire the world, let us come forward in making our nation illustrious.


    With this expectation in mind,


    Thanks to one and all.


    ***


    VRRK/SH/IG/RSB/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560657) Visitor Counter : 1014
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Marathi