      Ministry of Defence

      DRDO Workshop on Fire Safety Technologies and Services
      Posted On: 21 JAN 2019 8:47PM by PIB Delhi


    Raksha Rajya Mantri Dr Subhash Bhamre inaugurated a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) workshop on ‘Fire Safety Technologies and Services’, here today. Fire Adviser, Ministry of Home Affairs Shri DK Shamialso attended the function. Secretary Department of Defence R&D & Chairman DRDO Dr G Satheesh Reddywas present on the occasion.


    Dr Subhash Bhamrein his inaugural address congratulated DRDO for organizing the workshop and said that the best way to minimize the risk of fire is to understand potential threats and put in place preventive measures. He further said that technologies developed by CFEES can have application for civil sectors also, and needs to be exploited to the fullest.


    The workshop was organized by Centre for Fire, Explosive and Environment Safety (CFEES), a lab of DRDO with an aim to sensitize the State Fire Services and Users on the use of risk evaluation, mitigation and elimination of fire related accidents and adopt the technologies developed by DRDO. An exhibition of products and technologies developed by CFEES was also organized on the sidelines of the workshop.


    Dr G Satheesh Reddy in his address said that the technologies and products developed by DRDO are finding application not only in defence sector but also have spin-offs for civilian sectors. He further said that we need to look for opportunities and gear up the capacity for indigenous fire safety products and services in India.


    Shri DK Shami in his speech highlighted the need for formation of core group for short and long term roadmap for R&D and test facilities in the areas of fire safety, and low cost impact technology for fire safety to be developed by DRDO. He further said that products and technologies developed by DRDO can be introduced into the State Fire Services.


    Dr Chitra Rajagopal, Director General (SAM) at DRDO headquarter welcomed the delegates and said that in order to enhance the fire fighting efficiency, the Fire Services has to be well equipped with state-of-art technologies and equipment. She further said DRDO can play an important role by sensitizing on latest fire safety technologies & products developed by CFEES for the Armed Forces.


    The inaugural session of the workshop was followed by technical presentations, panel discussions and product demonstrations. A large number of delegates including Directors Generals, Directors of the State Fire Services and Fire Chiefs of many States and Union Territories attended the workshop.


    Nampi/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560847) Visitor Counter : 803
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu