      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister to visit Gujarat tomorrow for Vibrant Gujarat Summit 2019
      
      Vibrant Gujarat Global Trade Show to be inaugurated in Gandhinagar
      
      State of Art, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Institute of Medical Sciences to be inaugurated in Ahmedabad
      
      PM to inaugurate Ahmedabad Shopping Festival-2019 tomorrow
      
      9th edition of Vibrant Gujarat Summit to be inaugurated by PM 18th January
      
      PM to visit Hazira, Silvassa and Mumbai on 19th January, 2019

      Posted On: 16 JAN 2019 7:19PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be on a three day visit to Gujarat beginning tomorrow, 17th January 2019. During this period, he will visit Gandhinagar, Ahmedabad, and Hazira.


    In his first engagement tomorrow at the Mahatma Mandir Exhibition cum Convention Center in Gandhinagar the Prime Minister will inaugurate Vibrant Gujarat Global Trade Show. More than 25 industrial and business sectors will be showcased here under one umbrella.


    In the evening, he will inaugurate Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Institute of Medical Sciences and Research in Ahmedabad. This is a state of art, super-speciality public hospital built by Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and is equipped with all modern amenities, including an air ambulance. The 78 metre high structure is a true blend of skill, scale and speed.


    In keeping with the spirit of Digital India, this will be a completely paperless hospital. It will serve the common man and support the overarching vision of Ayushman Bharat.


    The Prime Minister will inspect the facilities at the hospital and address a gathering.


    Later in the evening, Ahmedabad Shopping Festival – 2019 will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister. This is being organized simultaneously with Vibrant Gujarat. The PM will also unveil the Vibrant Gujarat Ahmedabad Shopping Festival Mascot. The Ahmedabad Shopping Festival 2019 is the first event of its kind in India. It will provide an opportunity for city enterprises to showcase their products.


    The Prime Minister will also address a public gathering on this occasion.


    On the next day, 18th January 2019, the Prime Minister will inaugurate the 9th edition of Vibrant Gujarat Summit at Mahatma Mandir Exhibition cum Convention Center in Gandhinagar. Vibrant Gujarat Summit was conceptualized in 2003 by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi who was then the Chief Minister of Gujarat, to re-establish Gujarat as a preferred investment destination. The Summit provides a platform for brainstorming on agendas of global socio-economic development, knowledge sharing and forging effective partnerships.


    Prime Minister will visit Hazira on 19th January, 2019 to mark the setting up of the Hazira Gun Factory.


    From Hazira, he will go to Silvassa in Dadra Nagar Haveli. He will inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of various development projects.


    In the last leg of his visit, the Prime Minister will go to Mumbai on 19th January. He will inaugurate the new building of National Museum of Indian Cinema.


    *****


    AKT/VJ/SBP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560230) Visitor Counter : 1058
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Marathi , Assamese , Gujarati , Kannada