      Ministry of Tourism

      Five day long ‘Bharat Parv’ at Red Fort, New Delhi to showcase the spirit of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat
      Posted On: 22 JAN 2019 3:24PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Tourism in collaboration with other central Ministries is organizing the 4th edition of ‘Bharat Parv’ event showcasing the spirit of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat at Red Fort in the capital during 26 th to 31 st January 2019. The 5 day event is a part of Republic Day Celebrations.


    In keeping with the Prime Minister's vision of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat, Bharat Parv is being celebrated as part of Republic Day celebrations since 2016. The tradition has continued over the past four years and the 4 th edition is here now with the prime objective to generate a patriotic fervour, promote the rich cultural diversity of the country and to ensure wider participation of the general public and to popularize the idea of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat.


    Organized by the Ministry of Tourism the highlights of this year are the Display of Republic Day Parade Tableaux, Performances by the Armed Forces Bands (Static as well as dynamic), a Multi-Cuisine Food Court, Crafts Mela, and Photo Exhibition by the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP). The event will also include IRCTC’ promotions on special tourist trains, ‘Jago Grahak Jago’ Consumer Awareness campaign, a Gandhi Gram in which 10 painting artists will create paintings on the theme of 'Ideology of Mahatma Gandhi', the exhibition-cum-sale of crafts items. In addition to these, the North Zone Cultural Centre (NZCC) will be conducting daily Cultural Performances from different regions of the country.


    Click here to access the Key cultural events of the Bharat Parv:


    Bharat Parv will be open for public from 12 Noon to 10 PM every day, from 26th to 31st January, 2019. The entry will be free. However, identity proof is to be carried for entry to the event.


    The Previous editions of Bharat Parv, showcased Republic Day Parade Tableaux, Performances by the Armed Forces Bands. The other attractions were a Multi-Cuisine Food Court and, Crafts Mela, Cultural Performances from different regions of the country. The Food Court also had stalls set up by the States / UTs, National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI) showcasing street food from different regions. The event also had Crafts Mela with stalls showcasing the diverse handicrafts of the country, arranged by the State Governments and Ministry of Textiles through the office of the Development Commissioner of Handicrafts. There were Theme State Pavilions where each State showcases its strength along with its tourism products.


    ******


    NB/JP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560930) Visitor Counter : 1786