      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister approves Task Force report on Space Technology in Border Management
      Posted On: 17 JAN 2019 5:47PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh has approved report of Task Force created by MHA to identify areas for use of Space Technology in improving Border Management. The Task Force headed by Joint Secretary (Border Management) and having members from BSF, Department of Space and BM Division, MHA consulted all stakeholders including Border Guarding Forces (BGFs), ISRO, National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS) and Ministry of Defence (MoD) to finalise the report. Following areas have been identified for use of space technology:


    1. Island development


    2. Border Security


    3. Communication and Navigation


    4. GIS and Operations Planning System


    5. Border Infrastructure Development


    To execute the project in a timebound manner, a short, medium and long term plan has been proposed for implementation in five years in close coordination with ISRO and MoD. Major recommendations of the report are to build capacity in BGFs to use space resources for Security, operational planning and border infrastructure development.


    In short term, immediate needs of BGFs will be met by procurement of high resolution imagery and hiring of bandwidth for communications.


    In midterm, one satellite is being launched by ISRO for exclusive use of MHA.


    Over the long term, MHA will develop ground segment and network infrastructure to share satellite resources by user agencies, develop a Central Archival Facility for storing various imagery resources and dissemination of the same to user agencies.


    Deployment of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) in remote areas will be also coordinated by satellite communications. Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System (IRNSS) -based GPS will provide navigation facilities for operational parties in high altitude, remote and difficult borders and Naxal areas.


    BSF has been designated as lead agency for implementation of ground segment and network infrastructure including establishment of Archival Facility.


    With the assistance of Department of Space, MHA would implement the project. This project will strengthen island and border security and facilitate development of infrastructure in border/island areas.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560365) Visitor Counter : 1328