      Ministry of Power

      Foundation stone for 400/220/132 kV POWERGRID Sitamarhi Sub-station laid
      
      The Sub-station will supply power to Sitamarhi, Darbhanga, Madhubani, East Champaran, West Champaran and Sheohar districts of Bihar
      
      Posted On: 17 JAN 2019 7:25PM by PIB Delhi


    The foundation stone for 400/220/132 kV Sitamarhi Sub-station at Village Parmanandpur, Distt. Sitamarhi was laid today. The programme was presided over by Shri R. K. Singh, Union Minister of State (IC) for Power, New and Renewable Energy as chief guest on this occasion and Shri Nitish Kumar, Chief Minister of Bihar laid the foundation stone of the substation.


    Shri RK Singh said that “The Sub-station will be completed in two years and will supply power to Sitamarhi, Darbhanga, Madhubani, East Champaran, West Champaran and Sheohar districts of Bihar. This ₹620 Crore project of Government of India will enable quality power. In 4.5 years, the grid has been interconnected to form one national grid, fulfilling the cherished dream of One Nation, One Grid.”


    Addressing on the occasion, Chief Minister of Bihar said “I appreciate the Central government for its efforts and schemes in supporting the power scenario. This is an important Sub-station for improving power position of Bihar and will be an important link to National Grid.”


    This POWERGRID Sitamarhi Sub-station is being constructed by POWERGRID Mithilanchal Transmission Limited (100% subsidiary company of Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd.) as part of the Eastern Region Strengthening Scheme-XXI (ERSS-XXI) project under Tariff Based Competitive Bidding (TBCB) route. This Sitamarhi Sub-station shall be constructed along with associated 400 kV transmission line at an estimated cost of ₹620 Crore in an area of about 36 acres land at Village Parmanandpur, Distt- Sitamarhi in North Bihar.


    This Sub-station along with associated transmission lines shall facilitate in meeting the long-term power drawl requirement of West Champaran, East Champaran and Sitamarhi districts of Bihar and shall further strengthen interconnection of the state with the National Grid. Besides this, it shall also facilitate in additional power transfer between Bihar (India) and Nepal and would be an additional 400 kV Inter State Transmission System (ISTS) source point in North Bihar. It will also help in resolving low voltage issues in Sitamarhi and Motihari areas.


    The occasion was graced by senior officials from the Govt of Bihar and the Govt of India including the people's representatives from the area.


    RCS/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560399) Visitor Counter : 536
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu