      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Saksham 2019, annual event of PCRA, launched
      Posted On: 16 JAN 2019 5:01PM by PIB Delhi


      ‘Saksham’, an annual high intensity one-month long people-centric mega campaign of Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA) under the aegis of Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas was launched here today by Sh. R ajiv Bansal, Addl. Secretary & Financial Adviser, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas . Various interactive programs and activities are being planned by PCRA, Public Sector upstream/downstream Oil & Gas companies during the month long ‘Saksham-2019’. ‘Saksham’ Cycle Day in 200 cities, Cyclothons, Short Film making contest on MyGov, Workshops for drivers of commercial vehicles, Seminars for housewives/cooks on adopting simple fuel saving measure, Nationwide campaign through Radio, TV, Digital Cinemas, Outdoor media etc. will be conducted, with a focus on reaching out to various segments of fuel users. PCRA is going to utilize the social media platforms for various customized campaigns through Facebook, twitter, MyGov platform.


      On the occasion, a comic book developed by PCRA jointly with NCERT for the children on various tips and day to day aspects of fuel conservation and a short animation film for children covering domestic and transport sector were released. P rizes were given for the ‘Saksham’ National Competition-2018 to the winners of Essay and Painting competitions which has seen a phenomenal record participation of more than 82 Lakhs students from schools of all education boards of the country. The prizes include Singapore Study tour, Laptops, Tablets & Cash prizes to motivate the budding generation of our country for their critical role in understating and spreading the awareness about fuel conservation. The paintings of the children reaching finals were displayed on the occasion. The awards were also presented to the oil companies and state govts. for their exemplary work in the fields of fuel conservation Sh. R ajiv Bansal also flagged-off the publicity vans of PCRA, the fuel conservation messengers on wheels, equipped with audio, video and print displays to attract and spread the conservation awareness especially amongst the rural masses


      YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560145) Visitor Counter : 1718