      Ministry of Education

      Vice President of India Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu Presents Chhatra Vishwakarma Awards and Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana (SAGY) Awards
      
      Development of villages is an essential precondition to development of the nation: Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu

      Posted On: 21 JAN 2019 7:03PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu presented the 2 nd ChhatraVishwakarma Awards to students and their mentors and Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana (SAGY) Awards to institutions at an event organized by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) today at New Delhi.


    “Development of rural areas should not erode their unique identities but must fortify their spirits. The facilities in villages must resemble those of a city but the soul and the values of Indian villages, must be preserved”, the Vice President of India Shri. M. Venkaiah Naidu said while addressing the gathering during the event.


    Shri. Naidu said that the Awards would challenge young students to come up with novel ideas that have great potential to impact life in villages through technological interventions at the grass root level. Expressing his agreement with Mahatma Gandhi’s statement that ‘the future of India lies in its villages’, the Vice President said that development of villages is an essential precondition to development of the nation.


    The Vice President said that educational institutions must re-orient their curricula to ensure that students spend time in rural areas, interacting with people and understanding their problems.


    Shri Naidu said that 'One size fits all' approach will not ensure development in a vast and diverse country like India. ‘Every village has its own individuality, its own industries & its own developmental needs. Our plans should capture aspirations of the people, leverage their strengths & mitigate their weaknesses’, he reasoned.


    The Vice President said that 3 ‘D’s - Demography, Demand and Democracy are making the India of today outshine other countries in the world and added that he had full faith in the vision and capabilities of India’s youth who make up 65% of the country’s population.


    He congratulated the All India Council of Technical Education’s endeavour to catalyse rural development in association with the Engineering Council of India (ECI) and the Indian Society for Technical Education(ISTE).

    Secretary, Higher Education Shri R. Subrahmanyam and Chairman AICTE Prof. Anil D. Sahasrabudhe also spoke on the occasion and applauded the students for becoming true nation builders


    ChhatraVishwakarma Awards -


    The ChhatraVishwakarma Awards are inspired by the spirit of engineering and creation patronized by Lord Vishwakarma, the ruling deity of construction practices in India. The Awards are aimed for motivating young individuals, inspiring leaders and institutions/ organizations to recognize and applaud the innovations and achievements of individuals as well as institutions.


    This year AICTE in association with Engineering Council of India (ECI) and the Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE) announced the 2 nd AICTE-ECI-ISTE ChhatraVishwakarma Awards 2018 under the theme “Empowerment of Villages through Technologies”. AICTE received 1067 applications from the teams of various institutions under the categories viz. (i) Water & Irrigation; (ii) Sanitation & Solid Liquid Waste Management; (iii) Rural infrastructure; (iv) Tourism; (v) Agriculture & Food; (vi) Education, Skill initiative & Start-ups; (vii) Rural Craft & Livelihood; (viii) Any other Rural Appropriate Technologies. After scrutiny, 118 teams (total 310 students with 191 male and 119 female students) have been called for the National Convention at AICTE Headquarters, New Delhi. The projects presented by the team, were assessed by eminent jury of domain experts and following teams/institutions are awarded 1 st position in the following categories:


    Category: Any other Rural Appropriate Technologies


    Army Institute of Technology, Maharashtra


    Category : Education, Skill Initiative & Startups


    Gokaraju Rangaraju Institute of Engineering and Technology, Telangana


    Category: Rural Craft & Livelihood, Rural Infrastructure, Tourism


    Sri Venkateswara College of Engineering, Andhra Pradesh


    Category: Agriculture & Food


    Sri Krishna College of Technology, Tamil Nadu


    Category: Water & Irrigation


    Aditya Engineering College, Andhra Pradesh


    Category: Sanitation & Solid Liquid Waste Management


    Kalasalingam Academy of Research and Education, Tamil Nadu


    Sansad Adarsh GramYojana (SAGY) Awards -


    Sansad Adarsh GramYojana (SAGY) was launched in October 2014 with the aim to translate the comprehensive vision of Mahatma Gandhi of an ideal Indian village. Under the scheme, Member of Parliament adopted Gram Panchayats for its holistic progress. AICTE has encouraged institutes located in proximity of villages which can be supported under the scheme. These institutes have been working hard to develop the adopted villages.


    AICTE has instituted the SAGY Award with an aim to motivate, recognize and honor the institutions under the theme “Developed Village-Developed Nation” to raise their performance in the specific domains leading to significant contribution for the growth and development of villages and Country as well. Under this Award, 103 nominations were received from AICTE approved institutions across the country. The entries were scrutinized at different stages and judged by a jury of eminent experts in the field. Out of the 24 shortlisted applications, the following institutions were recommended for the Awards:

                                                                                          
Sl. No.  Name of the Institution                                                Award/Rank
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
1        College of Technology and Engineering                                  First     
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
         Udaipur, Rajasthan                                                               
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
2        Seethi Sahib Memorial Polytechnic College, Tirur, Kerala               Second    
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
3        Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology, Thanjavur, Tamil Nadu  Third     
                                                                                          
                                                                                          

    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560814) Visitor Counter : 909