      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of PM’s speech at the inauguration of Ahmedabad Shopping Festival in Gujarat on 17 January, 2019
      Posted On: 17 JAN 2019 9:35PM by PIB Delhi


    Dear brothers and sisters present here…


    Friends, normally we have seen such events organized along with some Business summit only in foreign countries. As I said, holding Ahmedabad Shopping Festival along with Vibrant Gujarat is indeed a commendable step. I can very well feel your enthusiasm towards this event.


    I have been told that this festival has seen participation from several small businesses like street vendors to retailers from shopping from different parts of Gujarat. Here there is range of products from Handicrafts to electronics. Several businessmen who run hotels and restaurants have also arrived here to promote and sell their products during this festival.


    SarasMela (Saras Carnival) has also been organized here for the Artisans and craftsmen involved in manufacturing Khadi and other handicrafts. A while back when I visited the stalls, I witnessed a wonderful glimpse of Gujarati traditions and handiworks.


    This festival has registered a footfall of several entrepreneurs from other states as well as who are showcasing a range of products like apparels, jewelry, electronic goods among many other products. The Heritage fair especially is indeed an amazing amalgamation of our rich modern as well as historic tradition. I strongly recommend that all of you should attend this Heritage Fair even if there is paucity of time.


    Here you will find a display of Patola from Patan, Bandhinisarees , Kutch handicrafts, mirror work, indigenous art and craft from tribal areas, bamboo products, jute articles, huge jute bags. I was also privileged to see the stone carved articles form Khambat, Worli paintings made by the tribals; this a great example of the cultural prosperity of Gujarat.


    There is such a huge collection and treasure of such items in our country. If we should showcase them rightlywe cansoon become a force to reckon with globally. Such festivals certainly augment scope for small entrepreneurs to move to the next orbit by connecting with buyers in bigger market. They benefit immensely from platforms likesuch vibrant events.


    Friends, government is making concerted efforts to provide conducive ecosystem for establishing business and industries in the country. In the past four and a half years, government has simplified several rules to enhance Ease of doing business. Older norms and laws have been declared obsolete and exterminated and transparency has been restored in the ecosystem. The outcome of such robust modifications is evident in the escalation of ease of doing business global rankings which propelled India to achieve record jump of 65 positions and from 142 nd we are today achieved 77th position. We have simplified steps to get electric connection, environmental clearance, construction permit, and compared to earlier state simplified transportation laws as well as almost all the things required to start your business are fairly easy now.


    Goods and Services Tax (GST) was another big step which has also facilitated establishment of a transparent system. Earlier you had to pay almost a dozen tax but now it is all assimilated into one.


    Recently GST Council has taken a decision, and this is important for all of you businessmenhere since this impacts your business and industries, that businessmen who have a turnover of 40 lakhs rupees are now exempted from GST registration. Previously this limit was for upto 20 lakhs rupees.


    Friends, persistent efforts are being made to ensure that GST infrastructure is consolidated as well as simplified further. On the basis of feedback and suggestions received from consumers and businessmen like you, continuous improvement is being made.


    Brothers and sisters, small and medium enterprises (SMEs and MSMEs) are the backbone of our economy. SMEs and MSMEs contribute 40-45% of the entire exports made by India. Government is ensuring that steps are taken to strengthen the businesses by providing export opportunities to SMEs and MSMEs as well.


    There is a big international market waiting to embrace India. Central government is providing all possible support to small entrepreneurs so that they find their place in this global market and reap the benefits of India's growing international credibility.


    Government has passed a resolution almost 2.5 months back that every MSME fulfilling GST registration can avail a 2% waiver/rebate on the interest liable to be paid for a new or incremental loan amount of up to one crore rupees. Especially for the benefit of such brothers and sisters who are exporters, government has increased the exemption of the rate of interest from three percent to five percent in the loan amount availed during pre-shipment and post-shipment period.


    Besides this, in the beginning of this year government has also taken an important decision which will greatly benefit small enterprises engaged in textile, leather, and handicraft machinery.


    Friends, until now entrepreneurs associated only with manufacturing sector were availing the interest waiver on the pre and post shipment credit. Similar demand was being made since long that merchant exporters should also be included in this who contribute significantly in the MSME sector.


    Two weeks back government has conceded to this demand and this is going to be immensely beneficial to all the small entrepreneurs who are involved in exports. According to an estimate, these small traders are slated to receive benefits amounting to about Rs 600 crore.


    Government has initiated several new machinery/infrastructure so that SMEs and MSMEs get access to new markets, interrupted cash flow so that no funds get stuck anywhere.


    Friends, government has established an online platform called GEM ie., government e-market place. The specialty of this portal is that every department in the central government makes maximum of their purchases through this GEM portal only. Government has also made a rule that they must make at least


    The benefit of this is that now evena small entrepreneurs who live in a remote parts of the country, any housewife can sell his product directly to the government. The result is that through this platform, there has been a transaction of approximately 16.6 billion rupees. It is no mean achievement to achieve 16 thousand rupees and that too in such a short time.


    Friends, the Government is trying to make processes as simple as possible for small entrepreneurs. We are moving towards the system when banks can give loans to small entrepreneurs on the basis of their GST and other returns only.


    Mindful of the hassles faced by entrepreneurs, the government has started this portal, through which the entrepreneurs get theoretical approval of a loan of up to Rs 1 crore in just fifty nine minutes; not an hour… just 59 minutes.


    Friends, there is now a lot of promotion of the skills of lakhs of families who are engaged with handlooms, power looms, handicrafts etc. For this, the government has implemented a number of schemes. Not only local fairs or hats are being arranged across the country, but centers are being established to organize world-level exhibitions. As I said before, such an event helps them to find a larger market, and increase their exports.


    Brothers and Sisters, there is another legacy which has an emotional connect for the entire country including Gujarat. This legacy is also associated with the Satyagraha of Bapu and also the sacrificemade for the freedom movement. This legacy is Khadi, the mention of which immediately links us to the freedom movement.


    Therefore, our government has pledged to work hard and make Khadi achieve a place of pride. It is because of the robust policies of the government that Khadi is now popular not only in India but also globally. Today there is an unprecedented sale of khadi in the country.


    Friends, the Government are engaged in fulfilling all your aspirations with utmost integrity. Be it tourism, or manufacturing or our service sector; millions of job opportunities have been created in the last four and a half years. Make in India has now become a global brand today.


    Brothers and sisters, motivated by the trust reposed by our countrymen the pace of development is now unstoppable. Farmers and youth …you all can now visualize the New India of your dreams. We simply have to steer clear of all negativities so as to make positive and honest efforts. Now that we are treading on this path, I wish to extend my best wishes to our dear business fraternity.


    Today I came in the afternoon and this is my fourth event. I inaugurated the International Trade Fair at Gandhinagar. I had the privilege of commissioning Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Hospital - a fantastic and state of art medical specialty facility which is the pride of Ahmedabad and Gujarat today. I also had the fortune of unveiling the statue ofhonorable scientist and pride of the nation DrVikram Sarabhai- son of the soil, gem of this city who toiled sitting on the banks of Sabarmati, who brought accolades to our nation in the field of science and technology and placed India on the world map with his outstanding contribution in space technology.


    This happens to be the birth centenary year of DrVikram Sarabhai. This will surely inspire more children of Gujarat towards science and technology and will inculcate scientific temperament in us. This will be an honest tribute to this honorable soul. And I honestly felt DrVikram Sarabhai himself sitting here soulfully and delving deep in his scholastic pursuits.


    With the point of view of art as well this place is enhancing the glory to the river front. It is indeed a pleasure for me to have been anointed for its inauguration.


    Today, when this shopping festival is beginning, I will urge the Gujarat government, Ahmedabad city and friends like our Shailesh Bhai Patwari to definitely explore the probabilities of declaring it an annual affair. And at the same time every year; you must have heard that these kinds of shopping festivals have become very popular in many places in the world.


    Those who have seen the shopping festival of New York would recall an event connected with it-Message Day Parade- which is immensely popular. This event gives an opportunity to businessmen to promote their products. The world waits eagerly every year to witness this famous Message Day parade.


    Can we not aspire for a special date where the products of even a small artisan get showcased? The artisan gets recognition among those who gather during the message parade. How about dreaming of making this festival really big and famous and most sought after event.


    I trust that Shaileshbhai and his team are already aiming at it. Many young minds have organized this with great enthusiasm and I am certain that they will take it to greater heights.


    I have another request. Well what was the image of Gujarat at one point of time- we were acknowledged as a small trading community. And what kind of trader-someone who would buy products from one trader and sell it to another and earn the commission offered to an intermediary. This was their business. But now gradually Gujarat has attained the status of a manufacturing state.


    Transitioning from a trader state to a manufacturing state in itself is a reward of the successful and long journey towards development. And therefore, acknowledging this strength Gujarat has now achieved an identity of a global community. Citizens of Gujarat have received global exposure. They have high multicultural quotient and are more worldly wise because a member of almost every family living in any district or village of Gujarat is residing in some part of the globe.


    As far as 200 to 400 years ago, Gujarati businessmen have demonstrated the acumen to sell their goods across the world in small ships. I once visited a Russian state called Astrakhan where I discovered that if a shop is very well known and offers good value for money and service, then it is very respectfully called ”Okha”- christened after the Okha in the vicinity of our Dwarika. Why? History says 400 years back our folks who used to travel there for business were known to sell their goods with great pride and hence they all were believed to have come from Okha. Even after so many centuries today the brand “Okha” sticks to quality products across generations. Such is our tradition/legacy.


    I strongly believe that now Gujarat and the people of Gujarat should carve a niche in the global business circuit. Target should be to enhance the exports. These small businesses really have a great value in global markets. The market opportunities are big for small articles like fittings and handicrafts. If we optimally capitalize upon such gateways, it will certainly open up the new avenues for Gujarat. We have natural links. What we know as Fear of unknown does not exist in the lexicon of Gujaratis. There is always a known person somewhere… almost everywhere.


    We should make efforts, develop communities, reap the benefits of incentives and we can soon become a force to reckon with in the world market. With this expectation, I once again have taken these steps for the new and transformed Ahmedabad. I invite all buyers to get maximum benefit from this shopping carnival. And I am convinced that Ahmdabadis (The people of Ahmadabad) will definitely gain from this. The discount offers are always a great pull and icing on the cake are the lottery tickets. It is a double bonanza for customers. I once again implore all the foreigners and citizens of Ahmadabad to enjoy and reap maximum benefit from this shopping festival.


    Once again I extend my best wishes! Kindly accept my gratitude.


    ***


    AKT/SH/SS/RSB/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560580) Visitor Counter : 384
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Marathi , Tamil