      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      5th National Swachh Iconic Places review in Mumbai Significant Progress in Sanitation at 20 Locations
      Posted On: 17 JAN 2019 9:43AM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation and State Government agencies, local administrations and the Trusts/ Boards of the Swachh Iconic Places (SIPs) came together for a two-day consultation in Mumbai, represented by over 100 delegates from across the country. The consultation included a field visit to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus where systematic Sanitation and restoration work is underway.


    The Swachh Iconic Places initiative aims to achieve a distinctly higher level of sanitation at these places, especially in the peripheries and approach areas. Following the clarion call by the Prime Minister to make Swachhata everybody’s business, the Centre and selected States have taken up joint efforts for making the country’s iconic places Swachh. The special Swachhata initiatives at these places have received CSR support from public and private companies.


    During the consultation, a review was also done of the work already taken up at the 20 Phase-I and Phase-II SIPs. These SIPs demonstrated significant progress in development of Sanitation facilities.


    Presiding over the review, Secretary of Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation, Shri ParameswaranIyer, while lauding the efforts made by this various teams, emphasized the importance of inter-sectoral collaborations in improvement of Sanitation.


    Director General, Special Projects, Swachh Bharat Mission, Shri Akshay Rout, made a presentation on the progress of work at various iconic sites over last two years. The extensive Swachhata related efforts at these iconic places were exhibited at the consultation. Additional Chief Secretary Maharashtra Shri Sham Lal underlined the range of ODF sustainability measures taken up by the State.


    Secretary, MDWS, also launched the Swachh Iconic Place (SIP) portal and logo created by the Ministry. The SIP portal is now live on http://swachhiconicplaces.gov.in/


    <><><><><>


    AR/SNC/SD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560268) Visitor Counter : 1195
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi