      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Clarification of WCD Ministry with respect to news item on BBBP
      Posted On: 22 JAN 2019 7:43PM by PIB Delhi


    With respect to a news item on BBBP which appeared in media, the Ministry of Women and Child Development has clarified that the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme (BBBP) addresses unabated decline in Child Sex Ratio (CSR) and related issues of women empowerment by changing society’s mindset to value the girl child. The steep decline in CSR since 1961 (1976 in 1961 to 927 in 2001 and 918 in 2011)is a matter of grave concern, as it reflects deep discrimination against girls/women both pre-birth and post birth , thereby resulting in perpetuation of low status of women in our society.


    The primary and main goal of the scheme is to create massive National mass awareness and sensitizationon the gravity of this unabated declining number of girls through Nation-wide 360 degree media campaign outreach . Side by side , related innovative activities in huge numbers are being carried out in 405 selected BBBP districts across the Country under the active leadership of District Magistrates/DCs/Collectors .The scheme is designed to devote substantial portion of its budget on community engegemments, awareness campaigns and publicity outreach, therefore it is obvious that expenditure in this aspect will be on the higher side .


    The scheme is a tri-ministerial scheme with the active involvement of Ministry of Women and Child Development, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Ministry of Human Resource Development at levels of Central, States and Districts. BBBP also has received unprecedented response from walks of life of the Society, including from political leadership and committed official machineries.


    The happy outcome of the scheme is the successful generation of huge awareness across the country taking the message of BBBP to every nook and corner. The scheme has triggered off unprecedented deliberations and introspection among the people, which is resulting in positive change of age old mindsets of the society towards girl child. This is evident by positive trend in Sex Ratio at Birth (SRB) with more girls getting birth since inception of BBBP in the last 4 years in the country. Also, the growing strong voices for protection, survival, education and empowerment of girl child can be seen amply by all.


    *****


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561010) Visitor Counter : 1115