      Ministry of Railways

      Railway Protection Force, an Armed Force protecting Indian Railways participates in the Republic Day Parade
      Posted On: 25 JAN 2019 1:14PM by PIB Delhi


    The contingent of Railway Protection Force (RPF), an Armed Force of the Union of India is participating in the Republic Day Parade-2019, representing about 75,000 Officer and men of the force deployed throughout the length and breadth of Indian Railways. The marching contingent of RPF is commanded by Shri Jethin B. Raj, Assistant Security Commissioner and also consists of three subordinate officers and 144 other ranks led by RPF Band. The RPF Band is being led by Mr. Mushtaq Ahmed, Inspector and consists of three subordinate officers and 88 other ranks playing the marching tune of “Bharat ke Jawan”. Prior to this year, the RPF contingent had participated in the Republic Day Parade-2016.


    The history of the Railway Protection Force dates back to 1882 when various railway companies appointed their own guards for protection of railway property. The force was declared as statutory force in the year 1957 by an enactment of Parliament subsequently declared as an Armed Force of the Union of India in the year 1985. The force has given creditable performance not only in safeguarding the railway property but also ensuring safety and security of railway passengers. During the last 61 year of its existence, member of the Force numbering more than 900 sacrificed their life in the service of the Nation while valiantly performing their duties under the hazardous conditions.


    This Force draws its men from all parts of the country and thus takes pride in reflecting a truly national character and image. The Force has earned recognition and glory since its inception. The RPF has received many Medals for meritorious service, bravery and good investigation during the discharge of duties. RPF received President’s Colour from the then Hon’ble President Dr. A.P.J Abdul Kalam in the year 2006. Upto 2018, RPF has been awarded with a total of 929 prestigious Medals which include 760 Indian Police Medals, 81 President’s Police Medals, 03 President’s Police Medals for gallantry, 18 Indian Police Medals for gallantry, 44 Fire Service Medals and 67 Railway Minister’s Medals.


    *****


    SVS/AP/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561378) Visitor Counter : 649
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi