      Ministry of Education

      Tackling the Examination Stress: Pariksha Pe Charcha 2.0 with Prime Minister tomorrow
      
      PM to interact with students, teachers and parents

      Posted On: 28 JAN 2019 4:56PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi will be interacting with a cross section of Students, Teachers and Parents from India and abroad inan expanded edition - Pariksha Pe Charcha 2.0 at Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi tomorrow . A lot of excitement and enthusiasm is being seen among the students, teachers and parents to not only participate in the unique event but also to receive valuable tips from the Prime Minister who is keen to ensure that the students take exams in a relaxed atmosphere and donot come under stress to ensure better results in the long run.


    All arrangements are in place for the successful conduct of the programme which will start at 11.00am tomorrow. The event which will be telecast live on Doordarshan and will be carried live by other TV Channels also. The participants have arrived in the capital from various States/UTsfrom all across the country. This year, college students from 24 States/UTs will also be participating in the programme. A total of 2000 students, teachers and parents will take part at Talkatora Stadium from all over India in Pariksha Pe Charcha 2.0.


    An online competition was organized from 7 th January to 17 th January, 2019, for students of classes 9 to 12, graduate and undergraduate college students, their parents and their teachers for selecting all those who will interact with the Prime Minister this year. T hey participated through www.mygov.in website on the following themes:-


    Students from Class 9 to 12 and Students in graduate and undergraduate classes


    a. Catchy Caption Contest.


    b. I am Inspired Contest for Classes 9 to 12.


    c. My Success Mantra for Graduate and undergraduate classes .


    For Teachers


    Teachers’ Thoughts


    For Parents


    Learning from my Exam Warrior


    On the MyGov portal, total 1,02,173 took part in the online contest and the details of the same were forwarded to all the States and UTs where the final selection of 2000 participants was made by a selection committee formed at each State/UT level.


    Unlike last year in Pariksha Par Charcha 2018, this year only the selected students, parents and teachers who have won the contest organised on the website of www.MyGov.in will be interacting with PM in Talkatora Stadium.


    For the first time, students from all over India and also Indian students residing abroadare participating as compared to last year where only Delhi / NCR students were invited. The participants from abroad includes from countries like Russia, Nigeria, Iran, Nepal, Doha, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and Singapore.


    This year a cultural programme of 10 minutes has also been included in which the winning students (e.g. Dancers/Singers etc) from Kala Utsav contest, their parents and teachers will be performing.


    A short film on initiatives taken by the Ministry of HRD will be shown highlighting the steps taken since last years’ Pariksha Par Charcha, to reduce exam related stress.


    Arrangements are being made for live telecast of the programme on 29 th January in all Government and CBSE Schools and Higher Education Institutions/Colleges of the Country and abroad.


    *****


    NB/AK/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561675) Visitor Counter : 474
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil , Malayalam