      Ministry of Railways

      Minister of Railways & Coal Shri Piyush Goyal Announces ‘Vande Bharat Express’
      
      Acknowledging its made-in-India status, Indian Railways has named the indigenously manufactured Train 18 as Vande Bharat Express
      
      Indian Railways is entering a new era of mobility since the launch of Rajdhani trains
      
      It is India's first semi-high speed train equipped with world class passenger amenities
      
      Vande Bharat Express is set to run between Delhi and Varanasi at a maximum speed of 160 kmph
      
      Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been requested to flag off the train

      Posted On: 27 JAN 2019 5:37PM by PIB Delhi

    Today, Minister of Railways & Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal announced the name Vande Bharat Express for Train 18, acknowledging its made-in-India status. He called it a ‘vandaniya’ step towards realisation of New India vision. This train set has been manufactured by Integral Coach Factory (ICF) in the period of 18 months under 'Make in India' program.


    Since the launch of Rajdhani trains, Vande Bharat Express is the next major leap for Indian Railways in terms of speed and convenience. It is India's first semi-high speed train equipped with world class passenger amenities.


    It can achieve high speeds (max speed of 160 kmph) due to faster acceleration & deceleration and will reduced journey time by 25% to 45%. Scheduled commute between New Delhi & Varanasi will take approximately 8 hours making it 40-50% faster than the fastest train currently connecting these two cities.


    Vande Bharat Express incorporates many modern features which debut for the very first time on Indian Railways. It has been provided with ‘State of the Art’ passenger amenities like On-board wifi entertainment, GPS based passenger information system, CCTVs, bio-vacuum toilets, rotating chairs in executive class, etc. at par with global standards. It also has provision of Divyang-friendly facilities. It will have 16 coaches with Chair Car type configuration with 2 Executive Class Chair Cars and 14 Chair Cars.


    Further, it has intelligent braking system with power regeneration for better energy efficiency thereby making it cost, energy and environment efficient.


    Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been requested to flag off this train. This is a momentous progress towards New India.


    ****


    SVS/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561592) Visitor Counter : 9431
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi