      Ministry of Tourism

      Five day long ‘Bharat Parv’ begins at Red Fort, New Delhi
      
      Statue of Unity replica and Gandhi Gram are major attractions this year

      Posted On: 26 JAN 2019 8:20PM by PIB Delhi

    ‘Bharat Parv’ event showcasing the spirit of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat began today at Red Fort as part of the Republic Day 2019 Celebrations. Shri Satyajeet Rajan, Director General, Ministry of Tourism inaugurated the event today. The 4 th edition of the Parv from 26 th to 31 st January 2019 is being organized by Ministry of Tourism in collaboration with other central Ministries and State Governments.


    Bharat Parv will be open for public from 12 Noon to 10 PM every day, from 26th to 31st January, 2019. The entry will be free. However, identity proof is to be carried for entry to the event. The major highlights of this year are the replica of the Statue of Unity created by sculptor Shri. Ram Vanji Suttar and a Gandhi Gram in which 10 painting artists will create paintings on the theme of 'Ideology of Mahatma Gandhi'.


    Organized by the Ministry of Tourism other highlights of this year are the Display of Republic Day Parade Tableaux, Performances by the Armed Forces Bands (Static as well as dynamic), and Photo Exhibition by the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP). The event will also include IRCTC’ promotions on special tourist trains, ‘Jago Grahak Jago’ Consumer Awareness campaign, the exhibition-cum-sale of crafts items. The Parv is also hosting Theme State Pavilions where each State showcases its strength along with its tourism products. The other attractions are a Multi-Cuisine Food Court and, Crafts Mela, Cultural Performances from different regions of the country. The Food Court will also have stalls set up by the States / UTs, National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI) showcasing street food from different regions. A live ‘Cookery Demonstration Area’ has been set up in the food court to promote cuisines of different States of India. Uttarakhand food demonstration will be showcased on 27 th January 2019 . In addition to these, the North Zone Cultural Centre (NZCC) will be conducting daily Cultural Performances from different regions of the country.


    Click here to access the Key cultural events of the Bharat Parv:


    ******


    NB/JP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561565) Visitor Counter : 1834
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi