      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Ministry of Women & Child Development to Celebrate National Girl Child Day tomorrow
      Posted On: 23 JAN 2019 3:40PM by PIB Delhi


    The Women & Child Development Ministry will celebrate National Girl Child Day (NGCD) tomorrow, the 24th January, 2019 at Pravasi Bharti Kendra, Chankyapuri, New Delhi. The programme will also observe anniversary of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP) Scheme. The theme of this NGCD is “ Empowering Girls for a Brighter Tomorrow ” and celebrating with objectives of generating awareness on the issue of declining Child Sex Ratio (CSR) and create a positive environment around valuing the girl child. Union Minister, MWCD, Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi will grace the occasion as Chief Guest and Minister of State, Dr. Virendra Kumar will be the Guest of Honour of the event.


    On this occasion of celebration of National Girl Child Day, WCD Minister will be felicitating Principal Secretaries/Commissioners of the 5 States for their overall support, guidance & monitoring of the Scheme. While the District Magistrates/Deputy Commissioners of 25 Districts covering 21 States/UT Administration will also be felicitated for their exemplary work done in three categories, (i) Effective Community Engagement- (16 districts are selected ), (ii) Enforcement of Pre Conception & Pre Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act (PC&PNDT Act)- (2 districts are selected ) and (iii) Enabling Girl Child Education- (7 districts are selected ).


    A booklet on “ Innovations under BBBP ” will also be released on the occasion. The Ministry has compiled 38 Innovative Activities from Districts across the country to set an example for other Districts. These interventions have been categorized according to five themes, which are Survival , Protection , Education , Participation and Valuing Girls.


    Another important activity o n the occasion is experience sharing of 3 local champions selected under BBBP by Districts. The local champions are acting as a catalyst and inspired other girls as well as parents. During NGCD, a week long campaign has been planned at District, Block and Anganwadi/Village levels in all the implementing districts across the country. Joint Secretary, MWCD has inaugurated the week at Karnal, Haryana on 21st January, 2019 . The activities includes pre-event activities as a build up to the NGCD and followed by Post event activities and starting from 21st January 2019 as a run up to the NGCD event on 24th January, 2019 and followed by Post event activities until 26th January, 2019


    Background on BBBP


    Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP) Scheme was launched by Hon’ble Prime Minister on 22 nd January, 2015 at Panipat in Haryana. Seeing the good progress and improving trend of Sex Ratio at Birth (SRB) in 161 implementing districts. Hon’ble Prime Minister of India launched the All India Expansion of BBBP covering all 640 districts (as per Census 2011) at Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan on 8 th March 2018. Out of 640 districts, 405 districts are covered under advocacy & multi-sectoral action while the remaining 235 districts are covered under media advocacy & outreach . It is a tri-ministerial effort of Ministries of Women and Child Development, Health & Family Welfare and Human Resource Development.


    BBBP Scheme is a Central Sector Scheme with 100% financial assistance for District level component and the fund are directly released to the DC/DM’s account for smooth operation of the Scheme . BBBP is a comprehensive programme to address the declining Child Sex Ratio (CSR) and related issues of empowerment of women over a life-cycle continuum. The CSR, defined as number of girls per 1000 boys in the age group of 0-6 years. The specific objectives of the scheme include preventing gender biased sex selective elimination; ensuring survival and protection of the girl child and ensuring education and participation of the girl child.


    At the Central level, Ministry of Women and Child Development is the nodal ministry for the programme and National Task Force headed by Secretary, MWCD with the representation of Partner Ministry and other nominated members. At the State level, Chief Secretaries heads the State Task Force (STF) with representation of Department of WCD, Health and Education to monitor the implementation of the scheme. The District Collectors/Deputy Commissioners (DCs) lead and coordinate action of all departments for implementation of BBBP at the District level. The improving trend in Sex Ratio at Birth (SRB) by 9 points has been seen at all India level from 918 in F.Y. 2014-15 to 927 in F.Y. 2017-18 (up to January, 2018) in as per HMIS report received from MoH&FW.


    *****


    NB/PS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1561063) Visitor Counter : 2456
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil