      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Shri Dharmendra Pradhan launches new reforms, guidelines to strengthen Jan Shikshan Santhans (JSS)
      
      Empowers JSS through new guidelines aligning them to National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF)
      
      Launch of a portal with phase 1 functionality aggregating overall ecosystem database
      
      Pilot launch of Blended Training System, a comprehensive ICT -based platform that provides numerous benefits for trainees and trainers
      Posted On: 24 JAN 2019 6:26PM by PIB Delhi


    In a bid to boost skill training and entrepreneurship in the remotest corners of the country, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Petroleum and Natural Gas (MSDE) announced comprehensive reforms for Jan ShikshanSansthan (JSS), to further strengthen the skills ecosystem benefiting those in the underprivileged sections of society. The announcements were made today during the National Conference for Jan ShikshanSansthan (JSSs) which was held here today.Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas & Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, said “The emergence of the rural industry as an important growth engine for the economy makes it an imperative for us to stress on skilling our youth in remote districts of the country. JSSs can play an important role in bridging information asymmetry between skill training and market opportunities thereby giving an impetus to the creation of a workforce equipped in technology-driven skills, including in areas like health & wellness, tourism, e-commerce, retail and trade.JSS guidelines have been reformed keeping in mind the diverse stakeholders engaged in running these institutions, and will bring in greater flexibility, transparency and uniformity.”


    Formerly under the Ministry of Human Resources Development, Jan ShikshanSansthan has been transferred to the Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship in 2018. Today’s conference saw the release of new guidelines, aligning the JSSs to the National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF). This marks an important step towards the convergence of all skilling activities under the aegis of one ministry, bringing in transparency and accountability to the entire skilling ecosystem.


    Jan ShikshanSansthan (JSS) has been instrumental in skill training and introducing avenues of entrepreneurship among the socio-economically backward and educationally disadvantaged groups such as neo-literates, semi-literates, SCs, STs, women and girls, slum dwellers, migrant workers. By bringing them under the aegis of the national skill framework, the agenda of today’s event was to align all skilling activities to a common cause of skill development at the district and gram level.


    Giving an overview on the direction being given to JSS,Ms. JuthikaPatankar, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship said,“A skilled society is an essential precondition for achieving social and economic advancement for any country. The re-energised JSS form a unique position for themselves and I am certain that their convergence under Skill India will help bring in a mindset shift amongst our rural youth, to make vocational education and technical training as a preferred career choice. Skilling will not only make them independent but will also help in arresting migration from rural areas to already choked metros.”


    “Today, out of the 247 active JSS, we already have 43 JSSs established across 42 Aspirational Districts identified by NITI Aayog and we will soon be introducing a few more in the LWE regions to promote skill development of the youth in the region and help them connect back into mainstream economy. I am positive of the change that the JSS will bring to the ecosystem,” she further added.


    Release of New Guidelines


    The launch of these strategic guidelines is an attempt by the MSDE to re-energize and reinvigorate the Jan ShikshanSansthans. By aligning JSSs to the National Skill Framework, the Government aims to provide standardised training across sectors. Key highlights of the guidelines are:

      * Alignment of JSS course and curriculum to National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) to standardize training
      * Decentralization of powers for JSSs- giving more accountability and independence to district administration
      * To identify and promote traditional skills in the district through skilling / upskilling;
      * Evidence based assessment system
      * Easy Online certification
      * Linking JSS to PFMS (Public Finance Management system) maintaining transparency and accountability of the ecosystem
      * Creating livelihood linkages
      * Training of Trainers to develop the capacity through NSTIs (National Skills Training Institutes)

    JSS portal launch:


    The Ministry also announced the launch of a new website ( www.jss.gov.in ); which will furnish information on action plans, database of beneficiaries and stakeholders, details of finance and expenditure and other ongoing developments along with a public log-in access.


    Blended Training System:


    Today’s conference also saw the pilot launch of Amrita University’s Blended Training System at Jan ShikshanSansthans (JSSs) with e-content entailing selected skill courses. This is a comprehensive ICT -based platform that provides numerous benefits for trainees and trainers.


    Additional Announcement: MoU with NACER


    MSDE and NSDC signed a MoU with NACER, the apex body for Rural Self Employment Training Institutes (RSETIs) under MoRD. The objective of this collaboration is to provide skilled PMKVY candidates from PMKKs for the 10-day residential Entrepreneurship Development Program (EDP) at RSETIs. RSETIs shall also support the candidates to access loans through credit linkages with public sector banks and also provide two-year mentorship support to the candidates. NACER has a strong institutional set up and also provides two- year mentorship to the candidate post loan linkage & Successful record for availing credit from banks


    An Overview of Jan ShikshanSansthan


    Currently, there are 247 JSSs working across the country towards making skilling and entrepreneurship benefits accessible to the underprivileged and are imparting vocational skill training programmes to beneficiaries at their doorstep.


    In the past five years, over eight lakh people have benefitted from the JSS scheme. More than 86,000 men have been registered. More importantly, and what is a very encouraging sign, there has been an unprecedented surge in the registration of women, with over 7 lakh registrations.


    JSSs have helped open over 1 lakh bank accounts under Pradhan Mantri Jan DhanYojana (PMJDY) and mobilized around 7.5 lakh beneficiaries who were enrolled in Pradhan Mantri Suraksha BimaYojana (PMSBY). With a substantial rise in establishment of more than 1 lakh entrepreneurs, JSS has successfully generated employment across various sectors. Earlier known as ShramikVidyapeeth and later renamed Jan ShikshanSansthan in April 2000, the scheme has been successfully working for the past 50 years.


    ****


    YKB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561309) Visitor Counter : 4458
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

*