      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Nitin Gadkari Lays Foundation Stone for Six-Lane Access-Controlled Highway to Link Akshardham with EPE Junction on Baghpat Road
      
      Project to Decongest Delhi NCR

      Posted On: 26 JAN 2019 4:39PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping and Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Nitin Gadkari has said that works worth Rs 50,000 crore have been sanctioned for road projects around Delhi. He said, these will immensely improve the air pollution in the Capital city generated due to traffic congestion. He said, controlling air pollution is not a difficult task with all agencies now agreeing to join hands.


    Addressing the gathering after laying the foundation stone for development of a six-lane, access controlled corridor from Akshardham in East Delhi to the Eastern Peripheral Expressway junction on Baghpat Road today, the Minister referred to construction of Eastern and Western Peripheral Expressway around Delhi, which have brought over 27 per cent reduction in commercial traffic. Shri Gadkari announced that the 90 km Delhi-Meerut Express Highway will be operational by April this year. He informed that work on Dwarka Expressway is being taken up at a cost of Rs 10,000 crore. Work on Saharanpur Express Road has started. He also referred to several other road projects in areas around Delhi, which on completion, will smoothen the traffic scenario in NCR region.


    The 31.3 km road stretch, for which foundation stone was laid today, is part of NH-709B that will run from Akshardham to Saharanpur Bypass. The alignment of the road will be from Akshardham - Geeta Colony - Shastri Park - Khazuri Khas - Delhi/UP border – Mandola - EPE Intersection. It will be developed in two packages – first a 14.75 km stretch from Akshardham to Delhi/UP border and the other 16.57 km stretch from Delhi/UP border to EPE Intersection. There will be a 19 km elevated section. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 2820 crore. The project includes construction of 3+3 lane service roads on either side of the highway, eight new underpasses, seven ramps connecting major roads, 15 major junctions, 34 minor junctions, and over-bridges at Delhi-Shahdara, New Delhi-Anand Vihar railway lines and Dilshad Garden-ISBT Metro Line. The high-speed signal-free corridor is expected to contribute to decongestion and considerable reduction in pollution levels in Delhi NCR.


    ***


    NP/MS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1561529) Visitor Counter : 594
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi