      Vice President's Secretariat

      Voluntary services like NSS, NCC should be made mandatory for children from schooldays: Vice President
      
      NSS helps students to develop the feeling of oneness, empathy & compassion;
      
      Serving people in distress is true Patriotism;
      
      Youth must become agents of social change, economic growth & innovation;
      
      Addresses NSS Volunteers who participated in the Republic Day Parade
      Posted On: 28 JAN 2019 1:48PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that a stint in voluntary services like NSS, NCC should be made mandatory for children from schooldays. He said that such training would help students to develop the feeling of oneness, develop empathy and compassion and become sensitive to the needs of the less fortunate.


    Interacting with volunteers of National Service Scheme (NSS) who participated in the Republic Day Parade, here today, Shri Naidu appreciated their passion and commitment for taking up community service at a young age. By doing this you are realizing the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi who had said “the best way to find oneself is to lose oneself in the service of others”, he said.


    Saying that serving people in distress was the real Desh Bhakthi or true Patriotism, the Vice President asked students to develop the habit of social service from very early age. He also wanted the younger generation to love and live with the nature for a brighter future.


    Shri Naidu appreciated NSS volunteers for actively participating in programmes like Swachh Bharat and for serving people in times of natural calamities like floods by collecting relief materials. He said that such activities reinforce India’s core philosophy of ‘Share and Care’.


    The Vice President said that the participation of youth in decision-making and development processes was essential to take the country forward. He asked them to become agents of social change, economic growth and technological innovation to take the country forward.


    Shri Naidu also showed them around his residence, including the badminton court and stressed the need for youth to be physically active and adopt healthy dietary habits to prevent lifestyle diseases.


    More than 200 National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers from various parts of the country have called on the Vice President at his residence. This interaction is part of NSS’s one-month Republic Day Parade Camp where they get an opportunity to interact with the President, the Vice President and the Prime Minister apart from participating in Republic Day Parade on January 26.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561646) Visitor Counter : 840
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi