      Ministry of Culture

      Pravasi Bharatiya Divas concludes today with plenary session on "Indian Diaspora’s role in capacity building of artificial intelligence in India"
      Posted On: 23 JAN 2019 6:27PM by PIB Delhi


    On the third and final day of Pravasi Bharatiya Diwas event at Varanasi, several important issues were taken up in plenary session. One such important discussion was on "INDIAN DIASPORA'S ROLE IN CAPACITY BUILDING OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN INDIA". The experts emphasized on making artificial intelligence (AI), a supplementing tool for service of humanity instead of taking away and replacing the human role itself. Experts also focussed on building strong fundamentals in maths as it is the very building block of computing in general and developing AI in particular. Experts from USA, Canada and Australia also said there is a huge potential in Sanskrit language to be used in advance computing and paving way for AI.


    Ritesh Tandon from CRISIL USA advised that since India has a huge challenge in the field of food distribution among it's people, the adapted AI may come handy in the field. While Suresh Upmadharan said India can use Artificial intelligence and drones to mitigate deforestation and seeding the barren lands to turn it into green fields. He elaborated such advances being made in US through his company.


    Several delegates of PBD 2019 were more than willing to share their technology and expertise to help the farming sector in a big way. As most of the Indian farmers can not afford to purchase the advance equipment related to "Precision Agriculture", which has become routine in developed countries, venture capitalists and firms expressed willingness to do it for farmers on a large scale through Government of India sponsorship.


    The session was attended by senior officials of IT ministry, NITI Ayog, MEA and experts of several other sectors. MoS of MEA Gen VK Singh presided over the session and also answered the queries of the participants.


    *****


    AMS/MUK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1561158) Visitor Counter : 681