      Ministry of Railways

      Kleinman Center for Energy Policy at the University of Pennsylvania awards 4th annual Carnot Prize to Union Minister Shri Piyush Goyal
      
      Carnot Prize is the Kleinman Center’s annual recognition of distinguished contributions to energy policy through scholarship or practice
      
      Carnot Prize is the most prestigious award in the energy sector
      
      This award to Shri Piyush Goyal is a recognition of the pathbreaking transformations in India’s energy sector under the visionary leadership of Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi
      
      It is an acknowledgement of India’s climate conscious, and development driven energy governance that is fuelling the aspirations of 125 crore people
      
      Award money received will be donated to the International Solar Alliance to institute the Diwakar Award
      
      Diwakar award will recognise, every year, an outstanding organisation that has been working for special children and maximising the use of solar energy

      Posted On: 30 JAN 2019 7:30PM by PIB Delhi

    The Kleinman Center for Energy Policy at the University of Pennsylvania School of Design formally presented the fourth annual Carnot Prize to Union Minister Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of Railways & Coal and former Minister of Power, Coal, New & Renewable Energy and Mines, Government of India, at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. Shri Goyal had previously been unable to accept the award in the United States of America, due to to the unfortunate train tragedy that took place in Amritsar.


    The award recognises the pathbreaking transformations in India’s energy sector under the visionary leadership of Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. The efforts of Hon’ble Ministers Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas, and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, and Shri R.K. Singh, Minister for Power, and New and Renewable Energy will further bolster India’s commitment towards mitigating climate change and provide energy security to the 125 crore people of the nation.


    Shri Piyush Goyal had stated that “it is both a personal honour as well as a tribute to the efforts of all involved in this great work throughout India to be recognised with the Carnot Prize by the University of Pennsylvania”.


    Additionally, he has decided that the award money, which he will receive as part of the 2018 Carnot Prize, will be donated to the International Solar Alliance to institute the Diwakar Award. The Diwakar award will recognise, every year, an outstanding organisation that has been working for special children and maximising the use of solar energy.


    The Carnot Prize is the Kleinman Center’s annual recognition of distinguished contributions to energy policy through scholarship or practice. The most prestigious award in the energy sector, Carnot Prize is named after French physicist Nicolas Sadi Carnot who recognised that the power of the steam engine would “produce a great revolution” in human development. The Carnot Prize is intended to honour those leading revolutions in energy policy to further progress and prosperity. Previous winners include: Dr. Daniel Yergin, Vice chairman of IHS, Dr. Fatih Birol, Director of International Energy Agency, Gina McCarthy is a career public servant in fields of energy and environment.


    The 2018 Carnot Prize is a recognition of India’s efforts towards eliminating energy poverty with sustainable energy solutions. The rural electrification drive helped in achieving ‘24x7 Affordable, Environment Friendly Power for all’, as India eliminated decades of darkness in more than 19,000 villages on 28th April, 2018. With the Saubhagya Programme, the last-mile connectivity to every household in the villages is being fast tracked. Mark Alan Hughes, founding faculty director, Kleinman Center, commended India’s electrification drive - “ Providing power to the world’s energy poor turns on the lights—and also empowers education, sanitation, and health care. It closes the gap between the haves and have nots.”


    Hon’ble Prime Minister has called climate conservation an article of faith for India. The massive thrust to green energy is reflected in India’s 175 GW target by 2022, which is the world’s largest renewable expansion programme. The Carnot Prize recognises India’s “solid footing to reach a 40% renewable mix by 2030” (Kleinman Center for Energy Policy). Hon’ble Prime Minister gave the vision of “one world, one sun, one grid” while addressing the member nations of the International Solar Alliance, and India is playing its role as a committed solar leader through steady progress on all green energy goals.


    In the last four years, energy efficiency has become a people’s movement in India, making the Government’s UJALA scheme the world’s largest LED distribution programme . Along with private sector participation, 143 crore LED bulbs have been provided.


    *****


    SVS/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561993) Visitor Counter : 1112