      Ministry of Power

      Power Minister Shri RK Singh lays the foundation stone of Regional testing laboratory of CPRI at Nashik; Manufacturers in the western region to benefit greatly
      Posted On: 30 JAN 2019 5:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri R K Singh, Union Minister of State (IC) for Power and New & Renewable Energy, Government of India laid the foundation stone of Regional testing laboratory of Central Power Research Institute (CPRI) at Nashik, Maharashtra today.


    Manufacturers in the western region will be greatly benefited as they can test their products close to their manufacturing units. This would reduce the turnaround time and overhead cost. This shall help the power utilities in the country to install reliable and quality equipment in the power system network.


    Electrical Equipment plays a vital role in the Power System Network right from Generation, Transmission & Distribution. Such electrical equipment needs to be tested and certified as per the national and international standards.


    Electricity demand in the country has increased rapidly and is expected to rise further in the years to come. In order to meet the increasing demand for electricity in the country, massive addition to the installed generating capacity is required. This leads to growth of electrical industries and development of indigenous products. Keeping this in view, Government of India has sanctioned establishing Research and Testing facilities in the western region at Nashik at an outlay of Rs 115.3 Cr.


    The proposed new unit of CPRI at Nashik is being established on the Land allotted by Government of Maharashtra at Shilapur, Nashik. The unit at Nashik will have On Line Short Circuit test facilities for Transformers, miniature circuit breakers, contactors, switch fuse unit, panels, busducts and Current Transformers. In addition state of the art facilities are being established for Energy Meter (Both Smart Meter & Conventional Meter) and Transformer Oil.


    The occasion was graced by Shri Chandrashekhar Krishnarao Bawankule, Minister for Energy, New & Renewable Energy and State Excise, Govt. of Maharashtra , and the people’s representatives from the area.


    About CPRI :


    To cater to the testing needs, CPRI, Autonomous body under Ministry of Power, Govt of India serves as an Independent third party testing laboratory. CPRI has been serving for the past five decades in the field of Testing and Certification, Research, Consultancy, Third Party Inspection services, Training & Vendor Analysis.


    *****


    RCS/MS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1561954) Visitor Counter : 969
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi