      Vice President's Secretariat

      Preserve our Culture and Heritage in the country where you live: Vice President advises NRIs
      
      Do something for your native place and the society;
      
      India is on the move and going to be the 3rd largest economy in coming years;
      
      Interacts with NRIs who participated in Pravasi Bharatiya Divas 2019
      Posted On: 25 JAN 2019 7:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that the NRIs living around the world should preserve our culture and heritage and do something for their native place and the society. He was interacting with the NRIs participated in the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas 2019 which was held in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, who called on him at his residence, here today.


    Shri Naidu said that one should always remember five things – Mother, Native Place, Mother Tongue, Motherland and the Teacher. He advised the NRIs to speak in their respective mother tongues when they are at home. He also advised them to teach mother tongue to their children.


    The Vice President said that India is on the move and it is going to become the 3 rd largest economies in coming few years. While the world economy is going down, India is performing better, he added.


    Shri Naidu advised the NRIs to respect the country where they are living and follow their rules and regulations which gave them shelter. Do your best for the development of that country and at the same time, do something for your motherland, he added.


    About 50 NRIs from various countries who hail from states like Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab etc., have called on the Vice President. All the NRIs have appreciated the Vice President for sparing much time and interacting with them.


    Sikh community delegation complimented and thanked the Vice President for Kartarpur Sahib Corridor initiative. The NRIs were particularly appreciative of the of the arrangements made for the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas in Varanasi and arrangements at Kumbh Mela and the hospitality affections shown by the people wherever they were going.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561466) Visitor Counter : 492
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi