      Ministry of Culture

      Exhibition organised by LKA Commemorating 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi
      Posted On: 29 JAN 2019 9:21PM by PIB Delhi


    Commemorating the 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and highlighting his principles of non-violence and peace, the Lalit Kala Akademi(LKA) has organised an exhibition titled 'Mahatma Gandhi and World Peace' at the Lalit Kala Akademi Art Galleries of Rabindra Bhawan, Mandi House, New Delhi. Dr Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State for Culture(I/c) inaugurated the show in the presence of Lalit Kala Akademi Chairman, Sh. Uttam Pacharne, Joint Secretary Ministry of Culture, Nirupama Kotru and Secretary, LKA Rajan Shripad Fulari. Dean Vishwanath Sabale, Professor Mariti Shelke, Professor Shashikant Gorakhe from Sir JJ School of Arts and Artists, art critics and art lovers in a great number attended the inaugural ceremony.


    Inaugurating the exhibition, Dr Mahesh Sharma appreciated the initiatives of the Akademi in conveying the message of peace among new generation and added, “Gandhiji has contributed a lot to the upliftment of the people throughout the world and has influenced people in each and every perspective. We will keep on celebrating many such inspirational personalities. I congratulate Lalit Kala Akademi for organising such a beautiful exhibition on Gandhiji.”


    The show has been organised in association with Sir J.J. School of Art, Mumbai. Over 75 artworks by the same number of artists have been put on display in this exhibition. The artists have shown their creative perspectives and thoughts about Gandhiji and World Peace


    Sh. Uttam Pacharne, Chairman, Lalit Kala Akademi, in his inaugural address, reiterated the glorious journey of Mahatma Gandhi towards his strong principles of non-violence and his teachings of achieving world peace. He said, "We've all known the struggle of Independence of the great men who spent their whole lives conveying the message of peace. Let's remember them and follow on with their ideologies".


    Guest of Honour Sh. Ram V. Sutar expressed his happiness and said, "I've always been inspired by Gandhiji's principles, in 1948 I got my first chance to sculpt his statue. After that, I made many statues of him. I congratulate Lalit Kala Akademi for organising such an exhibition."


    The show will be on view for public till 12th February 2019 from 11 am to 7 pm every day at the Lalit Kala Akademi Art Galleries of Rabindra Bhawan, Mandi House, New Delhi.


    *****


    NB/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561890) Visitor Counter : 665