      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      The start of online inter-state trade through the e-NAM portal this month is a landmark achievement in e-NAM history
      
      First inter-State trade on e-Nam between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana has been carried out on 19.01.2019
      
      e-NAM is not just a scheme but it’s a journey which aims to reach to the last mile farmer and transform the way they sell their agri produce :- Sanjay Agarwal, Secretary, Department of Agriculture Cooperation & Farmer’s Welfare
      Posted On: 23 JAN 2019 5:55PM by PIB Delhi


    The e-NAM platform has reached an inflection point by initiation of inter-state trade in January 2019. The start of online inter-state trade through the e-NAM portal this month is a landmark achievement in e-NAM history and its strengthening in future will definitely add a new chapter to Agricultural marketing in the Indian context. The first inter-State trade on e-Nam between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana has been carried out on 19.01.2019 between farmer from Gadwal mandi in Telangana State, who sold 8.46 quintal of groundnut to, a trader in Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh through the e-NAM portal. This has been followed by another trade between these two mandis across both States.


    Launched by Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on 14th April, 2016 in 21 Mandis across 8 States with pilot trading of 24 Commodities, the e-NAM portal has integrated 585 Regulated Markets on the common e-market platform in 16 States and 2 Union Territories with trading in 124 commodities. The e-NAM platform is a pan-India electronic trading (e-trading) portal to network the existing physical regulated wholesale market (known as APMC market) through a virtual platform to create a unified national market for agricultural commodities. e-NAM platform promotes better marketing opportunities for the farmers to sell their produce through online, competitive and transparent price discovery system and online payment facility. Already 2.29 crore MT trade with value of more than Rs.60,000 crore has been recorded on e-NAM platform.


    Initially, trade on e-NAM started inside the individual e-NAM mandi, with involvement of farmers and traders of that mandi. After persuasive efforts by the Government of India, inter-mandi trade on e-NAM platform started within the State. Now inter-mandi trade within e-NAM States is happening in 10 States.


    The next logical step in this process was the initiation of Inter-State trade and after coordination by Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India, the same has started between the farmers & traders of States of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand followed by that between Andhra Pradesh and Telengana. The very first Inter State transaction on e-NAM in India has been recorded between trader of Bareilly e-NAM APMC of Uttar Pradesh and farmer of Haldwani e-NAM APMC of Uttarakhand for trade in tomatoes. Similarly, the inter-State transactions in potatoes, brinjal, cauliflower, raddish, peas, carrot and cabbage etc. have been carried out successively between several e-NAM mandis of Uttarakhand & Uttar Pradesh. Inter-State trade can take place in all 124 commodities promoted on e-NAM platform which covers all major cereals, coarse cereals, pulses, oilseeds, spices, flowers, minor forest produce etc. Now more States are planning to start inter-State trade on e-NAM platform.


    To increase the network on online mandis, e-NAM project will be expanded to other regulated markets. The Government plans to integrate another 415 mandis by March 2020 with the e-NAM portal.


    *****


    *****


    RCS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561146) Visitor Counter : 1628
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi