      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Ministry of Women & Child Development Celebrates National Girl Child Day in the Capital today
      
      
      BBBP is one of the most successful programmes of the Government: Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi

      Posted On: 24 JAN 2019 5:36PM by PIB Delhi

    The Women & Child Development Ministry celebrated National Girl Child Day (NGCD) today 24th January, 2019 at Pravasi Bharti Kendra, Chankyapuri, New Delhi. The celebrations also marked the anniversary of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP) Scheme. The theme of this NGCD is “ Empowering Girls for a Brighter Tomorrow ” and celebrating with objectives of generating awareness on the issue of declining Child Sex Ratio (CSR) and create a positive environment around valuing the girl child. Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi, Union Minister for Ministry of WCD was the Chief Guest and Minister of State, Dr. Virendra Kumar was the Guest of Honour for the event. Ms. Kavita Jain, Haryana Minister for Women and Child Development among other dignitaries were also present.


    Congratulating the award winning States & Districts on the occasion, Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi said that in the last four years, the Ministry has managed to change the mindset of people towards girl child. Enumerating girl child centric measures taken by the Government, she said with combined efforts of States and Centre the Ministry has been successful in implementing One Stop Centres, Panic Button, measures of cancelling passports of NRI marriages, Sexual Harassment of Women at Work Place etc. She thanked the efforts of all the stakeholders in making it possible. Beti Bachao Beti Padhao has been one of the most successful programmes of the Government, the Minister added.


    Secretary WCD, Shri Rakesh Srivastav highlighted the achievements under BBBP and steps being taken for all round development of the girl child.


    A booklet on “ Innovations under BBBP ” was also released on the occasion. The Ministry has compiled 38 Innovative Activities from Districts across the country to set an example for other Districts. These interventions have been categorized according to five themes, which are Survival , Protection , Education , Participation and Valuing Girls.


    A slide show on various activities under taken by state/UTs and Districts also featured during the programme. A North East choir presented a lively song by Mao students. As per the theme of NGCD, three local champions (Wokha District, Nagaland, Firozepur District, Punjab and Tiruvannamalai district of Tamil Nadu) shared their experiences and highlighted how they are motivating others too. Smt. Kavita Jain, WCD Minister of Haryana and Smt. Rekha Sharma, Chairperson, NCW also address the gathering. A good number of school students participated from Kendriya Vidyalaya, INA Colony, Convent of Jesus & Marry, Bangla Sahib Marg, Air Force Force Senior Secondary School, Race Course, DPS, Police Station Rama Krishna Puram and Sanskriti School, Dr. S. Radhakrishnan Marg, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi


    The occasion was also marked by felicitation of the 5 States and 25 Districts under the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP) scheme for their exemplary performance. The following States/Districts have been felicitated under the categories as mentioned below:-


     1. States :

                                                
S.No.  Category                  Names of States
                                                
                                                
                                                
1.     East & North East region  Nagaland       
                                                
                                                
                                                
2.     West region               Rajasthan      
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
3.     North region              Haryana        
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
4.     South region              Tamil Nadu     
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
5.     Central region            Madhya Pradesh 
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                               
TOTAL  5                       
                               
                               

     1. Districts :

                                                                                                                                
S.No.  Category                                                                                 Names of Districts              
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
1.     Effective Community Engagement- (16)                                                     i. Raigarh , Chhattisgarh       
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                ii. Senapati , Manipur          
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                iii. Kamrup Metropolitan , Assam
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                iv. Wokha , Nagaland            
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                v. Hoshangabad , Madhya Pradesh 
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                vi. Pulwama , Jammu & Kashmir   
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                vii. Karnal, Haryana            
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                viii. Ferozepur , Punjab        
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                ix. Koderma , Jharkhand         
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                x. Tiruvannamalai, Tamil Nadu   
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                xi. Dehradun, Uttarakhand       
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                xii. Nellore , Andhra Pradesh   
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                xiii. Firozabad , Uttar Pradesh 
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                xiv. Gadag , Karnataka          
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                xv. Mandi , Himachal Pradesh    
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                xvi. Karimnagar , Telangana     
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
2.     Enforcement of Pre Conception & Pre Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act (PC&PNDT Act)- ( 2)  i. Jhunjhunu , Rajasthan        
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                ii. Kurukshetra , Haryana       
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
3.     Enabling Girl Child Education- (7)                                                       i. Banka , Bihar                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                ii Bandipora , Jammu & Kashmir  
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                iii. Diu , Daman & Diu          
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                iv. Jhajjar , Haryana           
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                v. Hanumangarh , Rajasthan      
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                vi. North West , Delhi          
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                vii. Gandhinagar , Gujarat      
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                              
TOTAL  25                                                                                     
                                                                                              
                                                                                              

    The event culminated by an enlightening cultural programme performed by professional Pantomime group.


    *****


    NB/PS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1561286) Visitor Counter : 1528
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
1.