      Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises

      ICAT signs MoU with KIAPI for Indian Certification of safety critical components
      Posted On: 23 JAN 2019 6:25PM by PIB Delhi


    International Centre for Automotive Technology (ICAT) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Korea Intelligent Automotive Parts and Promotion Institute (KIAPI), South Korea to support Korean Automotive Industry for Indian Certification of safety critical components as well as vehicles. This MoU was signed by Mr. Dinesh Tyagi, Director (ICAT) and Mr. MyungHo Sung, President (KIAPI) on 22 nd January 2019 in Daegu City of South Korea. Enhancing awareness about future technologies in India and supporting Government of India for the formulation of regulations and creating testing Infrastructure within the country will also be two major focus areas of this MoU. Apart from Indian certification, as per various Indian and Automotive Industry Standards (AIS), ICAT will collaborate with KIAPI in the field of future technologies like autonomous driving, electric vehicles, connected transportation, fuel cell vehicles and advanced driver-assistance systems.


    Dinesh Tyagi said, “We look forward to a long term business relationship with Korean Industry through KIAPI. We envisage more collaboration with KIAPI beyond Indian certification. We would like to collaborate with KIAPI for Research oriented projects in the field of emerging and future technologies.”


    MyungHo Sung, President KIAPI said, “We have state-of-the-art proving grounds and expertise to develop advanced technologies in the field of automotive. So, after signing MoU with ICAT, both the organizations will be able to provide services of certification as well as research and development. This will also help Korean automotive industry to collaborate with Indian automotive industry through the services of ICAT”.


    ICAT, Manesar is one of the independent Testing Agencies under Central Motor Vehicle Rules (CMVR) notified by Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH), Government of India for Testing and Certification of Automobiles and their safety critical components.


    KIAPI is a vehicle Testing institute, located in Daegu, South Korea, which supports parts suppliers, vehicle manufacturers and research institutes for developing next generation automotive technology.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561156) Visitor Counter : 704
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi