      Ministry of Home Affairs

      National Conference on “Prison Design” to begin in Visakhapatnam tomorrow.
      Posted On: 28 JAN 2019 7:55PM by PIB Delhi


    The first ever National Conference on “Prison Design” will begin in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh tomorrow(29th January 2019). The two-day conference is being hosted by the DG Prison, Andhra Pradesh on the behalf of State and is being sponsored by the Bureau of Police Research & Development (BPR&D).


    The Deputy Chief Minister (Home & Disaster Management), Andhra Pradesh, Shi N. Chinarajappa will inaugurate the National Conference. This conference aims to provide a platform to the Sr. Police officers, Prison officers and Architects from Prison Department and Police Housing Corporation to meet and deliberate upon on the various issues relating with planning, Design and Constructions of prison keeping in view the safety and security need as well as administrative ease of day to day functioning of the prison. The idea of conference is also to incorporate new construction technology, Information and Communication Technologies and modern safety and security gadgets in Prison Administration, besides ensuring conducive living environment in a holistic sense.


    The deliberations of the conference will focus on the following themes:


    i. Design Criteria of region-wise categories of Jails, space requirement for different activities in the Prison Complex.


    ii. Inter-relationship of various activities in the Prison Complex and their layout,


    iii. Security aspects i.e. perimeter wall height, electric fencing, segregation walls inside prison, watch towers, high security block, quarantine block CCTV, metal detector, luggage scanners and construction details etc.


    iv. Use of latest technology for Prison Design & Construction.


    v. Health & hygiene of inmates and overcrowding in prison.


    vi. Sharing of Best Practices by States


    Prison Administration is a very important aspect of Criminal Justice System. Though as per the constitutional provision, it is a state subject but the Govt of India over the years has been providing all the requisite support and assistance to modernise the correctional administration system in the country.


    BPR&D is committed to provide synergetic platform to all Prison professionals, Police Officials and civil Architects to evolve better “Prison Designs” suiting to the safety and security needs of the prison, ease in handling the administration of the prisons on one hand and provide conducive structures for humane living conditions for the inmates as per the constitutional mandates.


    *****


    BB/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561738) Visitor Counter : 727
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi