      Ministry of Culture

      The Kumbh contributes to infrastructure Development at Prayagraj City
      Posted On: 27 JAN 2019 4:55PM by PIB Delhi


    Kumbh and Mahakumbh have always proved very significant contributors to the Prayagraj district in terms of infrastructure development and growth in civic amenities. But this year Prayagraj Kumbh has changed the face of entire city and suburbs. Investment of crores for the infrastructure development in the town by Prayagraj Development Authority has not only widened most of the roads particularly Sangam, Public places and historical buildings bound roads but has also beautified most of the squares. Ths squares have been left with artistic sculptures and statues. Encroachments occupying the roads for last several years have been removed amicably and even religious constructions on the roads have been removed without any trouble. Vehicular Transport has been strengthend and roads have been freed from traffic jams due to removal of encroachments. About 3000 encroachments have been removed from about 65 roads in different parts of the Prayagraj town. These illegal constructions were continuing for last several years. About 150 kilometres of road has been constructed in the city area under the drive to widen roads. Connectivity from all railway and bus stations and Airport has been strengthened connecting most parts of the city. About five over bridges have been constructed in view of the Kumbh at different places and it has smoothened road traffic at railway crossings and places like Allahabad High Court. A new civil Airport has come to facilitate the visiting devotees and tourists. Newly constructed Airport has linked Prayagraj to several important cities including Kolkata, Nagpur, Indore, Lucknow, New Delhi, Bengluru, Ahmadabad, Dehradun and Patna with Air services.


    Most of the Railway stations including Allahabad Jn, Allahabad City , Jhunsi Prayag, Prayagghat, Naini, Daraganj and Subedarganj located in Prayagraj city have not only been facelifted but added remarkable civic amenities. It includes construction of new platforms, foot bridges connecting all platforms,slopes at platforms, installations of lifts.


    Prayagraj Development Authority PDA has invested about 300 crore of rupees for betterment of infrastructure and civic amenities in the city. It’s Vice Chairman Bhanu Chandra Goswami IAS said that all the roads have been provided proper drainage and international standard has been followed in the beautification of roads and squares. He expressed confidence that betterment in infrastructure not only facilitates Kumbh devotees but will also attract tourists in good numbers in coming years. He said several projects are in pipeline including construction of a auditorium, township in arail area and construction of a road for better connectivity to airport.


    SS/prayagraj

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561588) Visitor Counter : 581
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi