      Election Commission

      9thNational Voters’ Day to be celebrated on 25th January 2019
      Posted On: 24 JAN 2019 5:39PM by PIB Delhi


    The country will celebrate the 9 th National Voters' Day (NVD) on 25 th January 2019 at more than six lakh locations covering around ten lakh Polling Stations across the country. New Voters shall be felicitated and handed over their EPIC (Elector Photo Identity Card) in the NVD function.


    Hon’ble President of India Sh. Ram Nath Kovind will be the Chief Guest at the national function being organized by Election Commission of India at Manekshaw Centre, Delhi Cantt. Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, Hon’ble Law Minister shall also grace the national function. In view of the upcoming Lok Sabha Election, ‘No Voter to be Left Behind’ has been selected as the theme for the NVD.


    My Vote Matters , a Quarterly Magazine will be launched on the occasion and the first copy shall be presented by the Commission to the Hon’ble President.


    The National Awards for the Best Electoral Practices shall be conferred on Officers for their outstanding performance in the conduct of elections. In addition, awards will also be given to Civil Society Organisations and Media Houses who have made outstanding contribution in the field of voter awareness and outreach.


    Chief Election Commissioners and senior officials from Bangladesh, Bhutan, Kazakhstan, Maldives, Russia and Sri Lanka shall grace the occasion. Members of Political Parties, Members of Parliament besides Diplomats from various countries and representatives from national and international organizations working in the area of democracy and elections are expected to attend the national function.


    The National Voters’ Day (NVD) is celebrated all over the country on January 25 every year since 2011 to mark the Foundation day of Election Commission of India, which was established on 25th January 1950. The main purpose of the NVD celebration is to encourage, facilitate and maximize the enrollment, especially for the new voters. Dedicated to the voters of the country, the Day is utilized to spread awareness among voters for promoting informed participation in the electoral process.


    …


    SBS/AC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561288) Visitor Counter : 1432
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi