      Ministry of Textiles

      National Conclave on Technical Textiles at Mumbai
      Posted On: 27 JAN 2019 12:35PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Textiles will hold National Conclave on Technical Textiles on 29 th January 2019 in Mumbai. The event will also be a curtain raiser for TechnoTex 2019.The conclave will be presided over by the Union Minister of Textiles, Smriti Zubin Irani.


    The release of HSN codes by Government of India for technical textiles will be one of the major highlights of the conclave.


    Several panel discussions will be held on subjects like administrative consolidation of technical textiles items, manufacturing possibilities and import substitution, benefits of standardization and global best practices, technical textiles codes for New India, investment opportunityin technical textiles sector and research & development in technical textiles by eminent panellists drawn from various Central Government departments, NITI Aayog, IITs and textile industry.


    Technical textiles are textile material and products manufactured primarily for technical performance and functional properties rather than aesthetic and decorative characteristics. They find application not only in clothing but also in areas like agriculture, medical, infrastructure, automotive, aerospace, sports, defence and packaging.


    The technical textile sector is the sunshine sector forthe textile industry and it is one of the fastest growing segments of the Indian Economy. This sector is expected to see a double digit growth in coming years and is projected to reach a market size of Rs. 2 lakh crores by 2020-21.


    As per baseline survey of technical textile industry in India, there are around 2100 units manufacturing technical textiles in the country and most of them areconcentrated in Gujarat followed by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. India has 4-5% share in the global technical textiles market size across twelve segments.


    Technical textiles constitute 12-15% of the total textile value chain in India, whereas in some of the European countries technical textiles constitute 50% of the total textiles value chain.


    ***


    MM/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561572) Visitor Counter : 1138
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi