      Vice President's Secretariat

      Re-orient education system to make students think rationally: Vice President
      
      Modern education system should reflect Guru Shishya Parampara;
      
      Family system is the best medicine to protect youngsters from slipping into depression;
      
      Interacts with Kendriya Vidyalaya Students from Tamil Nadu
      Posted On: 30 JAN 2019 3:41PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu called for reorienting the education system to make students think rationally and independently to enable them face the challenges in life with equanimity.


    An education which balances the head, heart, body and spirit alone can be called a truly holistic education. The child should not only be able acquire and absorb knowledge, but should also be able to apply the knowledge in real life situation.


    Interacting with students of Kendriya Vidyalaya, and other schools from Tamil Nadu at Upa-Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi today, the Vice President recalled that India had a great tradition of Guru Shishya Parampara in which teachers and students used to live together and engage in a constant dialogue. Such great tradition should be reflected in our modern education system, he said. These discussions were recorded and have been handed down to us from the ancient past in the form of Upanishads, he added.


    Shri Naidu said that Education system must allow children enjoy schooling and make them lifelong learners. He said that true learning takes place through “observation”, “reading”, “discussion”, “reflection”, “analysing” and “synthesizing. He said that the reoriented curriculum must focus on aspects that make a child curious, creative, caring, communicative, confident and capable.


    The Vice President said that teachers should not just guide students in academics alone but also help them to develop life skills that are essential to successfully navigate in the increasingly complex world of today.


    Calling family system, the best medicine to protect youngsters from slipping into depression, he also urged parents to interact with children regularly and understand their issues.


    Saying that some form of physical activity or exercise was a precondition to stay healthy, the Vice President said that sports education should be accorded greater importance by educationists and parents. Students must spend 50 per cent of their schooling hours outside classrooms. Participation in sports would instill the qualities of confidence, equanimity, team spirit and tolerance in students, apart from inculcating the attitude of sharing and caring, he said.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561920) Visitor Counter : 976
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi