      Ministry of Tourism

      Colourful celebrations become a star attraction at the ‘Bharat Parv’ 2019 being held at the historic Red Fort
      Posted On: 28 JAN 2019 6:20PM by PIB Delhi


    The Bharat Parv celebrations organized by the Ministry of Tourism as part of the ‘Republic day 2019’ has reached its third day with a series of cultural events, Defence Bands, Yoga demonstrations and live Kitchen demonstrations. The Parv at the Red Fort, New Delhi is witnessing a large number of visitors. The entry to the Parv is free and is open for public from 12.00 Noon to 10.00 pm. However, identity proof is to be carried for entry to the event. This is the 4 th edition of the Parv, which will be on till 31 st January 2019.


    The Ministry of Tourism for the first time has set up a Digital Showcase booth in the Parv showcasing various Digital initiatives like Incredible India website, Mobile App, Virtual Reality views of Indian destinations and attractions to promote Indian destinations. The Incredible India Digital Showcase booth has been set up by the Ministry in partnership with Google Arts and Culture for its VR walkthroughs and other content. Also, a new start-up working in the area of creating VR views of Indian destinations M/s Outsitevr has been given a chance to showcase their content.


    Another attraction this year is the stall on the ‘Adopt a Heritage’ project of the Tourism Ministry, where the Monument Mitras are arranging Video walkthroughs/Project awareness videos/Segway experience on the projects they have taken up under Adopt a Heritage.


    In Bharat Parv today, the Army, Air Force and Navy presented Static Band and the Army also displayed Dynamic Band. The Chhau Dance programme was performed by the artists from Jharkhand. Dollu Kunitha and Jaggalagge were presented by the artists from Karnataka; Tamang Selo was performed by the artists from Sikkim; Gangaur Loknritya and Maihar Band were presented by the artists from Madhya Pradesh; and Chapeli were performed by the artists of Uttarakhand. In addition, a Live Kitchen demonstration was conducted by the Kudumbasree, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Karnataka on few ethnic cuisines. At last, the artists of North Zone Cultural Centre (NZCC) present a Choreographed performance on Pan India Basis.


    On 29th January 2019, Live Kitchen demonstrations of Telangana, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha will take place. In addition, cultural performances of Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, Kerala and Haryana are also charted 1.00 PM to 6.00 PM at the Parv area along with the Defence Bands and a Choreographed performance by artists of NZCC.


    The Ministry of Tourism has been designated as the nodal Ministry for the event. The major attractions this year include the replica of the Statue of Unity created by sculptor Shri. Ram Vanji Suttar and, also a Gandhi Gram in which 10 painting artists create paintings on the theme 'Ideology of Mahatma Gandhi'. The daily highlights of events include Display of Republic Day Parade Tableaux, Performances by the Armed Forces Bands (Static as well as dynamic), a Multi-Cuisine Food Court, Crafts Mela, Cultural Performances from different regions of the country and an exhibition-cum-sale of crafts items. The Parv also showcases IRCTC’ promotional on special tourist trains, ‘Jago Grahak Jago’ Consumer Awareness campaign and an Exhibition by the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP).


    ***


    NB/JP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561701) Visitor Counter : 1255
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi