      Ministry of Culture

      Second day of the auction of Prime Minister’s Mementos witnesses incredible support from the public
      
      Highest bid went upto Rs. 5 Lakh each for a Wooden bike and Painting

      Posted On: 28 JAN 2019 6:43PM by PIB Delhi

    The second day of the auction, of gifts presented to the Prime Minister, received tremendous response. Today was the last day of the physical auction and from tomorrow e-auction of the gift items will start on the portal www.pmmementos.gov.in which will continue till 31 st January,2019. A wooden bike and a painting were auctioned in the second session and were sold at the highest bid of Rs. 5 Lakh each against its base price of Rs. 40,000 and 50,000 respectively.


    The Union Minister of state for Culture (I/C), Dr. Mahesh Sharma interacted with the bidders in which he thanked them for showing such an incredible support for the noble cause of Namami Gange. He also added that the vision of Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi is highly revered and his noble initiative to create fund for cleaning River Ganga has been welcomed by all quarters of the society.


    One of the bidders, Mrs. Suman Jain purchased the Memento of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan not just to support the noble charitable cause but also to show her support towards the vision of the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi.


    Another participant at the auction, Mrs. Pramila Gupta purchased the Memento of Daksheshwara Temple as she is an ardent follower of the teachings associated with the temple.


    A memento of Golden Temple received by Prime Minister was auctioned at Rs. 3.5 Lakh against its start price of Rs. 10,000/-


    A photo frame of the Ashtamangalam with base price of Rs. 1500 was sold for Rs 28000/-.


    The second session also witnessed higher bids which included a metallic sword sold for Rs. 1 Lakh against its base price of Rs. 5000. Also the statue of Mahatma Basaveshwara was auctioned at Rs 70,000 against its base price of Rs 10,000.


    The gift items were on display for the general public at National Gallery of Modern Art, New Delhi. Dignitaries such as Union Minister for Science and Technology, Earth Sciences, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan and Member of Parliament, Shri Udit Raj were present at the auction among other dignitaries from art and culture fraternity today.


    *****


    NB/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561713) Visitor Counter : 470
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi