      AYUSH

      Governor of Goa graces the valedictory ceremony of World Integrated Medicine international forum for advancing global collaboration in Homoeopathy
      Posted On: 25 JAN 2019 8:57PM by PIB Delhi


    The three-day World Integrated Medicine Forum on the regulation of Homoeopathic Medicinal Products with the theme ‘Advancing Global Collaboration’ came to an end today. Smt. Mridula Sinha, Hon’ble Governor of Goa, graced the Valedictory ceremony of the forum and shared her positive experiences of Homoeopathy with the delegates in her address. Smt. Sinha congratulated Ministry of AYUSH for organizing this forum on need and challenges in the regulations of homoeopathic medicines and even commended the forum theme of ‘global collaborations’ to outline a united approach towards regulations of these medicines in various parts of the world. She further remarked that since Homoeopathy is an international science, unlike most traditional systems of medicine, which have a rather localised origin, it is important that the spread of Homoeopathy is worked upon through advancing global collaborations, which was also the theme of the forum.


    The forum, attended by around 150 delegates, with representation from 21 countries, was also graced by Minister of State, Ministry of AYUSH, Sh. Shripad Naik during both the inaugural and valedictory occasions of the forum. The Minister said that the homoeopathy market was expanding both horizontally and vertically; in the sense that it is reaching to more countries, and making more products, so it is important that the regulations of these medicines are made available, where there are none, and implemented, wherever available. Minister further said that India is constantly updating its production and standardisation technologies to become the best in the world of manufacture of Homoeopathic medicinal products, and that the Indian homoeopathic products are a lot in demand not only within India, but also far and wide in the world. He said our industry was exporting their products to wherever it is feasible. But, they are facing challenges where the trading opportunities are either not open, or cumbersome. He said there is a need to open more avenues for allowing import and export of homoeopathic drugs.


    This forum was organised by Central Council for Research in Homeopathy (CCRH), with the support of Ministry of AYUSH, Homoeopathic Pharmacopoeia Convention of the United States (HPCUS) and European Coalition on Homeopathic & Anthroposophic Medicinal Products (ECHAMP), Pharmacopoeia Commission of Indian Medicine and Homoeopathy and Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO). The forum had participation of key public and private sector stakeholders, such as representatives from World Health Organisation (WHO) and drug regulatory authorities, as well as pharmacopoeia experts and industrialists from countries like Germany, USA, France, UK, Brazil, Belgium, South Africa, Argentina, Russia, Greece, Austria, Cuba, Qatar, Croatia, Malaysia, Japan, Hongkong and Sri Lanka. Among the delegates were also present veterinary experts, as well as the regulators and drug controllers of various states of India.


    Forum discussions ranged from Strategic perspectives and possible scenarios on advancing International Collaboration bilateral collaboration; updates on the regulatory status of Homoeopathic medicines in South Africa, Argentina, Cuba, Qatar, Croatia, Malaysia, Japan, Hongkong and Sri Lanka etc.; Pharmaceutical quality / availability; Safeguarding the quality of homeopathic medicines in Europe; Advancing pharmaceutical quality standards; towards a tailored approach? Experiences in Europe; Safeguarding the availability of homeopathic stocks: The role of the Remedy Bank; Integrating Traditional and Integrated Medicine systems in primary healthcare and public health: The example of Brazil; The role of National and Regional collaboration; optimizing collaboration with the regulators; Traditional, Complementary and Integrated Medicine (TCIM) systems: global advances in public health and regulation; round table discussion on advancing collaboration between BRICS Countries; Harmonization or ‘convergence’ on regulatory standards; Regulators' and Industry perspectives; New homeopathic drug approval: Perspectives on setting appropriate requirements for provings and clinical data; Challenges faced by the homoeopathic industry; Ensuring the quality and safety of products for patients and consumers, including the products made from biological substances and the appropriate standards for homeopathy; Obtaining clinical data on new and existing homeopathic medicines; Regulatory challenges with regard to the use of Homoeopathy in Veterinary Medicine; Comparing the major homeopathic pharmacopoeias, and Towards a regulatory framework that optimally addresses homeopathy as a 'whole systems medical approach' using 'complex medicinal substances'.


    ****


    RJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561489) Visitor Counter : 603
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi