      President's Secretariat

      President Hosts President of South Africa; Invites South African Companies to Partner India in its Growth Initiatives
      Posted On: 25 JAN 2019 8:51PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, received Mr Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa, the President of the Republic of South Africa , at Rashtrapati Bhavan today (January 25, 2019). He also hosted a banquet in his honour.


    Welcoming the South African President on his first state visit to India , the President said that his visit comes at a special moment. We are celebrating the 150 th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and the 100 th birth anniversary of Nelson Mandela. Our shared history and common legacy make this state visit much more meaningful and special.


    The President said that India and South Africa are special friends. Regular high level visits and engagements continue to enrich our partnership. We share vibrant people-to-people relations. The South African Indian community is a living bridge between our two countries. We must continue to nurture this bond. Our youth exchange and capacity building collaboration under the rubric of South-South Cooperation, IBSA and BRICS are most valuable.


    The President noted that bilateral trade between India and South Africa has been growing. He said that we should work together to create a mutually beneficially mobility partnership, one that would encourage our companies to invest and two-way tourism to grow. He expressed confidence that South Africa, under President Ramaphosa’s leadership, would further enhance India-South Africa’s bilateral trade and investment relations.


    Subsequently, in his banquet speech, President Kovind said the India-South Africa economic partnership is a key pillar of our relationship. Indian industry is excited by South African economic policies and approach. On our part, we have undertaken path-breaking economic reforms to attract international businesses and to propel our growth. We invite South African companies to partner us in Make In India, Digital India, Clean India and Smart City programmes.


    ******


    AKT/SH


    

    
    (Release ID: 1561487) Visitor Counter : 667
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi