      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Several steps taken by the Government to ensure transparency in Governance and improve Public Service Delivery, says Dr. Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 23 JAN 2019 6:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh has said the Government has taken several legislative and administrative steps towards bringing about transparency in Governance and improving the Public Service Delivery mechanism. Delivering the keynote address at the inaugural session of the Summit on “Integrity and Transparency in Governance” here today, Dr. Jitendra Singh said the Prevention of Corruption Act was amended last year with an aim to punish bribe givers for the first time. At the same time, provisions have been made to provide adequate safeguards to the honest officers who are performing their task with integrity, he added.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said that the focus of the Government, under the leadership of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has been on ‘Minimum Government, Maximum Governance’. He stressed upon the transparency, accountability and in-time delivery of services by the Government.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said the Central Government has scrapped nearly 1,500 obsolete rules and laws with an aim to bring about transparency and improve efficiency. This includes self-attestation of certificates and abolition of interviews for job selection at junior level. The Government also recently secured passage of the 124 th Constitutional Amendment Bill in the Parliament providing for 10 percent reservation in jobs and educational institutions for the Economically Backward Section in the General Category to offer equal opportunity to one and all, he added.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said a high degree of scrutiny at the social level will act as a deterrent against corruption. He said that continuous efforts are required to update the mechanisms, as the society and the means always keep on changing. The ultimate objective of any society should be to achieve the level of incorruptibility, he added.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said that seven decades in the history of nations is just a footnote and we are a young and evolving democracy. He said the future of India will depend on the youth as 70% of India’s population is below 40 year of age.


    ******


    BB/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1561164) Visitor Counter : 626
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi