      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      A unique travelogue series ‘Rag Rag Mein Ganga’ launched on Doordarshan
      
      Quiz show ‘Meri Ganga’ also launched

      Posted On: 31 JAN 2019 5:19PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Road Transport & Highways and Shipping, Shri NitinGadkari and Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Information & Broadcasting and Youth Affairs & Sports, Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore (Retd.) today launched travelogue program “Rag Rag Mein Ganga” and quiz show “Meri Ganga” on Doordarshan.


    The travelogue series “Rag Rag Mein Ganga” has been made by Doordarshan in collaboration with National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG). The 21 episode series, covering River Ganga’s journey from Gomukh to Gangasagar, has been shot using state-of-the-art techniques including Drone Cameras and Go-Pro Cameras in HD Format. Anchored by well-known actor Rajeev Khandelwal, the show will go on air from 2 nd February, 2019. It will be aired on Saturdays and Sundays at 9 PM on DD National. The show relays the message of the need of rejuvenating River Ganga while also informing about the efforts of the Government to clean Ganga – presented in a unique and interesting format.


    The quiz show ‘Meri Ganga’ has also been made by DD in collaboration with NMCG. It attempts to cover school children from all zones of the country and trigger curiosity in them to feel closer to the cause of cleaning Ganga.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri NitinGadkari highlighted the efforts of the Government in making the flow of Ganga ‘shudhh’, ‘aviral’ and ‘nirmal’ . He gave examples of solid and liquid waste management projects, while highlighting the usage of waste to wealth principle in the endeavour to clean River Ganga. He also talked about the impact on growth of tourism and job creation through such efforts of Government.


    Appreciating the innovative and interesting format of the show, Col. Rathore talked about the importance of the show in making people aware of the need of cleaning River Ganga and efforts done by the Government in this regards. He also highlighted the efforts of the Government to bring change in the mindset of people towards incorporating ‘Swachhata’ in daily life.


    Ms.SupriyaSahu, Director General, Doordarshan, informed that state-of-the-art techniques including Drone Cameras and Go-Pro Cameras have been used to shoot the show in HD format. She also said that efforts will be made to dub the show in regional languages for audience all across the country.


    Member of Parliament Shri Manoj Tiwari; Secretary, Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Shri UP Singh; Secretary, Ministry of I&B, Shri Amit Khare; DG, NMCG Shri RR Mishra; CEO PrasarBharati Shri ShashiShekharVempati; Member (Finance), PrasarBharati, Shri Rajeev Singh; DG, AIR,Shri F. Sheheryar; DG, NSD-AIR, Ms. Ira Joshi; DG, DD News, Shri Mayank Agrawal and other senior dignitaries were also present on the occasion.


    ***


    AP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1562091) Visitor Counter : 1350
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi