      Ministry of Tourism

      Six Days Cultural extravaganza Bharat Parv concludes today
      Posted On: 31 JAN 2019 8:00PM by PIB Delhi


    The celebration of ‘Bharat Parv’ concluded today at Red Fort in the presence of Shri K J Alphons, Union Tourism Minister. The Parv was organized by the Ministry of Tourism, Government of India at the Red Fort, New Delhi from 26th to 31st January, 2019.


    The major attractions this year included the replica of the Statue of Unity created by sculptor Shri. Ram Vanji Suttar and, also a Gandhi Gram in which 10 painting artists created paintings on the theme 'Ideology of Mahatma Gandhi'. The daily highlights of events were Display of Republic Day Parade Tableaux, Performances by the Armed Forces Bands (Static as well as dynamic), a Multi-Cuisine Food Court, Crafts Mela,Cultural Performances from different regions of the country, exhibition-cum-sale of crafts items, Yoga demonstrations and live Kitchen demonstrations. The Parv at the Red Fort, New Delhi witnessed a large number of visitors.


    Congratulating the Ministries and State Governments involved in conducting a successful Parv, Shri K J Alphons said that everyone should travel.and promote tourism in the country. The Minister added that ‘We have so much to see in this incredible nation and there is no better way to love your country by experiencing this diverse nation yourself’.


    Addressing the gathering at the closing ceremony, Shri Yogendra Tripathi, Secretary Tourism said that the Parv has been true to the spirit of Prime Minister’s vision of Ek Bharat Shresht Bharat with its diverse stalls and activities from across the country. The Secretary thanked all the collaborators in conducting the activities and putting up the stalls in tune with the theme of this year’s Parv ‘Celebrating Mahatma’.


    The Ministry of Tourism Digital Showcase booth in the Parv showcasing various Digital initiatives like Incredible India website, Mobile App, Virtual Reality views of Indian destinations and attractions to promote Indian destinations attracted large number of visitors who experienced VR walkthroughs of monuments/ tourism facilitated by Google Arts and Culture.


    Another attraction this year was the stall on the ‘Adopt a Heritage’ project of the Tourism Ministry, where the Monument Mitras are arranging Video walkthroughs/Project awareness videos/Segway experience on the projects they have taken up under Adopt a Heritage.


    27 States participated by setting up of Stalls, Showcasing their food, handicrafts and tourism products. The Central Ministries/ agencies who participated in the event include Ministry of Culture, Ministry of AYUSH, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Development Commissioner Handicrafts (Ministry of Textile), IRCTC, Rail Museum, TRIFED, Development Commissioner Handloom


    The Ministry of Tourism has been designated as the nodal Ministry for Bharat Parv.


    ***


    NB/JP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562132) Visitor Counter : 1071