      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      OPD wing of ESIC AYUSH Hospital inaugurated at Narela today
      Posted On: 31 JAN 2019 6:56PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of State (I/C) for Labour & Employment inaugurated OPD Wing of ESIC AYUSH Hospital, Narela, Delhi in the august presence of Dr. Udit Raj , Member of Parliament, Lok Sabha.


    Shri Gangwar said that our Government is committed for good health of labour work force and informed the gathering that the inaugurated hospital is the first dedicated Ayush Hospital of ESIC. The Hospital is being constructed in two acres area with a cost of Rs. 30 crores. All the facilities under Ayush, such as Ayurvedic, Homeopathic, Siddha, Unani and Yoga will be provided in this hospital. He further said that one allopathic dispensary will also be opened in this hospital. He also informed about the ongoing recruitment drive of around 5000 posts of medical/para-medical staff to meet the shortage of staff in ESIC. He also intimated that ESIC is opening Dispensary-cum-Branch Office (DCBO) in every district of the country in phased manner. So far 29 DCBOs have been opened.


    During the function, Shri Gangwar also launched Health Passbook for ESI Beneficiaries. The Health Passbook will serve as a user friendly mechanism for beneficiary identification, recording of clinical findings and consultation advice by the Doctor/Insurance Medical Practitioner(s). Besides, Director General, ESIC handed over a cheque amounting to Rs.2.31 crore to the Minister for Prime Minister’s Relief Fund.


    Dr. Udit Raj , Member of Parliament, Lok Sabha also addressed the gathering and thanked Shri Gangwar for this hospital. He also informed the crowd about various development works being carried out in his parliamentary constituency.


    The other dignitaries to grace the occasion were Ms. Nisha Mann, Councillor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Smt. Savita Khatri, Councillor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Vaidya Shri Devendra Triguna, Member, ESIC, Shri S. A. Khan, Member, ESIC, Shri Raj Kumar, Director General, ESIC, Smt. Sandhya Shukla, Financial Commissioner, ESIC and esteemed members of Narela Industrial Complex Welfare Association, Narela, Delhi.


    ****


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562113) Visitor Counter : 977