      PIB Headquarters

      Apparel Training and Design Centre (ATDC) providing golden opportunities to the students- T.V. K Reddy
      Posted On: 08 AUG 2018 6:50PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Apparel Training and Design Centre (ATDC) India’s Largest Quality Vocational Training Provider for the Apparel sector is providing golden opportunities to the students, said Shri T.V.K Reddy, Addl. Director General, Press Information Bureau. He was Speaking today in a press conference in CGO Towers, kavadiguda organised by ATDC. Engineering and Medicine courses are not only providing employment, it is the time for the students to look after alternate courses like fashion and design. ATDC is providing better vocational courses that are 100 % placement assured, he said


    ATDC Director Shri .Ravi Kishore said, “Telangana is one of the fastest developing Textile Apparel Manufacturing clusters. ATDC has state -of -art infrastructure offering shop floor, supervisory and managerial skills to make industry- ready workforce. This will enable us to make new Skill Development forays in the State of Telangana as we propose to set up a “Regional Training Hub in Hyderabad, with additional training centres in the State”.


    ATDC plans to set up additional ATDC-SMART centres in Major Textile-Apparel Clusters in Telanagna State and Apparel Design Centre in Hyderabad (as Fashion and Crafts Design and Innovation Cells) with focus on “Innovative Designs” for Apparel Industry to create new brands and global fashions for youth. There are also plans to commence 3 year graduate courses in B.Voc (Apparel Manufacturing and Entrepreneurship) and B.Voc (Fashion Design and Retail), 1 year diploma course, 6-8 month course and 3-4 month course.


    Ravi Kishore said Interested candidates can find details from: ATDC-Vocational Institute, Survey No. 64, Opp. Hotel Avasa, Madhapur, Hitech City, Hyderabad-81, Contact No. 040-23112155/56, 9611238944.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542137) Visitor Counter : 115
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu