      PIB Headquarters

      SHRI DATTATREYA INAUGURATES ‘NEW INDIA’ PHOTO EXHIBITION
      Posted On: 14 AUG 2018 7:36PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Shri Bandaru Dattatreya, Member of Parliament inaugurated a photo exhibition ‘New India’ - We Resolve to Make’ at Salar Jung Museum today. The ten-day exhibition is being organised by Regional Outreach Bureau (ROB), Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Dattatreya said that the Central Government is striving hard for the welfare of the people. The government is committed to the welfare of farmers, women, students, SC, STs and all downtrodden sections of society, he said. The Modi government has provided electricity to all villages in the country, as promised. The Centre is making efforts to double the income of the farmers, providing loans, fertilizers and soil health cards to 12 crore farmers and has increased the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of some crops. He said ‘ Ayushman Bharat’ which will be launched from August 15, 2018 is the largest programme in the world aimed to provide insurance coverage upto Rs. 5 lakh for 10 crore poor families. Ujjwala, Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana, Beti Bachao – Beti Padhao are schemes for the welfare of women, he said.


    Dr. K. Laxman, MLA said that the Modi government has succeeded in providing corruption free government. Through Swachh Bharat, the government is resolved to end open defecation in the country, he said.


    Earlier, welcoming the gathering Shri T.V.K. Reddy, Addl. Director General (Region), Hyderabad said that the photo exhibition is meant to remember the national leaders who have struggled to make India free and increase awareness among the people about the Central government’s programmes and policies. The Regional Outreach Bureau (ROB) comprising of Directorate of Field Publicity, DAVP and Song and Drama Division has been integrated to effectively publicise the programmes and policies of the government, he said. Shri A.N. Reddy, Director, Salarjung Museum also spoke. Shri M. Devendra, Joint Director (ROB) and Shri Suresh Dharmapuri, FEO, DAVP and other officials were also present. Song and Drama artistes later enacted plays and dances with themes like Beti Bachao Beti Padhao and sang patriotic songs.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1543054) Visitor Counter : 38
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu