      Special Service and Features

      SUSTAINABLE DRYLAND DEVELOPMENT FARMING <<<>>>
      Posted On: 05 JUL 2020 4:57PM by PIB Chennai


    K DEVI PADMANABHAN FIELD PUBLICITY OFFICER TIRUCHIRAPALLI


    Indian Centre of Agriculture research has recommended deep ploughing before sowing to destroy fall Army worm which attacks agriculture crops. Like Covid 19 pandemic, which is threatening human life, locusts and fall army worms can destroy crops which will paralyse our agriculture system. Agriculture has given the resilience for our nation to fightbackcovid 19 lockdown and farmers have stood by the nation producing enoughfoodgrains to feed the entire nation despite the lockdown. The toiling farmers give shape to our Prime Minister's announcement of supplying free ration including rice or wheat additionally to ration card holders till November. Technology and scientific advice at the right time is the need of the hour and our agriculture officials are continuing their field visits to help our farmers who face lot of problems in crop management .


    Agriculture officials advised farmers to go in for deep ploughing to prevent fall army worm attack on their crops. State Agricultural Extension management Institute STAMIN Director and Agriculture Additional Director ShSankaralingam, Joint Director of Agriculture SmtShanthi, Deputy Director ShLakshamanaswamy and Assistant Director Sh Mohan sensitised farmers in Pullambady Block, Keezharasur village on Fall Arm worm attack and its management. Additional Director, Agriculture Sankaralingam advised farmers to utilise the summer rains and start summer ploughing. This deep ploughing will help destroy Fall Army worm which attacks maize crops. Moreover it will strengthen the water absorption power of soil which will help the summer crops.


    In Tiruchirapalli, dryland farming of cotton and maize is done in 15000 acres . Assistant Director Shri Mohan said that last week there was good rain in Pullambady Block. This is really helpful for the farmers in the region. Under the Tamil Nadu Mission on sustainable dryland development scheme, 3000 hectares of land in Pullambady Block has been targeted. Under this scheme all farmers in Keezharasur, Malway, Sathurpagam, Melarasur villages have been asked to start ploughing works. Rs 500 per acre subsidy is given to each farmer who are doing summer ploughing in this region according to agriculture officials. Farmers are being given fertilizers at 50 per cent subsidy and pesticides to destroy fall army worm in maize.


    Agriculture science and its hi-tech extension services is crucial in ensuring food security for all . Our scientists and agriculture officials are continuing their hard work in helping farmers tide over problems in the field .


    

    
    (Release ID: 1636652) Visitor Counter : 34
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil