      Special Service and Features

      The first 'Prof. P. C. Mahalanobis National Award in Official Statistics' conferred on Dr. C. Rangarajan
      Posted On: 09 JUL 2020 1:02PM by PIB Chennai


    The first Prof. P. C. Mahalanobis National Award in Official Statistics for lifetime achievement was conferred on Dr. C. Rangarajan, former Chairman, National Statistical Commission and former RBI Governor on the 14 th National Statistics Day which was celebrated on 29 th June , 2020 in recognition of his outstanding contribution in laying the foundation for holistic reforms in national s tatistical system. National Statistics Day is celebrated on 29 th June every year in commemoration of the birth anniversary of Prof.P.C.Mahalanobis, F ather of Indian Statistics. Amidst the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic the function held in New Delhi was virtually attended by the Statistical Community from all over the world.


    Dr.C. Rangarajan who resides in Chennai was virtually present in the celebrations and addressed the statistical community through a webinar. Dr. C. Rangarajan in his address, highlighted the importance of the discipline of Statistics in deriving insight into the data. He flagged the importance of credible data and the role of National Statistical Commission in improving the credibility of government data. He also emphasized that the Government should ensure statutory recognition for NSC as early as possible.


    Participating in the celebrations, Shri Pravin Srivastava, ISS, Secretary, Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation (MOSPI) and Chief Statistician of India highlighted that the Ministry is switching over to a digital survey platform which is being developed for capturing data via mobiles, web-based interface along with telephonic interviews as the new normal for the country’s statistical system. The Ministry has also formalized a loan from the World Bank for improving the data quality at state and national level.


    On the occasion of National Statistics Day, Honourable Minister of State for MOSPI, Shri. Rao Inderjit Singh,conveyed that the Ministry is working on an umbrella information portal, NIIP, to collate all real-time official data, including on the economy.


    The Memento and Citation of the Award were personally handed over to Dr. C. Rangarajan by Shri Saji George, ISS, Deputy Director General, National Statistical Office (Field Operations Division), Regional Office, Chennai on behalf of the Ministry on 09.07.2020 at his residence in Chennai, according to a press release issued by Ms. Remya.P, Deputy Director & HO, NSO (FOD), Chennai.


    ****


    

    
    (Release ID: 1637512) Visitor Counter : 52