      Special Service and Features

      National backward class corporation credit assistance Rs One Crore Earmarked for Trichy in 2020-21
      Posted On: 09 JUL 2020 4:44PM by PIB Chennai


    National Backward Class Finance Development Corporation, NBCFDC, is giving credit assistance to members of backward class as notified by government. Covid 19 pandemic unlock 2.0 encourages economic activities across sectors and individuals are supported by various measures from government agencies.


    NBCFDC gives general loan for agriculture and allied activities, small business, traditional occupation, transport, technical professional trade for members of backward classes. The annual income of applicant should be less than Rs 3 lakh. The maximum loan benefit is Rs 15 lakh per beneficiary. Loan is to be repaid in quarterly instalments within a maximum of 8 years. The rate of interest is 6 per cent uptoRs 5 lakh and 7 per cent between 5 and Rs 10 lakh and 8 per cent between 10 and Rs 15 lakh. RBI has given six months moratorium for recovery of principal amount of the loan due to covid 19 lockdown. Under the New Swarnimascheme,women from backward classes can claim loan uptoRs 2 lakhs. Loan has to be repaid in 8 years. The rate of interest is 5 per cent per annum. NBCFDC also arranges for educational loan for students belonging to backward classes. Rs 15 lakh educational loan per student is given under this scheme. The maximum recovery period is ten years after the lapse of five years moratorium period. The rate of interest is 4 percent per annum for boys and 3.5 per cent per annum for girl students. The rate of interest and loan amount will change according to norms laid down by state agencies.


    The schemes of NBCFDC are implemented in the state through Tamil Nadu backward classes economic development corporation. In Tiruchirapalli, Rs one crore has been earmarked for 2020-21 to give credit assistance for members of backward classes through TN backward classes economic development corporation. Credit assistance can be taken for digging borewell, electric motor, SHG small enterprises loan, loan to buy cows, and loan to buy autorickshaws. Credit assistance will be given to people of backward class between the age of 18 and 60. However only one person from a family will get credit assistance under the scheme. People from backward classes should apply for the loan with caste certificate, Aadhar card, income certificate, residential certificate, details about trade or business to be started with loan, licence if it is to buy vehicle with loan, Transfer certificate for school loan and bonafide certificate.


    Government is implementing various schemes for the welfare of public. These schemes if utilised properly will definitely help the citizend to improve livelihood.


    -------

    
    
    (Release ID: 1637555) Visitor Counter : 14