      Special Service and Features

      AICTE OFFERS AID FOR eLEARNING INITIATIVES UNDER MARGDARSHAN SCHEME
      Rs 50 lakh offered per institution for 3 years to organise trainings, workshops
      NIT Trichy to mentor several institutions under the scheme
      Posted On: 14 JUL 2020 3:20PM by PIB Chennai


    Margdarshan scheme is being implemented by All India Council for Technical Education, (AICTE) under which highly performing institutions will mentor relatively newer 10 - 12 potential institutions. Best practices in teaching learning process followed in mentor institute are diffused to mentee institutions. These institutions are also provided funding uptoRs. 50 lakhs per institution over a period of three years in instalments for carrying out various activities like trainings, workshops, conferences and travel.


    Covid 19 pandemic has not stopped the flow of knowledge as workshops and training programmes are held online through video conferencing. National Institute of Technology, NIT, Tiruchirappalli has started National Workshop on “Perspectives and Challenges in Outcome Based Research” under the aegis of AICTE-MARGDARSHAN Scheme, on Thursday and it will be held till July 17. In the inaugural function ,Dr. N. Sivakumaran, Professor and Chief coordinator, AICTE -Margdarshan Scheme, said eight Faculty Development Programmes were organized in the thrust areas with participation of faculty members from each mentee institutions. Internships were arranged for B.Tech. Students and faculty members in various departments for a period of one month. National level workshops on outcome based education was organised to train the faculty members of mentee institutions to apply for accreditation process. Prof Mini Shaji Thomas, Director , NIT Trichy, said that online mode of content delivery and online platform based interactions are going to be the nature of work in near future. She also mentioned that the lockdown does not hinder the curriculum progress. She added that AICTE- Margdarshan Scheme will help to motivate the faculty members to enhance teaching- learning skills and students to come up with innovative ideas and projects. She also added there are 4 new centres of excellence in the institute, with two centres functioning and 2 in the anvil .


    Dr. T. Ramasami, Former Secretary, Department of Science and Technology in his inaugural speech, mentioned that India today has 37000 colleges, 750 universities, 9 science departments, 680 national Research and development institutes and about 2,20,000 Full Time Equivalent R&D professionals. He emphasised on Research and development transfer saying that Universities need to explore new tools for capitalization of its intellectual assets through the acts of commercialization of technologies.


    Online mode of exchange of information and technology has helped overcome the Covid 19 pandemic induced lockdown. Unlock 2 has created more avenues as flow of technology and information goes unabated without any hindrance through video conferencing. It is a welcome sign that the online platform is increasingly being adopted at school level too as break in curriculum will cost the school education too.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1638523) Visitor Counter : 15