      Special Service and Features

      FEVER CAMPS TO IDENTIFY COVID 19 SYMPTOMATIC PERSONS STARTED IN TIRUCHIRAPALLI
      TRICHY JOINS CHENNAI AND MADURAI TO CONDUCT SPECIAL FEVER CAMPS

      Posted On: 16 JUL 2020 4:03PM by PIB Chennai

    Covid 19 pandemic can be controlled only if potential patients are identified and quarantined to stop the spread of disease. Medical experts urge people with symptoms to approach health officials voluntarily so that testing for covid 19 can be done. Fever camps in Chennai and Madurai by city corporations and health officials have helped to identify symptomatic patients and curb the spread of covid 19 effectively. Chennai has seen dip in positive cases despite the increase in number of tests due to the fever camps.


    In Tiruchirapalli, the city corporation has made all arrangements to conduct special fever camps in the four zones of the city from Thursday. The special fever camps will be held in 65 wards of Srirangam, KoAbhishekapuram, Ponmalai and Ariyamangalam zones.


    The corporation authorities urged people who are even asymptomatic to attend the camps. Senior citizens with comorbidities also urged to attend the fever camps. Symptomatic cases, senior citizens and comorbid people who should undergo Real Time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction- RT-PCR test will be identified through the fever camps. In the first phase, vulnerable spots such as Palakkarai, Woraiyur, KK Nagar and Melachinthamani have been identified for the camps. A day prior to the camp, door to-door surveillance will identify the vulnerable people. The camps will cover one vulnerable ward in the corporation zones every day on rotation basis.


    On Thursday, fever camps were held at ShrutiMahal in 8th ward in Srirangam Zone, Sengulam corporation School Palakaraiin 23rd ward in Ariyamangalamzone,RC Middle School Worayur Ward No 60 in KoAbhishekapuram and Adhiaman Women’s college in Ward No 38 in Ponmalai zone. The fever camps are held from 9 AM to 1 PM in designated Colleges, schools, halls in the wards of each zone.


    Earlier, Trichycity corporation had introduced door to door testing of residents with bill collectors going to the homes of 65 wards with thermal screening guns. Bill collectors had to cover 50 houses daily and check the temperature of residents and note down travel history. Even anganwadi workers, women self help groups and volunteers were involved in door to door surveys. Since the number of covid 19 patients in Tiruchirapalli is on the rise with almost 100 cases daily it was decided to conduct fever camps to identify persons with covid 19 symptoms. About 800 persons are under treatment for Covid 19 in Tiruchirapalli now.


    The best way to fight covid 19 pandemic is to identify the patient and strengthen immunity power. Identifying covid 19 patients also help to break the chain and stop the disease from spreading to new areas. Awareness is the best way to prevent the pandemic from spreading and people should cooperate with health authorities and district administration in curbing the pandemic. It will be a welcome move to conduct as many fever camps in urban areas like towns and cities as the density of population is high. This approach will definitely yield better results in the fight against corona pandemic.


    -------

    
    
    (Release ID: 1639067) Visitor Counter : 74