      Special Service and Features

      JAL JEEVAN MISSION TARGETS TAP CONNECTIONS IN EVERY RURAL HOUSEHOLD BY 2024
      
      <<<Tamil Nadu allocated Rs 917 crore under JalJeevan Mission for this fiscal>>>

      Posted On: 19 JUL 2020 4:51PM by PIB Chennai

    K DEVI PADMANABHAN FIELD PUBLICITY OFFICER TIRUCHIRAPALLI


    JalJeevan Mission by Union JalShakthi Ministry aims to provide safe drinking water through functional household tap connections (FHTCs) by 2024. Union government had sent advisory to all state governments including Tamil Nadu to provide functional household tap connections in rural areas. This will help maintain lockdown norms as people don’t have to come out to fetch water from public taps especially in rural areas. Even during covid 19 lockdown, Union government had allowed construction activities related to drinking water supply.


    Under JalJeevan Mission, last year Tamil Nadu was allocated Rs 373.87 Crore to provide tap connections to 13.86 lakh households and Rs 373.10 Crore was released. The state government had utilisedRs. 114.58 Crore till March this year. For the financial year 2020-21, fund allocation to Tamil Nadu has been increased to Rs.917.44 Crore according to Union JalShakthi Minister Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. For this year, Tamil Nadu has assured availability of Rs.1,181.53 Crore of Central funds . Out of 1.27 crore rural households in Tamil Nadu, 21.85 lakh houses already have functional household tap connections. This year, the State plans to provide tap water to 34 lakh rural households. Priority is being given for 100% coverage of all 117 villages under SansadAdarsh Gram Yojana, villages in aspirational districts and 90% SC/ ST dominated habitations. Sivaganga district having 78% tap connections, Vellore district with 61% and Pudukottai district with 58% household connections are planned for 100% coverage during current year.


    AlongwithJalJeevan Mission in Tamil Nadu ,kudimaramathu works to desilt and strengthen lakes and ponds to save rain water for irrigation and drinking water purpose are being implemented. Under kudimaramathu works, for restoring water resources, about Rs 500 crore has been sanctioned for 1829 works. Out of which Rs 3.58 crore worth 18 works are being implemented in Perambalur. Keezhapuliyurlake strengthening works in Perambalur is being taken up worth Rs 29 lakhs. MGNREGA works are now integrated with water resource tapping works in Tamil Nadu. SmtMuthulakshmi from Allithurai village Tiruchirapallisaid MGNREGA works are being done maintaining safe distance norms. She said that drinking water connections to rural households will be a boon to women as they have to carry water in pots from distant locations.


    Potable drinking water should be available for all citizens. Union government is implementing schemes to provide drinking water to all rural households. Rain water harvesting and planting saplings, desilting and clearing encroachments from lakes and ponds will help save and conserve water at every level and every citizen should voluntarily involve himself in these life saving activities. As the mission name suggests, Let’s realise JAL is JEEVAN, WATER is LIFE.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1639802) Visitor Counter : 23
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil