      Special Service and Features

      Traditional spices and herbs immensely helpful for boosting immunity against covid-19 ; Siddha Medicines effective in reducing infection, says Dr.Selvakumar in a webinar organised by FoB, Tirunelveli
      Participants welcome the Union government's street vendors scheme which offers aid up to Rs .20000

      Posted On: 24 JUL 2020 12:55PM by PIB Chennai

    A Webinar on Covid-19 prevention measures and Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan was conducted by Field Outreach Bureau, Tirunelveli, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India, last evening. The webinar was attended by nearly 100 participants consisting mainly of business correspondents from the banking sector who make available financial services to the people, door to door, especially in rural areas.


    Delivering special address, Dr C. Selvakumar, Medical Officer-Siddha , PHC Vellanadu, pointed out that spices and herbs like turmeric, ginger, pepper, cumin, garlic, etc can boost immunity to prevent Covid -19 infection in general population. Further, Siddha medicines are proved to be highly effective in Covid patients at the early stages of covid-19 infection, he added.


    Explaining various financial measures, announced by Union government under Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme, Tirunelveli Indian Overseas Bank senior Regional Manager M. Durgha Devi detailed the credit facility of upto Rs.20000 given to street vendors to overcome the economic stress due to covid 19 lockdown . She urged to approach the town panchayat/municipality offices for knowing full details of availing the credit facility.


    RBI Chennai branch- Financial Inclusion and Development Department manager, V. Mohan Kumar, in his address advised people to go for digital banking in this pandemic situation. More awareness is needed in rural areas, he said. He also warned about hoax social media messages/fake calls related to financial assistance and urged to contact only authorised bank officials .


    Tirunelveli Grama Bank Regional manager ,R.Varatharaja Perumal said that the MSME sector is becoming the new champion of the Indian economy and he introduced different loan schemes available for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and stressed on indulging in new start ups to attain self - reliant India.


    Tirunelveli TamilnaduGrama Bank Financial Literacy CenterCounsellor, R.Mahalingam urged the business correspondents to practice social distancing, wear facemask, sanitize hands during their field visits in different areas of the district.


    In his presidential speech, Regional Outreach Bureau Chennai- Joint Director, J. Kamaraj said that Atmanirbharbharat scheme is a well thought package designed to handhold everyone in distress and therefore wider dissemination is a necessity to ensure the success of the scheme. He also said that sensitizing common people regarding these government schemes is as important as spreading awareness about covid 19 prevention measures.


    Earlier smt Juney Jacob, Field Publicity Officer FOB Tirunelveli in her introductory address said that equal weightage should be given to containment of virus and protection of livelihoods as the Covid 19 pandemic is on an unprecedented scale.


    J.BosewellAsir, Field Publicity Assistant FOB, Tirunelveli rendered the vote of thanks. He said that e-certificates are being given to all participants. The webinar was also streamed live in youtube channel "Regional outreach bureau - Tamilnadu and Puducherry".


    WEBINAR TIRUNELVELI


    webinar pic 2


    webinar pic 3


    

    
    (Release ID: 1640853) Visitor Counter : 12