      Special Service and Features

      AAJEEVIKA NATIONAL RURAL LIVELIHOOD MISSION: SHGs IN TAMIL NADU TO GET Rs 5274 CRORE
      
      RS ONE LAKH LOAN FOR JOBLESS LABOURERS UNDER RURAL TRANSFORMATION PROJECT

      Posted On: 21 JUL 2020 5:06PM by PIB Chennai

    Covid 19 pandemic unlock 2 is the time to create new avenues for labourers who have returned home after losing jobs. Union government has announced free ration including rice and pulses to labourers. Aajeevika - National Rural Livelihoods Mission (NRLM) which was launched by the Union Ministry of Rural Development in 2011 aided in part through investment support by the World Bank, aims at helping the rural poor. It enables them to increase household income through sustainable livelihood enhancements and improved access to financial services. NRLM sets out to cover 7 Crore rural poor households, across 6 lakh villages in the country through self-managed Self Help Groups (SHGs). In Tamil Nadu, NRLM targets to give Rs 5274.40 crore to 149160 SHGs in 2020-21.


    Moreover Tamil Nadu is also implementing rural transformation project based on NRLM. Under this scheme in Tiruchirapalli, labourers who have returned home from other states after losing their jobs due to covid 19 lockdown can apply for Rs one lakh loan to start up business. According to district administration, home returned labourers from 135 villages in Manaparai, Manikandam, Musiri, Anthanallur and Thuraiyur blocks in Tiruchirapalli district can apply for the loan. The age limit for loan applicants should be between 18 and 35 for male and between 18 and 40 for female applicants. The beneficiaries should approach poverty alleviation programme offices in the rural blocks, or Tamil Nadu rural livelihood mission offices to get the loans. The project focuses on skilled youth migrant returnees from within state, within country or from abroad, aspiring to become an entrepreneur or willing to launch astartup. State Project Management Unit (SPMU) will release funds to District Project Management Unit (DPMU). Thereafter, based on allocation, funds will be transferred to Village Poverty Reduction Committee (VPRC) account, after assessing demand (as per total amount consolidated after applications are assessed and selected at the appropriate level). VPRC after receiving funds will be released to individual entrepreneur account.


    Union government is also giving free ration including rice and pulses during the covid 19 lockdown. Balachander from Karur who is a labourer who lost job due to covid 19 lockdown thanked government for giving free ration during the lockdown period. He appreciated the government gesture to support livelihood through NRLM . The unlock 2 period is the time to support people who are recovering from the struggles due to loss of jobs.


    The daily wagers and labourers have been affected badly due to lockdown. Union government is helping them to cope up with problems and stand up to face the issues boldly and pick up gainful employment .


    Workers returning to Tiruchirapalli from other states by Shramik special


    Aajeevika


    TN rural Pudu vaazhvu project


    Balachander KARUR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1640239) Visitor Counter : 34
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil