      Special Service and Features

      CHILD MARRIAGE PREVENTION ACT ENFORCED DURING COVID 19 LOCKDOWN
      Posted On: 23 JUL 2020 3:32PM by PIB Chennai


    Union government is taking several measures in unison with state governments to combat the spread of Covid 19 pandemic. Safe distance norms and wearing face masks compulsorily when coming outside triple lockdown to prevent people from coming out are being enforced. Permission is given only in restricted numbers for people to attend marriages and funerals. These restrictions are being done for the good of the people as the only way now to stop the spread of covid 19 is to break the chain. The law enforcing agencies including the Police are busy restricting people from coming out of containment zones and prevent crowding of market places. This time period is being misused by some people to conduct child marriages as it may go unnoticed. The Prevention of child marriage act –PCMA aims at Prevention, protection, and Prosecution of Offenders.As per the Act. it is illegal for girls below the age of 18 years and boys below the age of 21 years to marry.Any marriage consummated between children is considered to be illegal. The child marriage can be rescinded by the contracting parties within the period of two years after the attainment of majority. Such a petition shall be only made by the girl or boy who is a minor.The offencee of child marriage is punishable with rigorous imprisonment up to two years or fine up to Rs one lakh or both. As per Section 11 of the Act, punishment is also provided for persons promoting and permitting the child marriage under Section 12 of the PCMA.


    Tiruchirapalli district collector ShSivarasu has issued a warning to those who conduct child marriages and gives support to conduct them. He warned that strict action will be taken them as per rules to prevent it. In Tiruchirapalii, 74 cases of child marriages were reported during lockdown period. This has prompted authorities to give strict warning. Of the 74 cases of child marriage, 15 were reported only after they were conducted and cases have been registered against them. Public are being advised to report to district social welfare officer or child marriage prevention officer if they come to know about child marriages. They can also register complaints in toll free number 1098.Tiruchirapalli District Social Welfare Officer SmtTamimunissa urges people to inform local authorities about domestic violence against women and child marriages in the neighbourhood.


    SmtSubadhra a social activist said that it is alarming to note that people are not aware about the problems girls will have to face when they are married off at very young age. They are not psychologically prepared to face and married life which will lead to many problems. Most of the girls will have to stop education and this will affect their future.


    The United Nations Sustainable development goals aims to end human rights violation of child marriage by 2030 all over the world. Covid 19 pandemic is the time to act alongwith authorities to prevent domestic violence. People can seek the help of child marriage prevention officer and other officials to be socially responsible in safeguarding the future of girls in society.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1640654) Visitor Counter : 26