      Special Service and Features

      INDIA POST SMALL SAVINGS, A BOON TO THE RURAL HOUSEHOLDS DURING COVID 19 PANDEMIC LOCKDOWN
      MORE THAN 3 CRORE POST OFFICE SMALL SAVINGS ACCOUNTS FUNCTIONAL IN TAMIL NADU

      Posted On: 28 JUL 2020 2:31PM by PIB Chennai

    Covid 19 pandemic unlock 2 is a crucial period for rehabilitation and resurgence of the suffering poor . Small savings especially postal savings have really boosted the confidence of people to save the least earned during difficult times. Post office savings is quite popular among poor people both in urban areas and rural villages. In Tamil Nadu there are about 3 crore post office small savings account holders. India Post Payment Bank gives banking facilities at home with Doorstep banking services. The wide network of post offices and postal employees will make banking accessible to the remotest corners of the nation. It is easy to open a bank account, transfer funds, deposit and withdraw cash, recharge or pay bills and accomplish much more with Doorstep banking services of India Post.


    Post office officials say that Post office savings bank can be opened by a single adult, Joint Account and even by a minor above 10 years of age. The minimum amount is Rs 500 and account should be opened with cash only. 4 per cent per annum interest is paid. Cheque facility, ATM facility are available for post office savings accounts. Interest earned is tax free up to Rs10,000 per year . The savings account can be transferred from one post office to another. Like banks, intra operable netbanking, mobile Banking facility too are available in postal savings accounts. Online Fund transfer between Post Office Savings Accounts, Stop Cheque, transaction view facility is available through Intra Operable Netbanking and Mobile Banking.


    India post Payment bank IPPB offers simple, secure Mobile banking service through a Mobile app to access account and carry out transactions from the convenience of mobile phone. This is very useful during covid 19 lockdown time as many transactions can be done without travelling to the bank or post office. To activate mobile banking services, IPPB app has to be downloaded in android app from google play store. With mobile banking service, account balance enquiry, request for a statement of one’s account, Request for a chequebook (Current Account), Stop payment on a cheque, Transfer funds within the bank, transfer funds to other bank accounts, pay water, electricity and utility bills recharge prepaid and several other services can be accessed .


    S Meena from Pallakadu village in Tiruchirapalli says that she is having post office small savings account. She says it is useful to her as it created a habit of savings and will therefore be useful during hardship times. Chitradevi from Somarasampettai, Tiruchirapalli says that post office savings is easily accessible even in rural areas due to a recent order. She says that she doesn’t have to travel to the city for bank transactions any more. She points out that especially during lockdown period post office savings is a great support to the rural people.


    Post offices have diversified their activities across decades and the latest savings accounts at rural brances will be a big financial inclusion initiative to make rural people manage their finances independently. Especially this also serve as a major Women empowerment initiative who are eagerly opening savings accounts in Post offices and are increasing their financial literacy awareness every single day.


    IPPB Mobile banking app


    S Meena Pallakadu Trichy


    I ChitraDevi Somarasampettai Trichy.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1641772) Visitor Counter : 17