      Special Service and Features

      Ecstasy Pills and MDMA crystalsfromGermanyand Netherlands seized by Chennai AirCustoms. Two detained.
      Posted On: 25 JUL 2020 8:16PM by PIB Chennai


    Chennai Air Customs has detained four postal parcelssuspected to contain narcotics substance, which arrived from Germanyand Netherlands at Foreign Post Office, Chennai.


    On opening the first parcel which arrived from Germany, two plastic pouches were found inside and on examination, 100 red colour and 50 blue colour MDMA pills were was found concealed. These red colour pills embossed with the logo of Tesla Company contain 224 mg of MDMA and blue colour pills had EA SPORTS embossed over them contain 176 mg of MDMA. On examination of the second parcel which had arrived from Netherlands, 100 peach colour MDMA pills were found. These pills were in the shape of a human skull known as MY BRAND/ Totenkopf Skull and contain 248 mg MDMA. On opening the third parcel which had arrived from Netherlands, 26 pink colourpills of MDMA were found. These pills were marked with Jurassis and had an image of Dinosaur over it contain around 300mg MDMA. The fourth parcel on examination was found to contain 7 grams of MDMA Crystal. Total 276 MDMA pills, 7 grams of MDMA crystalsvalued at Rs9 Lakhswere recovered and seized under the NDPS Act, 1985.


    Two parcels were addressed to different persons in Chennai city. As a follow up action, searches were carried out and one person has been detained to ascertain his role in the smuggling of the drugs. Two Other parcels were destined to addresses outside Chennai. One parcel was found addressed to a person in Auroville, which is an experimental township in Viluppuram district of Tamil Nadu near Puducherry. Consignee was found to be a young Indian lady, who is working as a volunteer in Auroville. She has been detainedto ascertain her role in the smuggling.Another parcel was found destined to an address in Salem District in Tamil Nadu and on enquiry it was found that the addressee name was fake.


    Further investigation is in progress.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1641271) Visitor Counter : 31
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil