      Special Service and Features

      ROB & PIB Chennai organize a webinar on ‘Better Mental Health in a Pandemic situation’ <<>>
      
      <<<<Structured daily routine with thrust on Sleep hygiene would help destress oneself in any situation : Dr. Malar Moses>>>

      Posted On: 24 JUL 2020 9:14PM by PIB Chennai

    Regional Outreach Bureau, Chennai and Press Information Bureau branch offices undr Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Chennai jointly organized a webinar on ‘Better Mental Health in a Pandemic situation’ for the students and general public .


    The key speakers of the event were Dr. Lakshmi Vijayakumar, Founder of SNEHA, an NGO in Chennai for the prevention of suicide. She is Currently the Head, Department of Psychiatry, VHS Chennai and is a member of the W.H.O’s International Network for Suicide Research and Prevention. She is also Honorary Associate Professor in the University of Melbourne, Australia and Hon Adjunct Professor, University of Griffith, Australia.


    The other speaker of the event was Dr. Malar Moses who is the Associate professor/HOD psychiatry of Government Tiruvannamalai Medical College and Hospital. A MBBS from Kilpauk Medical College , Dr Malar did her MD (psychiatry) at Madras Medical College. She has a total of 15 years in the field of psychiatry and she specialises in Women’s mental health.


    Delivering keynote address, Dr. Lakshmi Vijayakumar said in a recent research , it was confirmed 35% of the people are in depression due to the covid19 pandemic and it has also affected people without any previous mental conditions. Citing the lowest death rates due the pandemic in India, Dr Lakshmi advised to develop a positive outlook of the efficient management of the pandemic both by union and state governments . She underlined the importance of maintaining positive mental health by effective inter personal communication within the family as well as with the near and dear. The aura of positivity develops with one's ability to successfully handle one's failures , she added. She further said Situation like the present pandemic is just a temporary setback in human history and it is everyone's experience that those with ambitions will never be bogged down by any such obstacles. Expressing concern about the raise in number of suicides, Dr Lakshmi enthused to seek immediate advice of friends and kin, if one feels distressed.In a pandemic situation, It is the uncertainty about future that leads to anxiety and stress and the solution is to develop faith in oneself, one's family and in the government systems which are untiringly working to combat the pandemic across the world. She said it is totally unacceptable and unpardonable to see suicides increasing due to a temporary economic downfall. No slowdown in any economy will last longer and hoped it will bounce back as always. Speaking on children falling prey to cyber bullying , she said gadgets, boasted for their excellent communication potential also are the source of wickedness. She warned there is a need to realise on the goodness and warmth of the direct inter personal communication, before losing out totally to the modern gadgets. She pointed out parents have a great responsibility in making the right choice in this regard.


    Opening on a positive note, Dr. Malar moses exuded confidence in the participants that the latest pandemic is just one of its kind in a century and therefore mankind will definitely overcome it in coming days. Lauding it as the first Webinar to be held on mental health for general public, She said the panic about the covid 19 is unnecessary provided the safety and sanitation norms are strictly followed. Accepting the fact that the Lockdown restrictions have caused lot of stress, Dr Malar said that it is a necessary evil in view of breaking the chain of transmission . While Forced stay at home is another cause of concern She alarmed the participants of not getting used to a sedentary life style. Excess use of gadgets have caused a routine collapse leading to Sleep disorders, she added. Maintaining a structured routine and healthy sleep hygiene are therefore mandatory for destressing oneself , Dr Malar said. She briefed the audience on how to overcome it and insisted on practice yoga, exercises and learning something new. She also explained about the various facilities like COVID care centers, telemedicine, counseling and de-addiction centers. She advised the mentally distressed to immediately contact 102 and 104 with respective std codes for getting quick help. She also spoke of Union Minister for Human Resource Development (HRD) inauguarting mental health initiative named Manodarpan, keeping in mind the stress faced by students and their families especially during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.


    B. Gurubabu, Director, Press Information Bureau delivered the welcome address . He pointed out the importance of pursuing one's ambitions and the need for acquiring relevant knowledge in his/her domain. Further he stressed the way the parents upbring their children with love and warmth would go a long way in helping the children develop a postive outlook towards life. J Kamaraj, ,Joint Director, Regional Outreach Bureau, Chennai presented the Vote of Thanks. Shri. Sivakumar, Assistant Director, ROB Puducheery and Ms. Vidhya.A.R, Field Exhibition Officer, ROB Chennai along with other officials were present at the event.


    The programme can be viewed on Regional Outreach Bureau TN&Puducherry Youtube Channel:


    https://youtu.be/WZ-wJnAhVlo


    

    
    (Release ID: 1641064) Visitor Counter : 14