      Special Service and Features

      ROB and PIB Chennai organises a Webinar on Kargil Vijay Diwas, Saluting the bravehearts
      It is not the might of the weapons or the fire power that determines the outcome of the war but the courage, valor and determination of the bravehearts which decides the outcome of the war; Major Madan Kumar

      Posted On: 29 JUL 2020 11:12AM by PIB Chennai

    It is not the might of the weapons or the fire power that determines the outcome of the war but the courage, valor and determination of the bravehearts which decides the outcome of the war said Major Madan Kumar. Speaking at a Webinar on ‘Kargil Vijay Diwas, Saluting the bravehearts’ organized by Regional Outreach Bureau and Press Information Bureau in Chennai today he recalled the supreme sacrifices made by the courageous men of in Indian Army.


    Speaking at the event, he spoke about Param Vir Chakra awardee Captain Manoj Kumar Pandey who laid down his life and protected our country in the Kargil conflict in 1999 with audacious courage and leadership. He said, though he lost his life during the attack that took place at Jubar Top, Khalubar Hills in Kargil, he ensured that he cut off the lifeline of Pakistan army which was the turning point of the conflict. He said Capt. Manoj in his interview for joining the armed forces had replied that the purpose of joining the army was to get Param Vir Chakra award. Sadly, it was awarded to him posthumously he added. Earlier, he spoke about difficult terrains of Kargil where soldiers had to carry a war gear of nearly 25 kgs and brave the weather conditions of hostile biting cold and low oxygen levels which could easily claim lives. Speaking on the role of Indian Navy, Major Madan said, Indian Navy launched 'Operation Talwar' in which the Eastern Naval Fleet joined forces with the Western Fleet to block the Arabian sea routes to Pakistan. In a skilful display of its prowess, the Navy played a vital role in giving India the strategic upper hand in the conflict. Admiral Kumar supervised a massive naval mobilisation against Pakistan during the Kargil War. This naval build-up by Indian Navy contributed to pressuring Pakistan to back down in the Kargil War he added.


    Col. Sada Peter, a former officer of Indian Army, one of the key speakers described his experience in the conflict. Narrating the incident, he said he had to risk moving artillery needed for the conflict putting aside even the safety norms. After reaching a vantage point with almost 40 guns dedicated for the attack, heavy smoke and high explosives were showered at the enemy for almost an hour. Every mission had to be meticulously planned on this unfamiliar terrain and over 296 rocket launches were fired on the enemy. He said about over 150 brave men lost their lives in the mission bur ensured that the enemy was neutralized and morally defeated. This demoralized the Pakistan Army to such an extent that they could not recover. helped the Indian Army. After tiger hill was taken, we forces were to be concentrated towards Kargil. In the night, I suddenly got orders to move three launches from Kargil. Never in our training have we moved loaded and armed launches due to safety restrictions and also because of the fatigue. But now I had to. Time was very less and safety had to be put aside to a certain extent. I reached early morning of 28 th of June near the Kargil Bridge from where I had to launch a rocket from 13,000 feet. That was one of the most terrible nights taking loaded launches in winding track of 35,000 kms he said.


    Sharing his experiences on the conflict, Wing Commander KR Srikanth (Retd.) of Indian Air Force who flew the Fighter aircrafts to provide air cover for the armed forces on the ground said the aircraft had to be flown at an altitude of over 30,000 ft to keep the aircrafts from the reach of SAM missiles which had a range of 28,000 ft used by the Pakistan forces. The enemies were shocked by the use of mirage and helicopters in unfamiliar terrain. They did not expect the assault from the Indian Air Force and were pounded by the missiles which completely demoralized them. There were heavy causalities on their side which gave an advantage for the Indian Army to surge forward he added. It was an excellent display of team work by IAF, Army and the Naval forces said Wing Commander Srikanth. Using this opportunity to speak about the bravehearts of the Kargil, Wing Commander Srikanth called upon the students to join the NCC, NSS, Scouts and Guides to educate themselves about the armed forces and explore ways to serve the nation.


    Shri. B. Gurubabu, IIS, Director, Press Information Bureau delivered the welcome address and Shri J Kamaraj, IIS, Joint Director, Regional Outreach Bureau, Chennai presented the Vote of Thanks. Shri. Sivakumar, IIS, Assistant Director, ROB Puducheery, Ms. Vidhya.A.R, IIS, Field Exhibition Officer, ROB Chennai and other Field Publicity Officers along with other officials and public were present at the event.


    For further details, kindly watch the recorded webinar on https://youtu.be/iY-6kDKahR4


    Col. Sada Peter (Retd.) Army officer addressing in a Webinar on ‘Kargil Vijay Diwas, Saluting the bravehearts’ organized by Regional Outreach Bureau and Press Information Bureau, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India in Chennai today.


    Major. Madan (Retd.) Army officer addressing in a Webinar on ‘Kargil Vijay Diwas, Saluting the bravehearts’ organized by Regional Outreach Bureau and Press Information Bureau , Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India in Chennai today.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1642247) Visitor Counter : 10