      Special Service and Features

      “Building positivity amidst pandemic situation is critical to live stress free”: Dr. D. V. Nithyanandan, Assistant Professor, Department of Psychology
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2020 6:55PM by PIB Chennai


    “The entire world has witnessed an immense change due to the prevailing pandemic situation. Yet it is critical to look at the positive aspects of it in order to avoid mental stress”, said Dr. D. V. Nithyanandan, Assistant Professor, Department of Psychology, Periyar University today, during a webinar, jointly conducted by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting’s Field Outreach Bureau, Salem and Press Information Bureau, Chennai.


    Speaking on the topic, Maintaining Mental Health during Covid-19, Dr. Nithyanandan said maintaining psychological well being is significant for which it is essential to learn the positive features that is associated with theepidemic. The current situation has given clarity about life and people’s thinking. Due to the lockdown, people get to spend quality and personal time with their family which was denied earlier, he added.


    “Everything that we do today is based on digital technology. Even a simple systematic application that is created to solve a problem is a technology. At this juncture, it is necessary to adapt technology wherever needed”, he said.


    Dr. Nithyanandan further stated that the New Normal that has occurred due to the epidemic is entirely different from the Old Normal. “Earlier, children were restricted from watching screens and they were encouraged to go out. But now, we tell them not to go out, but stay indoors and use mobile and video games as children as young as 4 years have online classes”, he added.


    He recommended people to read few books which will serve as a guide for the New Normal.Origin by Dan Brown speaks about God in a rational way, Science and the future of the world. Digital Minimalism by Cal NewPort throws light on living a focused life with the help of technology in an increasingly noisy world. Cal NewPort’s another book, Deep Work elucidates the ability to focus without distraction and explains how to achieve more in less time.


    The Age of surveillance Capitalism, authored by ShosanaZuboff reminds us that with the arrival of technology, there is no privacy as personal data will be a mere commodity in the future. At the same time, it also teaches us the ways to protect ourselves. Parenting for a Digital future written by Sonia Livingstone, Alicia Blum-Ross speaks how parents often enact authority and values through digital technologies since "screen time," games, and social media have become both ways of being together and of setting boundaries.


    Dr. Mehar, Director, Mehar mind care, Salem, addressed on the topic Family relationships during corona pandemic. Being a medical professional for over 15 years, Dr. Mehar said that 99% of the health issues are related to stress and depression. She explained this quoting few personal experiences where patients having normal complaints like fever and stomach ache were found to be actually stressed due to various domestic issues.


    She emphasised on the need to cultivate positive thinking in order to overcome any negative thoughts. During the interactive session, which was organised in association with the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, Periyar University, Salem, students shared their experience and the mental stress that they were facing due to lockdown. Dr, Mehar advised them to focus on the positive aspects that they wish to happen, which would suppress the negative thoughts.


    “Focusing on the need based instead of issue based is imperative and it is essential to maintain a diary based on the various needs. Whenever any negative thought arises, due to family or societal problem, one should stop thinking about it and ponder over how to come out of it and convert the negativity into positive image”, she added.


    Dr. Mehar helped the participants to control their emotions and stress with the help of mind relaxing techniques. She said that it is possible for everyone to live happily if we learn to control our anger, stress and anxiety.


    Earlier, Mr. Venkateshwara, DG, PIB (South Zone) in his welcome address, appreciated the topic chosen for the webinar, which he said was unique and the need of the hour.


    During his introductory address, Mr. Kamaraj, Joint Director, Regional Outreach Bureau, Chennai, said that at this indefinite situation, not only adults, but also children due to their studies and online classes are feeling stressed and the webinar was conducted keeping their interest in view and also that of the frontline warriors to give them a feeling of hope.


    Mr. S. Murali, Field Publicity Officer, Field Outreach Bureau, Salem, delivered the vote of thanks.


    ****


    

    
    (Release ID: 1642636) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil