      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Future development projects in Mumbai to be planned keeping in mind conserving ecology and environment: Nitin Gadkari
      
      Housing problem of Mumbai will be solved if improvised transport system is in place: Suresh Prabhu
      Posted On: 01 DEC 2018 1:33PM by PIB Mumbai


    Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways, Shipping and Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Shri Nitin Gadkari appealed to the Maharashtra state government to take initiative to clean Mithi River and Coastal Sea. Water from Mithi River and seas should be recycled, which may be difficult but not impossible, he added.


    The Minister addressed ‘ Mumbai 2.0 Conference ’ organised by Project Mumbai & Govt. of Maharashtra in Mumbai today. He informed the gathering that various projects are being initiated by both centre and state governments for Mumbai.


    Shri Gadkari said that, we want to plan future development projects in Mumbai keeping in mind conserving ecology and environment. We are giving emphasis on water transport in Mumbai which will reduce pollution and traffic congestion in the city. It will also create job opportunities. Drainage system should be designed newly as its biggest problem. He further said that, Mithi River in Mumbai can be used for inland water transport, Mumbai water pollution will decrease if water transport starts in the city. Fuel used for water transport will be eco-friendly.


    He informed gathering, right now 80 Cruise comes to Mumbai in year, but International Cruise Terminal work has started in full swing. So as estimation is around 950 cruises will visit Mumbai in next 2 to 3 years. Means 20 – 25 lakh tourist will come to the city, which helps to growth city’s economy. The Minister informed for Road connectivity between Mumbai and Delhi, he said that, working on one of the biggest Mumbai - Delhi 12 lane super highway project. This can help to travel in 12 hours. Shri Gadkari also appealed investors to invest in highway project and cruise terminal.


    Union Minister for Commerce and Industry, Shri Suresh Prabhu shared his thoughts for Mumbai as a Mumbaikar. He said that, the idea of such initiatives is to plan vision for Mumbai. India has improved in ranking when it comes to ease of doing business and contribution of Mumbai has been immense in improving this ranking. While, development of Mumbai is done, carrying capacity of the city should be understood. “Soul of Mumbai should be maintained. Ethos of Mumbai should not be compromised.” He expressed his feelings.


    The Minister also said that, sustainability of city needs to be kept intact. Housing problem of Mumbai will be solved if improvised transport system is in place. Fire incidents in Mumbai need to be tackled with advanced technology. We are in advanced way of thinking as chopper services are in place, he informed.


    Amongst the other dignitaries, Shri Devendra Fadnavis, Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri Sachin Tendulkar, P. Gopichand, and CEO, NITI Aayog, Shri Amitabh Kant was present on the occasion.


    Shri Amitabh Kant moderated a panel discussion namely “Time Bound Infrastructure Upgraded” with Municipal Commissioner, MCGM, Shri Ajoy Mehta, Metropolitan Commissioner, MMRDA, Shri R.A. Rajeev, CEO & MD, L&T, Shri S. N. Subrahmanyan and Vice Chairman, GVK, Shri Sanjay Reddy.


    *****


    RT/IJ/RDS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554387) Visitor Counter : 629