      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      Inauguration of Regional Training Camp for 77th Round of NSSO Socioeconomic Survey
      
      Surveys to be conducted on Land and Livestock Holdings, Agricultural Households, Debt and Investment and Time Use

      Posted On: 12 DEC 2018 1:08PM by PIB Mumbai

    The National Sample Survey office (NSSO) – the premier field survey office under the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, Government of India – in collaboration with Directorate of Economics andStatistics, Government of Maharashtra is launching 77 th Round of socio-economic Survey on following three topics from January 2019 to December 2019.

     1. Land and Livestock Holdings of Households and Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households
     2. Debt and Investment
     3. Time Use Survey

    The objective of the survey on Land and Livestock Holdings of Households and Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households is to generate different indicators of ownership and operational holdings of rural households, including their ownership of livestock.


    The survey on Debt and Investment is aimed to study (i) the demand for credit from rural families and (ii) the supply of credit by credit agencies – both institutional and non-institutional - in order to formulate banking policies.


    The Time Use Survey is aimed at measuring participation of men, women and other groups of persons, in paid and unpaid activities. It will be an important source of information on the time spent in unpaid caregiving activities, unpaid volunteer work and unpaid domestic service producing activities of household members.


    To train the field functionaries, the Maharashtra (West) Region is holding its Regional Training Camp (RTC) from 17-20 December, 2018 at its Regional Office, C.G.O Complex, CBD Belapur, Navi Mumbai. Around 100 delegates/officials are expected to attend the said RTC.Besides imparting training, the camp will also provide a platform to discuss various intricacies regarding the upcoming survey. It aims also at bringing uniformity in the survey procedures and practices followed by central and state agencies.


    About NSSO


    The National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) established in 1950, has been instrumental in developing a strong database on various socio-economic parameters through its countrywide sample surveys, which have helped the central as well as state governments in development of planning and policy. NSS data is useful in various fields, ranging from estimation of poverty to development of Index of Industrial Production which is used in stock exchanges. The data made available by NSSO regarding unorganised manufacturing/services sector is widely used by planners and policy makers.


    ***


    DJM/MC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555579) Visitor Counter : 752
    
    
    
    
    

3.