      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      Regional Training Camp for 77th Round of NSSO Socioeconomic Survey Inaugurated
      
      Surveys to bring out the status of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry sector

      Posted On: 17 DEC 2018 3:23PM by PIB Mumbai

    The National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) - the premier field survey office under the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, Government of India - has launched 77th round of Socio-Economic Survey on "Land and Livestock holdings of Households and Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households”, “Debt and Investment" and “Time Use Survey”. The survey would be held from January 2019 to December 2019.


    To train the field functionaries, a four-day Regional Training Camp was inaugurated by NSSO (Field Outreach Division), Mumbai at its Regional Office, C.G.O. Complex, CBD Belapur, Navi Mumbai today. More than 100 delegates and officials participated. The camp which is aimed at imparting training will also provide a platform to discuss the various intricacies regarding the upcoming survey.


    Principal Advisor of Reserve Bank of India, Shri Gautam Chatterjee inaugurated the RTC. Regional Joint Commissioner, Dept. of Animal Husbandry, Govt of Maharashtra, Dr. Manohar L. Salve was also present as Guest of honour.


    On the occasion, DDG, NSSO, Kolkata, Shri S. K. Jana informed that Debt and Investment Survey will be conducted in 75 districts as per the request of Reserve Bank of India and that the survey will use modern statistical packages.


    Director (Directorate of Economics and Statistics, Government of Maharashtra), Shri R.R. Shinge stressed that surveyors need to be very tactful and patient in collecting the data required for this survey.


    Regional Joint Commissioner, Department of Animal Husbandry, Shri Manohar Salve stressed that surveyors need to be careful to detail and record the issues faced by Indian agriculture sector. He said that animal husbandry sector which contributes 4% of national GDP and 25 per cent of agricultural GDP stands to particularly benefit from the survey.


    Principal Advisor to Reserve Bank of India, Dr. Gautam Chatterjee told the gathering that RBI and Central Statistics Office (CSO), Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation exchange data regularly. The data collected by RBI on private corporate sector is shared with CSO and data on rural households is shared by NSSO with RBI. While data received from banking sector would give idea about the supply side of credit, the data from NSSO will reveal the demand-side situation, Dr, Gautam said.


    The programme was also attended by Smt. Supriya Roy, Deputy Director General, NSSO Mumbai.


    Also read: Inauguration of Regional Training Camp for 77th Round of NSSO Socioeconomic Survey


    ***


    DJM/MC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556185) Visitor Counter : 1589
    
    

      Background release reference

      Regional Training Camp for 77th Round of NSSO Socioeconomic Survey Inaugurated