      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Regional Outreach Bureau launches ‘Ayushman Bharat’ awareness campaign for Maharashtra
      Posted On: 19 DEC 2018 5:55PM by PIB Mumbai


    A one-day orientation workshop was organized by the office of Regional Outreach Bureau Pune, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting for various cultural troupes in the region, in order to sensitize them about Ayushman Bharat. The troupes in turn would spread awareness about this scheme among the people through their locally prevalent communication means such as drama, skits, songs and plays.


    Ayushman Bharat is a watershed initiative in the health sector, benefitting all sections of society. The scheme would turn out to be a landmark event in the history of health initiatives of the nation. Shri Santosh Ajmera, Director (Additional charge), Regional Outreach Bureau Pune said this, while addressing the Private Registered Cultural Troupes (PRTs), at the workshop in Pune today December 19, 2018. Prior to this, he launched the campaign by placing his fingers on the traditional instrument “Dholak”, which symbolizes the creation of reverberance across the state about the scheme.


    While emphasizing the importance of local cultural troupes, Shri Ajmera mentioned that these PRTs have become an important bridge between the Government and the last mile, as they take information about various initiatives and create awareness among masses about the same. The awareness programme would be initiated from the first week of January 2019 in four districts of Maharashtra viz. Nandurbar, Osmanabad, Washim and Gadchiroli, in association with Public Health Department, Govt. of Maharashtra.


    After the inauguration, briefing session on various aspects on the theme was conducted by Dr. Amol Mhaske, Regional Manager, State Health Assurance Society and Dr. Sagar Gadekar, Pune District Co-coordinator. During his address, Dr. J. V. Panpatil, Manager, ROB, Pune guided artistes, on massage delivery and communication strategy. After the briefing session, model performances on the said theme were performed by the cultural troupes.


    Regional Outreach Bureau is the office under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India, responsible for dissemination of information regarding Government’s initiatives through various means of communication.


    Ayushman Bharat is a National Health Protection Scheme, which will cover over 10 crore poor and vulnerable families (approximately 50 crore beneficiaries), providing coverage up to 5 lakh rupees per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalization.


    ***


    DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556679) Visitor Counter : 655