      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ field-level awareness campaign for Maharashtra, Goa and Dadra & Nagar Haveli launched
      Posted On: 21 DEC 2018 10:26AM by PIB Mumbai


    A three-state field-level campaign on Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP) is being organized by the Government, beginning from the first week of January 2019. 900-plus cultural programmes across various districts of Maharashtra, 100 programmes in Goa and 30 Programmes in UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli would be held as a part of the campaign. The awareness and sensitization drive is being organized by the Pune office of Regional Outreach Bureau (ROB), Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Government of India, in coordination with Women and Child Development Departments of respective states.


    The campaign was launched by Ms. Gauri Gadgil, a Divyang child and an international swimmer, by placing her fingers on traditional instrument “Dholak”, symbolizing the creation of reverberance about the scheme across the three states. She said that girls are making their mark across the globe, giving name and fame to their families.


    As a prelude to the campaign, an orientation-cum-workshop on the flagship scheme has been organized for Private Registered Cultural Troupes (PRTs) in Pune, on December 20, 2018. Inaugurating the workshop, former ADG, Ministry of I&B, Smt. Prabhavati Aakashi said that the cultural troupes of ROB have been doing a wonderful job in creating awareness and sensitizing people on the importance of this initiative.


    Speaking on the occasion, Director( Additional Charge), ROB Pune, Shri Santosh Ajmera said that the troupes are an important bridge between the Government and the last mile at the grass root level, as they spread information about various initiatives. The cultural troupes help create awareness about various schemes among the people through locally prevalent communication means such as drama, skits, songs and plays.


    After the inauguration, a briefing session on various aspects of the scheme was conducted by Assistant Commissioner, ICDS, Mumbai, Smt. Sandhya Nagarkar. Manager, ROB Pune, Dr. J.V. Panpatil addressed the artistes on message delivery, target audiences and communication strategy, and explained the intermixing and amalgamation of music and prose in message delivery.


    More on Beti Bachao Beti Padhao here .


    ***


    DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556899) Visitor Counter : 678