      Ministry of Education

      National Education Policy is ready, Govt to declare soon- Shri Prakash Javadekar
      
      NIRF Rankings will also be applicable to small universities
      
      Shri Javadekar addressed 31st Convocation of Goa University

      Posted On: 15 DEC 2018 9:39PM by PIB Mumbai

    Panaji, December 15, 2018


    Union Minister for Human Resource Development Shri Prakash Javadekar informed that Report of K Kasturirangan Committee is ready, Government to declare National Education Policy very soon. Shri Javadekar was addressing at the 31 st convocation of Goa University today at Panaji, Goa. Governor Smt Mridula Sinha, Vice Chancellor Prof Varun Sahani were present on this occasion.


    Shri Javadekar in his address declared that National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) will also be applicable for small universities. Government is trying to upscale and give new directions to the education system. Quality, Research and Innovation are the three pillars on which government is focusing, said Shri Javadekar. ‘Outcome based education’ is the priority of government.


    There is need to upscale accreditation system. Ministry of Human Resource Development has asked IITs and IIMs to be part of NAAC Accreditation in every five years. Government has taken initiatives like Study Webs of Active Learning for Young Aspiring Minds (SWAYAM), ‘National Digital Library’, ‘Atal Tinkering Labs’ and ‘Smart India Hackathon’ for college students, informed Shri Javadekar. 23 lakh students and general public are learning from ‘SWAYAM’. Through National Digital Library 1 crore 65 lakh books are available, informed Shri Javadekar.


    ‘Smart India Hackathon’ is a unique innovation which is getting tremendous response. Now this is the world’s largest hackathon. This will create an innovation culture. Without innovation we can’t generate money, added Shri Prakash Javadekar.


    Governor Smt. Mridula Sinha in her address appealed to the students to take care of parents and to become a good citizen. She said that, Cleanliness is another aspect on which we all have to pay attention.


    For the first time in the history of Goa University, 10,000 students were conferred degrees. Among them 8,313 are Bachelor Degree holders, 1,625 are Masters Degree holders and 39 are Ph.D. holders.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556081) Visitor Counter : 348