      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      “Educational Empowerment” is an effective step to stop “Political Exploitation” of Minorities: Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi
      
      School dropout rate among Muslim girlshas reduced from 70 per centto about 35-40 per cent due to awareness and educational empowerment programmes: Shri Naqvi

      Posted On: 29 DEC 2018 4:30PM by PIB Mumbai

    “Educational Empowerment” is an effective step to stop “Political Exploitation” of Minorities. Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said while laying foundation stone of school building, library, lab etc facilities at Dr. MIJ Girls High School and Junior College at Bandra West in Mumbai run by Anjuman-e-Islam. Shri Naqvi further said that during last about 4 years, scholarships have been provided to more than 3 crore 11 lakh students belonging to Minority communities which include about 60 per cent girl students.


    This year, "National Scholarship Portal Mobile App" (NSP Mobile App) has been launched which will ensure a smooth, accessible and hassle-free scholarship system for students from poor and weaker sections.Scholarships have been given directly into bank accounts of the students though DBT mode in a transparent manner free from middlemen.


    Anjuman-e-Islam chairman Shri Jahir Kazi, Maulana Azad Education Foundation, Minority Affairs Ministry Govt of India, Secretary Shri R Rehman, Foundation’s Vice-Chairman Shri Ashfaq Saifi and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    Shri Naqvi said that government’s efforts for educational empowerment of all weaker sections including Minorities have shown results at the ground level. He further said, School dropout rate among Muslim girls, which was earlier more than 70 per cent, has now been reduced to about 35-40 per cent due to awareness and educational empowerment programmes of the Government and it is working with a mission to bring it down to zero per cent in the coming years.


    Education is an effective step towards empowerment. The government led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is successfully moving forward towards educational and social empowerment of all weaker and backward sections of the society. Ministry of Minority Affairs has worked with commitment to “3E- Education, Employment & Empowerment”. In the last about 2 years, thousands of educational institutions of all Minority communities including Madarsas, have been included in the mainstream education system by connecting them with "3T-Teacher, Tiffin, Toilet", Minister said.


    Shri Naqvi added that more than 5 lakh 43 thousand youths have been provided employment and employment opportunities through job-oriented skill development schemes such as Seekho aur Kamao, Usttad, Garib Nawaz Kaushal Vikas Yojana, Nai Manzil etc. During the last 2 years, more than 1 lakh 50 thousand artisans have been provided employment and employment opportunities and national as well as international markets through “Hunar Haat”.


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi-led Government has expanded development programmes for Minorities in 308 districts of the country from just 100 districts earlier. For the first time after the Independence, a campaign has been started on war-footing to provide basic amenities to ensure educational empowerment of girls belonging to Minority communities in 308 districts across the country, Minister added.


    The Government, keeping in mind the educational empowerment and employment oriented skill development of Minorities especially girls, is providing school, college, polytechnic, girls’ hostel, ITI, skill development centre etc under “Pradhan mantri Jan Vikas karykram” (PMJVK) in those “backward and ignored” areas which had been deprived of these facilities since the Independence Shri Naqvi concluded.


    ***


    RT/MAS/MC/SP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557767) Visitor Counter : 263