      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      "Hunar Haat" is a part of the "development highway": Shri Naqvi
      “Hunar Haat” has become a “credible brand” to fulfil PM's commitment to “Make in India”, “Stand up India” and “Start up India” said Naqvi
      
      Chief Minister Shri Devendra Fadnavi inaugurated “Hunar Haat, organized by Ministry of Minority Affairs today in Mumbai

      Posted On: 22 DEC 2018 3:08PM by PIB Mumbai

    Union Minority Affairs Minister Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said here that the Modi Government has constructed the "highway of development" by removing the "speed breaker" of religion, region and caste. "Hunar Haat" is a part of this "highway" where the “vehicle of empowerment of artisans” is moving forward.


    Maharashtra Chief Minister Shri Devendra Fadnavis today inaugurated “Hunar Haat, being organized by Ministry of Minority Affairs, Govt. of India, in the presence of Shri Naqvi, at BandraKurla Complex in Mumbai. “Hunar Haat” is being organized at MMRDA Grounds, BandraKurla Complex, Mumbai from 21st to 31st December, 2018.


    Shri Naqvi said that “Hunar Haat”, being organised across the country by the Ministry, has proved to be “Empowerment & Employment Exchange” for master artisans and craftsmen.


    The Minister said that the employment oriented programmes of the Modi Government like “Hunar Haat” has significantly encouraged and promoted the rich traditional heritage of master artisans which had been marginalised for a long time.


    Shri Naqvi further said that “Hunar Haat” has become a “credible brand” to fulfil Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s commitment to “Make in India”, “Stand up India”, “Start up India”. During the last one year, “Hunar Haat”, organised at various parts of the country, has been successful in providing employment and employment opportunities to more than 1 lakh 50 thousand artisans and other people associated with them. Our target is to provide employment and employment opportunities to about 5 lakh people through “Hunar Haat”.


    The minister informed that “Hunar Haat” has significantly encouraged and promoted the rich traditional heritage of master artisans. “Hunar Haat” has been successful in providing national and international markets and employment-employment opportunities to master artisans and craftsmen. It has become a credible and renowned brand where exquisite Handicraft & Handloom made by master artisans and various delicacies from across the country are available under one roof.


    Shri Naqvi said that master artisans, culinary experts including a large number of women, from every corner of the country are participating in this “Hunar Haat” at Mumbai.


    The artisans has brought with them very exquisite pieces of Handicraft & Handloom work like Ajarakh, Bagh print, Bandhej, Barmer Ajrakh & Applique, Bidriware, Cane and Bamboo, Carpet, Chanderi, Chaniya Choli, Chikankari, Copper Bell Product, Copperware, Ceramic Products, Dry Flowers, GotaPati, Handloom & Home Furnishings from several states like Andhra Pradesh, UP, J&K, Jharkhand, West Bengal & Bihar, etc. Besides, other products such as Jute Craft, Lac stone studded Bangles, Lacquerware, Linen Products, Metalware, Mudwork, Mulberry Silk, Paithani Silk, Phulkari, Punjabi Jutti, Zari Bags, etc are also available. For the 1st time products from Chhattisgarh is getting represented, Further, Namda & Chinnon Silk of J&K would be an added attraction.


    Traditional Food items includes Awadhi Khana, Rajasthani Pakwan (Dal Bati and Churma), Gujarati Thali, Maharashtrian Cuisine, Malabar Food and Jackfruit delicacies from Kerala, Litti-Chokha, delectable and mouth watering sweets like phirnee, Shahitukda, Halwa, Bengali Sweets, Rajkot famed sweets alongwith variety of flavoured paan. For the first time, Silver Filigree products from Odisha, World famous Willow Bats from J&K are also an attraction.


    Shri Naqvi informed the gathering that Qawwali, Sufi songs, dance performance and other cultural programs would be held daily where renowned artists would be performing. During Hunar Haat at Mumbai, 110 artisans from 21 states/ UTs from across the country, representing Minority communities are expected to participate. These include, one National Awardee & 5 state Awardess.


    Earlier, “Hunar Haat” had been organised at Allahabad (Sept, 2018), Pragati Maidan (2016, 2017, 2018) and Baba Kharak Singh Marg (2017, 2018) at New Delhi; Puducherry (2017, 2018) and Mumbai (2017). In the coming days, “Hunar Haat” will be organised at Baba Kharak Singh Marg, New Delhi (January 2019), Goa (February 2019) and other different states of the country.


    ***


    NS/IJ/SP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557052) Visitor Counter : 1112
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi