      UPSC

      Public Disclosure of Scores and Other Details of The Willing Non-Recommended Candidates of The Commission’s Examinations
      Posted On: 03 APR 2019 12:06PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Public Service Commission has issued a Disclosure Scheme for disclosing the scores and other details of the non-recommended candidates. This Scheme covers only willing candidates who appeared at the Interview Stage of aCommission's Examination. Such details include Name of the candidate, Father's/ Husband's name, Date of Birth, Category, Gender, Educational Qualifications, Total marks etc. These details are arranged in Roll Number order. The objective of the Scheme is to provide a useful database to other employers to enable them to identify good employable candidates.


    These details are uploaded on the Website of the Commission, which is linked to the National Career Service (NCS) Portal of the Ministry of Labour and Employment. This information of an Examination remains available for one year from the date of disclosure.


    The Scheme has come into force with the Combined Medical Services Examination, 2017. Other Examinations so far covered are Combined Defence Services Examination (Il), 2017; Indian Economic Service Examination, 2018; Indian Statistical ServiceExamination, 2018; Indian Forest Service Examination, 2018 and Combined Geo-Scientist & Geologist Examination, 2018 and Combined Defence Services Examination (I), 2018.


    Details of 4,338 candidates including professionals in the field of medicine, economics, statistics, geophysics, hydrogeology etc. are available for employment to different employers. These details may be seen at https://upsc.gov.in/examination/public-disclosure-of-scoresthrough-portal.


    Appearing in the Interview (the final stage of the Commission's Examinations) indicates itself about the skill level and capabilities of such candidates.


    DISCLAIMER: Besides disclosing the said details, the Commission assumes no responsibility or liability for the method and manner in which the information related to such candidates, is utilized by the private or public organizations.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1569999) Visitor Counter : 4904
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali