      Ministry of Defence

      Indian Air Force organises Half Marathon
      Posted On: 14 APR 2019 5:34PM by PIB Delhi


    Late Marshal of the Indian Air Force Arjan Singh DFC was the first and only “Five Star” rank officer of Indian Air Force. His passion for the game of Hockey was unparalleled. The IAF legend had always been an inspiration to air warriors leading from front not only in the war front but also in the field of sports.


    As part of centenary celebrations of the legendary Marshal Arjan Singh, a Half Marathon was organised at 100 Air Force Stations across the nation on 14 April 2019 to mark the 100 th Birth Anniversary of the legendary Marshal of the Indian Air Force Arjan Singh DFC. More than ten thousand air warriors completed 2.1 Lac Kilometres at 100 Air Force Stations to mark the centenary celebration of their first ever five-star rank Marshal.


    The Delhi leg of the Half Marathon was held on 14 April 19 at Jawahar Lal Nehru Stadium for the air warriors located in Delhi & NCR. More than 800 air warriors took part in the event. Air Marshal Raghunath Nambiar PVSM AVSM VM & Bar, AOC-in-C, Western Air Command flagged off the marathon at JLN Stadium, New Delhi and Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa PVSM AVSM YSM VM ADC, Chief of the Air Staff graced the the occasion as Chief Guest during the closing ceremony. Leading Aircraftsman Manohar of 2228 Squadron, Sepoy S Raju of Defence Security Corps (DSC) of 13 Base Repair Depot and Lance Naik Ratan Singh of DSC from Western Air Command won the gold medals in the categories of 35 years and below, 36 years to 45 year and 46 years respectively.


    Addressing the participants at Jawahar Lal Nehru stadium, CAS said "The Indian Air Force has accomplished a milestone in sporting activity by the simultaneous conduct of half marathon across the country. Late Marshal of the Indian Air Force Arjan Singh DFC was an accomplished sportsman. The conduct of this half marathon is a befitting tribute to the legend and an admirable way of expression of our gratitude towards his contribution to the nation. The event highlights our commitment to facilitate sports and to encourage air warriors to set high standards of fitness".


    He congratulated all the Air Warriors who participated in the Half Marathon in Air Force Stations pan India. He also congratulated the award winners and said that he is looking forward to Marshal of the Indian Air Force Centenary Hockey tournament that is going to be held in Chandigarh as a befitting tribute to the late Marshal of Indian Arjan Singh.


    ***


    AB/MKS/BSK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1570578) Visitor Counter : 691