      Election Commission

      Service Voters Play Important Role in Close Contests in Election
      
      Uttarakhand has Sizeable Number of Service Voters

      Posted On: 08 APR 2019 8:53PM by PIB Delhi

    LokSabha elections 2019 are going to see the enthusiasm of various segments of voters including service voters. As per the data sourced from the ECI website, this year a total of 16,62,993 service voters are enrolled in the country, in comparison to the figure of 13,27,627 in 2014. While States like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Rajasthan have larger number of service voters, Uttarakhand has also got around 88,600 services voters. Garhwal parliamentary constituency has maximum number of service voter among all the five constituencies of the State, since 2004 till date.This figure becomes significant, considering the population of the State.The increase in number of service voters has been due to Election Commission’s all out efforts to maximise the registration of service electors during summary revision 2019 and active cooperation of the services/departments concerned and greater participation of service personnel.


    In cases of close contests, service voters play crucial and decisive role. Service voter are those who have service qualification. They include member of Armed Forces of the Union of India, members of Armed Police forces of the States serving outside that state and persons employed under Government of India on posts outside India. As per existing arrangements, members of India Army, Navy and Air force, Boarder Road Organisation, BSF, ITBP, Assam Rifles, NSG, CRPF, CISF and SSB are eligible to be registered as service voters.


    A Service Voter can cast his/her vote by proxy also. They may appoint (By applying to returning officer in Form 13 F available at the website of ECI) any person as his/her proxy to cast vote on his/her behalf in his/her at the polling station. Proxy should be a registered voter of that constituency.


    A Service Portal has also been created for the help of Service Voters. More information can be obtained from www.servicevoter.nic.in .


    *****


    GG/SS/RCJ/MS/SP/FH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1570231) Visitor Counter : 896
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali