      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President urges medical fraternity to create awareness;
      
      Asks people to shun junk food and sedentary life style;
      
      Private sector should supplement efforts of governments in providing healthcare;
      
      Inaugurates Free Medical Camp at Swarna Bharat Trust

      Posted On: 20 APR 2019 3:00PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has urged the medical fraternity to create awareness among the people, particularly the youth, on the dangers posed by changing lifestyles.


    Shri Naidu, after inaugurating a free Medical Camp at Swarna Bharat Trust, in Hyderabad today, expressed his concern over the rising trend of non-communicable diseases and urged people to avoid sedentary lifestyle and unhealthy dietary habits.


    The Vice President asked youth to shun junk food and pointed out that traditional Indian food was time-tested, seasonal and suitable to Indian climatic conditions.


    Stressing the need for building a healthy nation, the Vice President said that the spread of non-communicable diseases, unequal access to healthcare and rising costs were the major challenges in the healthcare sector. Calling for concerted efforts to remedy the situation, he said all stakeholders, including NGOs, government agencies, hospitals and doctors should join hands right from the community level in this regard.


    The Vice President also wanted the urban-rural gap in providing modern healthcare facilities to be bridged and urged the private sector to supplement the efforts of the governments in catering to the rural population. Pointing out that hospitals in rural areas were facing shortage in terms of infrastructure and human resource, he suggested a mandatory rural service for young doctors after passing out of the college.


    The Chairman of Swarna Bharat Trust, Dr. Kamineni Srinivas, the Executive Director of Punjab National Bank, Shri Linganeni Prabhakar, the Chairman of Care Hospital, Dr. B. Somaraju, the Treasurer, Trust Board, Basavatarakam Indo American Cancer Hospital & Research Institute, Shri J.S.R. Prasad and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1570913) Visitor Counter : 702
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi