      Ministry of Defence

      IAF Celebrates Birth Centenary of Late Marshal of the Indian Air Force Arjan Singh DFC
      Posted On: 15 APR 2019 6:58PM by PIB Delhi


    Today, Indian Air Force marked the beginning of celebration of birth centenary of Late Marshal of Indian Air Force Arjan Singh DFC. This day reminds the nation of contribution made by the Marshal to the nation and Indian Air Force. Marshal was known for his Professional Competence, Leadership and Strategic Vision.


    Arjan Singh was born on 15 April 1919 in Lyallpur (now Faisalabad in Pakistan). He was 19 years of age when he was selected for training at RAF College Cranwell in 1938 and was commissioned into RAF as a Pilot Officer in December 1939. He was awarded Distinguished Flying Cross (DFC) for outstanding leadership, great skill and courage in Burma Campaign during World War II. He also led India as Chief of the Air Staff in the 1965 war against Pakistan, wherein IAF gained air superiority over PAF and helped Indian Army score strategic victories. He passed away on 16 September 2017 at the age of 98. His dynamic personality, professional competence, honesty of purpose in his service to the country and the IAF truly sets him apart as a leader and an icon of the Indian Air Force.


    To commemorate this, various events have been planned over a period of one year. IAF conducted a Half Marathon on 14 April 2019 flagging off from Jawahar Lal Nehru Stadium covering prominent places like Lodhi road, Mathura road, India Gate, Rajpathetc, and culminating again at Jawahar Lal Nehru Stadium. Marshal of the Indian Air ForceArjan Singh was a visionary, a proponent of Air Power and he played a stellar role in laying the foundation of IAF as a formidable fighting force. As a tribute to his vision for IAF, a seminar with the theme “Air Power in the 2040s: Impact of Technology” was also held today at Air Force Auditorium, Subroto Park. The seminar was attended by various serving and retired dignitaries.


    After the seminar, Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa, PVSM AVSM YSM VM ADC unveiled the bust of Marshal of the Indian Air Force atAir HQs(Vayu Bhawan). IAF has also planned to conduct Marshal Cup All India Hockey tournament which kicked offtoday at Chandigarh and the same will conclude on 25 April2019.


    *****


    AB/MKS/BSK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1570720) Visitor Counter : 336
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi