      Election Commission

      Commission Reviews Poll Arrangements with Central Observers in Tripura and West Bengal through Video Conferencing for next Phases of Polling
      Posted On: 15 APR 2019 7:22PM by PIB Delhi


    The Election Commission of India team led by Chief Election Commissioner Sh Sunil Arora and Election Commissioners Sh Ashok Lavasa and Sh Sushil Chandra today reviewed Poll Arrangements in specific constituencies of West Bengal and Tripura going to polls in Phase 2 & 3 of ongoing General Elections for Lok Sabha 2019. The review through video conferencing was held with General Observers, Police Observers and Expenditure Observers deployed in Phase 2 and Phase 3 Parliamentary Constituencies in West Bengal namely the 3-Jalpaiguri, 4-Darjeeling, 5- Raiganj, 6- Balurghat, 7-Maldaha Uttar, 8-Maldaha Dakshin, 9-Jangipur and 11-Murshidabad in West Bengal and Phase 2(final phase) of Tripura ie2-Tripura East Parliamentary Constituency.


    The General Observers briefed the Commission on the preparedness in terms of Assured Minimum Facilities (AMF) at the Polling Stations; mapping of PWDs and the arrangements made for their facilitation at the Polling Stations; Awareness amongst the voters that Photo Voter Slips (PVSs) will no longer be treated as the Identification document but that the Voter has to necessarily bring one of the 12 specified Identification Documents to be shown at the Polling Station on the poll day. Commission also reviewed the complaints, if any, from Political Parties, etc as received by Observers and their status. The preventive actions taken against the identified trouble makers and potential intimidators were also reviewed.


    Commission reviewed at length the Central Armed Police Forces deployment status in each of the Parliamentary Constituencies. The Police Observers briefed about Preparation of District Security/Force Deployment plan; Use of Central Paramilitary Forces for area domination and confidence building measures and the Law and Order situation. The Special Central Police Observer for West Bengal and Jharkhand Sh Vivek Dube and Sh M K Das, the Special Central Police Observer for Tripura and Mizoram were also present in the meeting.


    The Expenditure Observers informed the Commission about Deployment of Flying Squads (FS), Static Surveillance Teams (SST) & Video Surveillance Teams; Complaint Monitoring Cell; Seizures made by FS, SST & Police and Inspection of Candidates Accounts.


    Commission impressed upon all the Observers to remain on constant vigil and ensure that the polls are conducted in absolutely free, fair and credible manner


    ...


    SBS/ac

    
    
    (Release ID: 1570725) Visitor Counter : 359
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali