      Vice President's Secretariat

      Promote new & renewable energy to ensure energy security, to protect climate & to reduce pollution: Vice President
      
      Encourage environment friendly modes of transport;
      
      Educate common man on the need to cut down GHG emissions & use RNE;
      
      Electricity key to development; address with pilferages in transmission & distribution on war footing;
      
      Inaugurates GRIDTECH 2019 - International Exhibition and Conference
      Posted On: 03 APR 2019 4:16PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has called for the promotion of new and renewable energy in a big way. He said moving to renewable would not just ensure energy security but also protect the climate, reduce pollution.


    ‘Adequate growth in renewable energy would serve dual purpose - firstly, it would contribute towards achieving energy security to the nation and it would address the environmental concerns, which need to be tackled on a war-footing,’ he said.


    Addressing gathering after inaugurating the GRIDTECH 2019, an International Exhibition and Conference, organised by the Power Grid Corporation of India Limited to deliberate on new technologies in transformation, distribution, renewable integration, Smart Grid Communication, the Vice President asked experts to find out new technologies to harness renewable energy to fulfill India’s energy demands and also to fulfill India’s international commitment to de-carbonize the electricity generation.


    Shri Naidu also called for the promotion of clean and green mode of transport, such as Electrical Vehicles (EVs) on a large scale. He said that they have the potential to save foreign exchange on crude oil import apart from reducing carbon emissions. He also called for inclusion of renewable energy provisions right from the planning of towns.


    The Vice President said that world was looking towards India for investments and opined that India's economic growth was the main factor for the new found enthusiasm of the world community.


    Opining that rapid urbanization led to increased energy demand and rise of Green House Gas (GHG) emissions, Shri Naidu urged technologists to find new methods for tapping the huge potential in the renewable energy sector and also wanted them to educate the common man on the need to cut down GHG emissions.


    Pointing that connectivity and electricity were key to development, Shri Naidu stressed upon the need to address challenges such as pilferages in transmission and distribution. He suggested developing a suitable transmission and distribution system to facilitate renewable integration. ‘Smart grid technologies used by many countries would have the potential to solve the challenges,’ he added.


    The Vice President had earlier inaugurated the GRIDTECH 2019 exhibition, went around the stalls and interacted with the presenters at the stalls. He said he was happy to have met and interacted with students who were showcasing their innovative ideas to promote, use renewable energy.


    The Secretary, Ministry of Power, Shri Ajay Kumar Bhalla, the officials of Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd, representatives from Conventional and Renewable energy sector, students from prestigious institutions such as the IITs and others were present on the occasion.


    Following is the text of Vice President’s address :


    “ It is a matter of immense pleasure for me to address you at the inauguration of GRIDTECH 2019.


    This international conference and exhibition is a wonderful opportunity for Power System professionals in Industry and Academia to exchange ideas and deliberate on environment friendly solutions to overcome the challenges faced in the energy sector.


    In view of the increasing demand in the power sector with each passing day, we need to fully tap the potential for sustainable and environmental-friendly energy. We need to find out new technologies to harness renewable energy in a big way.


    As you all are aware, India has made an international commitment to de-carbonize the electricity generation. Towards this end, India has set a time-bound target of installing 175 GW of renewable generation by 2022, comprising 100 GW Solar, 60 GW Wind and 15 GW of other forms of renewable generation.


    With the focus increasingly shifting to clean energy in recent years, India has become an attractive destination for investments in renewable energy sector.


    Dear friends, the rapid urbanization, we are witnessing, has become an irreversible phenomenon and is leading to increased energy demand as also release of Green House Gas (GHG) emissions. I would like technologists to not only find new methods for tapping the huge potential in the renewable energy sector, but also educate the common man on the need to cut down GHG emissions.


    India, like some other countries, is planning to develop solar cities and I would like the urban local bodies to be in the forefront in adopting renewable energy technologies and converting their cities into renewable energy cities. I am told that under the “Solar City” concept, it is aimed to reduce the projected demand for conventional energy by 10 per cent at the end of five years by enhancing supply from renewable energy sources and energy efficiency measures.


    Dear sisters and brothers, please note that adequate growth in renewable energy would serve dual purpose-- firstly, it would contribute towards achieving energy security to the nation and it would address the environmental concerns, which need to be tackled on a war-footing.


    However, the generation of renewable power has quite a few challenges. Unlike conventional power generation, renewable generations are intermittent and variable in nature, posing a challenge towards maintaining energy balance in real-time. It also has low gestation period compared to conventional generation. Hence, the associated transmission and distribution system should be developed in a suitable manner to facilitate renewable integration.


    Presently, electricity is flowing across the country through the robust National Grid, without many constraints in the network. I am told that facilitating large scale renewable energy integration with grid would require more flexible generation from conventional energy sources, grid scale energy storage facilities, flexible transmission system and demand side management through customer participation.


    Further, distribution sector is the most crucial link in the electricity supply chain. While the government is making concerted efforts to improve the distribution sector through various programmes, I am told that the aim is to bring down AT&C losses to the level of 15% or below and improve efficiency in the distribution sector.


    Experience of various countries worldwide has shown that emerging smart grid technologies have the potential to solve the challenges posed by the distribution sector. They can also help in better integration and distribution of large scale renewable energy. As a matter-of-fact, several smart grid projects are being undertaken in India.


    In our endeavour to promote sustainability and clean and green mode of transport, Electrical Vehicles (EVs) are being encouraged on a large scale. Electrical Vehicles have the potential to save foreign exchange on crude oil import. I am told that the Ministry of Power is facilitating this initiative by formulating necessary polices and regulations to ensure the availability of EV-charging infrastructure for customers.


    Friends, challenges are many and unprecedented. It is prudent that, experts from the Industry, academia and policy makers have gathered here to find sustainable solutions to these problems.


    Further, it is also important for the upcoming young engineers and researchers from technical institutions to keep abreast with cutting edge technologies.


    GRIDTECH 2019 is an excellent platform for evolution of new ideas in the energy sector through brainstorming by seasoned professionals. I am glad that GRIDTECH 2019 also has a Student Pavilion and I hope this will give the young students an opportunity to showcase their own innovative ideas.


    I am hopeful that GRIDTECH 2019 will serve as a platform for continued cooperation between all the stakeholders and will help the power sector to grow and meet the aspirations of the common people at large.


    I wish all the best for a successful GRIDTECH 2019.


    Thank You


    JAI HIND!”


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1570015) Visitor Counter : 1868
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi