      Vice President's Secretariat

      The pain and agony caused by the Jallianwala Bagh massacre continue to rankle in the heart of every Indian: Vice President
      
      This is a day to reaffirm India's centuries long commitment to the ideal of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam;
      
      Pays tributes to martyrs and lays a wreath at the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial
      Posted On: 13 APR 2019 4:40PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu today visited Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar and paid tributes to martyrs on the 100 th anniversary of one of the goriest episodes in human history and the darkest chapter of the British rule in India, the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. The commemoration ceremony to pay homage to the martyrs was organized by the Ministry of culture, Government of India.


    Shri Naidu paid his respects to the fallen heroes by placing a wreath upon the memorial. He released a commemorative coin and a postage stamp to mark the 100 th anniversary of Jallianwala Bagh massacre. The Vice President was also appraised of the proposed works for the revitalization of the memorial.


    Shri Naidu tweeted that Jallianwala Bagh was a reminder to each one of us as to how hard won & precious our freedom is. He said that it was an occasion to shed a silent tear for each of the innocent Indians who lost their lives that Baisakhi day in 1919 and a poignant moment of reflection on colonial cruelty & irrational anger .


    The Vice President said through social media that the pain and agony continue to rankle in the hearts of every Indian to this day even though 100 years have lapsed since that inhuman massacre happened. ‘History is not a mere chronicle of events. It shows us the depths to which depraved minds can plunge and cautions us to learn from the past. It also tells us that the power of evil is transient.’, he said.


    Shri Naidu called on his fellowmen to draw lessons from history and work to shape a better future for the humanity. He spoke about the need for the world community to come together to promote everlasting peace in all the corners of the globe and ensure that sustainable development of the planet becomes the watchword at all times and at all levels from schools to summits of global leaders.


    ‘Progress cannot be achieved without peace’, he affirmed and called upon world nations to establish a New and Equitable World Order where the power and responsibilities are shared, opinions and voices are respected and wealth and earth’s resources are shared.


    ‘This is a day that reminds us of the indomitable human spirit that braves the fury of fusillade of bullets and ultimately keeps the flag of freedom and peace high. It is a timely reminder to each one of us as to how hard won and precious is our freedom. Today is an occasion to shed a silent tear for each of the innocent Indians who lost their lives that Baisakhi day in 1919’, he said.


    Shri Naidu expressed hope that this day would inspires us to strive to create a world without oppression & persecution, a world of friendship, peace & progress, a world where all nations stand united to defeat inhuman forces of terror & violence.


    ‘It is a day to reaffirm India's centuries long commitment to the ideal of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’, he proclaimed.


    The Vice President also visited a Photo Exhibition at Jallianwala Bagh, Amritsar put up by the Regional Outreach Bureau, Bureau of Outreach and Communication, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Government of India. The exhibition comprised of 45 panels dedicated to the Jallianwala Bagh incident, including excerpts from the newspapers of the time, letters of Mahatma Gandhi, Rabindra Nath Tagore and other prominent leaders. The Exhibition also showcases the important milestones of the freedom struggle.


    The Governor of Punjab, Shri V.P. Singh Badnore, the Secretary, Ministry of Culture, Government of India, Shri Arun Goel and senior officials of the central and state government were present on the occasion.


    *****


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1570536) Visitor Counter : 545