      AYUSH

      Scientific Convention on World Homoeopathy Day Inaugurated Today
      
      Emphasis on Safety, Quality Control and Consistency of Homoeopathy Product

      Posted On: 09 APR 2019 4:05PM by PIB Delhi

    The two-day Convention on World Homeopathy Day was inaugurated by Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH Dr. Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha in here today. The World Homoeopathy Day is observed to commemorate the birth anniversary of the founder of Homoeopathy, Dr. Christian Fredrich Samuel Hahnemann. Sh. Nilanjal Sanyal, Chairman, Board of Governors, Central Council of Homoeopathy and Sh. Tridandi Chinna Ramanuja Jeeyar Swamiji also graced the inaugural ceremony. Tributes were paid by Dr. Gary Smyth, President, Faculty of Homeopathy, UK and Dr. Alok Pareek, President, LMHI (International).


    Dr. Kotecha in his inaugural address emphasised the Ministry’s efforts to bridge the gap between science and tradition through researches in the field of AYUSH. He further said that the Ministry is equally dedicated to validate Homoeopathy through focused research, enhance its manufacturing and production standards, as well as assure the best quality education in the homoeopathy colleges. He also shared about the schemes under the Ministry of AYUSH that provides support and motivation for promotion of Homoeopathy like the Central Sector scheme, Extra-Mural Research and Intramural research undertaken by the council’s etc. He also emphasised on the need to ensure safety, quality control and consistency of products for the credibility of homoeopathy.


    Dr. Raj K. Manchanda, Director General, CCRH in his welcome address emphasised on the need to link education with research and practice for nurturing young minds for meaningful research and the collation of the best possible clinical data by bringing in systematic documentation in practice settings.


    On this occasion Joint Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH Shri Roshan Jaggi said that a link between the academic and research environments is an essential dimension to identify and evolve mechanisms of synergy between scientists and educators. He also lauded the Council’s efforts in launching the Short Term Studentship in Homoeopathy Scheme (STSH) for undergraduate Students in June, 2014 and also the CCRH Scholarship Scheme for MD Students as a step towards capacity building and encouraging research aptitude among students.


    Memoranda of Understanding (MOU’s) were also exchanged with the Directorate of AYUSH Chandigarh administration on undertaking research on epidemic diseases like Dengue, Influenza like illness, Chikungunya, Tuberculosis and other infectious diseases and with JSPS Government Homeopathic Medical College, Ramanthapur, Hyderabad for undertaking clinical research .


    During the inaugural session, “Souvenir of Convention” , a Dossier on ‘Homoeopathy – A Science of Gentle Healing’, a coffee table book, the ‘Standard Treatment Guidelines’ on 15 more diseases which have been developed by CCRH based on expert consensus were also released. The ‘CCRH Archives on Homeopathy’ a digital repository of accumulated knowledge in homeopathy, having important homoeopathic literary material spread all over the world was officially launched.


    Dr. Kotecha conferred awards bestowed by CCRH to incentivise the contributors in the field of Homoeopathy research. ‘Lifetime achievement award for best practitioner’ is conferred to Dr. Ramanlal P. Patel , an active participant of Quit India Movement and is one of the few living legends of homeopathy having experience of more than 50 years, in treating cancer cases. ‘Lifetime achievement award 2019 for best academician’ was conferred to Dr. Ravi M. Nair who has worked relentlessly for more than 55 years as a practitioner, educator, researcher and policy maker in Homoeopathy. ‘Lifetime Achievement Award for Best Researcher’ was conferred to Prof (Dr.) Kanjaksha Ghosh, renowned medical scientist who retired as Director, Institute of Immunohematology, Mumbai (ICMR).The award for ‘Best Research Paper Award Homoeopathy 2019’ was conferred to Dr. Tapas Kundu for the paper ‘Homoeopathic medicine reduces pain and Haemarthrosis in moderate and severe haemophilia- A multicentric study’. ‘Best Research Paper Award Homoeopathy for Drug Research’ was conferred to Ms. Moonmoon Sinha for her work on Japanese Encephalitis(JE) virus using Belladonna 200C and reduction of viral load in chick embryo. ‘Young Scientist Award’ 2019 for clinical research in Homoeopathy was conferred jointly to Dr. Ponnam Hima Bindu and Dr. Munmun Koley. ‘Young Scientist Award’ for ‘Drug Research in Homoeopathy’ was conferred to Dr. Shailendra K. Saxena. Dr, Vice Dean and Professor at Centre for Advance Research [CFAR], King George’s Medical University, Lucknow. ‘Young Scientist Award for Literary Research’ in Homoeopathy was conferred to Dr. Divya Taneja. ‘Best Teacher Award’ was conferred to Prof. Laxmikanta Nanda, former Principal cum Superintendent of Dr. Abhin Chandra Homeopathic Medical College & Hospital Bhubaneswar, Odisha with more than 40 years of teaching experience.


    RJ/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1570274) Visitor Counter : 1297
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Tamil