      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Seminar on ‘Use of Technical Textiles in Water Resources Works’ held
      
      Practice manual on Use of Technical Textile in Water Resources Works’ Released

      Posted On: 29 APR 2019 4:41PM by PIB Delhi

    One day Technical Seminar was organized by Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation on “Use of Technical Textiles in Water Resources Works” in New Delhi today.


    Technical Textiles are being used globally for last several decades. These materials have provided innovative engineering solutions for several applications in civil and geotechnical engineering, for infrastructure water resources projects. Even while Technical Textiles have been extensively used in developed as well as many developing countries, India has yet to capitalise the technical, economical and environmental benefits on large scale. Various parts of India are subjected to floods and environmental degradation. In some of the terrains, the flood management and control can rely on Technical Textiles tubes, containers and bags. Technical Textiles have been found to perform better than concrete as water protection component because of permeability, flexibility and ease of underwater placement. The Seminar highlighted various application areas, best practices and mechanisms for encouraging larger usage of Technical Textile in Water Resources Sector and created a platform for all the concerned stakeholders for brain-storming and creating a roadmap to take the Technical Textiles uses to the next level.


    The speakers from various fields discussed issues of Standards, Benchmarking & Testing, Technical-textiles for Water Resources Conservation, Advanced methods in use of Technical Textiles, Contractual Matters related to Technical Textiles etc. in detail.


    The event was organized by Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation with participation from high level Officials from Central Departments, State Governments, Engineering Departments of States working in Water Resources, Institutions, Colleges, Universities, Manufacturers, Associations, Trade Associations, Consultants and Contractors.


    The seminar was chaired by Shri Masood Hussain, Chairman, CWC. Smt. T. Rajeshwari, Addl. Secretary, MoWR, RD and GR, Shri N.K. Mathur, Member D&R, CWC, Shri S.L. Gupta, Director CSMRS and Shri Anuj Kanwal, Director, R&D Division, MoWR, RD and GR also attended the seminar. Chairman CWC released the “Practice Manual on use of Technical Textile in Water Resources Works”.


    *****


    NP/SKP/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1571278) Visitor Counter : 677
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu , Bengali