      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Mega Exhibition on EK Bharat Shrestha Bharat starts from today

      Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat is a Unique initiative of the Union government to promote the spirit of national integration: Jagadish Mukhi

      

      Culture should always be inclusive: Kuladhar Saikia

      
      Posted On: 01 MAR 2020 8:32PM by PIB Guwahati


    The cultural connect between Assam and Rajasthan came alive in the Ek Bharat Sreshtha Bharat exhibition held at Guwahati today. Essence of our land lies in unity in diversity and EK Bharat Shrestha Bharat (EBSB) is a unique initiative of the Union government to promote the spirit of national integration through a deep and structured engagement between all states and Union Territories, says Prof. Jagadish Mukhi, Governor of Assam while inaugurating the mega exhibition. The Exhibition is being organised by Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.


    In his speech the Governor further said that the main motto of the EBSB is to showcase the rich heritage, culture, customs and traditions of the paired states for enabling people to understand and appreciate the diversity of the nation. Such initiatives will let the people know of different views and opinions of different states, he added. The Governor appreciated The Regional Outreach Bureau for organizing this programme in such a beautiful manner depicting the rich cultural heritage of Rajasthan.


    Shri Kuladhar Saikia, President Assam Sahitya Sabha gracing the occasion as the Guest of Honour said that such cultural exchange is very important for the society. Culture is the way we live our lives and it should always be inclusive, he said. Mentioning culture as a flowing river he said that Ek Bharat Shresth Bharat will make people of one State aware of another State’s culture. This kind of environment also helps in the development of society, he added. Shri Saikia also informed that Asom Sahitya Sabha is also having plans for such cultural exchanges between Sahitya Sabha of other States.


    Shri L.R Vishwanath, Director General, Northeast zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, speaking on the occasion, said that among all the flagship programmes of Government of India, Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat is very important as it pairs up one State with another. Under this scheme, Assam is paired up with Rajasthan and is promoting Rajasthani culture, food, festivals, music etc. At the same time, Rajasthan is promoting Assamese culture in true sense of our PM Modi’s idea of Unity in Diversity, he said. Shri Vishwanath expressed his gratitude towards the Governor of Assam, Prof. Jagdish Mukhi and President of Asom Sahitya Sabha, Shri Kuladhar saikia for taking time out from their busy schedule for inaugurating and gracing this programme.


    Some entrepreneurs of the State originally from Rajasthan and based in Assam who has contributed immensely to Assam in different fields were also felicitated in today’s programme.


    The three day mega exhibition on the theme of Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat will continue till 3 rd March 2020 at Assam Engineering Institute field, Chandmari. In the Mega event a Photo exhibition on the tourist places of Rajasthan, Rajasthani lifestyle, folk arts, music, dance and food will be depicted. As Rajasthan is the paired state with Assam under Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat. Apart from this Rajasthani food, dress materials, art and craft stalls will be opened for public in this exhibition. The Private Registered Troupe of the Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati will perform various Rajasthani dance forms in the exhibition.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604802) Visitor Counter : 30