      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Journalists are Friends, Philosophers and Guide of the Society: Akshay Kumar Mishra

      Vartalaps will help make aware Journalists about government schemes: Gunindra Nath Das, MLA


      PIB organizes media workshop ‘Vartalap’ in Barpeta

      Posted On: 03 MAR 2020 3:08PM by PIB Guwahati


    Media should properly spread information about the Government schemes to the common masses, said Shri Gunindra Nath Das, MLA, Barpeta while addressing the press in a media workshop ‘Vartalap’ organized by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati in Barpeta today. He stressed upon the need to give preference to proactive development journalism in the district so that people at grassroots can be made aware about the schemes being run by Central and State Governments for the welfare of the people. He urged the participating journalists to play a positive role in highlighting major government schemes. Government is taking initiatives to help common people through various schemes and the important part is to make the people aware about the benefits of the schemes, he said. He urged the journalists to spread positive messages about those schemes and help the Government to make those initiatives a success.


    The Press Information Bureau, Guwahati organised the media workshop for journalists titled “Vartalap” in collaboration with the District Administration at Barpeta today with an aim to disseminate information about government policies, programmes and schemes to the masses.


    Gracing the occasion, Shri Munindra Sarma, Deputy Commissioner, Barpeta in his speech said that there is a need to develop and spread more awareness about infant mortality rate and immunization in Barpeta District and total immunization is the need of the hour in Barpeta. He urged the journalists to help disseminating information about Government Schemes like Intensified Mission Indradhanush and make the people aware about those. Appreciating the effort of Press Information Bureau, Guwahati, for organising such media workshops in different districts Shri Sarma said that the prime aim should be to make the laymen aware of such programmes so that they can avail benefit of the schemes.


    Veteran Journalist and writer Shri Akshay Kumar Mishra said in his speech that , Journalists are friend philosopher and guide of the society. They should be all rounders and have the sense of correct news, he said. Shri Mishra also added that journalists should work for the welfare of the society and disseminate accurate, non biased information to every citizen.


    Smt Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, PIB Guwahati urged the journalists to inform the people about programmes and policies of the government at the grassroot level.


    Shri Gopajit Das, Media and Communication , Press Information Bureau in his welcome address, said that the main aim of the workshop is to ensure effective communication and dissemination of information about government policies, programmes and schemes to the masses.


    Special technical sessions about various schemes implemented in the district of Barpeta were discussed in the Vartalap. Dr. Rajib Barbara, District Immunization Officer, Shri D.N. Das, Senior Planning Officer, Smt. Nanju Dutta, President, Barpeta Lekhika Samaroh Samiti and Shri Krishna Kanta Pathak, District Agriculture Officer spoke extensively on schemes like Mission Indradhanush, Women Empowerment, Minority Affairs etc.


    Today’s workshop was aimed to act as interface between PIB and the journalists working at district and sub-district levels. The workshop is part of the Governments media outreach strategy with the aim of establishing direct contact with working journalists.


    Around 100 working journalists across the Barpeta district participated in the one-day event. The journalists were sensitized about their role in highlighting important issues and making people aware in rural areas about the numerous welfare schemes.


    *****************

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605068) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese