      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Government Schemes Should be Transparent and Accountable: Gautam Talukdar, DC, Chirang
      
      PIB Organized Media Workshop ‘Vartalap’ in Chirang

      Posted On: 06 MAR 2020 4:30PM by PIB Guwahati

    Media plays a very important role in the dissemination of information and helps in the growth of the society, said Shri Gautam Talukdar, Deputy Commissioner, Chirang while addressing the press in a media workshop ‘Vartalap’ organized by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati in Chirang today. Stressing upon the need of the participatory approach of the people in Government schemes he said that there is a need to bring forward the public and media can help in that. Shri Talukdar also said that Government schemes should be transparent and accountable and everyone should have access to those. He urged the journalists to spread positive messages about the schemes and initiatives and help the Government to make those a success.


    The Press Information Bureau, Guwahati organised the media workshop for journalists titled “Vartalap” in collaboration with the District Administration at Chirang today with an aim to disseminate information about government policies, programmes and schemes to the masses.


    Special technical sessions about various schemes implemented in the district of Chirang were discussed in the Vartalap. Dr. Ratul Chandra Bordoloi, Joint Director, Health Services, Chirang and Shri Jaypal Singh Brahma, Inspector of Schools, Chirang spoke extensively on schemes on Health and Education.


    Shri Gagan Narzary, District Information and Public Relations Officer, Chirang, Smt. Barnali Mahanta and Smt. Panthoibi Singha, officials of Press Information Bureau and Regional Outreach Bureau were also present in the event.


    Today’s workshop was aimed to act as an interface between PIB and the journalists working at district and sub-district levels. The workshop is part of the Governments media outreach strategy with the aim of establishing direct contact with working journalists.


    Around 60 working journalists across the Chirang district participated in the one-day event. The journalists were sensitized about their role in highlighting important issues and making people aware in rural areas about the numerous welfare schemes.


    *****************

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605565) Visitor Counter : 18