      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railways takes various initiatives to facilitate travel in this summer
      Posted On: 18 APR 2017 5:13PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    In an endeavor to provide smooth travel experience to the railway travelers, Indian Railways have taken various initiatives for improved passenger experience. Considering the peak season during summers, Indian Railways is poised to offer convenient travel to the passengers without upsetting their plans. To ensure optimal utilization of available accommodation, following initiatives have been undertaken by Indian Railways:-


    i) Finalization of first reservation chart at least 4 hours before the scheduled departure of the train.


    ii) After preparation of first reservation chart, current ticket booking facility provided through any reserved ticket booking window as well as on internet till preparation of second reservation chart.


    iii) Transfer of vacant available accommodation after preparation of second reservation chart to next remote location.


    iv) Following facilities are also provided online through IRCTC website:


    a) Waitlisted passengers given the option of accommodation in any other train without payment of any difference of fare or grant of refund thereon under VIKALP scheme. This facility can also be availed for e tickets booked prior to 01.04.2017


    b) Tickets booked across reserved ticket booking window can be cancelled through IRCTC website or through 139.


    c) In case of e tickets, boarding points can be changed through IRCTC website at least 24 hours before the scheduled departure of the train.


    d) The facility of online booking of wheel chair provided free of cost to passengers.


    e) The facility of online booking of retiring rooms through IRCTC website has been introduced.


    f) Disposable bedrolls can be purchased through IRCTC website.


    g) E Catering introduced to increase food options available with passengers.


    ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1488129) Visitor Counter : 161
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati