      PIB Headquarters

      Loan Moratorium helps to drive Palakkadan Business People’s daily life
      Posted On: 16 APR 2020 5:42PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Moratorium declared by the Central Government due to Covid 19 became a great help for the small and medium entrepreneurs in Palakkad. Most of the traders in Palakkad stocked large quantity of products expecting seasonal market during April after the harvesting. But unexpected Covid and lock down thereafter changed the entire scenario. And they were unable to meet even day to day needs as cash flow was totally affected. According to them, the moratorium for loans came exactly on that juncture and it helped them to continue their financial lives.


    Mr. Alfar, a small readymade dress shop owner from Koduvayur of Palakkad District expresses his happiness on loan moratorium. He is running two small shops along with his father Ansari. They have stocked large quantity of men’s outfits expecting heavy sales after harvesting of paddy. Festivals life Vishu and Easter were also coming during this time. And their entire working capital was invested in stocks. “The moratorium for our trade loans is a real help during this trouble times”-Alfar said. According to him, officials from Syndicate Bank text the message and telephoned him to inform moratorium benefits. He think that people like him can not continue further as sales will get momentum only after 6-7 months after the lock down.


    Same is the feelings of the small taxi operators in and around Palakkad. “We were not getting any trips from the beginning of March itself”- MR. Selvakumar, a single car owner from Kinsery of Palakkad said. With the payments of previous months trips, we were able to manage last EMI. But moratorium helped us to survive this month. We hope we could make repayments immediately after the end of this crisis.


    Many small traders from the Palakkad market also prizes the moratorium. According to them, it was impossible to make repayments of loan during this time. And if moratorium steps were not there, it would affect their credit scores. It will be a problem for their future trade loans. According to them it was a real help for them during this time.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1615036) Visitor Counter : 15
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam