      PIB Headquarters

      Moratorium brings relief for Small and Medium Entrepreneurs
      Posted On: 24 APR 2020 3:22PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Continuing Lockdown and loosing labour days are making many entrepreneurs life miserable. Malappuram district is having lots of young entrepreneurs and most of them started their business through bank loans. Moratorium declared by finance minister on bank loans for three months is bringing them a bit of relief in this difficult time. Nationalized banks have already informed the customers about moratorium through SMSs and emails, said District Lead Bank Manager Shri. Kunjhiraman T.P. Hence almost all entrepreneurs have availed the facility in the district.

    Shri Anju Sijanth, a young entrepreneur, who expanded his business through Central Government’s Mudra Loan is one among many such young entrepreneurs in the district. He is having his Medium industry of solar panels, batteries and inverters named ‘Coopa Energy’ at Malappuram. Four years back, with the help of Mudra Loan he expanded his small business. Now he has many customers including private and public sector companies all over Malappuram and some part of Kozhikode districts. As his business is in developing stage, Lockdown declared due to COVID-19 has become a big blow to his dreams. Having 5 labourers and paying their wages, he is facing real problem in this lockdown period. In this circumstance the Moratorium is brining bit of relief. But he is expecting more helps from the side of both State and Central Governments. As the Central Government is always very keen in encouraging young entrepreneurs, Shri Anju is expecting more good decisions like waiving off interest for some months.
    Naseer Ali who is running a motor winding shop at Kizhakkethala is another young entrepreneur availing the benefits of Moratorium. By pledging documents of his house he took loan to start business. Now he is paying Rs. 21,000 per month as EMI. With out any wages during the lockdown period, Shri Naseer Ali would not have survived, had Moratorium not been declared. He is also expecting more help from Central Government as his sufferings will continue for some more months even after the lockdown.

    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617841) Visitor Counter : 39
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam