      PIB Headquarters

      Banking online services to help farmers during lock out
      Posted On: 24 APR 2020 3:25PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Banks, both public and private sector depend more and more online services to help farmers during the lock down. They are educating the customers to utilize online services to overcome travel restrictions. According to people from banking sector, most of the farmers were reluctant even to use ATMs for withdrawing money. Now bank officials are trying to teach them to deposit money through CDMs and even to purchase gold through online banking.


    Farmers, who got money in their hands after harvesting are utilizing CDMs to deposit money and online channels to open fixed deposits. Online transfer facilities are helpful for them to make payments to workers and to pay back the money collected for agricultural works. Bank officials are happy to reply the telephonic doubts about installing Apps and using online services for various banking transactions. The officials are doing it even while working with limited staff due to lock down restrictions in Palakkad.


    Enquiries from the farmers regarding Sovereign Gold Bond of the Central Government is another notable trend. They are eager to know the details of this scheme which allows to invest as low as one gram gold. Event though cash payments are allowed upto the investment of Rs. 20,000, banks encourage online payments for those also. Some of the farmers are interested to invest in this gold bonds as they got money after harvesting.


    Along with the public and private sector banks, cooperative banks are also trying to popularize online transactions during the lock out. Chittur Rural Credit Coperative Society in Palakkad district has introduced an App for its customers. They could purchase from local shops and the money will be transferred from their accounts to merchants account automatically. The society has engaged 40 women Banking Correspondents to provide banking services at door steps, the officials informed.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617843) Visitor Counter : 10
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam