      PIB Headquarters

      World standards day celebrated at BIS Ahmedabad
      Posted On: 17 OCT 2019 4:08PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    World Standards Day Celebration 2019 under the theme of “Video Standards Create a Global Stage” was organized by Bureau of Indian Standards, Ahmedabad Branch Office on 16 October 2019. Shri Kamlendra Sarbhai, Deputy Director General (Engineering) Doordarshan Kendra, Ahmedabad was the Chief Guest. The World Standards Day honors the efforts of the thousands of experts who voluntarily contribute to development of national/international standards. The aim of World Standards Day is also to raise awareness among regulators, industry and consumers regarding the importance of standardization to the global economy, with special focus to be attached theme.


    The inaugural session commenced with the welcome address by Shri Chandan Bahl, Scientist- F & Head, BIS Ahmedabad. Sh. Bahl welcomed all the guests and elaborated about the role of BIS in national and international standards formulation. He also deliberated on the theme for the World Standards Day Celebration 2019 and urged the industry & other stakeholders to get involved in the development of standards. Shri Shiv Praksh, Scientist-C read out the message by the international organization for the standardization.


    The Chief Guest, Shri Kamlendra Sarbhai elaborated the importance of the standards in the daily life and lauded the efforts of BIS in standards development. He also emphasized on the need to speed up the process of standards development to keep up with the pace of changing technologies.


    The programme continued with the technical session, during which presentations on the theme were given by Smt. Meena Shah, Coordinator-Film and Video Lab, NID, Ahmedabad, Shri Satyen Goware Asst. Engineer, Doordarshan Kendra, Ahmedabad & Smt. Meenakshi Singhvi, Director Engineering, All India Radio, Vadodara.


    The programme concluded with vote of thanks by Shri A K Lal, Scientist-E. The programme was attended by around 100 participants from various industries & industry associations.


    DK/DS/RP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1588375) Visitor Counter : 115
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati