      PIB Headquarters

      Shri. R. Madhavan takes over New Regional Executive Director of AAI
      Posted On: 07 JUN 2019 5:23PM by PIB Chennai


    Shri. R. Madhavan took over as the New Regional Executive Director of AAI , at the Regional Headquarters(Southern Region), AAI, Chennai, on 03.06.2019, succeeding Shri.S.Sreekumar, who assumed the charge of Airport Director, AAI, Chennai Airport.


    CMA R.Madhavan is a Commerce Graduate from the University of Madras. He is a Member of the Institute of Cost Accounts of India as well. He has also done his Specialized Diploma on Management from the IGNOU.


    He started his career in Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, Tiruchirappalli in July’1986 and later joined the erstwhile National Airports Authority in the year 1994, as Accounts Officer at the Southern Regional Headquarters in Chennai. Thereafter, he has served in various capacities at Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi and Kolkatta Airports apart from the Corporate Headquarters at New Delhi.


    With his deep-rooted belief in austerity being a prudent Finance Official, many cost cuttings have resulted in augmentation of revenue to the Organization.


    He has also served as the Executive Director of the Key Infrastructure Development Unit of the Airports Authority of India, at the Corporate Headquarters. He wasincharge of process of selection of a private partner for six Airports across the country, for their operation, management and development for a 50-year concession period. It has been estimated that as per the winning bid, the A.A.I would be able to generate a revenue of several crores in the first year itself. This is expected to increase with the growth in Traffic and other factors, in the years to come.


    He has now taken over as the Regional Executive Director of the Southern Region of the A.A.I and is tasked with the responsibility of management, upgradation and development, of all the Airports in the five states of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala and Karnataka, apart from the UT of Pondicherry and Lakshadweep. He is also entrusted with the provision of passenger facilities at these Airports and the management of other allied Infrastructure and Services.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573664) Visitor Counter : 234
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil