      PIB Headquarters

      Work on Economic Census -2019 gathers momentum State Level Training of Trainers on 7th Economic Census for Tamil Nadu & Puducherry on 11th June 2019
      Posted On: 07 JUN 2019 3:30PM by PIB Chennai


    Preparations for 7th Economic Census are underway. In the run up to the field work to be undertaken by the enumerators across the country, several activities have been planned by the Union Ministry of Statistics and Program Implementation. Training of trainers at state level is an integral component of this massive exercise.


    In the National Workshop held on 14th May, 2019, the participants (Master Trainers) were trained on the key concepts and definitions, processes, digital platform and application to be used for the enumeration (data capture and supervision) in the field. This is being followed by State and District level detailed training.


    Carrying the momentum forward, a Workshop for State Level Training of Trainers on 7th Economic Census for Tamil Nadu & Puducherry has been organized on 11th June 2019 at Ambassador Pallava, No. 30, Montieth Road, Egmore, Chennai – 600008. The participants for the SLTOT will be State Government Senior officers from Department of Economics and Statistics, Industry and Micro Small and Medium Enterprises of Tamil Nadu & Puducherry. District Statistical Officers of Tamil Nadu & Puducherry. Officers of National Statistical Office (Field Operations Division) Regional Offices (Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai) and Sub Regional Offices. CSC SPC DC and DMs (Tamil Nadu & Puducherry). CSC SPV Master Trainers and State level officials. MOSPI Head Office Officials. Nearly 350 officers/officials from the above said offices will be participating the training programme. Mr Atul Anand, IAS, Commissioner, DES, Government of Tamil Nadu will inaugurate the Training Workshop and Dr S Durai Raju, Deputy Director General, National Statistical Office (NSO) will deliver Key Note address.


    About Economic Census


    Economic Census is the complete count of all establishment located within the geographical boundary of India. The Economic Census provides disaggregated information on various operational and structural variables of all establishments of the country. Economic Census also provides valuable insight into geographical spread/clusters of economic activities, ownership pattern, persons engaged, etc. of all economic establishments in the country. The information collected during Economic Census are useful for socio-economic developmental planning at state and district levels. Economic Census provides an updated sampling frame for follow- up enterprise surveys undertaken for detailed and comprehensive analysis of all establishments in the country.


    Economic Census-2019


    The Seventh Economic Census (7th EC) is being conducted by Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MoSPI) in 2019. In the current Economic Census, MoSPI has partnered with CSC e-Governance Services India Limited, a Special Purpose Vehicle under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology as the implementing agency for 7th EC. In the 7th EC, an IT based digital platform for data capture, validation, report generation and dissemination will be used. The fieldwork for the 7th EC is likely to commence by the first week of July 2019. The results of the exercise will be made available after verification and validation of the field work.


    Economic Census will cover all establishments including household establishments, engaged in production or distribution of goods/services (other than for the sole purpose of own consumption) in agricultural (except crop production and plantation) and non-agricultural sector (except those engaged in in public administration, defence, compulsory social security, activities of households as employers of domestic personnel, activities of territorial organizations and bodies and illegal activities) will be counted. Establishments with fixed structures will be covered at the place of their operation. On the other hand, entrepreneurial activities that are carried out without any fixed structures will be covered at the place of the residence of the owner. All types of establishments (perennial, seasonal and casual), existing on the date of data collection, though may not be in operation on the day due to certain reasons, will also be covered in the economic census. In the 7th Economic Census, it is envisaged that there would be 100% coverage with no omissions.


    Previous Economic Censuses


    Six Economic Censuses, (EC) have been conducted by the Union Ministry of Statistics and Program Implementation. till date. The first Economic Census was undertaken in 1977. The Second EC was carried out in 1980 followed by the Third EC in 1990. The fourth edition took place in 1998 while the fifth EC was held in 2005. The Sixth edition of Economic Census was conducted in 2013.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573652) Visitor Counter : 192
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil