      PIB Headquarters

      Postal Excellence Awards given
      Posted On: 19 JUN 2019 5:29PM by PIB Chennai


    A circle level Excellence award function has been organized by Tamil Nadu Postal Circle to boost the morale of employees and for recognizing their performance in respective fields in Chennai today. 60 awards have been given by Shri M. Ajit Kumar IRS, Principla Chief Commissioner, Customs, Chennai and Chief Guest and he handed over the certificates of merit and trophies to the recipients. Winners of Dhai Akhar letter writing competition, pencil drawing competition in connection with 150 years of Mahatma Gandhi and communal harmony stamp design competition were also honoured in the function. Shri M.Sampath, IPoS, Chief Post Master General Tamil Nadu Circle released special cover on Pencil Art on Gandhi and special pack on legendary Singers and delivered key note address. Senior Officers of Tamilnadu Postal Circle also graced the occasion.


    All Round Performance award was given to Pondicherry, Tiruchirapalli and Chennai City South Postal Offices.


    Tamil Nadu Postal Circle with its 12,137 network / touch points is one of the lifeline of the state connecting even the remotest corner and providing various services to the citizens ranging from mail, parcel, money transfer, banking, insurance and retail services. The Department of Posts with its periodical upgradation, introduced new and diversified services like aadhaar updation, passport services, TNEB bill collection and collection of fine levied by traffic police as per customer expectation. During the year 2018-19 Tamil Nadu Postal Circle, with 16.42% growth, has earned a revenue of Rs. 1244.64 crores besides premium collection of Rs. 1153.32 Crores from PLI & RPLI. 43,72,690 insurants in the Circle are covered under PLI and RPLI. Tamil Nadu Postal Circle stand as a pioneer in technology induction and revenue generation. 9265 mobile computing devices have been provided to the Branch Post Offices and 4689 mobile devices have been provided to Postmen in the Circle for doing the transactions online and for delivery. The Circle has 2.87 crore Savings Bank allied accounts including 3.74 lakh accounts opened under various schemes including schemes introduced by Hon’ble Prime Minister. The Circle has handled 5.78 crore speed post articles. The Circle has 37 IPPB branches and 10683 access points offering various state of the art banking services including doorstep banking to its 1.97 lakh account holders.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1574977) Visitor Counter : 85
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil