      PIB Headquarters

      Tamil Nadu amounts to 60% of the footwear’s export in India
      Each year 25,000 jobs available in Footwear industry in TN
      CFTI offers free courses for SC/ST students
      Almost all the students trained in CFTI gets immediate placement
      Posted On: 18 JUN 2019 2:50PM by PIB Chennai


    60% of the footwear’s exported from India is being manufactured in Tamil Nadu, says Shri. K. Murali, Director, Central Footwear Training Institute (CFTI), while addressing the media today at Chennai regarding the recent Achievements in Skill Development of CFTI. Recent study shows that there 25,000 job available in the footwear industry every year in Tamil Nadu and almost all the students trained in CFTI gets placement immediately after their training period and all the courses are free for SC/ST candidates, he added. A private shoe manufacturing company, which plans to open a manufacturing unit in Krishnagiri alone, wants 10,000 skilled labours for the unit. He also said that CFTI conducts study on the job availability in the sector on every two or three months. Even other field graduates can enrol themselves in one the programmes offered by CFTI, for the employment, he added.


    Apart from offering regular, long term, short term and part time courses, the institute also acts as a training partner with various Central and State government agencies and provides training for the unemployed youths and the unskilled workers of the footwear industries. The major partner of the CFTI training is the Tamil Nadu S k ill Development Corporation (TNSDC). In this past three years, for TNSDC, CFTI has trained about 10,000 members and 70 % of them are women.


    Apart from Chennai, CFTI conducts skill training courses at various districts with the aim of creating adequate skilled workforce in each district and to provide employment. In one of the seven main courses, CFTI send students to London for six week training.


      Considering the various elements, TNSDC has selected CFTI as the ‘Best Training Provider’. For information on various courses and services provided by CFTI, visit www.cftichennai.in .

    
    
    (Release ID: 1574843) Visitor Counter : 124
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil