      PIB Headquarters

      PRESS BRIEF - statistic day 2019 celebrated in Chennai
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2019 4:10PM by PIB Chennai


    In recognition of the notable contributions made by (Late) Prof.P.C.Mahalanobis, in the field of Economic Planning and Statistical Development, the Government of India has designated 29 th June every year as ‘STATISTICS DAY’ coinciding with the his Birth Anniversary at the National Level. The objective of these celebrations is to create awareness among the people especially with the younger generation about the role of Statistics in Socio-Economic Planning and Policy formulation.


    Accordingly, the ‘STATISTICS DAY’, the birth anniversary of Prof.P.C.Mahalanobis was celebrated by the NATIONAL STATISTICAL OFFICE, FIELD OPERATIONS DIVISION, Regional Office, Tamil Nadu (North) Region, Chennai on Saturday the 29 th of June 2019 in the Conference Hall No.2, Shastri Bhavan. The Topic of this year’s celebrations was ‘SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS’. The celebration was presided over by Dr.S.Durai Raju, Deputy Director General, NSO(FOD), Chennai. Shri R.L.Narasimhan, former Deputy Director General, Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation, Govt. of India was the Chief Guest. Dr.N.Egambaram, former Director and S/Shri G.Subramanian and G.Sivasubramanian, former Deputy Director Generals of National Sample Survey Office were the Guests of Honour at the Celebrations. Smt.Sushama Rachel Mathews, Head of Office, NSO (FOD), Chennai welcomed the gathering.


    Dr.S.Durai Raju, in his speech touched upon the subject of Sustained Development Goals addressing social, economic and environmental developments in detail. He narrated that SDGs consisting 17 goals and associated 169 targets is adopted by the United Nations in September 2015 for the period 2015-30 with effect from 01.01.2016. NITI Ayog is entrusted with the overall supervision pertaining to assignment of Government schemes and programmes. Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation is entrusted with National Indicator Framework (NIF) coordinating with other Ministries/Stakeholders and also identification of data sources for indicators and their periodicity. Ministry of External Affairs is entrusted with international commitments, economic cooperation and development. Recent data generative initiatives of Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation for SDGs are Time Use Survey, National Family Health Survey, Multiple Indicator Survey and Ecoomics Census (every 3 years); Situation Assesment Survey on farmers/agricultural household conditions (every 5 years) besides Annual Surveys on Periodic Labour Force, Service Sector and Unincorporated non-agricultural sector enterprises.


    Shri R.L.Narasimhan, former Deputy Director General in his speech mentioned that the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), otherwise known as the Global Goals, are a universal call for action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. There are 17 Goals built on the successes of the Millennium Development Goals , while including new areas such as climate change, economic inequality, innovation, sustainable consumption, peace and justice, among other priorities. The goals are interconnected – often the key to success on one will involve tackling issues more commonly associated with another.


    In September 2015, the United Nations General Assembly formally adopted the ‘universal, integrated and transformative’ 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development , through a set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The goals are to be implemented and achieved in every country from the year 2016 to 2030. The SDGs are part of Resolution 70/1 of the United Nations General Assembly.


    The goals are broad based and interdependent. The 17 sustainable development goals each have a list of targets that are measured with indicators. Key to making the SDGs successful is to make the data on the 17 goals available and understandable. There are 169 targets for the 17 goals. Each target has between 1 and 3 indicators used to measure progress towards reaching the targets. In total, there are 232 approved indicators that will measure compliance. The United Nations Development Programme has been asked to provide easy to understand lists of targets and facts and figures for each of the 17 SDGs.


    Achieving the SDGs requires the partnership of government, private sector, civil society and citizens alike to make sure we leave a better planet for future generations.


    As part of the Celebrations an Essay Competition was conducted by the National Statistical Office, Chennai wherein students from various City Colleges participated in addition to the Officials of the National Statistical Office. Prizes and Certificates were distributed to the winners and the participants of the Essay Competition during the Celebrations.


    The Celebrations ended with a Vote of Thanks by Shri K.L.K.Soorianathan, Assistant Director.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576314) Visitor Counter : 58
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil