      PIB Headquarters

      Kerala will be second to none in going digital: Union Minister Ashok Gajapathi Raju Skeptics of digital payments do not understand what it means for the poor: Minister of State M. J. Akbar:
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2017 3:33PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    
    
    Union Minister for Civil Aviation Shri. Asok Gajapathy Raju has said that as a nation a mind-set has to be developed for becoming digital. Inaugurating the Digi Dhan Mela in Thiruvananthapuram today, he said it is in the interest of all to modernise which will benefit every citizen of the country. The Minister pointed out that Kerala being the first literate state in the country will be second to none in digitalising its economy. He urged the people to utilise this opportunity to modernise to make our dreams of future materialise.
    In his Special Address at the function, Minister of State for External Affairs, Shri. M.J. Akbar said the skeptics of digitalisation have no understanding of what it means to the poor. He said what is happening today is a tremendous exercise in cooperative federalism. The country is coming together for a most important mission of our times. He pointed out that the digital technology is going to be used increasingly by women which will lead to their economic empowerment.
    Shri. Akbar said this is a unity led revolution as technology is difference neutral. Technology does not recognise you belong to which class or creed or community or what language you speak. Technology is means for development of all. It is a great unifier and is also a great honesty revolution.
    Pointing out that all cash is not black money, the Minister said, but all black money is cash. He said only one per cent of Indians pay tax and this happened only because those rich who were in command of the economy of this country refused to honour the commitment and obligation towards the poor. Tax is the legitimate transfer of wealth from those who have advantageous positions to those who are deprived.
    Shri. Akbar said the Digital revolution will increase the spending for anti- poverty programmes and economic empowerment programmes. He said already the first benefits of demonetization are visible. Banks now has the money and all over the country one get bank loans with less interest before demonetisation. Terming this as truly a gender revolution, Shri. Akbar said nearly sixty per cent of loans in MUDRA are given to women. He said this is the technology that will take us to the heights of 21st Century.
    Earlier, both Ministers Shri. Asok Gajapathy Raju and Shri. M.J. Akbar went around the stalls put up for familiarising the public various digital payment options including mobile applications and wallets. Help desks were also set up for Adhaar enrolment.
    More than thirty banks, mobile wallet operators, telecom companies, Aadhar enabled payment system vendors and other agencies involved in digital payments participated in the event.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1482578) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam