      PIB Headquarters

      Interventional Radiology Program At Sctimst: Inauguration Of An Additional DSA Laboratory
      Posted On: 23 NOV 2017 7:26PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    A high-end dedicated DSA laboratory for Interventional Radiology atSreeChitraTirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology(SCTIMST) Thrruvananthapuram has been inaugurated by the Institute Director, Prof. Asha Kishoreto meet the increasing demand for interventional procedures. The Institute already has a dedicated neuro-interventional DSA laboratory and Intensive Care Unit and, currently, manages more than 4000 patients in the outpatient section and performs more than 1200 inpatient procedures per year.


    The Department of Imaging Sciences and Interventional Radiology at SCTIMST has remained in the forefront in adopting new minimally-invasive therapies apart from providing training in state-of-the-art procedures to super-specialists. It is remarkable that interventional radiology procedures are being routinely performed at SCIMST for over three decades even as these are done only in very few government hospitals in the country. The service at SreeChitra is extended to patients from all over the country and neighboring countries.


    In Interventional Radiology, various vascular and non-vascular diseases are treated through a small incision over the skin, under the guidance of X-rays. Very thin tubes and wires, known as catheters and guide wires, are introduced into the body either through the blood vessel or directly through the tissue and the procedure is performed. The procedures are not very risky or painful and require short hospital stay. Interventional radiology procedures are done in situations involving life-threatening bleeding from lungs, digestive tract, uterus or following trauma, surgery or delivery. Other interventional procedures include occlusion of a tangle of vessels in the body (embolization in arteriovenous malformation), opening and restoration of occluded artery (angioplasty), reconstruction of artery wall in ballooned arteries (aneurysm coiling) and removal of clot from brain blood vessel in stroke (mechanical thrombectomy), to mention a few. It is also helpful in reducing blood flow to various tumors before surgical removal and for tumor therapy with direct delivery of chemotherapeutic agents or radiofrequency waves.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510714) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam