      PIB Headquarters

      Foundation stone laid for International Ship Repair Facility at Cochin
      Posted On: 17 NOV 2017 5:15PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Union Minister of Shipping, Road Transport & Highways, Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Nitin Gadkari laid the foundation stone for International Ship Repair Facility (ISRF) at Wellingdon Island, Cochin. An expansion project of Cochin Ship Yard Limited (CSL), the repair facility will be a state of the art facility that can handle a major chunk of small and medium sized vessels plying in India.


    The project worth Rs. 970 crore is expected to be completed by October 2019. Laying the foundation stone, Shri. Nitin Gadkari said that this is a historical movement in the history of Kerala and Cochin Shipyard. This will create 6000 job opportunities in the state directly and indirectly. As of now our country is facing lack of technologies for the ship repairing and maintenance activities. With this new facility we need not have to depend other countries, he said.


    Lack of availability of land is the hindrance for Kerala’s development, the Minister said. He also asked the State government to complete GAIL pipe laying project on time. Shri Nitin Gadkari also invited CSL for pan India expansion of its services. “Technically and financially the Cochin Shipyard is very strong. It is time that they should look at expanding to other places in the country. I am assuring land across the country for CSL branches. It will be a good start. We can make huge investment as we have huge potential in the sector”, the minister added.


    ISRF was approved by Government of India in May 2016. CSL has leased out a 42-acre plot in Willingdon Island from Cochin Port Trust for developing the facility. A Ship lift system of size 130 m x 25 m with lifting capacity of 6000 Tons and 6 workstations will set up. The facility can repair up to 85 vessels, and CSL will thereby be almost doubling the number of ships that can be repaired per year.


    Prof. K. V. Thomas presided over the function. Shri A.C. Moideen, Minister for Industries, Sports and Youth Affairs, Shri Hibi Eden MLA, Shri KJ Maxi MLA, Kochi Mayor Smt. Soumini Jain, Shri Madhu S Nair, Cochin Shipyard Chairman & Managing Director, Shri P. Raveendran, Cochin Port Trust Chairman were also present during the occasion.


    Shri Gadkari also inaugurated a unique event - Build The Ship – 2017 – being organized by the Ministry of Shipping. The event deliberated upon the recommendations of a study regarding the growth strategies and the recommendations for promotion of shipbuilding, ship design, ship repair and marine ancillaries in India. Incorporation of ‘Hooghly Cochin Shipyard Limited’, a joint venture between CSL and HDPEL, an initiative of Ministry of Shipping into the Shipbuilding and Ship Repair services for Inland & Coastal Waterways Sector also staged at Build The Ship 2017.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510034) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam