      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Shram Daan at Two Places in Delhi Organized to Mark Swachhata Hi Sewa Campaign
      Posted On: 01 OCT 2018 3:16PM by PIB Delhi


    As part of the ongoing Swacchata Hi Sewa campaign (15 th September to 2 nd October), the Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation organized a Shram Daan event today at Chhat Ghat at ITO along River Yamuna in the National Capital. The focus during the drive remained on freeing the ghat from any kind of solid waste.


    Volunteers from the Ministry led by Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri U.P Singh cleaned the Chhat ghat of plastic and other solid waste. Speaking on the occasion Shri Singh said, “The Chhat ghat has seen improvement in terms of cleanliness after WAPCOS took the task of cleaning it on a regular basis. While I thank all who participated in the event today, I urge them to spread the message of keeping our rivers and surroundings clean as involvement of each and every one of us is imperative in achieving this task,”


    Additional Secretary Smt. T. Rajeshwari, Joint Secretaries of the Ministry Shri Nitishwar Kumar and Shri Akhil Kumar and CMD, WAPCOS, Shri R.K. Gupta also participated in the event besides more than 100 officials from different departments of the Ministry.


    A similar Shram Daan was also organized by National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) today at Kalindi Kunj ghat as part of the ongoing Swachhata Hi Sewa campaign. NMCG has also been organizing regular cleaning activities at Kalindi Kunj ghat in south Delhi. Director General, National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) along with other officials of the Ministry participated in the event.


    While the work of Rejuvenation of Ganga is going on swiftly under the aegis of Namami Gange programme, the cleaning of tributaries of Ganga like Yamuna, Hindon, Ram Ganga, Kosi etc. is also being taken up on priority basis.


    *****


    NP/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548070) Visitor Counter : 629