      Ministry of Panchayati Raj

      GRAM PANCHAYAT DEVELOPMENT PLAN (GDPD)-Sabki Yojana, Sabka Vikas
      
      People’s Plan Campaign(2nd October 2018-31st December 2018)

      Posted On: 01 OCT 2018 6:23PM by PIB Delhi

    The People’s Plan Campaign will be rolled out as ‘Sabki Yojna Sabka Vikas’from 2 nd October to 31 st December 2018. During the campaign ,structured Gram Sabha meetings will be held for preparing Gram Panchayat Development Plan for the next financial year 2019-2020.Monitoring of People’s Plan Campaign would involve geotagged visuals of GS meetings,report of facilitators in standard format, Planplus uploading of GDPD for all 29 sectors,visit to Gram Sabhas for every district /state /central level official of concerned departments and NLM(national level monitors) visits to random Gram Sabhas.


    The campaign is being undertaken on a large scale, given the number of Gram Panchayats in the country. Special efforts have been made to ensure maximum participation of vulnerable sections of society like SC/ST/Women etc. The Gram PanchayatDevelopment Plan aims to strengthen the role of 31 lakh elected Panchayat leaders and 2.5 crore SHG Women under DAY-NRLM in effective gram sabha.There will be a Public Information Campaign of all programmes in Gram Panchayat office and on Gram Samvad App.The structured Gram Sabha meetings will be spread over 2 nd October -31 st December, with physical presence and presentation by frontline workers/supervisors on 29 sectors – Agriculture, Land improvement, Minor irrigation, Animal husbandry, Fisheries, Social Forestry, Minor forest produce, Small scale industries, Khadi, village and cottage industry,Rural housing,Drinking water ,Fuel and fodder,Roads,Rural electrification ,Non–conventional energy ,Poverty alleviation programme ,Education ,Vocational education,Adult and informal education,libraries,Cultural activities,Markets and fairs ,Health and sanitation ,Family welfare,Women and child development,Social welfare ,Welfare of weaker sections ,Public distribution system and Maintenance of community assets.


    Panchayats have a significant role to play in effective and efficient implementation of flagship schemes for transformation of rural India. The GDPD will be an intensive and structured exercise for planning at Gram Sabha level through convergence between Panchayati Raj institutions and concerned departments of the State. As part of this Campaign, it is also proposed to complete the exercise of Mission Antodaya (MA) data collection in respect of all Gram Panchayats. This is currently available for about 44,111 GPs and is required to be collected for the balance number of GPs out of a total about 2.49 lakh GPs.


    In view of the large scale of the campaign, a special social media campaign has been launched for this period to ensure outreach to the community. This will consist of information about the Panchayats and about the Gram Panchayat Development Plan. It will also have snippets about the type of activities that can be taken up and showcasing of best practices from various Panchayats, so that these can be replicated. In order to enthuse members of the Gram Sabhas, bytes from opinion makers at different levels will also be shared.


    ******


    APS/SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548141) Visitor Counter : 5051