      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Jal Bachao, Video Banao, Puraskar Pao Contest: Third & Fourth fortnight prizes announced
      Posted On: 09 OCT 2018 3:55PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation announced the winners for the Third and Fourth fortnight of the Jal Bachao, Video Banao, Puraskar Pao contest. Dr. N J Devaraja Reddy from Chitradurga (Karnataka), Sh. Eknath Ankush Gopal from Raigad (Maharashtra) and Sh. Jitendra Bhardwaj from Gwalior have won the first, second and third positions respectively for the Third Fortnight during the period of 9 th to 23 rd August 2018.


    Sh. Prince Kumar from Patna, Sh. Sainath Uskaikar from Goa and Sh. Santosh Padhi from Navi Mumbai have bagged the first, second and third prizes respectively for the period of 24th August to 7 th September 2018 during Fourth Fortnight. The winners shall be given prize amount of Rs 25,000/, Rs 15,000/- and Rs 10,000/- for first, second and third positions respectively.


    Jal Bachao, Video Banao, Puraskar Pao contest was launched by the Ministry in collaboration with the MyGov portal of the Government of India with the objective of spreading awareness about water conservation. Any Indian citizen can participate in the contest. He or she needs to shoot an original video on the theme. They are required to upload their entries on YouTube and enter the publicly accessible link on the Video link section of MyGov contest page www.mygov.in. Three winners will be chosen every fortnight till the 4th of November this year.


    Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation appeals to the people of India to make and upload videos capturing the efforts, significant contributions, best practices in the field of Water Conservation, Optimum Water Utilization and Water Resource Development and Management in different parts of the country. Participants are requested to upload original videos only. The duration of the videos should be minimum two minutes and up to 10 minutes in Hindi, English or any other regional language and must not violate any provision of the Indian Copyright Act, 1957 or the Intellectual Property Rights of any third party.


    *****


    NP/SKP/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1549033) Visitor Counter : 806
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali