      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Rajya Mantri, Dr Subhash Bhamre inaugurates Air force commanders’ conference
      Posted On: 11 OCT 2018 3:14PM by PIB Delhi


    The second Bi-annual IAF Commanders’ Conference of 2018 was inaugurated today by Hon’ble Raksha Rajya Mantri at Air HQ (Vayu Bhawan). Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa PVSM AVSM YSM VM ADC, welcomed Hon’ble Raksha Rajya Mantri, Dr Subhash Bhamre and introduced the IAF Commanders to him.


    Raksha Rajya Mantri addressed the Air Force Commanders on the inaugural day of the conference and stressed upon the vital role being played by the IAF for enabling India to be the Net Security Provider in the IOR in furtherance of the Prime Minister’s SAGAR (Security And Growth for All in the Region) Doctrine. He reiterated the fact that the IAF is the most technologically intensive and quickest military response available to the Government for furthering India’s leverage. During his address the Raksha Rajya Mantri said “ I commend the IAF leadership in promoting indigenisation in multiple ways. IAF’s resolve to wholeheartedly support the indigenous LCA programme by committing to procure 18 squadrons of LCA and its variants endorsing its capability is notable and praiseworthy. IAF leading the thrust to promote India’s indigenous bio-jet fuel program would surely go a long way in reducing India’s crude oil import bill by more than 10% and augment farmers’ incomes substantially. The Mehar Baba Swarm Drone Competition is a highly exciting development and I wish it all success in identifying innovative technology in Unmanned Aerial Systems. IAF is perhaps the first service to kickstart an Artificial Intelligence Project with the participation of the private industry and the progress of this project is extremely heartening”


    The CAS while addressing the Commanders emphasized on the need for robust training of IAF personnel in order to maintain IAF’s operational competence and reiterated the need for holding an operational edge over our adversaries through focused operational training, keeping it in line with our concept of operations. He stressed upon the need for joint training with Indian Army and Indian Navy in order to enhance the synergy between the services for ensuring national security.


    The Commanders’ conference is planned for two days, wherein discussions will take place on maintaining combat worthiness and the cutting edge of IAF by suitably refining the training pattern. Training for future inductions like Rafale and Tejas fighter Jets, Chinook and Apache helicopters, SPYDER & Medium Range Surface to Air Missile would also be discussed.
    The Commanders will also interact with a team of senior officials from HAL and discuss issues pertaining to production, upgradation, indigenization, design & development of various equipment and aircraft.


    ***********


    AB/MKR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1549374) Visitor Counter : 315
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi