      President's Secretariat

      President of India inaugurates International Arya Mahasammelan-2018
      Posted On: 25 OCT 2018 2:18PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, inaugurated the International Arya Mahasammelan – 2018 today (October 25, 2018) in Delhi.


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that in the 19th century when we were considering our culture and beliefs inferior than the western culture, Swami DayanandSaraswati showed us the path of renaissance and self-pride. He was an intrepid warrior of social and spiritual reform. He took effective measures for educational and social reform especially for women empowerment and eradication of untouchability. His work is relevant even in the present times both for Indian society and the entire world.


    The President was happy to note that this Mahasammelan with discuss on the issues such as prevention of superstition, modernization, women empowerment, tribal welfare, and management of natural calamities. He expressed hope that the Arya Samaj will also work to promote the use of solar and other alternative sources of energy to contribute towards environmental protection.


    The President noted that around 10,000 units of Arya Samaj are engaged in welfare activities across the world. He said that the Arya Samaj has made effective contributions to promote modern education based on ethics and worked for the upliftment of all sections of society, especially women and the deprived. It has established many schools and colleges in the country.


    The President said that we will be celebrating 200 th birth anniversary of Swami DayanandSaraswati in 2024. We will also celebrate the 150 th anniversary of the Arya Samaj in 2025. Swami DayanandSaraswati had worked for eradication of discrimination in society on the basis of caste, creed and sect and motivated everyone to become Arya – that is - the best. It is our duty to take the work of Swami DayanandSaraswati further.


    Click Here to see Speech


    ***


    AKT/VK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1550698) Visitor Counter : 1834
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Tamil