      Ministry of Education

      Shri Prakash Javadekar to inaugurate the ‘KVS National Integration Camp-Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat’ tomorrow at Vigyan Bhawan Lawns
      
      A unique opportunity to watch students of Kendriya Vidyalayas showcasing the cultural diversity of India and the world

      Posted On: 30 OCT 2018 4:52PM by PIB Delhi

    Union HRD Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar will inaugurate the 2018 edition of ‘KVS National Integration Camp-EK Bharat Shreshth Bharat’ at the lawns of Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi on Wednesday, 31st October 2018. The programme will remain open for public during all three days from 31 st October to 2 nd November and timings will be 10:00 AM to 5:00 PM.


    The concept of National Integration Camp is unique in many ways. The 25 regions of KVS will cover 25 Indian States and 25 Countries altogether in terms of the cultural heritage- Dance, Music, Song, and Socio-Economic progress.


    This mega-event is a broad platform for the students to display their creativity, originality, artistic skills, etc. It gives them an opportunity to know about the culture, tradition, art and architecture of not only the other states of India but of the various countries of the world. In the process of satiating the thirst for information, they overcome many challenges and linguistic and geographical barriers and awaken a strong sense of national pride and widen their horizons with a better cosmopolitan outlook. In a nut-shell, the programme not only encompasses performing arts but also provides a glimpse of the processes through which they learn and acquire knowledge.


    This year following competitions will be conducted during KVS National Integration Camp – “Ek Bharat Shresth Bharat” & “Lit-Fest”


    “Ek Bharat Shresth Bharat”

     1. Group Song
     2. Group Dance ( State & International)
     3. Theatre
     4. On the Spot Painting
     5. Solo Singing
     6. Solo Classical Dance
     7. Display of Artefacts

    “LitFest”

     1. Debate (Hindi & English)
     2. Quiz
     3. Sanskrit Shloka Recitation
     4. Hindi KaavyaPaath
     5. English Elocution
     6. Creative writing
     7. Spell-Bee

    This year 1600 students are coming together to take part in this mega event. The unique feature of this event is that the students of one part of the nation exhibit the cultural diversity of the other part of the country and the world.


    KVS National Social Science Exhibition–cum-National Integration Camp is organized at School, Cluster, and Regional & National level every year. All the 25 regions of KVS are allotted one State different from their own State and one Country. The students prepare projects/exhibits on the culture, customs, dress, crops, economy, climate etc of the State and of the Country allotted to them. The States and Countries are exchanged /rotated each year.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1551228) Visitor Counter : 724
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

7.