      Ministry of Education

      Col. Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore inaugurates ‘KVS National Integration Camp-Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat’ at Vigyan Bhawan Lawns
      
      A unique opportunity to watch students of Kendriya Vidyalayas showcasing the cultural diversity of India and the world
      
      Posted On: 31 OCT 2018 7:13PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State (I/C) for Sports & Youth Affairs and Information & Broadcasting Col. Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore inaugurated the three day ‘KVS Rashtriya Ekta Shivir-EK Bharat Shreshth Bharat’ at Vigyan Bhawan Lawns on Wednesday. T his mega event of KVS will remain open for public during all three days from 31 st October to 2 nd November and timings will be 10:00 AM to 5:00 PM.


    The Chief Guest, Col. Rathore in his address highly appreciated the National Integration Camp for its unique feature of promoting unity in the Country with immense cultural diversity. He highlighted that the event is an authentic platform for developing and instilling the feeling of mutual respect, acceptance and appreciation of diversity. He congratulated the students for their earnest effort to internalize the culture of other Indian states and various countries of the world. It is noteworthy that Col. Rathore himself is an alumnus of KV.


    Col. Rathore remembered Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on the occasion of his birthday and said that because of his vision and efforts we are living in united India. He evoked students to develop the spirit of unity for better future of the nation.


    Commissioner KVS, Sh. Santosh Kumar Mall greeted the Chief Guest with Green Welcome. In his address he said that every KV is a mini India in itself, because we have children from various states studying under one roof. He also highlighted some major schemes of KVS going before the august gathering.


    Kolkata region of KVS presented a beautiful cultural dance of Rajasthan in the Inaugural session. Resident Commissioners from various states were also invited specially to watch the programmes of their respective states.


    On the first Day of the camp competitions were conducted for various events like Group Dance of different states and countries, Theatre on pertinent issues, Quiz, Creative Writing, Spell Bee, Debates, Painting and Solo Song.


    The very concept of National Integration Camp is unique in many ways. The 25 regions of KVS cover 25 Indian States and 25 Countries altogether in terms of the cultural heritage- Dance, Music, Song, and Socio-Economic progress. This mega-event is a broad platform for the students to display their creativity, originality, artistic skills, etc. It gives them an opportunity to know about the culture, tradition, art and architecture of not only the other states of India but of the various countries of the world. In the process of satiating the thirst for information, they overcome many challenges and linguistic and geographical barriers and awaken a strong sense of national pride and widen their horizons with a better cosmopolitan outlook. In nut-shell, the programme not only encompasses performing arts but also provides a glimpse of the processes through which they learn and acquire knowledge.


    This year following competitions will be conducted during KVS National Integration Camp – “Ek Bharat Shresth Bharat” & “Lit-Fest”


    “Ek Bharat Shresth Bharat”

     1. Group Song
     2. Group Dance ( State & International)
     3. Theatre
     4. On the Spot Painting
     5. Solo Singing
     6. Solo Classical Dance
     7. Display of Artefacts

    “LitFest”

     1. Debate (Hindi & English)
     2. Quiz
     3. Sanskrit Shloka Recitation
     4. Hindi KaavyaPaath
     5. English Elocution
     6. Creative writing
     7. Spell-Bee

    This year 1600 students with 175 escorts are coming together to be the part of this mega event. The unique feature of this event is that the students of one part of the nation exhibit the cultural diversity of the other part of the country and the world.


    KVS National Social Science Exhibition–cum-National Integration Camp is organized at School, Cluster, and Regional & National level every year. All the 25 regions of KVS are allotted one State different from their own State and one Country. The students prepare projects/exhibits on the culture, customs, dress, crops, economy, climate etc of the State and of the Country allotted to them. The States and Countries are exchanged/ rotated each year.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551426) Visitor Counter : 497
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

7.