      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Facilities under Ayushman Bharat Yojana
      Posted On: 06 DEC 2019 1:38PM by PIB Delhi


    Under Ayushman Bharat – Health & Wellness Centres (AB-HWCs), 1.5 lakh Health Sub Centres and Primary Health Centres are to be transformed into Health and Wellness Centres across the country for provision of comprehensive primary care that includes preventive healthcare and health promotion at the community level with continuum of care approach by December, 2022. AB-HWCs would provide service delivery of a package of preventive, promotive, curative and rehabilitative services delivered close to communities to overcome the challenge of dual burden of disease. The expanded range of services would include services related to Non-Communicable diseases, Mental health, ENT, Ophthalmology, Oral health, Geriatric and palliative health care and Trauma care, in addition to the existing services of RCH and communicable diseases. Services at AB-HWCs are free and universal to all.


    The Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and Community Health centres (CHCs) would continue to provide IPD and OPD services as per the existing Indian Public Health Standards, Eg. PHCs with an Operation Theatre facility would provide fixed day approach services for vasectomy, tubectomy etc. and CHCs would provide services for minor surgical procedures. CHCs which have been equipped as First Referral Units would provide services for C-section.


    Under Ayushman Bharat – Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY), health cover up to Rs. 5 lakh per family per annum is provided to around 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable families as per Socio-Economic Caste Census data through empanelled hospitals. All public hospitals (Community Health Centre and above), in the States implementing the scheme, are deemed empanelled. Further, State Governments, through State Health Agencies, empanel private hospitals within their jurisdiction based on the defined criteria and hospital empanelment guidelines to provide care to beneficiaries. Empanelment of hospitals is a continuous process and as on 03.12.2019, 19,752 hospitals including 10,627 public and 9,124 private hospitals are empanelled under AB-PMJAY.


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Sh Ashwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply in the Lok Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1595203) Visitor Counter : 607
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu