      Ministry of Jal Shakti

      Mullaperiyar Dam
      Posted On: 12 DEC 2019 7:12PM by PIB Delhi


    As per directions of the Supreme Court in its judgement dated 07.05.2014, the Ministry of Jal Shakti has constituted a three member Supervisory Committee with representative from Central Water Commission (CWC) (Chairman of the committee) and one representative each from Kerala and Tamil Nadu. The mandate of the committee as laid down by the Supreme Court, are : -


    (i) The committee shall supervise the restoration of FRL in the Mullaperiyar Dam to the elevation of 142 ft.


    (ii) The Committee shall inspect the dam periodically, more particularly immediately before the monsoon and during the monsoon and keep close watch on its safety and recommend measures which are necessary. Such measures shall be carried out by Tamil Nadu.


    (iii) The Committee shall be free to take appropriate steps and issue necessary directions to the two States-Tamil Nadu and Kerala-or any of them if so required for the safety of the Mullaperiyar Dam in an emergent situation. Such directions shall be obeyed by all concerned.


    (iv) The Committee shall permit Tamil Nadu to carry out further precautionary measures that may become necessary upon its periodic inspection of the dam in accordance with the guidelines of the Central Water Commission and Dam Safety Organisation.


    So far 12 meetings of the Supervisory Committee have been held. Further, in compliance with the direction of the Supreme Court in its Judgement dated 11.01.2018 in the Writ Petition (Civil) No. 878 between Russel Joy versus Union of India & Others, Sub-Committee of National Executive Committee (NEC) of National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) under the Chairmanship of Secretary (WR, RD & GR) has been formed to monitor the measures for ensuring high level of preparedness to face any disaster in relation to Mullaperiyar Dam. The Committee has held four meetings so far and have issued necessary directions to Government of Tamil Nadu and Kerala for safe operations of Mullaperiyar reservoir and other dam safety related matters.


    As per findings of the Empowered Committee constituted by the Supreme Court under the Chairmanship of Justice Dr. A.S. Anand, former Chief Justice of India, the dam is hydrologically, structurally and seismically safe. Terms of reference (TOR) for the construction of the new Mullaperiyar Dam to replace the existing old Mullaperiyar Dam in Idukki District of Kerala has been granted on 14.11.2018 by Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change (MOEF & CC) for preparation of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Report/Environmental Management Plan as per the provisions of the EIA Notification, 2006 and its subsequent amendment. While granting ToR, a condition has been mentioned as “the mutual agreement between Government of Kerala and Tamil Nadu should be submitted before the issue of Environmental Clearance.”


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Jal Shakti & Social Justice and Empowerment, Shri Rattan Lal Katariain a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    RCJ/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596261) Visitor Counter : 798