      Department of Atomic Energy

      BRIT, DAE launches new website and BRIT Bandhu mobile app
      Posted On: 04 JUL 2020 1:24PM by PIB Mumbai


    Mumbai, July 4, 2020


    Chairman, Atomic Energy Commission and Secretary DAE, Shri K N Vyas has launched the updated website of Board of Radiation and Isotope Technology (BRIT) and a customer-facing mobile application named ‘BRIT Bandhu’ at Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Mumbai. Director BARC & Chairman BRIT Board, Dr Ajit Kumar Mohanty and Chief Executive, BRIT, Shri Pradip Mukherjee, were also present at the launch.


    New website


    The new website can be accessed at the URL http://164.100.166.47 . It will be live at https://www.britatom.gov.in after July 9, 2020.


    The new website is designed with a view to provide the most accurate, up-to-date information and share the knowledge and expertise in the field of nuclear technology for current and prospective customers. The new website is faster, easier to navigate and more user-friendly, with a uniform and structured user interface, responsive web design and high on accessibility. There are direct links to BRIT’s regional centres located at various parts of the country; products, services and customer support. Technical information such as various radioactive sources is also provided in a range of denominations. Updates regarding new product launches is also a part in the News section.


    BRIT Bandhu Mobile App


    The BRIT Bandhu mobile app has been launched for equipping the customers with more user-friendly tools and to match the requirements of a modern-day ecommerce platform. The application enables customers to track the status of their orders in a very easy manner, on the go. It also offers up-to-date notifications on invoices and reminders for renewal of procurement authorizations. The Chief Executive, BRIT has said that an updated version of the app will be launched in some time, which will enable customers to also place orders, make payment and perform other processing tasks which they can currently do on the BRIT website.


    User feedback and experience are welcome at ceoffice@britatom.gov.in . The app is available for download in Google Play Store at https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mindspacetech.BritBandhu .


    About BRIT


    As a unit of the Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), BRIT focuses on providing the benefits of the use of radioisotope applications and radiation technology to industry, healthcare, research and agricultural sectors of society at large. BRIT provides a broad portfolio of products in the form of Radiopharmaceuticals, Labelled Compounds and Nucleotides, Sealed Radiation Sources, Gamma Chambers, Blood Irradiators and Radiography Exposure Devices. BRIT also offers Isotope Application services, Radioanalytical services, Calibration and Dosimetry services and Radiation Processing Services besides Project Consultancy services for setting up Radiation Processing Plants in the private sector.


    ***


    DJM


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1636349) Visitor Counter : 474
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi