      Ministry of Finance

      Institute of Cost Accounts of India, Pune Chapter Celebrates 3rd GST Day
      Posted On: 05 JUL 2020 1:53PM by PIB Mumbai


    Pune,05 July 2020


    Goods and Services Tax (GST) is India's biggest indirect tax reform which was implemented from 1 st July 2017. It is founded on the notion of “ One Nation, One Market, One Tax ” and we are about to enter the fourth year of successful implementation of GST after braving some serious challenges.


    To celebrate the occasion of GST Implementation Day on 1 July 2020, the Institute of cost accounts of India, Pune chapter has announced GST Day Celebration week by organizing various WEBINARS from 1 to 7 July 2020. As a part of the celebration, Pune chapter had organized knowledge sharing session on 04 July 2020.


    Chief guest for the session was Shree Rajeev Kapoor, Commissioner, Central Tax Pune II. The session was graced by CMA Neeraj Joshi, Central Council Member & WIRC chairman and CMA Amit Apte, Immediate Past President. For the discussion session, national level speakers CMA V S Datey, CMA Dr. Sanjay Bhargave, CMA Dr. Waman Parkhi and CMA Rajesh Shukla gave their valuable inputs.


    CMA Neeraj Joshi briefed the participants about the activities that are carried out at regional and central level of the Institute. CMA Amit Apte briefed the participants about the initiatives taken by the institute, various publications released by Tax Research Committee etc.


    Shri Rajeev Kapoor, Commissioner Pune-II CGST highlighted the steps taken by the government during the last 3 years to facilitate taxpayers. He especially emphasized the steps taken by the department during this pandemic situation.


    CMA V S Datey thoroughly analyzed the progress of GST during last three years from its implementation. He expressed his thoughts on the positive and painful side of GST Law.


    CMA Dr. Waman Parkhi lucidly explained about GST hits and misses in 3 years. He also highlighted the expectations for the next three years.


    CMA Rajesh Shukla discussed the impact of GST on Industry. He shared the experience of the Industry during the last three years. He also expressed his views on the skills expected from Cost Accountants who intend to make a career in GST.


    While summarizing the session, CMA Dr. Sanjay Bhargave expressed his thoughts on the challenges and opportunities to Cost Accountants. He also expressed his views on progress of GST in the last three years.


    The session was compared by CMA Nilesh Kekan. CMA Sujata Budhkar shared her words of wisdom in the Chairperson address. Welcome address was given by CMA Rahul Chincholkar. Strong IT infrastructure is an integral part of a Webinar, for which CMA Shrikant Ippalpalli played a key role. CMA Nagesh Bhagane and CMA Shrikant Ippalpalli gave introduction of speakers. Vote of Thanks was proposed by CMA Rahul Chincholkar.


    ****


    MI/ICAI/PM


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1636609) Visitor Counter : 171
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi