      Ministry of Defence

      Passing out of 89th Marine Engineering Specialisation Course at INS SHIVAJI
      Posted On: 18 JUL 2020 1:50PM by PIB Mumbai


    Pune, 18 July 2020


    INS Shivaji witnessed the Course Completion Ceremony of its 89th batch of Marine Engineering Specialisation Course (MESC) on 18 Jul 20, wherein 48 officers of Indian Navy and friendly foreign navies successfully completed 105 weeks of professional training. The officers were smartly turned out in ceremonials while donning white masks and maintaining 'do-gaj-ki-doori' thereby abiding by the precautionary protocols of COVID-19. The ceremony was reviewed by Commodore Ravnish Seth, Commanding Officer INS Shivaji and Station Commander Lonavla.


    INS Shivaji, the alma mater for all marine engineer officers of the Indian Navy, is the premier training establishment nestled in the 'Sahyadris' at Lonavla. The institution has been the fountain head of engineering knowledge and imparts specialized training to officers and sailors of the engineering branch. The first batch of MESC commenced training at INS Shivaji on 02 Jan 1961 and since then, 88 batches have passed out from this establishment. The 89th batch of MESC consists of 37 Indian Officers and 11 foreign officers from Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Tanzania, Sudan, Fiji and Bangladesh. During the three rigorous phases of Marine Engineering Specialisation Course, the officers were trained on live equipment, state-of-the-art simulators, trainer kits, in addition to comprehensive classroom instructions. In addition, the officers underwent 26 weeks of afloat training on Indian Navy and Coast Guard ships for award of Engine Room Watchkeeping Certificate. These officers are now poised to take on the challenges of their first appointment as Assistant/ Senior Engineer Officer onboard frontline warships.


    The Commanding Officer in his Course Completion Ceremony address congratulated the officers of the course for having successfully completed their professional training. He urged the officers to continue their tryst with learning to become thorough professionals and continually adapt to technological advancements. The Commanding Officer exhorted the young engineer officers to lead by example and pursue excellence in every endeavour while maintaining highest standard of quality. He also highlighted the service rendered by Indian Navy to the nation during the testing times of COVID-19.


    The Commanding Officer awarded trophies to the officers adjudged first in overall order of merit, best sportsman and best international officer. The 'Hammer' for the 'Best All-Round Officer was awarded to Lt Bharat Kandpal , Vice Admiral Daya Shankar Rolling Trophy for 'Best Sportsman' was awarded to Lt Divyansh Singla . The FOC-in-C (South) Rolling Trophy for 'Best International Officer' was awarded to Lt Cdr Md Mehedi Hasan (Bangladesh Navy) .


    * * *


    PIB Pune/M.Iyengar/D.Rane


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1639595) Visitor Counter : 133
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi