      Ministry of Defence

      DIAT develops medical bed isolation system for covid-19 patients named as "AASHRAY"
      Posted On: 28 JUL 2020 3:14PM by PIB Mumbai


    In the current pandemic, due to continuous increase of COVID-19 positive patients, the requirement of number of beds are increasing day by day.


    Defence Institute of Advanced Technology, (DIAT) a Deemed to be University, Pune has developed Aashray ( आश्रय ), the Medical Bed Isolation System to combat COVID-19 by stopping/ minimizing the spread of virus/ infection released by the patient. This is a low cost, reusable solution to maintain proper isolation of COVID-19 patients by creating suction /negative pressure near exhale, and further filtering and disinfecting the aerosol .


    Bed Isolation System envelopes are made up of specialized material and manufacturing process with transparent and translucent 7.5(l) ×7(w) ×6.5(h) ft 3 size supported on medical grade materials structure. The product is modular and portable in design and can be suitable for different requirements such as institutional, hospitals and home/ individual quarantine. The envelope is reusable as it is antibacterial-antifungal and can be sanitized.


    Each envelope is capable of housing one set of bed, table and chair along with some walking space. The width of the envelope can be adjusted as per the availability of space. Envelope is opaque up to 3 ft from bottom to maintain privacy of the patient.


    The entire envelope is maintained at a low pressure (suction) with adjustable flow rate to restrain spread of virus/ infection inside the hall/ ICU. Each envelope is connected to the main duct equipped with UV light and filter circuit of Pre, fine and HEPA filter (recommended for medical application) and suction blower. The cross flow of air from top of the envelope towards the main duct is regulated (with a flap valve) as per the comfort conditions of the patient. The virus / contaminants are continuously sucked through the duct and accumulated at the filters which are projected with UV light. The suction blower throws the filtered and contamination free air to the outside environment.


    As per prototype manufacturer (M/s Cleancore Solutions Pvt Ltd. Bhosari, Pune) the cost of the setup for a unit of 10 beds is 1.0 Lakhs approximately and for home quarantine will be 15,000/- (approx) for a single bed.


    *****


    M.Iyangar/P.Kor


    *


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1641792) Visitor Counter : 534
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi