      PIB Headquarters

      RECOVERING FROM COVID 19 : LIGHT AT THE END OF TUNNEL
      Posted On: 18 APR 2020 5:47PM by PIB Chennai


    Thirty two patients from Trichy Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital who recovered from Covid 19 were discharged on April 16. This has given some hope that the disease can be brought under control with proper care.


    Covid 19 pandemic has shaken the whole world and we are fighting united to check the spread of disease. Government of India's decision to announce lock down and enforcing quarantine for asymptomatic people has indeed arrested the spread of Corona. It is indeed heartening to note that Covid 19 positive patients are recovering due to good health care in government hospitals.


    Dr Sheikh Mohammed, former Principal, Jamal Mohamed College, Trichy who was treated for Covid 19 and recovered, spoke to FOB Tiruchirapalli on his experience. He said that he went to Delhi to attend a conference on March 19 and cut short his trip and returned to Chennai on March 24. Even though he was cleared at the airport, he went into self quarantine on the advice of Government officials. As on April 1 st , he got admitted to Trichy government hospital as per the advisory issued by state government.


    Swab test for 105 persons who attended the meeting was done and he along with 35 others were found positive. He said that on hearing the news he was so upset. He recollected his stay in the hospital and thanked the hospital staff profusely saying doctors took personal care. They asked him to regularly check for symptoms like headache, dry cough, abdomen pain, diarrhoea and breathing difficulty.


    The patients were given due care and constant vigilance by hospital authorities while risking their life, he pointed out. District Collector Shri.Sivarasu personally enquired about well being of patients and he was very happy that administration was taking so much care. Dr Sheikh Mohammed said the food served was very healthy that included idli, rice, dhal, milk, egg, oranges and plantains. Covid 19 tests were held again on 14th and 15th day to reconfirm the negative status.


    Collector Shri.Sivarasu, Dean Dr.K Vanitha and other medical team members gave a warm send off to 32 recovered patients including Dr Sheikh. Dr Sheikh added he utilised his hospital stay fruitfully by resorting to meditation, prayers, reading online news and interacting with good old friends through phone. Maintaining safe distance and listening to hospital authorities diligently hold key to quick recovery and fighting the dreaded Covid 19, admitted Dr.Sheikh.


    There were some poignant moments when the relatives of the patients were also brought to hospital to be tested. He said he successfully consoled and convinced everybody that only through proper testing and hospital care Covid 19 can be controlled. Dr Sheikh was right indeed. Lock down and dedicated hospital care have brought the spread of Covid 19 pandemic under control in Tamil Nadu and the daily state medical bulletins are the worthy testimonials of this fact.


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1615768) Visitor Counter : 121
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil