      PIB Headquarters

      HELPING HAND FOR SUKANYA SAMRIDHI ACCOUNT HOLDERS
      Posted On: 20 APR 2020 3:27PM by PIB Chennai


    Union Finance Ministry’s decision to give three months moratorium for account holders of PPF, Sukanya Samriddhi Account (SSA) and Recurring Deposits to remit their deposits has been widely welcomed. Lockdown due to Covid 19 has affected steady source of income for small saving holders and this decision by government has given them breathing space to pay their dues subsequently after normalcy returns. Sukanya Samridhi scheme has changed the lives of many girls in Tamil Nadu giving them helping hand in need. The alarming disparity in sex ratio made government to start Sukanya Samridhi scheme as part of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao on January 22, 2015 by PM Narendra Modi.


    Lakshmi from Srirangam said that many guardians waited till fiscal year end to pay the deposit as they will get income tax benefit. The lockdown has led to fall in income. She said that she is thankful to central government for extending the deadline for mandatory minimum deposit in Sukanya Samriddhi Account for 2019-20 by three months up to June 30. She said that the failure in depositing mandatory deposit would have attracted fine or even closure of the account.


    Mahalakshmi a working mother from Trichy who has started Suganya samridhi account in the name of her daughter said that this scheme is really beneficial. She said that earlier the interest offered was very attractive. She urged the government to increase the interest so that small saving holders get real benefits. Standing on her own feet without depending on anybody she said she wants to make her daughter study well and reach new heights. This is indeed encouraging in a society where girl childs are named Podhum Penn and Vendam Penn .


    Talking to FOB Tiruchirapalli, postal department official said selvamakal semippu account scheme can be started even with a guardian opening account in the name of girl child below 10 years with minimum deposit of Rs 250 . Then they have to deposit multiples of hundred minimum of Rs 1000 upto a maximum of Rs 1,50,000 every year till the girl reaches 15 years of age. For education purpose 50 percent withdrawal of money when the girl attains 18 years is allowed. It reaches maturity at the age of 21 years. Trichy postal division is having 56,578 accounts according to postal authorities.


    Tamil Nadu is doing well with the region having more than 5 lakh 21 thousand Selvamakal Semippu accounts. Trichy Postal division conducted a special camp for students last month with 50 Selvamakal semippu accounts started for girl child in Beeman nagar Corporation School. Tamil Nadu postal region shows the way to secure the future of girl child with developing habit of savings among parents especially women.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1616351) Visitor Counter : 288
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil