      PIB Headquarters

      Government E-Learning platforms a massive hit in the Lockdown period
      Posted On: 24 APR 2020 5:13PM by PIB Chennai


    The unfortunate COVID-19 induced national Lockdown has not bring every sector to standstill, thanks to Government's e-learning platforms. Though the lockdown had forced cancellation of most of the exams, the central government had made sure students get full access to online classes through various e-learning platforms. Union HRD Minister Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal had appealed the students to utilise the digital learning platforms to full potential. National Repository of open education Resources, NROER, is an excellent initiative launched by the Ministry of HRD where one can get exposure to E-libraries, E-Courses and chance to participate in events online and theme based education. The teachers too can enrol for NROER and learn lessons that are taught in the classroom.


    Arunodhayan, a HSC student says that he spends this lockdown period very effectively by reading books through E-Library offered by NROER.


    Shri Sujith, Chairman of a private school in Coimbatore thanked the honorable Prime Minister and the Minister for Human Resources & Development (MHRD) for the useful initiatives taken during lockdown period. He further appreciated that Government called for the educational institutions to come forward with the different online solutions to diversify the learning experience. The parents too are feeling motivated by the fact that children keep learning at home, despite the lockdown.


    SWAYAM (Study Web of Active learning for Young Aspiring Minds), is another programme initiated by the Government of India aimed at achieving the three cardinal principles of universal education viz. Access, Equity and Quality and NPTEL (National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning) is another key project of MHRD initiated by seven Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs-Bombay, Delhi, Kanpur, Kharagpur, Madras, Guwahati and Roorkee) along with the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore in 2003 to provide quality education to anyone interested in learning from the IITs.


    Dr. M. Palanisamy, Registrar of a private university is all praise for the Central Government’s initiatives of providing a lot of opportunities during the period of COVID-19 and portals like NPTEL and SWAYAM are a major milestones in ensuring higher education reach every doorstep in the country.


    Anandhu Gigi, Ist Year MSW Student, while speaking to Field Outreach Bureau, Coimbatore said the Government shows the way for others in how to utilise a crisis situation better in an essential sector like education through making digital learning platforms to work effectively.


    Many schools and Universities have regular online classes daily and such worthy efforts of institutions in collaboration with a proactive government policies will go a long way in building a better and informed citizenry.


    Shri Anandhu Gigi, MSW student accessing online classes

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617836) Visitor Counter : 71
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil