      PIB Headquarters

      Jan Aushadhi Kendras as Corona Warriors
      Posted On: 23 APR 2020 6:31PM by PIB Chennai


    Pharmacists under Pradhan Mantri Bharatiya Jan Aushadhi Kendra (PMBJAK) are delivering essential services and medicines at doorsteps of patients under Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Kendra. They are extending essential service by making available quality generic medicines at affordable prices to the common people of the country especially the elderly persons at the doorsteps to fight Corona pandemic thus ensuring the Government initiative of social distancing effectively.


    Pradhan Mantri Bharatiya Jan Aushadhi Kendra (PMBJAK) are being run by Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India (BPPI) under Department of Pharmaceuticals, Government of India with an objective of providing quality and affordable healthcare to anyone in need. Presently more than 6300 PMBJAKs are functioning across the nation covering 726 districts of the country. It was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in year 2014 for the noble cause-Quality medicines at affordable prices for all.


    Shri. E V Shiril, owner of Jan Aushadhi Kendra, Siddhapudur, Coimbatore said that the kendras are helping common men get health care at affordable prices like never before.


    Shri.Shiril who had started a clinic named as 'Modi Clinic' was very happy to have interacted with honourable Prime Minister Shri. Narendra Modi in the presence of Honorable Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Gangapuram Kishan Reddy.


    Smt. Bhagyalakshmi, Chairperson of PMBJAK, Kannampalayam, Coimbatore says that it was a pioneering effort in whole of Coimbatore to have opened such Kendra under PM Bharatiya Jan Aushadhi Kendra Yojana in 2017. Providing concession up to 75% to poor and retired people, these Kendras serve with the only motive of Service to the needy people, she added. She further said, they have ensured enough stock provide by the Kendra in this lockdown period and around 100-150 beneficiaries visit the kendra on daily basis to purchase the medicines.


    Sh. Subramaniam, a beneficiary from another kendra near Sulur says the Kendra is a solace to many in the lockdown scenario as almost all medicines are available at concessional rates. The kendra is a very good initiative of central government in the medical sector, he added.


    In the lockdown period, Pradhan Mantri Bharatiya Jan Aushadhi Kendra is generating awareness online too through useful posts on their social media platform to help people prevent themselves from Corona virus. One can get regular updates on following @pmbjpbppi in Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617540) Visitor Counter : 58
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil