      PIB Headquarters

      PM KISAN SAMMAN NIDHI SCHEME: A TIMELY SOLACE FOR THE TOILING FARMERS
      Posted On: 22 APR 2020 6:12PM by PIB Chennai


    The decision of Central government to prepone the disbursement of Rs.2,000/- as first instalment under PM Kisan Scheme has brought some solace to farmers with cultivable land. It is a fitting tribute to the toiling tillers in the difficult times of corona lockdown. As the age old saying goes only if the farmer toils in clay filled field can one have food in plate. Our Prime Minister Shri. Narendra Modi inaugurated Pradhan Mantri Kisan Scheme on 24 February 2019 to mitigate the sufferings of such marginal farmers. Under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, eligible farmers will get a total of Rs 6,000/- annually in three equal instalments of Rs 2,000/- each directly into bank accounts. As per government records Rs 17,793 crore was distributed to 8.89 farmers all over the country.


    In Tiruchirapalli the marginal farmers are badly affected by the lockdown. Since there is enough water in Cauvery opened from Mettur Dam farmers had raised summer crops. But now paddy cultivators are having a tough time getting farm labourers and harvesting equipments. The real fact is even if there is a good harvest farmers get no benefit as prices will come down. Even if there is scarcity only the middlemen will benefit, according to farmers. The cordinated effort of central and state governments has come as a shot in arm to farmers who are suffering because of lockdown.


    Pullambady Assistant director (Agriculture) Shri Mohan said that agriculture department is giving fertilizers through mobile vans and ensuring disbursement of PM Kisan assistance to farmers. He said that there are one lakh 41 thousand and 70 beneficiary farmers in Trichy and in Pullambady block alone, 13,298 farmers are benefited. Further, agriculture department has risen to the occasion to help farmers and households who need fresh vegetables. Farmer Interest Groups have been formed to procure vegetables and fruits and sell it to the doorstep of people. PM mandhan yojana monthly pension of Rs 3,000/- is another bonanza given to aged farmers who pay monthly premium of Rs 55 to 200 as per their age while joining.


    Farmer Jayakrishnan Samuthiram of Lalgudi says that at the time of lockdown the money he got in bank account under PM Kisan Scheme is really helpful. He expressed his thanks to government for giving financial assistance during tough times. He said that they can buy agriculture inputs including fertilizers.


    Farmer Sridhar of Tiruvarangapady village of Manachanallur says that it was a timely help from government to give Rs 2,000/- under PM Kisan Scheme during the lockdown.


    Kala, a housewife in Tiruchirapalli says that even during the lockdown we are getting fresh vegetables including fresh green spinach. The prices of tomatoes are just Rs 10 to 15 per kilo, ladies finger Rs 30 per kilo and big onions as less as Rs 20 per kilo. This means farmers have worked hard to bring food supplies into the system even in times of crisis. She said she welcomes the government decision to give Rs 2,000/- to farmers under PM Kisan Scheme.


    Indeed this is the time to thank our farmers who helped us to tide over the lockdown crisis and stopped prices of essential items from spiralling up along with timely government intervention. Let us bring smile on the faces of farmers who give us healthy food to eat and fight diseases with innate immunity.
    

    AGRICULTURE ASST DIRECTOR MOHAN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617194) Visitor Counter : 821
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil