      PIB Headquarters

      AAROGYA SETHU App - A reliable bodyguard to keep COVID-19 at bay
      Posted On: 27 APR 2020 5:04PM by PIB Chennai


    In the fight against COVID- 19, the Government of India has come up with lot of preventive measures and they are strictly implemented across the country with the cooperation of state governments. As a prominent preventive measure, the Union government has launched an app -AAROGYA SETU, to enable an individual identify the people infected with Covid-19 and keep safe distance that the virus is not contracted. In Tamil Nadu, the State information Technology (IT) department had advised all other departments to urge staff to use the AAROGYA SETU mobile application.


    AAROGYA SETU Mobile App is developed by the Ministry of Electronics and IT to help citizens identify their risk of contracting COVID 19 (Coronavirus) .


    This is designed to keep a user informed, in case she/he cross paths with someone who has tested positive. The tracking is done through Bluetooth and location generated social graph, which can show your interaction with anyone who has tested positive.


    The user, upon installation, is asked to answer a number of questions. In case some of the answers suggest COVID-19 symptoms, the information will be sent to a Government server. The data will then help the Government take timely steps and initiate the isolation procedure if necessary and it also alerts if someone comes in close proximity with a person tested positive. The app is available on both Google Play (for Android phones) and iOS app store (for iphones ). It is available in 11 languages -10 Indian language and English.


    Sneha, a social work student says the Government of India has introduced the Arogya Sethu Application for the betterment of the people. This application helps to identify people and their surroundings whether they are in the safer zone. This application has a mandatory and demanding utility in the midst of the corona infection, she added. It was also very helpful for people who live indoor, giving them important information about Covid-19 , in this pandemic situation.


    Prema, a house wife from Periyanaickanpalayam, Coimbatore thanked the honourable Prime Minister and the Central Government for coming up with AAROGYA Setu app and she says that it will prevent the spread of corona and also one can access all useful information about Corona virus.


    Ebenezer Paul Rajan from Coimbatore expressed his gratitude to our honourable prime minister for this good initiative and lauded it as a major initiative to control the spread of Corona virus. As a responsible citizen, it is everyone's onerous responsibility to install the Aarogya setu app and help the government's efforts in effectively containing the spread of corona virus.


    The App is a so useful, says Sneha,a college student


    Prema , a house wife, appreciates the app as a valuable guide


    Ebenezer lauds the app as a good initiative in fighting corona

    
    
    (Release ID: 1618699) Visitor Counter : 1316
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil