      PIB Headquarters

      PM Jan Dhan yojana: A boon in times of need
      Posted On: 25 APR 2020 4:45PM by PIB Chennai


    Women who are having PM Jan Dhan accounts are thanking government for crediting Rs 500 in their accounts as they are affected by Covid-19 lockdown. Union Finance Minister Smt.Nirmala Seetharaman had said that Rs 500 will be deposited every month in PM Jan Dhan accounts of women for three months from April. Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, this disbursement is made to more than 20.39 crore women Jan dhan accounts. Welcoming the gesture of the government, the women pleaded for more monetary help during lockdown. PM Jan Dhan scheme was started by Prime Minister Shri.Narendra Modi in 2014 as a national mission for financial inclusion.


    Sivasankari from Karur Thaneerpulli village urged government to increase the amount as they are not able to go out for work due to lockdown. Alexander, Business correspondent of Punjab National Bank Dalmiyapuram, while talking to Field Publicity Officer Trichy says that 700 Jan dhan account holders in the area have been benefitted by the scheme and everyone was happy for the help during lockdown. Senthilkumar, Banking correspondent Indian Overseas Bank Lalgudi says as people are unable to come to banks due to lock down he is going directly to their homes to distribute Jan dhan money. He says that people appreciated the service of the bank at their doorsteps.


    Lakshmi from Karur Tirumachipuram says that she is grateful to central government for giving Rs 500 Jan Dhan Scheme during lockdown. Similarly, Shanthi from Karubkalapally village, Karur, Manimekhalai and Radha from Periyapalayam Kulithalai were all praise of the central government's aid in the hour of crisis .


    During the Covid-19 lockdown, poor daily labourers are affected badly and women in their family face the brunt. The Government considers monetary help as a definite solace and well structured aid disbursement system achieved through DBT has come in handy in the crisis hour in the form of cash credit in Jandhan accounts. Additionally, the government is giving free rice, pulses, sugar, cooking oil, free gas cylinder to mitigate their sufferings.


    Alexander Banking Correspondent Punjab national Bank Dalmiyapuram Trichy


    Shanthi Jan dhan beneficiary Karur


    Lakshmi Jan Dhan beneficiary Karur


    Senthilkumar Banking correspondent IOB Lalgudi

    
    
    (Release ID: 1618174) Visitor Counter : 127
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil