      PIB Headquarters

      Cannabis from US in Sleeping Bags seized by Chennai Customs in foreign postal parcel.
      Posted On: 25 APR 2020 5:15PM by PIB Chennai


    Since thestoppage of all International flights from 22.3.2020 due to COVID-19, special alert has been maintained at Foreign Postal Office and Courier Terminal at Chennaito check smuggling. The Postal Intelligence of Air Customs detained one parcel suspected to contain narcotics substance, which arrived from USA at Foreign Post Office.The consignor had declared the parcel to contain “sleeping bags and hand vacuum”.


    On examination, the parcel was found to contain two red colour sleeping bags and one carton box of hand vacuum cleaner. On opening the sleeping bags, two plastic bags containing greenish dried flower pods were found concealed in each bag.In the carton box there was no vacuum cleaner but four plastic bags containing greenish dried flower podswere found concealed inside.On opening the 8 bags, a strong ‘weedy’ smell similar to Cannabis of high quality was noticed. Total 1.7 kg Cannabis of foreign origin valued at Rs. 9 lakhs was recovered and seized under the NDPS Act, 1985. In view of suspension of court functioning during the lockdown period and as per the instructions laid down by the City Civil Court, a petition for submission of case property and samples for analytical examination has been sent by email to the designated court.


    The parcel was consigned to a person based in Annavaram, East Godavari District of Andhra Pradesh. As a follow up action searches were got carried out at the address of the consignee by jurisdictional Customs formation in Andhra Pradesh and further action is being taken to nab the persons involved.


    The parcel was consigned from Vancouver city in Washington State of USA. The use of Cannabis for recreational purpose is legal in eleven states of USA including Washington. Cannabis is a psychotropic substance commonly known as weed, herb, grass, ganja, containing psychoactive chemical delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol(THC). On smoking THC stimulates the brain and it responds to pleasure and unleashes dopamine which gives a euphoric relaxed feeling.


    Further investigations is in progress. According to a press Release issued by Shri Rajan Chaudhary, Commissioner of Customs, Chennai International Airport

    
    
    (Release ID: 1618189) Visitor Counter : 31