      PIB Headquarters

      Womenfolk lauds monetary aid through PM's Jan Dhan & Ujjwala Yojana
      Posted On: 28 APR 2020 6:13PM by PIB Chennai


    A disease outbreak affects every individual in a society in almost a similar manner. However the Covid-19 pandemic is different as the deadly virus affects only those who come in contact with a positive patient and those with less immunity are easily affected. Though the union government's declaration of national lockdown is considered a major deterrent in containing the spread of the virus, it is also aware that the lockdown will not affect different segments of the society alike, particularly the women, who run the families ably despite any challenge. Recognizing this fundamental step of understanding the primary and secondary effects of health emergency on different individuals and Communities, the foremost concern of the union government is to create effective equitable policies and interventions in the lockdown scenario . This is the reason why the finance ministry's announcement of Rs 500 each for three months under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana and three free cylinder under Pradhan mantri ujwala yojana , comes as a bliss for the women folk across the nation. The move comes after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced that women Jan Dhan Account holders would get Rs.500 for three months as part of the relief package under Pradhan mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. The Indian Bank Association (IBA) asked banks to start depositing Rs 500 directly into the account held by women under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY).


    PRADHAN MANTRI Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) is a financial inclusion programme of government of India open to Indian citizens (Minor of age more than 10 can also open account with guardian to manage it) that aims to expand and make affordable access to financial services such as bank accounts, remittances, credit, insurance and pensions. This financial inclusion campaign was launched by the Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi on 28 August, 2014. He had announced this scheme on Independence Day Speech on 15th August, 2014.


    Run by department of financial services, Ministry of Finance under this scheme, 15 millions Bank accounts were opened on inauguration day. The Guinness Book of World records recognized this achievement stating that the most bank accounts opened in one week as a part of the financial inclusion campaign are 18,096,130 and was achieved by the government of India from August 23 to 29, 2014.


    38.23 Crore accounts were opened so far with ₹133,564.23 Crore deposited in beneficiary accounts and 1.26 lakh Bank Mitras are delivering branchless banking services in Sub-Service Areas since its inception. It is this initiative that had come in handy for the government to credit monetary aid in a crisis hour like covid-19 pandemic.


    While Speaking to Field Outreach Bureau, Coimbatore, Kavita, a self help Group woman who is a tailor from Somanur, thanked honourable Prime Minister Modi for the timely decision of giving 500Rs from Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana and free Gas Cylinder from Ujjwala Scheme to support the poor in difficult times.


    Another SHG women, Shamugha Priya from Annamalai Pollachi & Suseela from Peelamedu, Coimbatore thanked the Central Government for the kind gesture as it helped them in household expenses a lot during the crisis period.


    Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 1st May, 2016 to distribute 50 million free LPG Connections to woman BPL families. As per a WHO report, smoke inhaled by women from unclean fuel is equivalent to burning 400 cigarettes in an hour. In addition, women and children have to go through the drudgery of collecting firewood.


    Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) aims to safeguard the health of women & children by providing them with a clean cooking fuel – LPG, so that they don’t have to compromise their health in smoky kitchens or wander in unsafe areas collecting firewood.


    While giving feedback to FOB, Coimbatore, a Jan Dhan Account holder from Sirumugai, Coimbatore, Selvi. Gowri senthilkumar says that because of unforeseen COVID-19 situation shops , the aid of Rs 500 and credit of total gas price came as a big relief .


    Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had assured that the dual benefit is available for the next three months since April as part a relief package worth 1.7lakh crores . Such glorious steps by the union government have actually eased the stress of the sections worst hit by lockdown imposed due to corona Virus and would help the women to ensure a decent livelihood for the entire family till the lockdown ends.


    Kavitha says the monetary aid support the poor


    Shamugha Priya says it helped to manage household expenses


    Suseela says the aid arrived as a big relief

    
    
    (Release ID: 1619012) Visitor Counter : 223