      PIB Headquarters

      COVID-19 Community Spread stalled by Governments' effective measures
      Posted On: 29 APR 2020 4:05PM by PIB Chennai


    Union Government has come up with important steps to control the spread of COVID-19 from reaching the level of Community spread. Coimbatore District administration has set an example to others by diligently following the central and state government's directives in this regard. In line with SOP issued by Union ministries of Home affairs and Health and subsequent GOs from Tamil Nadu, the district administration has come up with a lot of Covid 19 prevention activities in the grass root level to avoid community spread in different areas.


    The District administration Coimbatore along with the Police Department, Coimbatore city municipal corporation, Public Welfare department, Revenue department, Town Panchayat and rural local bodies and Volunteers , had ramped up efforts to create awareness and to maintain the sanitary condition of the District. The first positive case who returned from Spain was reported on 19.3.2020. The last case reported was on 23.4.2020. Due to the strict sanitary measures and movement restrictions, the positive cases were restricted to 141 and 128 have been discharged so far, after successful treatment. The total samples tested so far were 4548, revealing these statistics to the Assistant Director, Field Outreach Buearu, Coimbatore.


    Dr G Rameshkumar, Deputy Director - Public Health, Coimbatore said District Collector Thiru Rajamani IAS made sure preventive measures were started much earlier so that the community spread can be avoided. The International airport was cleaned up and passengers who arrived from other places were screened and quarantined for 14 days. The family members were also quarantined and stickers posted in their residence, he added.


    All the frontline health workers and other employees were taking precautionary measures right since day one, by wearing masks and using sanitizer for washing hands. The Kerala border was sealed by the District administration in order to prevent the Corona virus spread to our state. Lot of awareness panels are kept in different locations /public places etc. Contact tracing and swab tests for RT pcr were done on the same day, the positive cases were identified .


    Door to door survey was undertaken and people were asked about whether they have cold, cough and fever and the same was documented by the health department staff. Private hospitals have been urged to send suspicious cases to special wards as a precautionary measure. Private hospitals have been asked to alert the department if they come across any person with symptoms of the virus.


    Public were advised to wear masks while coming out to buy essentials and anyone defying the order were be booked. Uzhavar sandhai were kept open and people were advised to maintain Social distancing and avoid crowding.


    A total of 14 worst affected areas including Anaimalai, Pollachi North, Pollachi South, Annur were declared as zero movement zones and the people residing in this areas were instructed not to leave their homes under any circumstance. They were not allowed to venture out to buy even essentials as all essentials were arranged by District administration in these areas. For assistance, people were advised to contact 1077. As the lock down has taken a toll on the migrant workers, the District administration had stepped up plans to address their needs too as per the advice of Union and state governments. Around 43,000 migrant workers are given proper food so that they do not suffer from hunger.


    Coimbatore district could drastically reduce the number of positive cases from a maximum of 141 positive cases to zero as no positive case was reported for the past five days since 24.4. 2020. It is a task that is equally achievable by any district administration if precautions and effective measures stipulated by Central and state governments are strictly enforced as done by Coimbatore administration. This is the only way forward to contain the deadly pandemic from reaching community levels. Civic bodies do strictly enforce the directives of central and state governments and Citizens to sincerely cooperate with civic authorities observing all guidelines.


    COVID control measure activities in a containment zone at Coimbatore


    Free aid to people in containment zones


    Deputy Director Health services Coimbatore inspecting a Quarantine facilty


    Aid to migrant workers

    
    
    (Release ID: 1619256) Visitor Counter : 84
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil