      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Webinar on National Education Policy 2020
      Early education in mother tongue leads to a stronger foundation- Prof. Y.L Sreenivas
      
      NEP to make India a ‘global knowledge superpower’- Prof V. Venkata Ramana

      Posted On: 20 AUG 2020 7:53PM by PIB Hyderabad

    The National Education Policy- 2020 marks the beginning of a new era, said Prof Y.L.Sreenivas, Executive Council Member, NAAC & Professor, Department of English, Osmania University. While delivering his key note address in a Webinar organised by Press Information Bureau, Hyderabad on "NEP-2020-Importance of Mother Tongue", he said the new education policy has been unveiled to realize Atma Nirbhar Bharat as desired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


    NEP-2020 has made the provision for offering early education with respect to mother tongue or local language". Imparting education in mother tongue has several positive aspects on the development of a child. It will lead to a strong conceptual understanding and foundation on which children will grow,” said prof.Y.L Sreenivas.


    The National Education Policy 2020 envisions a contemporary education system that foresees to contribute directly to transform our nation sustainably into an equitable and vibrant knowledge society, by providing high quality education to all. This Policy envisages creation, transmission, use and dissemination of knowledge as a part of the continuum.


    Shri Sreenivias added that we tend to think, understand and perceive in our mother tongue better as compared to any other language. Communication in the mother tongue, flourishes the inquisitive nature of a child and leads to the development of a better thinker and creative individual.


    Prof. V.Venkata Ramana, former Dean, University of Hyderabad & Vice-Chairman, Telangana State Council for Higher Education said the NEP-2020 is a "game changer". He described the features of Higher Education in NEP 2020. He said One of the stated aims of the policy is to instill a “deep-rooted pride” in being Indian, not only in thought, but also in spirit, intellect, and deeds, as well as to develop knowledge, skills, values, and dispositions that support responsible commitment to human rights, sustainable development and living, and global well-being.


    Schools will be pushed to focus more on helping students develop basic skills and competencies, and all higher educational institutions will “aim to become autonomous by 2035". NEP 2020 has the capacity to make India a global knowledge super power, this policy respects ignited minds of today's India, he added.


    By 2025, at least 50% of learners through the school and higher education system shall have exposure to vocational education.NEP Offers More Avenue For Startups and More. The new education policy, National Education Policy 2020, focuses on interdisciplinary study and will ensure focus is on what students want to learn. he said.


    Delivering inaugural address Shri S. Venkateswar, Director General, PIB-South said NEP 2020 is a big step by Goverment of India as it emphasizes on the criticality of the early years to ensure quality early childhood care and education (ECCE) for all children between three and six years by 2025.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1647412) Visitor Counter : 11
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu