      PIB Headquarters

      Run, Walk and Fun draws Huge response from Amdavadis in CISF Marathon
      
      Participants undertake Cleanliness drive as service after the Run

      Posted On: 06 JAN 2019 6:12PM by PIB Ahmedabad

    It was a complete wholesome package of run, walk, a social message and fun for Amdavadis in the CISF Marathon and Walkathon on Sunday morning. More than 2700 fitness enthusiasts from all walks of life had a real good deal of an electrifying Zumba as a warm up before the tough 10 km Marathon and 5 Km Walkathon. For children there was a 5 Km Marathon and 2 km Walkathon also.


    The winner of the 10 km Marathon among men was C. H. Kusha Who completed the run in 35 minutes and 7 seconds. Females were not much behind and winner Pragnya Mohan did it in less than 40 minutes.


    5 Km Marathon men was won by Shankar Thakur who completed it in 16 minutes 17 seconds. Heeral Vaghela completed it in 30 minutes in women's category.


    The run and walk was conducted by the CISF to promote cleanliness in the society. As part of Golden Jubilee celebrations of CISF, its unit based in ONGC Ahmedabad showed Amdavadis the weaponry used by forces, which drew huge response. In addition, there were musical performances of the force band, which charged the atmosphere with patriotic songs as well as other popular songs. There was perfect synergy between civilians who took part in the race with the Jawans. Participants were seen rushing towards selfie points put up by the CISF to promote their activities. The ceremonial dress of men and women among Jawans was the main attraction for large number of students and other Amdavadis clicked selfies with them. To engage participants all through the event many interactive activities and games were also conducted.


    According to participants, it was an opportunity for them to know so much about our brave forces who protect us.


    ONGC Ahmedabad Asset Manager Debasis Basu was the chief guest who gave away awards to winners after the marathon was over. Ahmedabad Police, Traffic cops and AMC had made elaborate arrangements to ensure that event is conducted smoothly.


    NP/J.Khunt/RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558793) Visitor Counter : 103
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati