      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Union Commerce & Industry Minister Shri Suresh Prabhu inaugurates FIEO Ahmedabad office
      
      Each district must grow to achieve double-digit growth of Indian Economy: Shri Suresh Prabhu
      
      Shri Prabhu addresses the International Conference for CA student
      
      Union Civil aviation minister inspects the Ahmedabad airport
      Posted On: 05 JAN 2019 5:57PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    Union Commerce & Industry and Civil Aviation Minister Shri Suresh Prabhu today inaugurated a new office of Federation of Indian Export Organizations (FIEO) in Ahmedabad. He said that as Gujarat is a hub for entrepreneurs & business, the FIEO office here aims to support the industrial & entrepreneurial growth which will bring us closer to our aim of USD 5 trillion economy in next 7-8 years.


    While addressing the exporters, Shri Prabhu said that if India wants to achieve double-digit growth then every district must contribute in the growth story. “We have to adopt bottom-up concept and ensure that every district’s growth must be increased by 3 to 4 % than its current growth rate.”, He added. He emphasized that district-level growth and ease of doing business are their focus area.


    The Minister said that the government is ensuring the bank credit for exporters and addressing the GST issues. Shri Prabhu stressed upon promoting the merchant export as it is linked with small-scale industries. The minister said despite the challenging time in global trade, India’s exports are growing. The minister also highlighted the efforts of the government in promoting exports in all the sectors.


    Later in the day, the minister addressed the international conference of Charted Accountant students. Shri Prabhu asked the CA students to prepare themselves to tackle any kind of unknown situations arising in the changing business scenario. He also appealed the students to bring in a qualitative change in themselves to be more professional in the career.


    Earlier in the day, the Civil Aviation Minister inspected the Ahmedabad Airport and praised the artwork representing Indian culture and tradition displayed at the airport. He also lauded the cleanliness efforts at the airport.


    The Minister met H.E. Mr. Adnan Abu Alhaijaa, the Ambassador of Palestine to India today at the airport and had a brief interaction about the trade relations of both the countries. He also exchanged greetings with H.E. Mr. Nejmeddine Lakhal, Ambassador of the Republic of Tunisia at the Ahmedabad airport.


    J.Khunt

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558765) Visitor Counter : 120
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati