      PIB Headquarters

      Run Ahmedabad Run!!!... CISF calls upon Amdavadis to run for Swachchta near ONGC Chandkheda in big number
      Posted On: 04 JAN 2019 10:28PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    Running is the best way to keep yourself fit. A mentally and physically healthy person not only helps himself, his family and society but contributes in nation building. Cleanliness is the biggest service to the nation, which we can do to our beloved India.


    Forces keep ourselves protected, safe and secure. One such paramilitary force, CISF protects all vital installations of country like airports, sea ports, steel plants, nuclear plants and buildings etc. On their Golden Jubilee, CISF is urging the people to join them in nation building. The idea is to run a Marathon/ walk a Walkathon with an aim to demonstrate fitness and spread the message of cleanliness as a national service.


    The CISF unit of ONGC Chandkheda Ahmedabad is organising a Grand Marathon /Walkathon event in Ahmedabad on coming Sunday 6th January. The venue is Malviya Cricket Ground, Avani Bhavan Chandkheda and reporting time is 6 am. For those who are running freaks, the challenge is 10 km marathon for people above 17 years of age. If you are not keen on running then you can opt for a 5 km Walkathon. Those who are between 12 and 17 years of age can opt for 5 km Run and a 2 km Walkathon category . More than 2500 people have already registered. On the spot registration facility is also available for those who missed out the registration that closed earlier this week.


    On the sidelines of the event other fitness activities like Zumba have been planned. The organisers CISF along with ONGC is making no stone unturned to ensure maximum participation of Amdavadis. So don't miss the opportunity. Run, Walk and Build the Nation by expressing your commitment to Cleanliness as National Service.


    देश के प्रहरियों


    संग जोड़े कदम


    स्वच्छता ही सेवा


    मैराथन "दौड़े हम"


    NP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558748) Visitor Counter : 74
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati