      Ministry of Finance

      Taxpayers’ Lounge is being set up by Income Tax Department at Vibrant Gujarat Global Trade Show (VGGTS), Gujarat, 2019
      Posted On: 10 JAN 2019 5:02PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    Ahmedabad, 10-01-2019


    A Taxpayers’ Lounge is being set up by the Income Tax Department in Vibrant Gujarat Global Trade Show (VGGTS) held in Gujarat from 18 th to 22 nd January, 2019 for fostering public awareness regarding various services provided by the Income Tax Department to the Taxpayers and also to educate them for ensuring better compliance of Direct Tax Laws.


    Several Taxpayer Lounges have been set up in the past at New Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Bhubaneswar and Kolkata .


    The Taxpayers’ Lounge also seeks to create a bond between the Department and the target group, school-going children and students. Keeping this objective in mind, various activities will be carried out in the Taxpayers’ Lounge.


    The various facilities/activities usually provided at the Taxpayers’ Lounge is as follows:

     1. Apply for PAN, Aadhar-PAN linking and PAN related queries.
     2. e-filing and Form 26AS related queries.
     3. Availability of services of Tax Return Prepares, free of cost.
     4. Taxpayer Information Series brochures on various topics, available both in e-format and paper format.
     5. Taking online pledge to support Clean Money movement.
     6. Virtual Reality Game (cycle and car game) to convey the importance of paying Income Tax to younger age-group visitors, in an engaging manner.
     7. Nukkad Natak, Quiz, magician and caricature artist etc. to make the public aware about the need to pay taxes and their contribution to nation building.
      * viii. Drawing competitions for young children accompany visiting adults.

    The Lounge will also be utilized to obtain feedback about the problems being faced by the taxpayers. The Lounge is therefore not only a focus outreach program but also a platform for enhancing the brand value of the Department among the residents in Gujarat.


    NP/J.Khunt/GP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559380) Visitor Counter : 103
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati
    
    
    

*