      PIB Headquarters

      PM visits Khadi pavilion, interacts with artisans at Vibrant Gujarat
      Posted On: 17 JAN 2019 5:31PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, on Thursday, visited Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) pavilion at the Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit 2019. He also visited a unique display showcasing theme of ‘Charkha se Chandrayaan’


    Around 65 stall of KVIC supported units from all over India are displaying a range of products, including electric pottery wheels, a wide range of Khadi apparels and several other products made from which are hand made.


    Honorable Prime Minister took time to interact with Khadi weavers and expressed his satisfaction to see rural artisans being benefitted by KVIC Schemes and Programmes.


    On this occassion,KVIC Chairman expressed “I am sure that Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit 2019 will give a unique platform to our talented artisans. It will also give a new boost to the Hon’ble PM’s vision of Local to Global,".


    Corroborating similar views, KVIC Chief Executive Officer Preeta Verma said that the objective of participating in this mega event is to promote products manufactured by PMEGP, REGP and Khadi Institution beneficiaries. “It has evolved into a platform for brainstorming on agendas of global socio-economic development, in addition to being a facilitator for knowledge sharing and forging effective partnerships. One of the key highlights of the Khadi pavilion is the live display of electric pottery wheel functioning which demonstrates KVICs latest initiative towards empowering potter community of India ” she said.


    It may be noted that the KVIC is an apex organisation under the Ministry of MSME, with regard to Khadi and Village Industries within India. It seeks to ‘plan, promote, facilitate, organise and assist in the establishment and development of Khadi and Village Industries in the rural areas in coordination with other agencies engaged in rural development wherever necessary.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560306) Visitor Counter : 135
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati