      Ministry of Culture

      Air India’s first ever Flight Simulator ready for Public Viewing at Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai
      
      Restored Boeing 747-200 Flight Simulator Launched
      
      Agreement signed for development of Aviation Gallery – Hall of Aerospace, Nehru Science Centre

      Posted On: 04 FEB 2019 6:43PM by PIB Mumbai

    Air India’s first ever Flight Simulator is ready for public viewing at Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai. Known as ‘Boeing 747-200’, it was extensively used by the pilots, until due to technological obsolescence, it paved the way for new flight simulators. It was designed and manufactured by the CAE, Canada (earlier known as the Canadian Aviation Electronic Industries Limited) and acquired by Air India in 1980. The Simulator, at that time, was technologically the most advanced flight crew training aid and precisely replicated every function of the aircraft. The simulator has indigenous six-degree motion system operated by hydraulic jacks, which enabled the whole flight deck to move in the horizontal, vertical and lateral axes while rolling, pitching and yawing.


    The flight simulator was in service for about 21 years until becoming technologically obsolete and thereafter it was donated to Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai as an artifact. The purpose of the artifact is to create awareness about the significance of simulations in the field of aviation among the public in general and students in particular. This precious artefact provides a glimpse into the remarkable technologies that are associated with flight simulations.


    The Boeing 747-200 Flight Simulator, after its restoration, has been launched by Regional Executive Director, Western Region, Airports Authority of India, Mumbai Shri Keshava Sharma at the Nehru Science Centre today. Shri Sharma was also the Chief Guest for the valedictory function of the ongoing Innovation Festival.


    On the occasion, a Memorandum of Agreement worth 2 crore rupees was signed between Airports Authority of India and National Council of Science Museums, for development of Aviation Gallery - Hall of Aerospace, Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai.


    Addressing the gathering, Shri Sharma said that human beings are by nature thrilled by complexity. He said that the fast-paced technologies such as bullet trains, mobile phones and space vehicles are made possible by both science and human beings, by both human creativity and scientific knowledge. Stating that science is a way to the discovery of truth, Shri Sharma said that truth discovery leads us to facts, which then accumulate into knowledge. Knowledge, when applied to day-to-day problems, leads to the discovery of solutions. There is no limit to creating, utilizing and applying this knowledge, said Shri Sharma.


    Shri Sharma added that observation of facts in a scientific manner leads one to formulation of hypotheses and performance of experiments which can be seen uniformly by all of humanity, unlike other fields where different people perceive matters differently. He called upon the audience to observe passionately, form hypotheses, perform experiments and explore how the understanding can be used for the benefit of society. He said that this pursuit gives meaning to his life, and can give meaning to others too, if they follow this path of inquisitiveness.


    On this occasion Director, NSC, Shri S.M. Khened informed that approximately 20 thousand people visited the 3-day Innovation festival organized by the Centre, that concluded today. He expressed confidence that work on the Aviation Gallery will be completed in time.


    ***


    DJM/IJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562615) Visitor Counter : 1113
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi