      Ministry of Textiles

      Words Count Festival 2019: A Day Long Event Celebrated in Warm Environment
      
      First Word Smith Award honored to Pavan Kumar Varma
      
      ATIRA successfully manufactured composites carbon which reduced cost of satellite launching – Irani
      
      Optimistic about 33% Women Reservation bill – Smriti Irani

      Posted On: 04 FEB 2019 3:05PM by PIB Mumbai

    Union Textile Minister Smt. Smriti Irani in the event World Count festival 2019 in Pune(Maharashtra) today said, “ Ahmedabad Textile Industry Research Association (ATIRA) recently manufactured composite carbon fabric which is lightweight, durable, and high heat resistance and now replacing metal parts of satellites for bringing down weight significantly. This is helpful to reduced launch cost.”.


    The Words Count second edition of the Festival, curetted by the award -winning screenwriter, author and columnist Advita Kala, an initiative aimed at bringing together speakers from several socio-political spheres to share their insights on various pertinent issues, held in Pune(Maharashtra) today.


    Addressing to the gathering and discussion on titled, “Scripting Her Story, From Star to Star Campaigner”, Union Textile Minister Smriti Zuben Irani freely chant, said, tried our best to get pass 33% women reservation bill in upper house which is empower women to enter into politics and will get platform for equal opportunity. It will useful to develop women power of country because women are capable to shape the society through their political face.


    Explaining about her journey she said, I left behind my media life, when I entered from party work to politics. It is very difficult to deal with public and political life but every time I rejuvenate with idols like Sushma Swaraj ji and Sumitra Mahajan and I started again to serve the nation.


    Asking about the farmer’s situation, she said, all farmers oriented centrally sponsored schemes like Fasal Bima Yojana, Sinachai Yojana, Neeam Coating of Urea are implemented by her government. Her government always supported to farmers and now tried to make permanent solution with the aim of double income of farmer’s upto 2022. She further said that, when she was HRD Minister, she tried to make registry of Kashmiri Pandits and rehabilitation of them under common minimum program.


    Chairman of the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) Prasoon Joshi was also the speaker at the Words Count Festival. He described how we should perform our duties for the nation through his poems.


    A career diplomat and famous literature Pavan Kumar Verma was honored by first Word Smith Award 2019 for his contribution in Indian Literature


    A daylong event with panel discussion, From Blank Page to Book, features authors Kavita Kane, Dimple Kaul, Shefali Vaidya, Sai swaroopa Iyer, moderated by VK Karthika. Member of Parliament Assadudin Owaisi was also addressed the audience on the future of secularism in the country.


    The festival was start with the session, 'How's the Josh', a talk delivered by Sunil Ambekar, the national organizing secretary of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP).


    ***


    B. Gokhale

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562505) Visitor Counter : 2163
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi