      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Skill Development in MSME Sector
      Posted On: 04 FEB 2019 5:37PM by PIB Mumbai


    Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship is implementing its flagship scheme Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) through National Skill Development Corporation. More than 19 lakh people were trained, owing to the success of PMKVY 1.0. The scheme has been re- launched as PMKVY 2016-20, with an aim to train 10 million youth across India by 2020. As on 24.01.2019, under PMKVY 2016-20, more than 35 lakh candidates have been trained under Short Term Training, Recognition of Prior Learning and Special Projects; out of these candidates, more than 10 lakh trainees have been placed.


    Out of the above, 1,80,293 candidates have been trained and 25,271 trainees have been placed in Maharashtra. Two institutes, namely Indo German Tool Room (IGTR) Aurangabad and Institute for Design of Electrical Measuring Instruments (IDEMI) Mumbai are functioning in Maharashtra, under the administrative control of Development Commissioner, MSME. These institutes conduct skill development programmes for youth.


    Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) is implementing a scheme called Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP). The scheme aims to generate employment opportunities in rural as well as urban areas of the country through setting up of new self-employment ventures/ projects/ micro enterprises. Ministry of MSME also implements several other schemes and programmes to strengthen the MSMEs and promote employment. Some of the important initiatives in this regard include Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries (SFURTI), Mission Solar Charkha, A Scheme for promoting Innovation, Rural Industry & Entrepreneurship (ASPIRE), Credit Guarantee Fund Scheme, Credit Linked Capital Subsidy Scheme (CLCSS), National Manufacturing Competitiveness programme (NMCP), Marketing Assistance Scheme and MSE-Cluster Development programme. Apart from these, employment opportunities have also been created under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY).


    The National Sample Survey Organisation (NSSO), Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation, conducted a survey of unincorporated non-agricultural enterprises (excluding construction) during its 73rd round (July, 2015 – June, 2016). As per this survey, the total employment in the MSME Sector is 1109.89 lakh.


    The above was stated by the Minister of State, Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, Shri Anantkumar Hegde, in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562589) Visitor Counter : 449