      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Embracing of urbanisation is one of the most significant new development - Hardeep Puri
      Posted On: 09 FEB 2019 6:59PM by PIB Mumbai


    Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs (I/C) Shri Hardeep Singh Puri opined that the cities of India suffered due to earlier policies which recognised India as a rural civilization, though cities have been the backbone for the Indian economy for centuries. He was speaking at MoneyLife Foundation's 9th Anniversary Celebration in Mumbai today.


    He further said that “we were not smart enough to realise the potential of what urbanisation could bring about, one of the most significant new development that took place recently is the embracing of urbanisation.” The Government is investing and spending more in cities than has ever been done in this country, Shri Puri informed.


    The Minister said that NDA Government has embarked on most comprehensive and ambitious planed urbanisation programme undertaken anywhere in the world. Today cities contribute nearly 65 percent of country’s GDP and 90 percent tax revenue. He also said that India ranks amongst the best economies of the world in Ease of Doing Business. Corruption has been drastically reduced and people’s trust in government has improved tremendously after the NDA Government took charge under the leadership of Narendra Modi.


    The Minister took quick review of the major flagship schemes under the Urban Development such as Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), Swaccha Bharat, Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY) etc.


    Shri Hardeep Puri released a study report on ‘Reverse Mortgage in India’ at the function.


    Shri Ashish Chauhan, MD and CEO, Bombay Stock Exchange, Ms. Sucheta Dalal and Shri Debashis Basu, Founder Trustees MoneyLife Foundation and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    ***


    NS/IJ/SP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563659) Visitor Counter : 384