      Prime Minister's Office

      PM visits Yavatmal in Maharashtra, unveils various development projects
      Posted On: 16 FEB 2019 4:30PM by PIB Mumbai


    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, visited Yavatmal in Maharashtra today, where he inaugurated and laid the foundation stone for various development projects.


    A Brief of Development Projects unveiled by the PM today


    The PM laid the foundation stone of 10 road construction projects, under which 176 km of roads will be constructed at a cost of Rs. 456 crore, drawn from Central Road Fund. The projects will be completed in 18 months; it will improve market access to the farmers in the region and contribute to the economic development of the region.


    The PM launched and remotely flagged off Hamsafar Express which will run between Ajni (Nagpur) and Pune. The train comprises three-tier air-conditioned coaches; it will provide overnight service between Nagpur and Pune.


    The PM inaugurated a NIIH (National Institute of Immunohaematology ) Centre for Research, Management and Control for treatment, education, protection and eradication of sickle cell anaemia and thalassemia, two diseases which are prevalent in the region.


    The PM inaugurated Eklavya Model Residential School, Nanded. The school has a capacity of 420 students. Spread over 16 acres, the school is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities, including residential facility, provision for food, playground, IT facilities. It will help in improving quality of education amongst students belonging to Scheduled Tribes and provide an avenue for their overall growth and personal development.


    The PM handed over keys of houses to selected beneficiaries, for whom houses were constructed under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) – Gramin. Construction of more than 11,000 houses was completed in Yavatmal district in the last three years.


    The PM distributed certificates and cheques to Women’s Self Help Groups (SHGs), under Maharashtra State Rural Livelihoods Mission (MSRLM). MSRLM seeks to provide farm and non-farm livelihood opportunities through facilitation of door-step delivery of financial services. Close to 17,000 SHGs have been formed under the programme in Yavatmal, which is the highest among districts in Maharashtra. Funds worth more than 82 crore rupees have already been made available to empower the SHGs; an additional 18.70 crore rupees fund has been provided today.


    Salient Points from Prime Minister’s Address


    The PM recalled that he could experience the energy of Yavatmal and Chandrapur, when he recently met the Adivasi youth from the region who conquered Mount Everest. He said that the example of the Kolam tribe in Chandrapur in cleaning the fort there has inspired many to contribute to Swachh Bharat Abhiyan.


    Speaking on the Pulwama terror attack on CRPF jawans, the PM said that he understands the deep pain that the nation is going through. He stated that two brave sons of Maharashtra too laid down their lives in the Pulwama attack. The PM stated that the sacrifice of these martyrs will not go in vain and that terrorist organizations will definitely be punished. The nation understands the anger among the security forces, and especially among CRPF personnel; be brave and trust our jawans, said the PM. He added that the jawans will decide how, where, when and what type of punishment is to be given to the perpetrators of the Pulwama terror attack.


    The PM informed the large gathering present that projects worth hundreds of crores of rupees, spanning houses, roads, railways, employment, self-employment and education, have been unveiled today.


    Noting that connectivity has a big role in development, the PM said that foundation stone has been laid for road projects worth close to 500 crore rupees. The Hamsafar express between Ajni (Nagpur) and Pune which has been flagged off today will travel through Daund, Manmad and Bhusaval and will benefit all the people in the region, said the PM.


    Observing that more than 14,000 families entered pucca houses today, the PM said that this will also enable them to have pucca dreams. He said that the Government has set a target of providing a pucca house to everyone by the year 2022, and that fast progress is being made towards this. He said that houses for 1.5 crore poor people have been constructed so far. The PM said that besides giving self-confidence to the poor, the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana contributes to women’s empowerment as well. He said that the houses constructed under PMAY will be registered in the name of the adult female member of the family.


    The PM said that women’s SHGs have a big network in Maharashtra; to develop and strengthen them, and to make them the foundation of the rural economy, the allocation of funds to SHGs has been increased by 2.5 times, said the PM.


    The PM informed that under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) Yojana, vulnerable landholding farmer families, having cultivable land upto 2 hectares, will be provided direct income support at the rate of Rs. 6,000 per year. This income support will be transferred directly into the bank accounts of beneficiary farmers, in three equal instalments of Rs. 2,000 each. The PM said that 1.25 crore farmer families of Maharashtra will benefit from this.


    The PM said that the Government has decided to constitute a Welfare Development Board for nomadic communities, so that benefits of development schemes of the government reach them speedily. He said that workers in unorganized sector will get a fixed monthly pension under Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maandhan.


    The PM informed that the budget for the welfare of Adivasis has been increased by 30%, and that it will benefit Yavatmal and other districts of Maharashtra. He said that the PM Jan Dhan Yojana is ensuring that the support extended by the Government reaches the intended beneficiaries.


    The PM recalled that Van Dhan Yojana was launched to ensure good price for forest produce. He said that Van Dhan Kendras are being formed, to fetch better prices for forest produce, through value addition.


    The PM said that the Government the support given for forest produce has been increased on three occasions. Besides raising the Minimum Support Price for 33 items, the number of items under MSP has also been increased from 10 to 50, said the PM.


    Noting that various initiatives are being taken in sectors ranging from education to skill development to job creation, the PM said that schools are being started in every block with a tribal population of at least 20,000. He said that the Eklavya Model Residential School, Nanded inaugurated today will enable 420 tribal youth to secure their future.


    Stating that the Government is working for improving the health of Adivasis, the PM said that inauguration and laying of foundation stone was done for three institutes in Yavatmal today. He said that a centre is being set up in Chandrapur for research into and treatment of sickle cell anaemia. He said that Ayushman Bharat is benefiting Adivasis in a big way. He added that this has ensured that the tribal population get assured treatment for grave diseases, providing a coverage of 5 lakh rupees.


    The PM said that Adivasis are playing a big role in making India a sporting superpower. He said that sporting facilities are being developed. He informed that more than 150 Adivasi-strong districts will be given a support of 5 crore rupees by the year 2022, for development of sporting infrastructure.


    The PM noted that the tribal population of India has played a seminal role in the armed forces, from independence till the present day. Stating that the Government respects their contribution, the PM informed that memorials are being constructed to honour the Adivasi soldiers who were martyred in the freedom struggle.


    The PM expressed the hope that the initiatives being taken by the Government have strengthened the people’s faith in development and in the Government.


    Address by Chief Minister of Maharashtra


    The Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri Devendra Fadnavis today asserted that the Prime Minister has always advocated for women’s empowerment. The programme today at Pandharkada in Yavamal District is a testament to this power, he said.


    The CM informed that under Maharashtra State Rural Livelihoods Mission - UMED Abhiyan, the state government has set up 17,000 SHGs in 1,320 villages of 16 Talukas in Yavatmal District. He added that 74,000 families are obtaining their livelihood from these SHGs.


    The CM said that the program has been expanded from 36 Talukas in the state earlier to 254 Talukas now. The number of SHGs has increased from 30,000 to 2.65 lakh. The participation has gone up from 3 Lakh people to 35 Lakh families. He said that this has transformed the living standards of the people.


    The CM informed that the state government has taken a decision to increase the revolving fund limit of SHGs to 1 lakh rupees. He said that women’s SHGs can get loan at zero percent interest rate, under Sumatibai Sukalilkar Yojana. He stated that none of the women’s SHGs has so far defaulted on loans. These SHGs are involved in productions of various goods and are empowering themselves and the nation, said the CM.


    Shri Fadnavis also announced the establishment of a new cell in the State Secretariat (Mantralay) for development of Adim Tribes. He also announced Khawati loan wavier worth 381 crore rupees for more than 11 lakh Adivasis.


    The CM informed that more than 2.65 lakh farmers in Yavatmal District have availed loan wavier under Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Shetkari Sanman Yojana. The land acquisition for Wardha-Yavatmal–Nanded Railway line is almost complete. Integrated textiles parks will also be established in the cotton-producing district of Yavatmal, added the CM.


    Address of Union Minister Shri Nitin Gadkari


    Addressing the audience, the Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping and Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation, Shri Nitin Gadkari said that Yavatmal was infamous nationally for farmers’ suicides, due to lack of irrigation. He expressed his satisfaction that under PM Baliraja Jal Sanjivani Yojna, 108 projects have been sanctioned, out of which 14 projects are in Yavatmal district. He said that 462 crore rupees is going to be spent and that three projects, namely in Manpur, Lakhmapur and Digdo, have been completed. He said that he is confident that the remaining projects will be completed before end of 2019.


    Shri Gadkari informed that under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana, 26 projects have been sanctioned for Maharashtra; seven of them are in the Vidarbha region and two of them have been completed. 80% of Bembla project, the largest project in Yavatmal district, worth Rs. 2,688 crore, has been completed. He said that 1.5 lakh acre land will be brought under irrigation, and already 1 lakh acre has come under irrigation.


    The Minister said that the above projects will improve irrigation in the region and put an end to farmers’ suicides.


    The Minister informed that fast progress is made in road projects involving National Highways and Central Road Fund. He informed that 10 projects worth 100 crore rupees, leading to construction of a total road length of 110 km are being inaugurated today, and foundation stone laid for 10 projects worth 500 crore rupees.


    The Minister added that the farmers in the region will benefit from these initiatives, as well as from Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana.


    Address by MoS, Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Ahir


    The Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Ahir said that the expansion of Self Help Groups in the region is contributing to the empowerment of women in a significant way. They are getting educated and starting their own ventures. He also made a note of the progress being made in road construction and irrigation projects. He said that the increase in MSP has been a boon for the district. He said that schemes such as Ayushman Bharat, PM MUDRA Yojana and PM Jan Dhan Yojana have empowered the people, especially women.


    The Governor of Maharashtra, CH. Vidyasagar Roa was also present on the occasion.


    ***


    DJM/DW

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564866) Visitor Counter : 1049
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi