      Prime Minister's Office

      PM visits Dhule in Maharashtra, unveils various development projects
      Posted On: 16 FEB 2019 7:06PM by PIB Mumbai


    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, visited Dhule in Maharashtra today, where he inaugurated and laid the foundation stone for various development projects . Earlier in the day, the PM visited Yavatmal in Maharashtra, where too he inaugurated and laid foundation stone for development projects.


    A Brief of Development Projects unveiled by the PM today


    The PM inaugurated Lower Panazara Medium Project under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY). The project was included in PMKSY in 2016-17. It has a total water storage capacity of 109.31 MCum, with an irrigation potential of 7,585 hectares; it will bring water to about 21 villages of Dhule district.


    The PM laid foundation stone of Sulwade Jamphal Kanoli Lift Irrigation Scheme. The scheme envisages lifting 9.24 TMC of flood water from the river Tapi during 124 days of monsoon season. The scheme seeks to irrigate a land area measuring 33,367 hectares, spanning around 100 villages of Dhule district.


    The PM laid the foundation stone of Dhule City Water Supply Scheme, under AMRUT. The scheme will ensure water availability and hence boost industrial and commercial growth.


    The PM laid the foundation stone of Dhule-Nardana Railway Line and Jalgaon – Manmad 3 rd Railway Line.


    The PM flagged off Bhusaval-Bandra Khandesh Express Train through video link. The overnight train will provide direct connectivity between Mumbai and Bhusawal, and will run three days a week.


    The PM inaugurated Jalgaon-Udhna Railway line after Doubling and Electrification. This will increase the capacity of ferrying passengers as well as goods. It will act as a catalyst for development of Nandurbar, Vyara, Dharangaon and other places on the section.


    Salient Points from Prime Minister’s Address


    The Prime Minister said that in the wake of the terror attack on CRPF jawans in Pulwama, the nation is experiencing both anger and grief. Noting that the state of Maharashtra too has lost two brave souls in the attack, the PM paid his honour to every mother who gives birth to such valiant citizens. The martyrs and jawans of the nation have always selflessly rendered their services to the nation, said the PM. Stating that this is where from the task of national integration begins, the PM said that we should always stand by those who have sacrificed everything for the country.


    The PM said that while this is a time of restraint, sensitivity and grief, he assures every family that an answer will be given for every tear. India is now a country with a new way and a new policy, the world will also experience this, the PM said. He said that our defence forces will not allow any elements inimical to the nation, to sleep peacefully. He asserted that if someone hurts the New India, the nation will not let them get away with it.


    The PM said that foundation stone was laid and inauguration done for development projects worth thousands of crores of rupees today, for the development of Dhule. The PM extended his wishes to the people of Dhule for projects ranging from irrigation, water and sewage treatment and connectivity, which were unveiled today.


    The PM stated that Dhule has the potential to become an important industrial city of the country. Dhule is located in a place which makes it suitable for trade with different cities of the nation; many National Highways pass through Dhule, noted the PM.


    The connectivity of the district is being further enhanced with two new railway lines, the foundation stone for which has been laid today, said the PM. The PM recalled that the widening of the Udhna – Jalgaon railway line was started around a decade ago, while it could be completed only now. Both the double-laning as well as the electrification of this rail line have been completed, informed the PM.


    The PM stated that a very big initiative has been taken today, to surmount the challenges of paucity of drinking water and shortage of water for irrigation. He said that the Government of India is taking every possible effort in order to end water shortage in the state and the resultant drought.


    Address by Chief Minister of Maharashtra


    The Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri Devendra Fadnavis expressed his appreciation for the support given by the Central Government for various development works in the Khandesh region of the state. He mentioned that foundation stone is being laid for the Manmad- Dhule-Indore railway line, for which people have been waiting for around 60 years. He said that Dhule is a unique district which is connected to a network of seven National Highways and has huge potential for becoming a logistics hub.


    The CM said that the Sulwade Jamphal Kanoli Lift Irrigation Scheme will give a boost to agriculture in 100 villages of Dhule & Sindkheda districts. He informed that the project was approved by the Prime Minister, in the wake of the drought situation in Maharashtra.


    The project for potable water distribution from Akkalpada Dam, road projects worth 100 crore rupees and other projects will transform the district, said the CM.


    He also said that 500 crore rupees have been sanctioned for various development works in Dhule District within the last four months.


    Address of Union Minister Shri Nitin Gadkari


    Addressing the audience, the Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping and Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation, Shri Nitin Gadkari recalled that the Prime Minister had given him the sanction to complete 108 incomplete irrigation projects for the state of Maharashtra, which he noted is both drought-prone and infamous for farmers’ suicides. Many projects have been undertaken in the state, under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana as well, said the Minister.


    Shri Gadkari stated that the Sulwade Jamphal Kanoli Lift Irrigation Scheme being launched by the PM today will benefit about 100 villages of Dhule district. This project is part of a special package for the state of Maharashtra; the 2,100 crore rupees project is targeted to be completed by June 2022, said the Minister. The project will transform these drought-prone villages, informed the Minister.


    The Minister informed that many road projects are being undertaken in the region, on which fast progress is happening. Out of the four packages in Dhule – Aurangabad road, construction has started on three, while the Detailed Project Report on the fourth is being prepared. The Minister expressed confidence that the six-lane road worth 6,000 crore rupees would be very beneficial for the people.


    The Minister said that the 386 km Indore – Manmad railway project will cost Rs. 9,000 crore. He said that the speciality of this project is that it will reduce the distance between Mumbai and Indore by around 200 kilometres. The Minister said that JNPT too will invest in this project. Work on the project will start soon, said the Minister.


    Shri Gadkari said that the initiatives being taken will create jobs, bring water to farmers’ lands and transform the developmental picture of the region.


    Address by MoS, Home Affairs, Shri Subhash Bhamre


    Minister of State for Defence, Dr. Subhash Bhamre said that the inauguration of Bhusawal-Bandra train will provide easy access to Mumbai for people in the Khandesh region. He also informed about foundation stone laying of underground sewer lines worth Rs. 150 crore in Dhule district.


    The Governor of Maharashtra, CH. Vidyasagar Roa was also present on the occasion.


    Also read:


      * PM visits Yavatmal in Maharashtra, unveils various development projects


      * PM visits Yavatmal in Maharashtra, Says Housing for All will be achieved by 2022


    ***


    DJM/RT/DW

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564884) Visitor Counter : 1120
    
    
    
    
    

*