      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Report on "India’s Trillion Dollar Digital Opportunity" to be released today
      Posted On: 20 FEB 2019 1:00PM by PIB Mumbai


    With a strong foundation of digital infrastructure and expanded digital access through Digital India Programme of the Government of India, India is now poised for the next phase of growth — creation of tremendous economic value and empowerment of citizens, as new digital applications permeate sector after sector.


    The document ‘ India’s Trillion Dollar Digital Opportunity ’ will be released by Union Minister for Electronics & Information Technology and Law & Justice, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad at Grand Hyatt Hotel, Mumbai today .


    ‘ India’s Trillion-Dollar Digital Opportunity ’ is an endeavour of Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) to present India’s Digital Vision and the potential of India to attain $1 trillion of economic value of digital economy by 2025. The report builds on research collaboration with McKinsey & Company. The primary objectives of this study are to recognise progress made by India on digital adoption and to identify future steps; to articulate the vision, potential size, and drivers of India’s digital economy of the future; and to determine what needs to be done to ensure further progress.


    India can create up to $1 trillion of economic value from the digital economy in 2025, up from around $200 billion currently

      * India’s digital consumer base is the second largest in the world and growing at the second-fastest rate amongst major economies. India’s inclusive digital model is narrowing the digital divide within the country and bringing benefits of technology to all segments of people.
      * Half the potential economic value of $1 trillion in 2025 could come from new digital ecosystems in diverse sectors, including financial services, agriculture, healthcare, logistics, jobs and skills market, e-governance and other areas.

    This fact-based report is a collaborative effort undertaken over the past year, with data, inputs and case studies drawn from a wide range of government, business and civil society entities.


    India’s digital story is one of an ICT - led development by use of technology that is affordable, inclusive and transformative. The Digital India Programme is transforming India into a knowledge-based economy and a digitally empowered society.


    ***


    DJM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1565407) Visitor Counter : 844
    
    
    
    
    

*