      Ministry of Science & Technology

      IICT collaborates with LAXAI Lifesciences to reduce dependency on China for APIs and Key Intermediates
      Posted On: 24 APR 2020 6:12PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Outbreak of Covid-19 has exposed the disproportionate reliance of the Indian Pharmaceutical Industry, third largest in the world by the volume of drugs produced, on the Chinese raw materials. With the delayed delivery and increased pricing pressure of these raw materials, Indian pharma sector is staring at supply shortages. Realizing that drug security and undisrupted access to essential medicines is critical for public health, the Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, has approved a special package for promotion of Bulk drug manufacturing in India and reduction of our dependence on China.


    In line with the actions being taken by the Industry and the Government of India, Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), a Hyderabad based constituent laboratory of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), is collaborating with another Hyderabad based integrated pharmaceutical company LAXAI LifeSciences to jointly develop and manufacture Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) and Intermediates to reduce the dependency of Indian Pharmaceutical sector on Chinese imports.


    LAXAI Life Sciences Pvt. Ltd. was established in the year 2007, with a vision to accelerate the discovery chemistry campaign of global pharmaceutical companies. Today LAXAI has grown into an integrated pharma company with presence in API / formulation development as well as API manufacturing. LAXAI has access to USFDA/GMP manufacturing facilities through its subsidiary, Therapiva private limited.


    IICT is working with LAXAI for synthesis of drugs being used in the fight against the Corona Virus. The collaboration will primarily focus on Umifenovir, Remdesivir and a key intermediate of Hydroxy Chloroquine (HCQ). India, one of the largest producers of anti-malarial drug HCQ, has seen a spurt in demand in the recent weeks. India has sent HCQ to over 50 countries over the last few days, including the United States. The collaboration will result in a cost-effective process with minimal dependency on China for key raw materials. In addition, Remdesivir, which has been previously administered to Ebola virus patients, is currently under clinical trials to evaluate efficacy and safety against COVID -19.


    The collaboration will use the know-how for commercial manufacturing of the products. LAXAI Life Sciences shall be one of the first few to commercialize these products. The manufacturing of these APIs and intermediates will be taken up at USFDA/GMP approved plants held by LAXAI through its subsidiary, Therapiva private limited.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617947) Visitor Counter : 111
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu