      PIB Headquarters

      NTPC provides uninterrupted power supply despite lockdown
      Posted On: 28 APR 2020 4:04PM by PIB Hyderabad


    The Coronavirus pandemic may have wreaked havoc across sectors but has failed to dent the spirit of NTPC, India’s largest power producer with installed capacity of 62110 MW, in providing uninterrupted power supply to the nation. Every power station of NTPC has risen to the occasion and is performing at its optimum level.


    The COVID-19 crisis has underlined the indispensability of power utilities, which have assumed greater significance as electricity is extremely critical for smooth functioning of several sectors of the economy. NTPC is also efficiently managing the coal supplies for continuous supply of electricity.


    While the NTPCians are at the front line and ensuring round the clock power supply, all NTPC plants are strictly adhering to the guidelines regarding social distancing. Beyond power output, the corporation is making rich contribution to the welfare of the underprivileged sections and migrant labour by providing ration and medical aid.


    NTPC-Ramagundam, the largest thermal power station in Southern India with the installed capacity of 2600 MW, has been ensuring uninterrupted power supply and the well-being of its employees, all other workforce and CISF personnel who are rendering a selfless service to the nation. The power station is operating with the requisite number of employees adhering to the lockdown guidelines issued by the Central and State Governments. Employees and contract workers’ deployment has been streamlined as per guidelines.


    The masks have been provided to frontline workers, all employees and CISF personnel and sanitizers are placed at many places. Thermal screening has started for those who are entering the plant and administrative offices as well as those entering the township area. Meetings were conducted through web enabled video conferencing facilities. Social distancing is being adhered to both at township and plant areas.


    Joining the national fight against COVID-19, NTPC-Ramagundam, has been working on a war footing to support the state government and the district administration to provide relief to the people during the Corona pandemic. As part of its corporate social responsibility, NTPC-Ramagundam distributed essential grocery items among 4,500 migrant laborers amounting to Rs 16 Lakh besides handing over of Rs. 99.13 lakh to Peddapalli District Administration and Rs. 5.00 lakh to Ramagundam Police Commissionerate for assistance towards providing PPEs, kits, sanitizers and masks to fight against COVID-19. In addition to this, the power station has conducted special health camps at labour colonies as well as distributed masks.


    Stepping up its vigil against the global pandemic, NTPC-Ramagundam has created a 25 bed quarantine facility to meet any future exigencies. NTPC -Ramagundam hospital has also procured the requisite equipment to handle such emergency situations. A COVID task force has been formed and is working 24x7 to implement the guidelines of the Centre and state government. In addition to this, the township and plant areas as well as nearby project affected villages have been sanitized with disinfectant spray.


    Deepthi Mahila Samithi, the ladies’ club of NTPC-Ramagundam, joined the fight against COVID-19 by distributing 4000 masks among contract workers and security guards. Significantly, these cloth masks are prepared by the local women who are taking vocation tailoring classes as well as members of ladies’ club who volunteered for making the masks. An NGO comprising NTPC employees and their family members also helped the needy people by distributing the essential grocery items and vegetables. Food packets were also distributed among the Coronavirus warriors. Concerted efforts are also made to create awareness by displaying banners and distributing pamphlets in and around the plant by highlighting the Dos and Don’ts.


    NTPC employees are not only rendering selfless service to the nation by ensuring that the power stations function without any interruption and the supply to the stakeholders is on schedule. The power station is also receiving coal as per schedule and has sufficient reserves.


    NTPC Southern Region Headquarters situated in Hyderabad has also pitched in to shore up the fight against Coronavirus by providing the much-needed Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits for the frontline doctors and health workers of Gandhi Hospital in Secunderabad. NTPC employees also provided financial assistance to the police to provide masks and ration for the poor families living under Gandhinagar police station limits.


    NTPC has contributed Rs 250 crore to the Prime Minster Cares Fund and NTPC employees have also contributed their one-day salary amounting to Rs 7.5 crore to PM Cares Fund. The management of NTPC is continuously monitoring the developments closely so that every corner of the country remains adequately powered in its fight against COVID-19.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1618929) Visitor Counter : 34
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu