      PIB Headquarters

      NTPC- SIMHADRI ADOPTS UNIQUE SANITIZATION TECHNIQUES TO FIGHT COVID-19
      Posted On: 29 APR 2020 4:12PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Role of Power Utilities has assumed greater significance as electricity is critical to ensure the smooth functioning of the economy. National Thermal Power Corporation is committed to provide continuous power to the country while abiding with all the guidelines set by the Government of India as well as the State Governments regarding lockdown and social distancing.


    The Corona pandemic has failed to dent the spirit of NTPC, India’s largest power producer, in providing uninterrupted power supply to the nation. Every power station of NTPC has risen to the occasion and is performing at its optimum level. The COVID-19 crisis has underlined the significance of the power utilities, which have assumed greater significance as electricity is extremely critical in smooth functioning of several sectors of the economy. NTPC is also efficiently managing the coal supplies for continuous supply of electricity.


    Even as NTPCians are at the front line and ensuring round the clock power supply, all plants are strictly adhering to the guidelines regarding lockdown and social distancing. Beyond power output, NTPC is making rich contribution to the social welfare activities for underprivileged section and migrant workers by providing ration and medical aid. The management of NTPC is monitoring the developments closely so that every corner of the country remains adequately powered in its fight against COVID-19.


    Among its fleet of power stations NTPC Simhadri with the installed capacity of 2000 MW situated near Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh has been ensuring uninterrupted power supply and the well-being of its employees, all other workforce and CISF personnel who are rendering a selfless service to the nation.


    Joining the national fight against COVID-19, NTPC-Simhadri, has been working on a war footing to support the state government and the district administration to provide relief to the people during the Corona pandemic. In addition to distributing essential grocery items among migrant laborers, NTPC-Contributed Rs. 30.00 lakhs to Visakhapatnam District Administration towards providing PPEs, kits, sanitizers and masks to fight against COVID-19. ShriI V Sudharshan babu-CGM 5 Lakhs from personal contribution to the AP CM relief fund


    The power station is operating with the requisite number of employees adhering to the lockdown guidelines issued by the Central and State Governments. Employees and contract workers’ deployment has been streamlined as per guidelines.


    According utmost priority to the health and safety of the workforce masks have been provided to frontline workers, all employees and CISF personnel and sanitizers are placed at many places. Thermal screening has started for those who are entering the plant and administrative offices as well as those entering the township area. Meetings were conducted through web enabled video conferencing facilities.


    The NTPC Hospital has taken foreign and domestic travel history of all the employees and their wards. It has launched an awareness campaign using pamphlets, posters, videos to educate the employees and their family members to take necessary precautions for maintaining hygiene and social distancing both at their work places and also in the township. Social distancing is being adhered to both at township and plant areas. Social gatherings , meetings, clubs and gyms were completely prohibited .


    Stepping up its vigil against the global pandemic, NTPC-Simhadri has created an isolation ward 24 beds to meet any future exigencies. NTPC -Simhadri hospital has also procured the requisite equipment to handle such emergency situations. . A COVID task force has been formed and is working 24x7 to implement the guidelines of the Centre and state government. In addition to this, the township and plant areas as well as nearby project affected villages have been sanitized with disinfectant spray.


    NTPC Simhadri undertook sanitization of the township areas with sodium hypochlorite by using fog cannon . This method of sanitization was very handy and it was extensively used in Parawada village, Vadacheepurupalli, Muthyalapalem and other nearby villages


    Yet another new imitative launched by NTPC Simhadri was the installation of full body sanitization chamber for disinfection of Corona virus. The full body sanitization chambers were installed at Plant entry gate and Deepanjalinagar Township gate . These chambers were developed in-house by the CHP Department of NTPC Simhadri and mist was prepared by the Chemistry Department.


    This full body sanitization and fogging of sodium hypochlorite through Mist Spray Cannon at NTPC premises, maintaining of social distance, arranging mobile wash basins at all gate, providing sanitizers, helped to keep at bay any infection spreading in and around the area.


    Deepika Ladies Club , the ladies’ club of NTPC-Simhadri joined the fight against COVID-19 by distributing masks among contract workers and security guards. The ladies club also distributed r ation to the migrant labors from Bihar, Jharkand and Orissa. They also distributed vegetables and fruits to the Deepanjalinagar residents.


    NTPC employees have once again demonstrated that even in the face global pandemic crisi Simhadri plant which has set many records in the past can also run uninterruptedly ensuring that the power stations function without any interruption and the supply to the stakeholders is on schedule. The power station is also receiving coal as per schedule and has sufficient reserves.


    NTPC has contributed Rs 250 crore to the Prime Minster Cares Fund and NTPC employees have also contributed their one-day salary amounting to Rs 7.5 crore to PM Cares Fund. The management of NTPC is continuously monitoring the developments closely so that every corner of the country remains adequately powered in its fight against COVID-19.


    ***


    

    
    (Release ID: 1619262) Visitor Counter : 91
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu