      Vice President's Secretariat

      VALEDICTORY ADDRESS OF SHRI M. VENKAIAH NAIDU, HON’BLE VICE PRESIDENT AT WORLD YOUTH MEET, BENGALURU NOVEMBER, 23, 2018
      Posted On: 23 NOV 2018 2:18PM by PIB Bengaluru


    VALEDICTORY ADDRESS OF SHRI M. VENKAIAH NAIDU, HON’BLE VICE PRESIDENT AT WORLD YOUTH MEET, BENGALURU NOVEMBER, 23, 2018


    I am indeed delighted to be with all of you at the World Youth Meet and address this congregation of youth from India and several countries.


    I am also happy that seven outstanding persons are being awarded Sri Satya Sai Award for Human Excellence.


    Today is a Holy day – Karthika Purnima – a day when we light lamps to dispel darkness. It is also a very important day as it is the birth anniversary of two leading lights of Indian spiritual heritage who have shown humanity the path of devotion and service. We humbly pay our respects to Sri Satya Sai Baba and Guru Nanak on this most auspicious day. Their lives and their message has a great relevance for our times and possibly for a long time to come.


    In India, we have always prayed that we should have the strength to light up many lamps to dispel darkness, as we say, “Tamasoma Jyotirgamaya”.
    There are always many forces that cloud our vision. There are dark human instincts that prevent us from realizing our strength and making us reach the heights of excellence. There are numerous pitfalls and whirlpools of conflict and irrational hatred.


    We must dispel this darkness and illuminate our pathways through knowledge, wisdom, understanding and love.


    This is the path that has been shown by Indian sages from Vedic times.


    This is the path that holy saints like Guru Nanak and Satya Sai Baba also have shown us.


    As we celebrate Baba’s birth anniversary today, let us remind ourselves of the great legacy he has left behind. It is a legacy of love, compassion, devotion and service to humanity. We are truly blessed to have his divine presence in the countless individuals and institutions who continue to selflessly serve fellow human beings. I am happy that Sri Sathya Sai Loka Seva Group is among such institutions.


    I am pleased that inspired by Sri Sathya Sai Baba’s immortal message, your organization has taken up several welfare projects in the fields of education, healthcare and nutrition.


    Baba had transformed Puttaparthy, a small village into an international centre of excellence in education, healthcare and rural development.


    He took up drinking water and irrigation projects.


    This incredible transformation was possible because of his selfless spirit of service, his unbounded love for humanity and his universal vision.


    This is quintessentially the attitude of a true Guru. He provides direction, handholds when required and leads all of us to a better life. His spiritual leadership is based on a strong humanistic foundation. This is what Swami means to all of us.


    Excellent education, excellent healthcare, excellent social services being made available to common citizens.
    Excellence was his watchword and it is that spirit of excellence that we are celebrating today in the award ceremony as well as in the University you have established.


    I am happy that, under your stewardship, as many as 29 educational institutions are providing free education in 14 districts of Karnataka and one district of Telangana, apart from a free university, serving over 3500 children. In the health sector, two pediatric cardiac hospitals are providing free treatment and over 6,000 children have operated upon, while over 50,000 ailing children from all states of the country were treated.


    I am also glad that over 1.2 lakh children are being provided nutritious breakfast in 15 States and two union territories. In addition, several and several human development and spiritual centres are runing across the globe.


    I am given to understand that four more educational institutions will come up in four more districts of Karnataka in a few months, while a pediatric cardiac hospital is due to open in Navi Mumbai later this month. I am happy to note that the nutrition program will be expanded to cover 5 lakh children and one lakh pregnant women by March 2019.


    I would like to personally congratulate and convey my deepest appreciation to the selfless devotees of Baba, who are working day and night in these trusts to carry on the humanitarian projects. My deepest appreciation to Sri B N Narasimha Murthy, Chief Mentor of Sri Sathya Sai Loka Seva Group of educational institutions and others.


    The Sri Sathya Sai Award for Human Excellence is a very noble initiative to recognize individuals, who are doing tremendous work to uplift the society in various parts of the world. I congratulate the awardees for their outstanding contribution to society.


    Our country is moving rapidly on the path of progress and is emerging as a strong economic force.


    We are a truly aspirational India that is at cusp of a major transformation in the way we govern ourselves and the way we respond to the challenges of an uncertain but constantly changing world.


    We are a young India with nearly 65% of our population being less than 35 years of age. I am happy to see many young people at the world youth meet today.


    Youth represents the energy that will drive India of the future.


    Their knowledge and imagination, competence and confidence, their risk-taking ability and multi-tasking ability, their agility and adaptability will change the course of India’s development.


    The demographic advantage we have today will yield complete dividends only if youth are equipped with the required skills and attitude, with the knowledge and wisdom.


    I earnestly hope that our educational system, to which organizations like your Trust are contributing, will provide a good foundation for the youth.


    I also hope that the youth will also continue to aim high and strive hard, be rooted in the Indian ethos but be willing to learn from the best in the world.
    Setting high benchmarks requires courage. Achieving them requires competence. I do hope you will have both.


    While the Government is devising effective policies and programs, the massive effort required for this transformation will be possible only with the active participation of the civil society, the private sector, the academic and charitable organizations like your Prashanti Balamandira Trust.


    I do hope you will continue your good work and keep lighting many lamps in the homes and hearts of many more people.


    I would like to once again extend my deepest appreciation for the good work that is being done all of you. May Satya Sai Baba’s blessings be with all of us and inspire us to do greater deeds in the years to come


    JAI HIND!


    

    
    (Release ID: 1553653) Visitor Counter : 35
    
    
      Read this release in: Kannada