      Ministry of Finance

      Banking facilities to Village/ Panchayat/Block level
      Posted On: 02 JUL 2019 5:12PM by PIB Delhi


    Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) was launched in August, 2014 with the objective to, inter-alia, provide universal access to banking facilities with opening of atleast one basic bank account per household. Under the scheme all villages were mapped into 1.59 lakh Sub-Service Areas (SSAs) where one SSA catering to 1,000 to 1,500 households. While 0.33 lakh SSAs have been covered with bank branches, 1.26 lakh SSAs, have been covered by deployment of interoperable Bank Mitras.


    As per extant guidelines dated 18.5.2017 on rationalisation of Branch Authorisation Policy, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has granted general permission to domestic Scheduled Commercial Banks (excluding Regional Rural Banks), to open banking outlets at any place in the country, without seeking prior approval of RBI in each case, subject to at least 25 percent of the total number of banking outlets opened during a financial year being in unbanked rural centres (Tier 5 and Tier 6 centres). For this purpose, banking outlets opened in any centre having population less than 50,000 in North Eastern states and Sikkim and also Left Wing Extremism (LWE) affected districts as notified by the Government of India are also considered as equivalent to opening of banking outlets in unbanked rural centres.


    Further, based upon the Geographical Information System (GIS), a mapping exercise was undertaken by National Informatics Centre (NIC) to locate inhabited villages which are not having banking facility within a distance of 5 km. As informed by banks, out of 8622 identified locations, 7363 locations have been covered through deployment of BCs.


    In addition to above, the requirement of new banking outlets as received from time to time are also discussed in meetings of the concerned District Level Consultative Committee (DLCC)/ State Level Banker’s Committee (SLBC) and based on the recommendations made, new outlets are opened by different banks.


    As apprised by SLBC Maharashtra, none of the 353 blocks in 34 districts of Maharashtra (excluding 02 Urban Mumbai districts) is unbanked.


    This was stated by Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman, Union Minister of Finance & Corporate Affairs in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    DSM/RM/PD


    
    

    
    (Release ID: 1576784) Visitor Counter : 310