      Ministry of Home Affairs

      MoU between BPR&D and Morarji Desai National Institute Yoga
      Posted On: 03 JUL 2019 6:15PM by PIB Delhi


    Bureau of Police Research & Development (BPR&D) and Morarji Desai National Institute Yoga (MDNIY) entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on 3 rd July, 2019, for organizing Yoga education and training courses/programmes for Police Personnel and CAPFs at different levels and their family members across the country. The proposed activities under the project shall be:

     1. To conduct Yoga Teachers Training Programme (Master Trainers) and also to impart Yoga training for the health and wellness of the police personnel and their family members.
     2. To conduct multi-centric research study on “the effect of Yoga for health and wellness of Police Personnel”.
     3. To conduct national survey on imparting of Yoga education and training on health promotion and performance improvement of the police personnel.

    Shri P.N. Ranjit Kumar, Joint Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH, Govt. of India explained about the importance of Yoga in the day-to-day life of the personnel.


    D.G. BPR&D Sh. V.S.K. Kaumudi commented that introduction of Yoga among the police personnel, faculty and their families will be a landmark and historical development. He further emphasized that organized training on Yoga will be introduced in the curriculum of CAPT, CDTIs and various Police Training Institutes for all the Police personnel of various ranksin all the States/UTs/CAPFs. This will help the Police personnel in overcoming stress in day to day professional and personal lives. This will improve overall quality of life and in turn increase productivity of services rendered by them towards the nation.


    The MoU was signed by Smt. Anupama N. Chandra, IG/Dir (Training), BPR&D and Dr I. V. Basavaraddi, Director, Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, New Delhi at the BPR&D Headquarters.


    *****


    BB/HS/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576933) Visitor Counter : 492
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

3.