      Ministry of Education

      Various steps has been taken to promote Regional Languages in Higher Education: HRD Minister
      Posted On: 01 JUL 2019 6:00PM by PIB Delhi


    The university level text books are being translated and published in all the 22 languages of Eighth Schedule of Constitution of India under various schemes of Government of India.


    The Government has taken the following steps to promote regional languages in higher education courses in the country :-


    (i) The Commission for Scientific and Technical Terminology (CSTT) is providing publication grant towards the publications of University Level Books in regional languages. So far books have been published in eleven Indian languages viz. (1) Assamese (2) Bengali (3) Gujarati (4) Hindi (5) Kannada (6) Malayalam (7) Marathi (8) Oriya (9) Punjabi (10) Tamil (11) Telugu.


    (ii) The National Translation Mission (NTM) is being implemented through the Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL), Mysore under which the books of knowledge texts mostly text books of various subjects prescribed in Universities and Colleges are being translated in all Languages of the 8 th Schedule of the Constitution of India.


    (iii) The University Grants Commission (UGC) also promotes regional languages in higher education courses in the country and supports nine Central Universities under the scheme “Establishment of Centre for Endangered Languages in Central Universities”.


    The Government has taken following measures to promote the use of Sanskrit language in India:


     1. Providing financial assistance to Adarsh Sanskrit Mahavidyalayas/Shodha Sansthans.

     2. Award of merit scholarships to student of Sanskrit Pathasala to College level.
     3. Financial assistance to NGOs/Higher Educational Institutions of Sanskrit for various Research Projects/Programmes.
     4. Retired eminent Sanskrit scholars are engaged under the Shastra Chudamani scheme for teaching.
     5. Sanskrit is also taught through Non-formal Sanskrit Education (NFSE) programme, by setting up Non Formal Sanskrit learning centres, in reputed institutions like Indian Institutes Technology, Ayurveda institutions, Modern Colleges and Universities.
     6. Presidential awards for Sanskrit Language are awarded annually to 16 senior scholars and to 5 young scholars
     7. Financial Assistance for Publication, Reprint of rare Sanskrit books
     8. Ashtaadashi containing eighteen projects for sustaining the growth of Sanskrit has been implemented

    This information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource, Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1576524) Visitor Counter : 711
    
    
    
    
    

8.