      Vice President's Secretariat

      Harness Science and Technology for the greater good of humanity: Vice President
      
      Space is a shared resource and all nations must have unfettered access to the benefits that it offers;
      
      Interacts with students from Delhi Public School, RK Puram who will be participating in the International Space Settlement Design Competition
      Posted On: 02 JUL 2019 11:51AM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has called for harnessing the benefits of Science and Technology for the greater good of humanity.


    Interacting with a group of students from Delhi Public School, RK Puram, here today, who will be participating in the International Space Settlement Design Competition at Florida, USA this month-end, the Vice President said that Space Technology will be next area of focus and advised the youngsters to come up with new findings and innovations.


    Saying that space was a shared resource and all nations must have unfettered access to the benefits that it offers, the Vice President said that it was essential to see that the benefits of explorations and experiments were made available to all countries.


    Shri Naidu said that the basic aim of scientific advancements was for societal benefit and to improve the living conditions of the common man.


    Expressing confidence that the spinoffs from space technology would provide solutions to the problems faced by the people, Shri Naidu called for using advanced technologies like the space technology to improve sectors such as agriculture. He said that pressing problems such as climate change, disappearance of green cover, environmental degradation could benefit from space technology.


    Referring to India’s achievements and advancements in space technology, the Vice President said that India was in the forefront of space and related technology from the launch of its first satellite Aryabhata in 1975.


    Saying that India had carved a niche for itself in the field of space technology, Shri Naidu lauded the space scientists for indigenously developing some of the most complex and advanced technologies.


    Following is the text of Vice President’s address :


    “I am very happy to meet this group of bright young students from Delhi Public School, RK Puram who have qualified for the International Space Settlement Design Competition scheduled to be held at the Kennedy Space Centre, Titusville, Florida from 26-30 July 2019.


    My congratulations to all of you for winning the Asian Regional Space Settlement Design Competition, ARSSDC, held at Manesar on 14 February 2019


    We are very proud that you will be representing India and the the continent of Asia at the international round.


    I am aware that you will be designing space settlements based on the RFP (Request for proposal) given by the competition organizers. My best wishes for the event.


    I was informed that the first Space Settlement Design Competition (SSDC) was conducted in 1984. The Competition is an industry simulation game where students experience industry skills, which are essential for the corporate world.


    My dear Children,


    As you are aware, today, India is making new strides in space and related technologies.


    From the launch of its first satellite Aryabhata in 1975 to the first-ever Human Space Mission, ‘Gaganyaan’ set to be launched in 2022 to mark India’s 75th Independence anniversary, India has made a mark and carved a niche for itself in the field of space technology.


    By almost any benchmark, our space establishment has performed remarkably well. Although initially, it was dependent on imported technology, it has managed to indigenously develop some of the most complex and advanced technologies.


    Mars Orbiter Mission (MOM) in 2014 and successful anti-satellite missile test in this year are crowning glories of India’s space technology history.


    Looking at the enthusiasm and energy of young people like you, I have full faith that India would soon become a global superpower in space technology.


    My dear young friends,


    I strongly believe that technology, innovation, science and research must improve the lives of the common man and benefit crucial sectors like agriculture.


    Space technology has great implications for our daily lives as well.


    Space technology spinoffs have led to many diverse products and devices used in everyday life from solar panels to implantable heart monitors, from cancer therapy to lightweight materials, and from water purification systems to improved computing systems.


    Space applications play a key role in harnessing the benefits of space technology for socio-economic security, sustainable development, disaster risk reduction and efficient governance. It is known fact that Space-based technology is of great use in ensuring food security by providing accurate data about climate and associated phenomena to farmers.


    Space technology has made way for e-health services, thereby fostering health security and bolstered our energy security by helping in mapping and exploiting our renewable energy potential.


    Space technology has also helped fortify our defence preparedness by facilitating the development of enhanced defence capabilities.


    Thanks to space technology, today we are much better prepared to manage and mitigate disasters because of early warning systems.


    My dear young friends,


    I have no doubt that outstanding minds such as yourselves will lead India to an enviable position of leadership in space technology in the world and in doing so you will also endeavour to make the benefits of our explorations and experiments are available to all countries of the world.


    We must never forget that space is a shared resource and all nations must have unfettered access to the benefits that it offers. I am sure that you will grow up to be responsible citizens of the universe!


    I wish each and every one of you all the very best in all your future endeavours.”


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576603) Visitor Counter : 1001
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Punjabi , Tamil , Malayalam