      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      BAN on GM CROPS
      Posted On: 02 JUL 2019 6:36PM by PIB Delhi


    Bt. cotton is the only Genetically Modified (GM) crop approved in 2002 by the Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee of Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change for commercial cultivation in the Country and, therefore, cultivation of other unapproved GM crops are banned in India. Few incidences of suspected open cultivation of Bt. brinjal and HT cotton were reported in Maharashtra, Haryana, Punjab, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh.


    Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare has issued advisories to States to take appropriate necessary action to curb and control the spread of Bt. Brinjal and HT cotton. State Governments have given the directions to all District Administration to take necessary legal steps to curb the production and selling of illegal GM crops.


    There is a well established regulatory framework for approval of GM Crops as per “Rules for the Manufacture/Use/Import/Export and Storage of Hazardous Microorganisms, Genetically Engineered Organisms or Cells, 1989” under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 in the Country.


    Evaluation of each application of GM crop is done on a case-to-case basis after a thorough examination of health, environment, food and feed safety assessment studies undertaken in a systematic and scientific manner as per prescribed guidelines, manuals and standard operating procedures stipulated by various regulatory agencies under the Rules, 1989 from time to time. The data generated by the applicants is reviewed at every step in the development process of GM crops by various Statutory Committees under the Rules, 1989 such as Institutional Biosafety Committee, Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation and Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee.


    A series of guidelines and protocols have been issued by Department of Biotechnology and Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change relating to Genetically Modified Organisms and product thereof as under:

     1. Recombinant DNA Safety Guidelines, 1990
     2. Revised Guidelines for Research in Transgenic Plants, 1998
     3. Guidelines for the Safety Assessment of Foods Derived from Genetically Engineered Plants, 2008
     4. Guidelines for the monitoring of Confined Field Trials of Regulated, Genetically Engineered (GE) Plants, 2008
     5. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for Confined Field Trials of Regulated, Genetically Engineered (GE) Plants, 2008
     6. Protocol for Food and Feed Safety Assessment of GE crops, 2008
     7. Guidelines and Handbook for Institutional Bio-safety Committees (IBSCs), 2011
     8. Environmental Risk Assessment of Genetically Engineered Plants: A Guide for Stakeholders, 2016
     9. Guidelines for the Environmental Risk Assessment of Genetically Engineered Plants, 2016.

    x Risk Analysis Framework, 2016.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shri Narendra Singh Tomar in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576710) Visitor Counter : 2227
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

9.