      Ministry of Education

      Parliament passes the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers’ Cadre) Bill, 2019
      Posted On: 03 JUL 2019 6:39PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers’ Cadre) Bill, 2019 has been passed by the Parliament. The Rajya Sabha passed the Bill today after it was passed in Lok Sabha on 1 st July, 2019. The Bill replaces the “The Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers’ Cadre) Ordinance, 2019”. The Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers’ Cadre) Bill, 2019 considers the University/College as one unit restoring earlier reservation system based on 200 point roster. No longer will ‘Department/Subject’ be treated as one unit. This decision will:

     1. Allow up of more than 7000 existing vacancies in Central Educational Institutions and pave the way for filling up 3 lakh vacancies in the Government (Central and State) Educational institutions by direct recruitment in Teacher’s Cadre.
     2. Ensure compliance of the Constitutional Provisions of Articles 14, 16 and 21.
     3. Ensure full representation of the Scheduled Castes/ the Scheduled Tribes, the socially and Educationally Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections in direct recruitment in teachers’ cadres.

    This decision is also expected to improve the teaching standards in the higher educational institutions by attracting all eligible talented candidates belonging SCs/STs/SEBCs/EWS.


    The unit for reservation of posts in direct recruitment in teachers’ cadre will be the ‘University/Educational Institution’ and not the Department Such as approval by the Government will address the long standing demands of persons belonging SCs/STs/SEBCs and ensure their rights envisaged under the Constitution. It will also ensure providing of 10% reservation to EWS.


    The Bill will now be sent for President’s assent.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1576954) Visitor Counter : 1525
    
    
    
    
    

3.