      Ministry of Defence

      Aerospace University
      Posted On: 03 JUL 2019 4:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The Expert Group under the Chairmanship of Shri B.K. Chaturvedi, the then Member, Planning Commission constituted by the Government for restructuring and strengthening of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) had recommended setting up of a Aerospace University. The recommendation has been accepted by the Government.


    A Detailed Project Report (DPR) on establishment of Aerospace University was prepared by a HAL established Society named ‘Society for HAL Aeronautics Research & Technologies Institute’ and approved by HAL Board.


    Subsequently, the DPR was reviewed in this Ministry and it was suggested that for the formation of the Institute through an Act of Parliament, the structure should be in line with relevant Rules, Regulations & Procedures in vogue in other Central Universities/Institutes. HAL’s role would be facilitating the establishment of the proposed University and providing secretarial help. As regards managing the University/Institute, a separate well defined model would be worked out.


    In the above background, the HAL Board in its 409th Meeting held on 02.02.2018 has accorded approval for the following :-

      * HAL cannot consider setting up a Private University, even in collaboration with the other Organisations like DRDO, Private Industries, etc.
      * HAL may provide initial support & secretarial assistance for facilitating the establishment of the University, on the lines of a Central University. HAL will have no direct role in setting up/running of the proposed University/Institute.
      * HAL will authorize the Society of HAL Aeronautics Research and Technologies Institute to modify the relevant aspects of the DPR.

    In view of the above, the Society of HAL Aeronautics Research and Technologies Institute was advised to revise the DPR suitably. The revised DPR with name of the university as “Aeronautics Research & Technology University (ARTU)” has been submitted to the Government.


    The time frame would depend on receipt of required clearances, approvals etc. from the concerned Ministries/Agencies. Location can be decided based on the offer of land by the concerned State Government.


    Requirement of approx. 200 acres of Land and Capital Expenditure of Rs. 592 crore are estimated for establishment of the University, in the DPR.


    The International Institutions to be associated with the proposed Institute have not yet been decided.


    This information was given by Raksha Rajya Mantri Shri Shripad Naik in a written reply to Shri Ramcharan Bohra in Lok Sabha today.


    Nampi/DK /HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576836) Visitor Counter : 669
    
    
    
    
    

*