      Finance Commission

      The Fifteenth Finance Commission meets representatives of Madhya Pradesh Urban Local Bodies
      Posted On: 03 JUL 2019 5:53PM by PIB Delhi


    The 15 th Finance Commission headed by Chairman, Shri N.K. Singh alongwith its Members and senior officials today met with the representatives of the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) of Madhya Pradesh.


    The Commission was informed that:

      * All 18 functions as envisaged in the 12 th schedule of the Constitution, have been devolved to ULBs in Madhya Pradesh.
      * The State has been releasing funds currently as per the recommendations of the 3 rd State Finance Commission.
      * Madhya Pradesh has a total of 378 ULBs, of which 16 are Municipal Corporation, 98 are Municipalities and 264 are Nagar Parishads.

    As per the recommendations of the 3 rd SFC, 1% of the net tax revenues of State was recommended to be devolved to ULBs which has been accepted by the Government of Madhya Pradesh.


    The 14 th Finance Commission had recommended for the period 2015-20, a devolution of Rs. 4141.27 crores to Madhya Pradesh as Basic Grant ( 5.94 per cent of total grants) and a devolution of Rs. 1035.32 crores as Performance grant ( 5.94 per cent of total grants).


    The Commission observed that the State has been releasing funds currently as per the recommendations of 3 rd SFC. The recommendations of the 4 th SFC had not been accepted, while the submission of the report of 5 th SFC is still awaited.


    The Commission desired to know whether ULBs have suffered any loss of revenue due to subsuming of advertisement & entertainment tax, unless levied by local bodies, in GST, and the extent of the same. The Commission also wanted to know, if any, compensatory mechanism was provided to ULBs to meet the revenue shortfall due to such subsuming


    The Commission further noted all the concerns highlighted by the representatives of the ULBs and promised to address them in its recommendations to the Central Government.


    *****


    MC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576906) Visitor Counter : 195
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

*