      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Monitoring of ISI Marked Productions
      Posted On: 02 JUL 2019 3:44PM by PIB Delhi


    The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) license holder is required to operate Scheme of Inspection and Testing (SIT), which prescribes the specific tests as per relevant Indian standard and the frequency for conducting them. BIS carries out surveillance on the manufacturers holding BIS license through visit to the factory premises at periodic intervals. During the surveillance, verification of the implementation of SIT and compliance of the product to relevant standard is verified. Product samples are also drawn and sent to BIS laboratory or BIS recognized laboratory for checking conformance to relevant standard.


    In addition, samples of the product bearing BIS standard mark are also purchased from the market and got tested at laboratory for checking conformance to relevant standard. Based on the non-conformance if any, observed from the test report, actions is initiated against the manufacturer as per BIS (Conformity Assessment) Regulations, 2018.


    BIS has informed that raids are carried out only on non-license holder’s premises for misuse of BIS Standard Mark and evidence collected for prosecution in the Court of Law.


    Cases are registered on the basis of evidence found during the raids at the premises of non-licensees. All cases of raids where evidence of misuse of BIS Standard Mark is observed are filed in the Court of Law under Section 29 of BIS Act. As on date, 1078 criminal cases are pending in various courts all over India. However, the number of cases registered during the last 3 year is as under:

                                  
Year     Number of case registered
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
2016-17  131                      
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
2017-18  79                       
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
2018-19  147                      
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  

    Raids are conducted only on premises which do not have a license and misusing BIS Standard mark.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, Shri Danve Raosaheb Dadarao in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    APS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576663) Visitor Counter : 553
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali