      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ felicitates heads of IIT Bombay, IIT Delhi and IISc Bangalore for making it to top 200 of QS World Rankings - 2020
      Posted On: 02 JUL 2019 8:56PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Human Resource Development Minister Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ felicitated the heads of Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore for securing ranks in top 200 of QS World University Rankings- 2020 in New Delhi today.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said that the progress of the nation depends upon the status of education in that country. He said that all the higher educational institutions should focus on quality, research and innovation. The research should find the solutions to the problems of society at all levels and contribute to the overall development of the nation.


    The Minister said that the research and innovation is a foundation in making developed, prosperous New India. He added that the Ministry is taking various steps to promote research and innovation and prepare young scientists in the country. Dr Nishank said that students should be trained in Science and technology to harness their potential and applied for the betterment of the country.


    The senior officials of the Ministry also had a brainstorming session with the representatives of QS World University Rankings on improving ranking of the Indian Educational Institutions at the global level.


    Shri R. Subrahmanyam, Secretary, Department of Higher Education, MHRD and Shri Ashwin Fernandes, Regional Director for QS Intelligence Unit in Middle East, North Africa & South Asia were also present on the occasion.


    The Minister also congratulated representatives of O. P Jindal University for securing rank for the first time in QS rankings.


    ******


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576736) Visitor Counter : 506
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi