      NITI Aayog

      High Powered Committee of Chief Ministers constituted for ‘Transformation for Indian Agriculture’
      
      Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis to be the Convenor
      
      CMs of Karnataka, Haryana, Arunachal Pradesh, Gujarat, UP, MP & Union Minister of Agriculture, RD & Panchayati Raj to be the Members
      
      Member , NITI Aayog Ramesh Chand to be the Member Secretary
      
      Committee to discuss measures for transformation of agriculture and raising farmers’ income
      
      Modalities for adoption and time bound implementation of agriculture sector reforms to be suggested by the Committee
      
      Committee to submit its report in Two Months
      Posted On: 01 JUL 2019 8:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Agriculture, rural development , water conservation and its proper use have been among the major planks of NDA Government led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. In keeping with his promises and subsequent to the deliberations of Governing Council meeting of NITI Aayog, the Prime Minister has set up a High Powered Committee of Chief Ministers for ‘Transformation of Indian Agriculture’. The composition of the committee is follows:

     1. Sh. Devendra Fadnavis, Chief Minister, Maharashtra : Convenor
     2. Sh H.D. Kumaraswamy, Chief Minister, Karnataka : Member
     3. Sh. Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief Minister, Haryana : Member
     4. Sh. Pema Khandu, Chief Minster, Arunachal Pradesh : Member
     5. Sh. Vijay Rupani, Chief Minster, Gujarat : Member
     6. Sh. Yogi Adityanath, Chief Minister, Uttar Pradesh : Member
     7. Sh. Kamal Nath, Chief Minister, Madhya Pradesh : Member
     8. Sh.Narendra Singh Tomar, Minister, Agriculture
        Rural Development and Panchyati Raj, GoI : Member
     9. Sh. Ramesh Chand, Member NITI Aayog : Member-Secy

    The terms of Reference (ToR) of the Committee would be


    i) to discuss measures for transformation of agriculture and raising farmers’ income and suggest modalities for adoption and time bound implementation of following reforms by States/UTs:


    a) The….State/Union Territory ‘Agriculture Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion & Facilitation) Act, 2017’ (APLM Act, 2017) circulated by Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, GoI to States/UTs.


    b) The …..States/Union Territory ‘Agriculture Produce and Livestock, Contract Farming and Services (Promotion & Facilitation) Act, 2018’ circulated by Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, GoI to States/UTs.


    ii) to examine various provisions of Essential Commodity Act (ECA), 1955 and situations that require ECA. To suggest changes in the ECA to attract private investments in agricultural marketing and infrastructure.


    iii) to suggest mechanism for linking of market reforms with e-NAM, GRAM and other relevant Centrally Sponsored Schemes.


    iv) to suggest policy measures to (a) boost agricultural export (b) raise growth in food processing (c) attract investments in modern market infrastructure, value chains and logistics.


    v) to suggest measures to upgrade agri-technology to global standards and improve access of farmers to quality seed, plant propagation material and farm machinery in agriculturally advance countries.


    vi) to propose any other relevant reforms for transformation of agriculture sector and raising farmers’ income.


    The committee will submit its report within two months of the date of notification of the Committee.


    The High Powered Committee of Chief Ministers for ‘Transformation of Indian Agriculture’ will be serviced by NITI Aayog.


    *****


    AKT/SH/SKS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576575) Visitor Counter : 3263
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Bengali , Hindi , Marathi
    
    
    

8. 
   
9.