      Vice President's Secretariat

      AP students seeking admission to Delhi University get relief after Vice President’s intervention;
      
      AP students marks and not grades to be considered for DU admissions;
      
      VP advises HRD Ministry to consider issuing advisory to all Boards of Higher Secondary Education or Intermediate
      
      Posted On: 02 JUL 2019 4:50PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has advised the Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ to consider issuing an advisory to Boards of Higher Secondary Education or Intermediate of all States to provide marks in addition to grades to facilitate admissions into Central Universities.


    Shri Naidu said that boards which issue the results in grades must also simultaneously provide marks so that the percentage obtained by the students could be calculated by the respective universities.


    The Vice President called the HRD minister to his chamber in the Rajya Sabha and discussed the issue after students from Andhra Pradesh represented to him about the problem faced by them while seeking admission to Delhi University.


    The Board of Intermediate Education, Andhra Pradesh introduced grading system for Intermediate first year students in the academic year 2017-18 and continued the same pattern for second year students from 2018-19. Under the grading method, the students were provided with grade points for each subject.


    Since the admissions to Delhi University were based on marks percentage, the students represented the matter to the Vice President and sought the intervention of his good offices.


    Soon after the matter came to the notice of the Vice President a couple of days ago, he directed the officials to convey the concerns of the students to Delhi University authorities. Subsequent to the Vice President’s intervention, Delhi University authorities took up the matter with the officials concerned.


    Earlier today, Shri Naidu called the Delhi University Vice Chancellor, Shri Yogesh Kumar Tyagi and Dean, Students Welfare, Prof. Rajeev Gupta to his residence and discussed the issue threadbare.


    The Vice Chancellor assured that the interests of the students would be protected and that the admissions would be based on marks percentage and not on grades and CGPA.


    The University authorities have also sent mails and SMS texts to all students from Andhra Pradesh to download the marks from Intermediate board and upload them while applying in Delhi University.


    In the wake of the problems faced by the students from Andhra Pradesh, the Vice President advised the HRD Minister to issue an advisory to all Boards of Higher Education Boards or Intermediate.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576682) Visitor Counter : 864
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi