      Ministry of Education

      Various Digital Platforms have been made available by MHRD for Digital reading: Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’
      Posted On: 01 JUL 2019 5:58PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Human Resource Development has following three schemes in this regard:


    I. Shodhganga – It is a digital repository for research scholars across Universities and Institutes to deposit, re-use & share their Theses & Dissertations in digital formats including scanned documents. It is in open access to the world-wide academic community. The Shodhganga repository has grown to a formidable size of 2,32,556 Theses as on date with a progressive growth in last few years. On an average of 40,000 Theses are getting submitted in a year from more than 397 Universities.


    II. Shodhgangotri : Under this initiative, research scholars / research supervisors in universities could deposit an electronic version of approved synopsis submitted by research scholars to the universities for registering themselves under the Ph.D. programme. Synopses in Shodhgangotri would later be mapped to full-text thesis in Shodhganga.


    III. National Digital Library (NDL) :


    • "National Digital Library (NDL) in India" aims to collect, preserve and disseminate entire intellectual output of our country and provide online access from school level to postgraduate level, including technical education.


    • Under this scheme, meta-data of e-resources within and outside the country are made available to the learners, on anyone, anytime, anywhere access mode. Some licensed resources as well as resources having no copyright violation are provided as complete document in digital formats, including scanned documents. Students across various


    Institutions are significantly benefited.


    • Currently, there are more than 3 crore digital resources available through the NDL. The contents cover almost all major domains of education and all major levels of learners including life-long learners. More than 50 lakh students have registered themselves in the NDL, with about 20 lakhs active users. The NDL is available through a mobile app too.


    This information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource, Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576521) Visitor Counter : 873