      Ministry of Culture

      Various steps have been taken for conservation of Mural Paintings in protected monuments of ASI-Shri Prahlad Singh Patel
      Posted On: 08 JUL 2019 5:43PM by PIB Delhi


    Archeological Survey of India (ASI), regularly attends to the conservation work of Mural Paintings and ancient folk paintings in the protected monuments of the ASI, due to which they are in a good state of preservation.


    Also, IGNCA, an autonomous organisation under this Ministry is actively involved in the Government's endeavor for conservation of Mural Paintings and ancient folk paintings which are on the verge of extinction. The project titled 'The Condition of Buddhist Wall Painting Sites in Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh (Tribal and Backward Areas)’ aimed to develop a laboratory in Ladakh in collaboration with the partner institute especially for Himalayan material - thangkha and manuscript, with wall painting as a super specialty. In the first phase of this project, conservations work of (i) Maitreay Temple (Hunder- Nurba), (ii) Karsha Monastery – Nyingm/lakhangand (iii) Gonkhang- Thiksey monastery had been completed. Saboo and Diskit Monasteries have a sizeable collection of tangkha that are not in use for puja. 10 thangkas from both monasteries were restored by IGNCA conservation laboratory. Apart from this, four trainees from Ladakh were selected for training. IGNCA has signed MOU with Central Institute of Buddhist Studies (a Deemed University), Leh, Ladakh to explore, research, and for field work and capacity building programme in this domain. In Jammu and Kashmir, the conservation work of Karsha Monastery- Nyingma Lakhang, Gonkhang- Thiksey monastery and in Himachal Pradesh, conservation work of Maitreay Temple (Hunder- Nurba), Saboo and Diskit monasteries has been done by IGNCA.


    Documentation of Pictorial graffiti of mural paintings/wall paintings of 105 Temples in Baiswada (Uttar Pradesh) has also been done by IGNCA.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (I/C) of Ministry of Culture and Ministry of Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel in reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577803) Visitor Counter : 1020
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu