      Ministry of Culture

      Ministry of Culturefacilitates in setting up of FM Radio Transmitter on 103.7 MHZ frequency at Baltalfor ‘AmarnathYatra’ Pogramme
      Posted On: 05 JUL 2019 8:29PM by PIB Delhi


    For the first time ever, on a request from Ministry of Culture (MoC), Ministry of I&B has set up a FM Radio Transmitter on 103.7 MHZ frequency at Baltal, on the Amarnath route. A studio facility has been set up at Baltal Base Camp, program executive is deployed, and “Amarnath Yatra” program is being generated from Baltal base camp. Pahalgam transmitter is also tuned to Baltal.


    All India Radio (AIR) is transmitting regular services on crowd management, weather, health and other alerts; devotional music is being provided by Ministry of Culture.


    The same program “Amarnath Yatra” is made available on Delhi AIR service through dedicated leased line, and is also available through DTH service all over the country. People can receive the program through DD free dish service.


    Ministry of Culture has curated and created high quality devotional content for the Yatra, which includes Mantras, Shlokas and Bhajans with contextual meaning on Shiva, Parvati and Ganesh. Leading music directors and singers have been roped in for this purpose. Archival content has been taken from National Cultural Audiovisual Archives, under the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts.


    This music shall be broadcast on All India Radio “Amarnath Yatra” service from 7 AM to 11 PM, which can be accessed by pilgrims even on basic mobile models.


    The above musical content is also available through ‘Sangam App’ developed by Ministry of Culture, as also ‘AIR Live’ Mobile App.


    The devotional content would also be played by all the ‘Langars’ managed by Shree Amarnathjee Shrine Board, along the Yatra route on both sides; that is Baltal route and Pahalgam route.


    ****


    NB/AKJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1577601) Visitor Counter : 539
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi