      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Mongolian delegation led by the Chairman, Civil Service Council of Mongolia, Mr. B. Baatarzorig, meets MoS Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 05 JUL 2019 8:54PM by PIB Delhi


    A Mongolian delegation led by the Chairman, Civil Service Council of Mongolia, Mr. B. Baatarzorig , met the Union Minister of State for Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today.


    Welcoming the delegation, Dr Jitendra Singh said that India greatly values its close and friendly relations with Mongolia. He said that India and Mongolia are connected by Buddhist linkages and centuries of historical connections.


    The Minister said that both countries enjoy a broad convergence of long-term political, economic and strategic interests.


    He said that Indian support to human resource development of Mongolia is a matter of great pride for us.


    Dr Jitendra Singh expressed happiness over the fact that the MoU between the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) and Civil Service Council of Mongolia (CSC) has been signed on 3rd of July, 2019.


    He said that a programme for training of 14 senior civil service officials titled “Local governance with focus on new areas of Adminsitration” would be held at Indian Institute ofPublic Administration (IIPA) later this year. Mongolia has long shown great capacity for global outreach and outlook. It has been an important link between Asia and Europe from the early periods of human history, the Minister added.


    The Minister expressed hope that this visit adds to our efforts in realising the huge potential of our bilateral relationship.


    The Secretary (DoPT) Dr C Chandramouli and senior officers were also present on the occasion.


    *****


    BB/NK/BA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577603) Visitor Counter : 255
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu