      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      DoNER Secretary chairs meeting of Nodal officers of Aspirational districts of North Eastern region
      
      Status of themes of Aspirational Districts on Health, Education, Agriculture & Water Resources, Financial Inclusion, Skill development and Basic infrastructure reviewed
      
      Posted On: 08 JUL 2019 4:38PM by PIB Delhi


    The Secretary, Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) Dr Inder Jit Singh chaired a meeting with the Chief Nodal officers /Nodal officers of Aspirational districts of North Eastern region, here today. The Secretary reviewed the status of implementation of various programmes in different sectors in these districts.


    The meeting was attended by Shri Ram Muivah, Secretary, North Eastern Council (NEC), Shri Rakesh Ranjan, DDG (Evaluation), NITI Aayog, Shri Vijayendra, Joint Secretary, Department of Defence Production and Prabhari Officer of Aspirational District of Udalguri, Dr Vandana Dwivedi, Advisor, Department of Agriculture Cooperation & FarmersWelfare , Shri Shirish Asthana, Director, Office of Development Commissioner, Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and senior officers of the MDoNER and NEC were present in the meeting.


    During the meeting, the Nodal Officers of the following Aspirational Districts gave presentations: Barpeta , Baksa, Darang, Dubri, Goalpara, Hailkandi & Udalguri (Assam); Namsai (Arunachal Pradesh), Chandel (Manipur); Ribhoi (Meghalaya);Mamit (Mizoram); Kiphire (Nagaland); West Sikkim (Sikkim) and Dhalai (Tripura). Their presentations were based on five themes of Aspirational District programme i.e. Health, Education, Agriculture &Water Resources, Financial Inclusion, Skill development and Basic infrastructure.


    In the meeting, it has been decided to identify the common issues, challenges and thrust areas of all the Aspirational districts with reference to the presentations made by the Nodal Officers and references of the data of NITI Aayog. The Secretary, DoNER said that the Ministry will take follow-up action based on the inputs received from the Nodal Officers of Aspirational districts.


    Dr Inder Jit Singh instructed the concerned officers to monitor the progress of these districts on a regular basis on different parameters so that these districts improve their performance. The Secretary directed them to coordinate with the Line Ministries, State Governments and Districts Administration to intensify their efforts for development of Aspirational Districts.


    ******


    BB/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577762) Visitor Counter : 771
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Hindi