      Ministry of Tourism

      Film Facilitation Office has been set up by the Government for ease of filming in India: Shri Prahlad Singh Patel
      Posted On: 08 JUL 2019 4:58PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Tourism has recognised films as a powerful tool for the development and promotion of destinations under Niche Tourism Product. Several destinations have gained in terms of tourist inflow by being the venue/location of popular domestic and international films.


    ‘Film Tourism’ provides exposure and promotion to the filmed destinations, which thereby brings job creation, investment opportunities, and income generation contributing to the overall economic development of the area.


    The Ministry of Tourism has taken following steps to promote Film Tourism in the country:


      * Signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in 2012, inter-alia, to promote Cinema of India as a sub-brand of ‘Incredible India’ at various International Film Festivals and markets abroad, to develop synergy between tourism and the film industry to provide a platform for enabling partnerships between the Indian and global film industry.

      * Institution of a National Tourism Award in the category “Most Film Promotion Friendly State/UT” to encourage the State Governments and Union Territories to facilitate filming in their region;
      * Formulated guidelines for extending Central Financial Assistance (CFA) to State Governments/Union Territory Administrations for promotion of Film Tourism. As per these Guidelines, CFA of Rs. 2.00 Lakh per film is extended, to the State Governments/Union Territory Administrations during each financial year.

    The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India has informed that Film Facilitation Office (FFO) has been set up with a view to promote and facilitate film shootings in India. FFO acts as a Single Window facilitation point for ease of filming in India by assisting them to get requisite permission and disseminating information on shooting locations and facilities available with the Indian Film Industry for production and post- production. FFO has also launched its web-portal https://ffo.gov.in/en for this purpose.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (I/C) of Ministry of Culture and Ministry of Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel in reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577776) Visitor Counter : 257
    
    
    
    
    

*