      Ministry of Finance

      Government to bring greater ease of living through technology
      
      LED bulb mission method to be used to promote solar stoves and battery chargers
      
      Government to launch a massive programme of railway station modernization to make railway travel pleasant
      Posted On: 05 JUL 2019 1:35PM by PIB Delhi


    Government aims to bring greater ease of living in the lives of its citizens. Digital payments are gaining acceptance everywhere including by the Government. Use of technology is an effective way to ensure ease of living. This was stated by Union Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman while presenting the Union Budget 2019-20 in Parliament today.


    The Finance Minister said that about 30 lakh workers have joined the Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maandhan. The Scheme aims at providing Rs 3,000 per month as pension on attaining the age of 60 to crores of workers in unorganized and informal sectors. It was launched on 5 th March, 2019 by Prime Minister at Ahmedabad.


    UJALA Yojana


    The Finance Minister said that maintaining a cleaner environment and ensuring sustainable energy use is vital for good quality of life and ease of living. She said, “A programme of mass scaling up of LED bulbs for widespread distribution at household level was taken up resulting into massive replacement of incandescent bulbs and CFLs in the country. Approximately 35 crore LED bulbs have been distributed under UJALA Yojana leading to cost saving of Rs 18,341 crores annually. India is going to be free of incandescent bulbs and CFL use has already become miniscule. We will use the approach of mission LED bulb method to promote the use of solar stoves and battery chargers in the country”.


    Railway Station Modernisation


    Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that Government will launch a massive programme of railway station modernization this year to make railway travel a pleasant and satisfying experience for the common citizen.


    *****


    DSM/RM/BB/MM/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577376) Visitor Counter : 579
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil