      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Death of Sewer Workers in Metropolitan Cities
      Posted On: 03 JUL 2019 3:33PM by PIB Delhi


    Government is seriously concerned about the frequent reports of death of persons while cleaning sewers and septic tanks in different parts of the country including National Capital Territory of Delhi and other metropolitan cities.


    Under Section 7 of “Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013” (MS Act, 2013) ‘no person, local authority or any agency shall, from such date as the State Government may notify, which shall not be later than one year from the date of commencement of this Act, engage or employ, either directly or indirectly, any person for hazardous cleaning of a sewer or a septic tank. Under Section 9 of the MS Act, 2013 ‘whoever contravenes the provisions of section 7 shall for the first contravention be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years or with fine which may extend to two lakh rupees or with both, and for any subsequent contravention with imprisonment which may extend to five years or with fine which may extend to five lakh rupees, or with both’. Government has also framed and notified “Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Rules, 2013” (MS Rules, 2013) which prescribe the obligation of the employers towards workers engaged for cleaning and sewer/septic tank to provide safety gear and devices and observe safety precautions as detailed in the Rules.


    National Safai Karamcharis Finance and Development Corporation (NSKFDC) in collaboration with Skill Council for Green Jobs (SCGJ) is imparting 35 hours Recognition Prior Learning (RPL) for sanitation workers engaged by Municipal Corporation/Municipalities and other Government Agencies. 6,792 sanitation workers have been provided the above mentioned training from 02 nd October, 2018 to 30.06.2019. Safety kits consisting of gloves, mask and jacket are distributed to the sanitation workers in these training camps.


    NSKFDC organizes workshops in municipalities for engineers, sanitary inspectors, sanitary workers and contractors on safe cleaning of sewers and septic tanks and also create awareness about the provisions of MS Act, 2013 and MS Rules, 2013 regarding employer’s obligations to provide safety gear/equipment and ensure safety precautions. 345 such workshops have been organized from 02 nd October, 2018 to 30.06.2019.


    NSKFDC is also implementing a scheme, Swachhta Udyami Yojana under which loan upto Rs. 50 lakh is provided to the municipalities for purchase of equipment/vehicles for mechanized cleaning of sewers and septic tanks. The State Governments have been requested to issue instructions to the municipalities to enter into Memorandum of Understanding with NSKFDC in this regard.


    Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has released Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for cleaning of sewers and septic tanks on 19.11.2018, which prescribes the procedure for cleaning, its frequency, equipment needed, protective and safety gear to be used, emergency preparedness, procedures to be followed for emergency during inspection and cleaning and also the roles and responsibility of various stakeholders. SOP is advisory in nature to guide the States/Union Territories (UTs) and Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) in the process of cleaning sewers and emptying septic tanks in scientific ways.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Ramdas Athawale in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    NB/SK/jk-SJ&E-2/03-07-2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577165) Visitor Counter : 183