      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Assessment of Institutions/Organisations Implementing Schemes for Vulnerable Sections
      Posted On: 03 JUL 2019 3:31PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment implements number of schemes through institutions, trusts, implementing agencies of State Government organisations and Non-Governmental Organisations and provide funds for implementation of the schemes for empowerment and improving the quality of life of vulnerable sections of the society. The details are available in the website of ministry i.e. www.socialjustice.nic.in .


    The Government has, inter-alia, put in place following mechanism to ensure effective implementation of the schemes:


     1. The proposals of NGOs for release of grant-in-aid under the scheme are considered on the basis of recommendations of the State/UT Governments satisfactory reports of inspection carried out annually and completeness of the proposal in all respects as per the norms and guidelines of the scheme.

     1. Subsequent grants are released to the implementing agencies only on receipt of audited statement of accounts and utilisation certificates of the grants received in the previous year.
     2. Further, to bring about transparency in the system, while sanctioning the grants to NGOs, the Ministry has started processing of proposals online from 2014-15.
     1. Apart from this, the performance of the NGOs are also monitored from time to time through surprise inspections conducted by officers deputed by this Ministry and by the representatives of the State Government authorities.
     1. On the basis of the inspection report, necessary corrective action is taken. In respect of deficiencies reported, show cause notices are issued to the NGOs concerned and follow up action is taken on the basis of the replies received. In serious cases of misuse of funds or malfunctioning or non-functioning etc. of the projects, the concerned NGOs are blacklisted after following the extant procedure.
     1. The details of organisations/ institutions received grant from the Ministry under various welfare schemes are available on the website of Ministry i.e. http://socialjustice.nic.in/writereaddata/UploadFile/Annexure%201398 _compressed.pdf
     1. The institutions/organizations submit Utilization Certificate against each release duly certified by the Chartered Accountant and Head of the organization. Further grant is released after receipt of certified Utilization Certificate for previous grant.

    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Rattan Lal Kataria in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    NB/SK/jk-SJ&E-1/03-07-2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577164) Visitor Counter : 262
    
    
    
    
    

1.