      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of PM’s reaction on Union Budget 2019-2020
      Posted On: 05 JUL 2019 3:34PM by PIB Delhi


    I congratulate the first woman Finance Minister of the country Nirmala Sitharaman and her team for this citizen friendly, development friendly and future oriented Budget.


    This is a Budget that will enrich the country and make its people more empowered. The poor will get strength and the youth a better tomorrow from this Budget.


    The middle class will progress and the development pace will leapfrog because of this Budget.


    This Budget will simplify the tax system and modernize infrastructure.


    This Budget will strengthen industry and entrepreneurs. It will increase women’s participation in the development process of the country.


    This Budget will make the education sector better. It will help to reach the benefits of Artificial Intelligence and Space Research to the people.


    This Budget has reform for the financial world, ease of living for the ordinary citizens as also welfare for the villages and the poor.


    This is a green Budget wherein special emphasis has been given on environment, electric mobility and solar sector.


    In the last five years, the country has come out of an atmosphere of despair and is now brimming with expectation and self-confidence.


    The ordinary people used to struggle for their own rights like electricity, gas and roads and had to face many challenges like garbage, corruption and VIP culture. We have relentlessly strived to mitigate those and have succeeded too.


    Today people have a lot of aspirations and expectations. This Budget promises to fulfil them. This Budget is assuring that the direction is right, the process is right, the speed is right; so to achieve the objectives is certain.


    This is a Budget of expectations, faith and aspirations. This Budget will prove to be an important link in fulfilling the expectations of 21 st century India and building a New India.


    This Budget will set the road map for implementing the decisions pertaining to the year 2022, i.e. 75 years of Independence.


    In the last five years our government has taken several steps to empower the poor, farmers, Scheduled Castes, oppressed and the down-trodden. In the next five years this empowerment will make them the powerhouse of development.


    This powerhouse will provide energy to the country to fulfil the dream of 5 trillion dollar economy.


    New schemes for structural reform in agricultural sector have been announced in this Budget. Transferring about 87 thousand crore rupees to the farmers through PMKISAN, the decision of opening more than 10 thousand Farmer Producer Organizations, Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana for the fishermen or establishing National Warehousing Grid – all these will play an important role in doubling the income of the farmers by 2022.


    Water conservation is not possible without manpower. Water conservation is possible through people’s movement. This Budget has taken care of not only the present generation, but also the future generations. Like Swachh Bharat Mission, Har Ghar Jal Abhiyan will enable the country in addressing the water crisis.


    The decisions taken in this Budget will strengthen the foundation of the coming decade as also open the door of new possibilities for the youth.


    This Budget is a historic step towards making an India of your expectations, your dreams and your commitments.


    I am going to talk about it in details tomorrow in Kashi. Today I once again congratulate the Finance Minister and her team. My good wishes to all the citizens of India for the bright future.


    Thank you very much.

    My thoughts on the #BudgetForNewIndia. Watch. https://t.co/cJYfirRHfa

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 5, 2019

    *****


    AKT/SH/ IG


    

    
    (Release ID: 1577474) Visitor Counter : 1532
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Tamil , Bengali , Urdu , Marathi , Punjabi , Gujarati , Malayalam