      Ministry of Education

      Government of India has taken several steps for promotion of Sanskrit language
      Posted On: 04 JUL 2019 5:50PM by PIB Delhi


    Government of India has taken several steps for promotion of Sanskrit language. The measures taken by the Government for the promotion of the Sanskrit are given below:


     1. Providing financial assistance to Adarsh Sanskrit Mahavidyalayas / Shodha Sansthans.


     2. Award of merit scholarships to student of Sanskrit Pathasala to College level.


     3. Financial assistance to NGOs / Higher Educational Institutions of Sanskrit for various Research Projects / Programmes.


     4. Retired eminent Sanskrit scholars are engaged under the Shastra Chudamani scheme for teaching.


     5. Sanskrit is also taught through Non-formal Sanskrit Education (NFSE) programme, by setting up Non-Formal Sanskrit learning centres, in reputed institutions like Indian Institutes Technology, Ayurveda institutions, Modern Colleges and Universities.


     6. Presidential awards for Sanskrit Language are awarded annually to 16 senior scholars and to 5 young scholars.


     7. Financial Assistance for Publication, Reprint of rare Sanskrit books.


     8. Ashtaadashi containing eighteen Projects for sustaining the growth of Sanskrit has been implemented.


    Further, in order to make the masses coversant with the Sanskrit language the three Sanskrit institutions viz,. Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan (RSKS), Delhi, Sri Lal Bahadur Shastri Rashtriya Sanskrit Vidyapeetha (SLBSRSV), New Delhi and Rashtriya Sanskrit Vidyapeetha (RSV), Tirupati controlled by the Central Government have been advised to adopt two villages each and teach Sanskrit in the village so that everybody in the village is able to converse in Sanskrit language. Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan has already adopted 5 villages viz. i) Jubatara(Mohanpur), Tripura, ii) Masot(Pragpur), Himachal Pradesh, iii) Chittebail(Shimoga), Karnataka, iv) Adat(Puzhakkal), Kerala and v) Barai(Huzoor), Madhya Pradesh.


    This information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577241) Visitor Counter : 823
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

8.