      Ministry of Finance

      Scheme of Fund for Upgradation and Regeneration of Traditional Industries (SFURTI) aims to set up more Common Facility Centres for generating sustained employment opportunities
      
      SFURTI envisions 100 new clusters in 2019-20 to help 50,000 artisans economically
      
      10,000 new Farmer Producer Organizations to be formed to ensure economies of scale for farmers over the next five years
      
      Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana to establish a robust fisheries management framework

      Posted On: 05 JUL 2019 1:22PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman said that the Government aims to set up more Common Facility Centres (CFCs) under the ‘Scheme of Fund for Upgradation and Regeneration of Traditional Industries’ (SFURTI) . Presenting the Union Budget 2019-20 in the Lok Sabha today, she said this will facilitate cluster based development to make the traditional industries more productive, profitable and capable for generating sustained employment opportunities. The focused sectors are Bamboo, Honey and Khadi clusters. SFURTI envisions setting up of 100 new clusters during 2019-20 to enable 50,000 artisans to join the economic value chain.


    The Scheme for Promotion of Innovation, Rural Industry and Entrepreneurship’ (ASPIRE) has been consolidated for setting up of Livelihood Business Incubators (LBIs) and Technology Business Incubators (TBIs). The Scheme contemplates setting up 80 Livelihood Business Incubators (LBIs) and 20 Technology Business Incubators (TBIs) in 2019-20 to develop 75,000 skilled entrepreneurs in agro-rural industry sectors.


    The Finance Minister further said that fishing and fishermen communities are closely aligned with farming and are crucial to rural India. Through a focused Scheme – the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) – the Department of Fisheries will establish a robust fisheries management framework. This will address critical gaps in strengthening the value chain, including infrastructure, modernization, traceability, production, productivity, post-harvest management, and quality control.


    Reiterating the government’s commitment to investing widely in agriculture infrastructure, the Minister said that government will support private entrepreneurships in driving value-addition to farmers’ produce from the field and those from allied activities, like Bamboo and timber from the hedges for generating renewable energy. She said, “Annadata can also be Urjadata”. She also announced that 10,000 new Farmer Producer Organizations will be formed to ensure economies of scale for farmers over next five years. Dairying through cooperatives shall also be encouraged by creating infrastructure for cattle feed manufacturing, milk procurement, processing & marketing”.


    On agricultural marketing, the Finance Minister said “ This Government will work with State Governments to allow farmers to benefit from e-NAM. The Agriculture Produce Marketing Cooperatives (APMC) Act should not hamper farmers from getting a fair price for their produce. Ease of doing business and ease of living both should apply to farmers too. We shall go back to basics on one count: Zero Budget Farming. We need to replicate this innovative model. Steps such as these can truly double our farmers’ income in time for our 75 th year of Independence”.


    *****


    DSM/RM/BB/APS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577357) Visitor Counter : 1258
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali , Tamil