      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Commerce & Industry Minister Addresses International Conference on Quality Infrastructure
      
      Thrust to Quality for Manufacturing Superior Product
      
      India, a Destination for Large Scale Investment in Infrastructure: Piyush Goyal
      Posted On: 08 JUL 2019 6:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Commerce & Industry and Railways, Piyush Goyal, has called for giving thrust to quality so that India can be recognized for its superior products. Addressing anInternational Conference for Engineering Services on Quality Infrastructure for Clean & Sustainable Development in New Delhi today he expressed hope that India can be recognized world over not only for its comparative and competitive cost advantage, but also for its superior products and superior quality of services. He said there is scope of two-way expansion of trade - on the one hand there is huge export potential and on the other there is huge potential to bring engineering technology to India.


    The Commerce Minister said that the Finance Minister in the Budget 2019-20 has given a road map for the expansion of infrastructure in India with investment of one lakh crore rupees in next five years. He said that an investment of Rs 50 lakh crore is proposed forthe expansion and development of railways in next 10-12 years. The Minister said this vision clearly demonstrates that India is a destination for large scale investment in infrastructure.


    PiyushGoyal further said that India has become the fastest growing country in generation of solar energy. It has achieved 1200% growth in installed capacity of solar energy during the last five years. India has also become the largest user of LED bulbs with the improvement of technology and cost cutting of manufacturing. The Minister also referred to incentives proposed for electrical vehicles in this year’s budget and expressed hope that India will take a lead in the world by manufacturing two wheelers, three wheelers and four wheelers.


    Commerce and Industry Minister informed that the number of households that have access to LPG through cylinders have almost doubled.He also stressed on modernization of the way electricity and gas are supplied to consumers so that the energy needs of citizensmay be met.PiyushGoyalspoke about a national gas grid for delivery of piped gas to all households in urban centres by bringing down losses and reduce cost of supply.


    ***


    MM/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577826) Visitor Counter : 890
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi