      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Promotion of Youth and Sports
      Posted On: 08 JUL 2019 2:44PM by PIB Delhi


    For Promotion of Youth related activities in different parts of the country, Department of Youth Affairs has taken following new initiatives:

     1. Swachh Bharat Summer Internship Programme with the support of Ministry of Jal Shakthi.
     2. Celebration of International Day of Yoga on 21st June at National, State, District, Block and Village Level.
     3. Celebration of 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi with the support of Ministry of Culture.
     4. Observance of Poshan Maah in collaboration with Ministry of Women and Child Development
     5. Kashmiri Youth Exchange Programme, Tribal Youth Exchange Programme and North East Youth Exchange Programme with the financial support of Ministry of Home Affairs
     6. Nammi Gange with the help of Ministry of Jal Shakthi.
     7. Neighborhood Youth Parliaments for youth development and motivation for participation in nation building process.
     8. Nationwide Declamation Contest on Patriotism and Nation Building at Block, District, State and National Level.
     9. National Youth Parliament Festival 201

    10. Theme Based Awareness and Education Programme on Sankalp Se Siddhi, Positive India to New Progressive India with Nishkaam Karma and on contemporary issues have been introduced.

     1. For promotion of sports in different parts of the country, Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS) has been undertaking following programmes:

    · Providing Sports material to Youth Clubs to encourage and promotes sports culture and spirit of sportsmanship among youth.


    · Block and District Level Sports Tournaments.


    The existing National Service Scheme (NSS) is providing a platform for development of the youth in the fields of social harmony, literacy, gender justice, life-skill education, disaster management, health, public sanitation, personal hygiene, environmental conservation of natural resources, preservation of cultural and historical heritage, etc.


    Following schemes are being implemented by the Department of Sports for promotion of excellence in sports and broad-basing of sports:

     1. Khelo India Scheme
     2. Scheme of assistance to National Sports Federations
     3. Support to Institutions viz. Sports Authority of India (SAI), Lakshmibai National Institute of Physical Education (LNIPE), National Anti-Doping Agency (NADA), National Dope Test Laboratory (NDTL) and National Sports University (NSU).
     4. Scheme of special awards to medal winners in International Sports Events
     5. Scheme of Pension to Meritorious Sports Persons
     6. Pandit Deendayal National Sports Welfare Fund
     7. Sports Awards viz. Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, Arjuna Award, Dhyanchand Award, Dronacharya Award, Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar and Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Trophy.
     8. Human Resource Development in Sports
     9. National Centre of Sports Sciences and Research
    10. 10. National Centre for Sports Coaching

    Besides, for identifying talented youth and to nurture them, Sports Authority of India is presently implementing the following Sports Promotional Schemes:


    · National Sports Talent Contest (NSTC)


    · Army Boys Sports Company (ABSC)


    · SAI Training Centre (STC


    · Special Area Games (SAG)


    · Extension Centres of STC/SAG


    · Centre of Excellence (COE)


    · SAI National Sports Academies (NSA)


    The State Governments have also responded to endeavour of the Central Government.


    1. Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS ):- District Nehru Yuva Kendras (NYKs) form District Advisory Committee on Youth Programmes (DACYP) which is comprised of both official and non-official members. The Committee is headed by District Collector/District Magistrate of respective districts. The objective of the Committee is to review the progress of ongoing programmes and activities of NYKS and suggest constructive interventions. Similarly, State Advisory Committee on Youth Programmes (SACYP) is also constituted which is headed by Hon'ble Minister for Youth Affairs & Sports of respective States. Thus, District Administration / State Governments provide support for implementation of programmes and activities for development and empowerment of youth.


    2. National Service Scheme (NSS):- is being implemented with the support of State/UT Governments. The programme officers of (NSS) in various states coordinate the implementation of the plan activities in the Universities and Colleges in the respective States.


    3 . Promotion of sports is the responsibility of States/UT Governments. Central Government supplements efforts of the State/ UT Governments by providing assistance through Khelo India Scheme, National Sports Federations and training in Sports Authority of India (SAI) Centres.


    This Information was given by the Minister of State (I/C) Shri Kiren Rijiju in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    YKB/TFK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1577714) Visitor Counter : 576
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

10.