      Ministry of Culture

      Govt of India is Celebrating 550th birth Anniversary of Guru Nanak Devji this year-Shri Prahlad Singh Patel
      Posted On: 08 JUL 2019 5:39PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Cabinet in its meeting held on 22.11.2018 decided to celebrate 550 th birth anniversary of Shri Guru Nanak Devji at national and international level for a period of one year from November, 2018 to November, 2019. Inaugural function for the commemoration was held on 23.11.2018 at Sultanpur Lodhi, Punjab. Decisions taken in the meeting are as under:


    (i) Development of Kartarpur corridor from Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district, Punjab to the international border. Foundation stone for the project was laid by Hon’ble Vice President on 26.11.2018.


    (ii) Development of historic town of Sultanpur Lodhi as a heritage town on the Smart City principles.


    (iii) Upgradation of Sultanpur Lodhi railway station with all the modern amenities and run a train passing through various holy places associated with Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji, for pilgrims and tourists.


    (iv) Release of Commemorative Coin and postage stamps.


    (v) Setting up of a Centre for Inter Faith Studies at Guru Nanak Dev University,


    Amritsar and to organize an International Seminar on the life and teachings of Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji.


    (vi) To set up Chairs on Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji in one University each in UK and Canada.


    (vii) States/UTs to celebrate 550 th Birth Anniversary of Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji in a befitting manner. Religious activities like Kirtan, Katha, Prabhat Pheri, Langar etc. to be organised throughout the country, especially at Gurdwaras and places associated with Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji.


    (viii) Doordarshan to arrange live telecast of programmes on Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji and the Gurbani.


    (ix) National Book Trust to publish Gurbani in different Indian Languages. UNESCO to translate and publish anthology of Shri Guru Nanak Devji’s writings in world languages.


    (x) Indian Missions overseas to organise special events to commemorate the 550 th anniversary of the birth of Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji.


    Separate funds have not been allocated for the purpose. It was decided in the meeting of Union Cabinet that f inancial implications of the proposals will be met by the respective Ministries from their allocated budget.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (I/c) of Culture and Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577798) Visitor Counter : 1290
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Bengali , Punjabi