      Department of Atomic Energy

      Electricity generation through atomic energy
      Posted On: 04 JUL 2019 5:05PM by PIB Delhi


    The share of atomic energy in the overall electricity generation in the country was about 2.93% in the year 2017-18.


    Nuclear share has remained around 3% of the total electricity generation in the country. The main reason for low share has been the low installed capacity base. The reasons for low capacity base are:


         1. Technology development and international embargo regime that persisted from 1974 to 2008. As a result, all the technologies for nuclear power including the fuel cycle technologies had to be developed within the country, thus took time.

         2. Another constraint faced during the first two decades was availability of financial resources, as it had to solely depend on budgetary support. However, the earlier constraints have now been overcome and nuclear power programme is poised for rapid expansion.

    To increase the share of nuclear power generation, the Government has taken several steps to increase the nuclear power capacity and to provide adequate quantity of fuel. These include:


     1. Resolution of issues related to Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage (CLND) Act & Creation of Indian Nuclear Insurance Pool (INIP).


     1. Accord of administrative approval and financial sanction of - ten (10) indigenous 700 MW Pressurized Heavy Water Reactors (PHWRs) to be set up in fleet mode & two (02) units of Light Water Reactors (LWRs) to be set up in cooperation with Russian Federation.


     1. Amendment of the Atomic Energy Act to enable Joint Ventures of Public Sector Companies to set up nuclear power projects.


     1. Entering into enabling agreements with foreign countries for nuclear power cooperation including supply of fuel.


    This information was provided by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    BB/NK/PJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1577210) Visitor Counter : 1318
    
    
    
    
    

1.