      Ministry of Science & Technology

      The DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill – 2019 introduced in Lok Sabha
      Posted On: 08 JUL 2019 4:02PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Harsh Vardhan introduced “The DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill, 2019” today in the Lok Sabha. While introducing, the Union Minister said that this Bill is for the regulation of use and application of DNA technology for the purpose of establishing identity of missing persons, victims, offenders, under trials and unknown deceased persons.


    The primary intended purpose of "The DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill, 2019" is for expanding the application of DNA-based forensic technologies to support and strengthen the justice delivery system of the country. The utility of DNA based technologies for solving crimes, and to identify missing persons, is well recognized across the world. By providing for the mandatory accreditation and regulation of DNA laboratories, the Bill seeks to ensure that with the proposed expanded use of this technology in this country, there is also the assurance that the DNA test results are reliable, and furthermore that the data remain protected from misuse or abuse in terms of the privacy rights of our citizens.


    The proposed legislation will empower the criminal justice delivery system by enabling the application of DNA evidence, which is considered the gold standard in crime investigations. Establishment of the National and Regional DNA Data Banks, as envisaged in the Bill, will assist in forensic investigations.


    The proposed Bill will give fillip to the development of uniform code of practices in all laboratories involved in DNA testing throughout the country .This will aid in scientific up gradation and streamlining of the DNA testing activities in the country with appropriate inputs from the DNA Regulatory Board which would be set up for the purpose. It is expected that the expanded use of this scientifically driven technology would empower the existing justice delivery system.


    ***


    GK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1577738) Visitor Counter : 1902
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Malayalam