      Ministry of Culture

      Several steps have been taken to promote fine arts and performing arts through various organizations of Ministry of Culture-Shri Prahlad Singh Patel
      Posted On: 08 JUL 2019 5:42PM by PIB Delhi


    Promoting and encouraging Fine Arts and Performing Arts in India is a continuous process. Ministry of Culture through its various organizations such as Sangeet Natak Akademi (SNA), Centre for Cultural Resources and Training (CCRT), Kalakshetra Foundation (KF), National School of Drama (NSD), Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) and Performing Arts Division, S&F Section, ZCC Section of this Ministry etc. organizes various programmes/ events/ festivals/ workshops/ seminars on Fine Arts and Performing Arts on a regular basis and through Grant-in-aid to Volunatary Organisations/NGOs under the “Scheme of Financial Assistance for Promotion of Art & Culture” having, inter-alia, following three components:


    (i) Repertory Grant; and


    (ii) Financial Assistance to Cultural Organizations with National Presence.


    (iii) Cultural Function and Production Grant.


    Ministry of Culture through its various autonomous organizations organizes festivals/ programs/ functions/ exhibitions for Fine Arts and Performing Arts on regular basis. Sangeet Natak Akademi (SNA) organizes festivals at all over the country, gives grants-in-aid for research, documentation, and publishing in the performing arts; organizes and subsidizes seminars and conferences of subject specialists; documents and records the performing arts for its audio-visual archive.


    Centre for Cultural Resources and Training (CCRT) organizes various training programmes on regular basis towards sensitizing in-service teachers for promotion and preservation of Indian Arts, Culture and Heritage. In each Training Programme regular sessions are held on various Classical Dances, Carnatic Classical Music and Hindustani Classical Music. The CCRT also organizes programmes for govt. & non-govt. (NGOs) school students under its Extension and Community Feedback programme in which sessions on Performing Arts are organized. In addition to this, CCRT paid a token honorarium and conveyance to the Experts and his/her accompanists to promote and encourage the Art and Artists. CCRT is also implementing following scholarship/fellowship schemes in various performing, visual & literary art fields:


    (i) Cultural Talent Search Scholarship Scheme


    (ii) Award of Scholarships to Young Artists (SYA)


    (iii) The Fellowship Scheme for the Award of Fellowship to outstanding persons in the Field of Culture.


    Kalakshetra Foundation (KF) is an institution for national importance for the preservation of classical arts which conducts various art festivals, seminars, workshops to preserve and promote Indian classical arts.


    Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) organizes events on Fine Arts and Performing Arts on a regular basis. It also works towards publicity of its programmes through e-newsletters, social media etc.


    National School of Drama (NSD), an autonomous organization of this Ministry organizes various festivals on regular basis including Bharat Rang Mahotsav, Jashnebachpan, Bal Sangam, Poorvottar Natya Samaroh, National Tribal festivals etc in different parts of the country mainly for the purpose of promotion of performing (Theatre) Arts.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (I/C) of Ministry of Culture and Ministry of Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel in reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1577802) Visitor Counter : 590