      Ministry of Education

      Government of India has taken several steps for skill development in Higher Education: HRD Minister
      Posted On: 15 JUL 2019 6:59PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government realizes the need for development of skills in the graduates and several steps have been initiated in this regard. To strengthen the knowledge and skills of the graduates, requisite for the current job market and to make them employable, the University Grants Commission (UGC) has adopted the Learning Outcome Based Curriculum Framework (LOCF) at Undergraduate Level as one of its Quality Improvement Programme mandate.


    The UGC is also providing Skill based education under National Skill Qualification Framework in Colleges and Universities through its scheme of Community Colleges, B.Voc. Degree Programmes and Deen Dayal Upadhyay Centres for Knowledge Acquisition and Upgradation of Skilled Human Abilities and Livelihood (DDU KAUSHAL Kendras). During the year 2018-19, there were 188 Community Colleges, 275 Institutions offering B.Voc. Degree Programmes and 68 DDU Kaushal Kendras.


    Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) continuously evolve and develop their academic programmes to meet the demands of the industry and to keep pace with global advancements in technology. Starting of new programmes in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning are examples of adapting to the market situation.


    Further, a committee under the Chairmanship of Shri B.V.R. Mohan Reddy, Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT, Hyderabad was constituted on 18 th October, 2018 for preparing short term and long term perspective plan for the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). The committee submitted its report and Executive Committee of AICTE has approved the report. Main recommendations of the committee include (i) courses on emerging technologies namely, Artificial Intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), Block chain, Robotics, Quantum Computing, Data Sciences, Cyber Security, 3D Printing & Design & Augmented Reality (AR)/ Virtual Reality (VR); and (ii) greater focus on multi-disciplining courses by reducing the seats in conventional disciplines and converting the existing seats into these courses. Accordingly, AICTE has decided that no new conventional discipline will be allowed from the academic year 2020-21 and NITTTR Chandigarh has been given responsibility to prepare curriculum of the emerging technologies.


    Another Committee was also constituted for revamping and attuning curricula of National Institutes of Technology (NITs) to look into the needs of the industry and honing skills of the students coming out of the institutions. The recommendations of the Committee have been accepted by the Council of National Institutes of Technology, Science Education and Research in its meeting held on 26.05.2017, according to which NITs are required to review their curricula every year and revise the same every year by adding latest topics in consultation with industry.


    The information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578821) Visitor Counter : 685