      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Ranking of Police Stations
      Posted On: 10 JUL 2019 3:45PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Home Affairs has introduced a system for ranking of Police station 2018. It is a two stage process where 3 Police Stations from States having more than 750 police stations, 2 each from all other States and Delhi and 1 each from Union Territories are selected from more than 15,000 Police Stations in the country on the basis of rate of conviction in cases of crimes against women, crimes against SCs/STs and property offences. In the second stage, performance measurement is done based on parameters like crime prevention and proactive measures, disposal of cases, maintenance of public order, infrastructure assessment and citizens feedback. Personal visits are made by the surveying team to the selected police stations for this purpose.


    The guidelines provide for awarding two sets of awards i.e. one for the top 3 best police stations in the country and another for the best police station in each State/Union Territory. In the last DsGP/IsGP Conference held in December 2018 at Kevadiya, Gujarat, the best 3 police stations in the country were awarded Shields. Certificates have been given to the top police stations of each state/UT.


    The list of best Police Stations is given below:


    The top three police stations in the country assessed in 2018:

                                                                 
Rank  Police Station Name  District     State                    
                                                                 
                                                                 
                                                                 
1.    Kalu                 Bikaner      Rajasthan                
                                                                 
                                                                 
                                                                 
2.    Campbell Bay         Nicobar      Andaman & Nicobar Islands
                                                                 
                                                                 
                                                                 
3.    Farakka              Murshidabad  West Bengal              
                                                                 
                                                                 

    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri G. Kishan Reddy in a written reply to question in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/SS/JB/1929

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578106) Visitor Counter : 1240