      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Rehabilitation of Bonded Labour
      Posted On: 10 JUL 2019 4:29PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government of India has implemented a Central Sector Scheme for Rehabilitation of Bonded Labourer, 2016 for providing rehabilitation assistance to the released bonded labour. As per the scheme , financial assistance to the tune of Rs. 1,00,000, Rs. 2,00,000/-, Rs. 3,00,000/- are provided to released bonded labourers based on their category and level of exploitation. In addition to the financial assistance, the beneficiaries are also entitled for the following:


    1. Allotment of House/site & agricultural land


    2. Land development


    3. Provision of low cost dwelling Units.


    4. Animal husbandry, dairy, poultry, piggery etc.


    5. Wage employment, enforcement of minimum wages etc.


    6. Collection and processing of minor forest products.


    7. Supply of essential commodities under targeted public distribution system.


    8. Education for children.


    9. Any other Welfare Scheme of State/Central Govt.


    Government of India has enacted the Child Labour (Prohibition & Regulation) Amendment Act, 2016 which came into force w.e.f. 1.9.2016. The Amendment Act Inter alia provides for complete prohibition of work or employment of children below 14 years in any occupation and process and prohibition of adolescents in the age group of 14 to 18 years in hazardous occupations and processes. The Amendment Act also provides stricter punishment for employers for violation of the Act and has made the offence as cognizable. Under the NCLP Scheme, children in the age group of 9-14 years are rescued/withdrawn from work and enrolled in the NCLP Special Training Centers, where they are provided with bridge education, vocational training, mid-day meal, stipend, health care, etc. before being mainstreamed into formal education system. Children in the age group of 5-8 years are directly linked to the formal education system through a close coordination with the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA).


    This information was given by Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employment in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578126) Visitor Counter : 490
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Bengali