      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      World Food India a big platform for State Governments to push Food Processing in States: Smt Harsimrat Badal
      
      Union Minister Smt Badal meets Members of Parliament, invites representations during the Mega Event in November
      
      Posted On: 12 JUL 2019 5:27PM by PIB Delhi


      Union Minister for Food Processing Industries Smt Harsimrat Kaur Badal today said World Food India is not just an opportunity for the Center but also a big platform for State Governments to push food processing sectors in their states. Exemplifying her statement she added that during the previous edition of World Food India in 2017, many States did brisk business and signed Memorandums of Understanding with international companies. To promote this idea the Ministry would be holding road shows in the states.


      Smt Badal was speaking at a meeting with Members of Parliament at the Parliament Annexe. The MPs were invited by the Ministry to spread awareness of the upcoming mega event World Food India 2019. The Minister sought assistance of the MPs in sourcing information on raw material clusters from their respective constituencies and what industries could be set up there.


      She said that people from across the world who want to source from India and invest in India will be seeking avenues for investment during World Food India 2019. She invited representations from their constituencies for participation in the event to foster tie ups between foreign investors and domestic avenues.


      The Ministry also used the occasion to highlight the schemes of the Ministry. Additional Secretary, Dr. Rakesh Sarwal in a presentation to the present MPs highlighted the various schemes being run by the Ministry and their current status. The Minister invited the MPs to bring more proposals forward and assured them of the Ministry's willingness to consider all the proposals speedily.


      RM/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578588) Visitor Counter : 850
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi