      Vice President's Secretariat

      Teach India’s heritage, culture, and traditions to children: Vice President
      
      Urges schools to promote sports & yoga to enable students to stay fit;
      
      Interacts with children who represented India at Brave Kids Festival 2019 in Poland and Ukraine

      Posted On: 12 JUL 2019 1:07PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has emphasized the importance of teaching India’s heritage, culture, and traditions to children.


    Interacting with children who represented India at Brave Kids Festival 2019 in Poland and Ukraine, here today, Shri Naidu urged parents and teachers to attach utmost importance to teaching children about India’s heritage, culture, and traditions. He also wanted schools to inculcate the spirit of volunteerism among children by encouraging them to take part in voluntary activities such as NSS, NCC and Scouts, and Guides, etc.


    Observing that participating in events such as the Brave Kids International Festival would enable the youngsters to understand the importance of friendship and respect for each other’s culture, the Vice President expressed the hope that taking part in such events would contribute towards a peaceful and sustainable world.


    Shri Naidu urged schools to promote sports and yoga to enable students to stay fit. Shri Naidu witnessed Bhangra, Scissors and Dandiya performances rendered by the children and appreciated them for taking Indian culture and art form to the global stage.


    “You are indeed the cultural ambassadors of India,” he added.


    Six young cultural enthusiasts from Nanhi Dunya organization in Dehradun namely - Khushi, Saniya, Anchal, Manish, Saksham, Rahul and their instructor Ashu Satvika Goyal, Group leader Harshit and representatives of Nanhi Dunya were present.


    Following is the text of Vice President’s address :


    “Let me begin my interaction by appreciating your beautiful performance.


    I am impressed by performances comprising Bhangra, Scissors, Dadiya, and Gatk by using instruments like the Dholak, Lazim and Ghugru.


    I am happy to meet the six young cultural enthusiasts from Nanhi Dunya Dehradun namely - Khushi, Saniya, Anchal, Manish, Saksham, Rahul and their instructor Ashu Satvika Goyal, Group leader Harshit who have returned to India yesterday after representing the country at the Brave Kids International Festival between May 30 and July 10 in Ukraine and Poland.


    You are indeed our cultural ambassadors and I am glad to know that you made a great impression on the audience during your performances at Ukraine and Poland.


    I am told that you had shared the stage with representatives from 15 countries at the Brave Kids International Festival, organized under the patronage of UNESCO and the Polish Ministry of Culture and Heritage.


    I have been informed that the platform brought together talented young people from countries affected by humanitarian issues (such as natural disasters, political conflicts, poverty) and young people from more stable backgrounds.


    I am happy that organizations like Nanhi Dunya have been encouraging children to learn about the cultures of different nations by participating in such events. I am sure that taking part in such international festivals would enable the children from all over the world to understand the importance of friendship and respect for each other’s cultures.


    I believe engagements such as these would contribute towards peaceful and sustainable world.


    Dear Children, you are the future of this nation. It is important for you to inculcate Indian values, understand the great heritage, culture and traditions of our country. You must also learn to treat fellow human beings with respect.


    Embrace all the opportunities that come your way and become constant learners. Learning is a continuous process.


    I also would like to emphasize the need to teach children.


    Yoga and encourage them to take part in voluntary activities such as NSS, NCC and Scouts and Guides, etc. There is a need to make sports a compulsory part of education, especially in Primary and Upper Primary levels as it helps them to learn about team spirit and sportsmanship.


    My special compliments to Nanhi Dunya, which has been working in the field of education, child and women welfare for about seven decades now through 10 welfare centers in and around Dehradun.”


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578482) Visitor Counter : 940
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali