      Ministry of Education

      Ministry of Culture is promoting folk and tribal traditions of India through various platform: Shri Prahlad Singh Patel
      Posted On: 15 JUL 2019 6:50PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Culture through various tools of media promotes & disseminates events and other celebrations based on the theme of folk & tribal traditions of India. It also takes specific steps to promote the ongoing & upcoming activities of our performing & other art forms of folk and tribal traditions through various mass communications, print and electronic media tools. Apart from these, for wider reach, the Ministry has also provided content of approximately 40,000 hours to Prasar Bharti for broadcasting on its different channels of Doordarshan.


    The mandate of the Ministry of Culture is to protect, preserve & promote various forms of folk art and culture throughout the country and to meet this objective, the Government of India has set up seven Zonal Cultural Centres (ZCCs) with headquarters at Patiala, Nagpur, Udaipur, Prayagraj, Kolkata, Dimapur and Thanjavur to promote folk artists and music in all the States/UTs of India including Madhya Pradesh. These ZCCs organize various cultural activities and programmes during the year and the folk artists from all over India are engaged to perform in these activities and programmes. Annual grant-in-aid is provided to all these seven ZCCs by the Government of India for carrying out these activities. The grant-in-aid released to these ZCCs during the last two years is as under:


    (Rs. in lakh)

                         
Sl. No.  Year     Amount 
                         
                         
                         
1.       2017-18  4689.71
                         
                         
                         
2.       2018-19  5952.69
                         
                         

    This information was given by the Minister of State (I/c) of Culture and Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578815) Visitor Counter : 367