      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking
      Posted On: 16 JUL 2019 4:57PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment observed International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking on 26 th June, 2019 at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. The Hon’ble Vice President of India was the Chief Guest of the function. The function was attended by Officers from various Ministries/Departments of Central Government, representatives from State Governments/Union Territories, Central Armed Police Forces, Delhi Police, Professors from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), National Institute of Social Defence (NISD), Non-Governmental Organizations running Integrated Rehabilitation Centre for Addicts (IRCAs), volunteers from Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS), National Service Scheme (NSS), etc. Approximately 1663 persons participated in this function. The total expenditure incurred on the function was Rs.30,19,496.


    The Ministry also organized Technical Sessions on the day on following topics:-

     1. Universal Accessibility of Treatment
     2. Focus on Prevention, Treatment and Rehabilitation under National Action Plan for Drug Demand Reduction
     3. Targeted Intervention for High Risk District & for Vulnerable Population in Closed Settings

    In the Technical Sessions approximately 450 representative from various fields i.e. representative from Central Government, State Governments/Union Territories, Professors from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), NISD, Non-Governmental Organizations running Integrated Rehabilitation Centre for Addicts (IRCAs) and Regional Resource Training Centres (RRTCs) participated in the Sessions. The expenditure incurred on Technical Session was approximately Rs.5,31,799/- .


    The Health Fitness Trust, New Delhi organized a Run Against Drug Abuse at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, New Delhi on 26 th June, 2019 with the financial support from NISD and other agencies including Oil and Natural Gas Organization (ONGC), Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL), Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Directorate of Prohibition, Department of Women and Child Development, Government of NCT of Delhi and Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL). The NISD granted Rs.5.00 lakh to Health Fitness Trust as one of the sponsors of the event. Approximately 4000 participants participated in the event.


    Twelve Regional Resource Training Centres (RRTCs) of Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment that are working in the field of drug demand reduction also organized various activities on prevention of drugs and substance abuse such as Awareness Generation campaign, Sensitization programme for school students/parents/teachers, Rallies, Signature campaign, Street Play, public awareness meeting, etc in their respective regions. The RRTCs conducted the programmes at Chennai, Chandigarh, Kohima, Kolkata, Imphal, Pune, Aizwal, Trivandrum, Dharamshala, Jodhpur, Bhubaneshwar and Harihar. State Governments/Union Territories were also requested to organize programmes on drug abuse prevention in their States/UTs.


    The expenditure incurred on promotion, publicity advertisement, awareness and the production of a Documentary Film by National Film Development Corporation on National Action Plan on Drug Demand Reduction was Rs.17,42,500/-


    This Ministry has been implementing a Scheme for Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) Abuse since 1985-86. Under this scheme, financial assistance up to 90% of the approved expenditure is given to Voluntary Organizations and other eligible agencies for setting up/running Integrated Rehabilitation Centre for Addicts (IRCAs). In the case of North-Eastern States, Sikkim and Jammu & Kashmir, the quantum of assistance is 95% of the total admissible expenditure.


    This Ministry has begun implementation of a National Action Plan for Drug Demand Reduction (NAPDDR) for 2018-2025. The Plan aims at reduction of adverse consequences of drug abuse through a multi-pronged strategy involving education, de-addiction and rehabilitation of affected individuals and their families. It focuses on preventive education, awareness generation, identification, counselling, treatment and rehabilitation of drug dependent persons and training and capacity building of the service providers through collaborative efforts of the Central and State Governments and Non-Governmental Organizations.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Ramdas Athawale in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/SJ&E-1/16-07-2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578934) Visitor Counter : 406
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

3.