      Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry & Dairying

      Health of Livestock and Animals
      Posted On: 09 JUL 2019 6:40PM by PIB Delhi


    For promotion of health of livestock and animals, the Department of Animal Husbandry & Dairying implements a Centrally Sponsored Scheme “Livestock Health & Disease Control” (LH&DC), which envisages control & containment of economically important animal diseases by providing central financial assistance to the States. Under this scheme, vaccination is carried out for control of diseases like Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD), Peste des Petits Ruminants (PPR), Brucellosis, Anthrax, Hemorrhagic Septicemia (HS), Black Quarter (BQ), Classical Swine Fever, Ranikhet disease, etc. This scheme also provides for establishment & strengthening of veterinary hospitals and dispensaries for veterinary services. Training of veterinarians and para-veterinarians is conducted for latest techniques, technology and advancement in treatments.


    To prevent the ingress of exotic animal diseases into the country through imported Livestock and Livestock Products, this Department has setup 6 (six) Animal Quarantine and Certification Services Centers (AQCS) in the country at New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad and Bangalore.


    This Department provides financial assistance for strengthening of the 5 (five) Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratories (RDDLs) at Jalandhar, Banglore, Kolkata, Pune, Guwahati and a Centre for Animal Disease Research & Diagnosis (CADRAD) of IVRI Izatnagar to enhance disease diagnostic facilities in the country.


    In view of economic importance of Foot & Mouth Disease (FMD) and Brucellosis, the National Animal Disease Control Programme for Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) and Brucellosis (NADCP) has been approved by Cabinet on 31.05.2019 as a new Central Sector Scheme with a total outlay of Rs.13,343.00 crore for five years (2019-24). An amount of Rs.2682.84 crore is proposed for Financial Year 2019-20. It has following components:


    I. Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) Control Programme - It envisages 100% vaccination coverage of cattle, buffaloes, sheep, goats and pigs at six-months interval in the entire country. Further, animals would be identified using unique animal identification ear tags. The programme also includes de-worming of the targeted population of livestock twice a year.


    II. Brucellosis Control Programme: It envisages 100% vaccination coverage of female cattle and buffalo calves (4-8 months of age) once in a life time.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Shri Sanjeev Balyan in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578011) Visitor Counter : 856