      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      6,368 Houses to Be Constructed by Using Six Distinct Alternate Technologies
      
      Selected LHPS Sites to Serve as Open Laboratories for Live Demonstration: D S Mishra
      
      RFP Published by Mohua on Www.Eprocure.Gov.Infor Construction of Light House Projects Under GHTC-India
      Posted On: 10 JUL 2019 5:59PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Durga Shanker Mishra, Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has opined that selected sites for Light House Projects(LHPs) will serve as open laboratories for live demonstration and receive due attention from academia, practitioners and media. Shri Amrit Abhijat, JS&MD (HFA) states that these LHPs will encourage the potential beneficiaries to visit the sites to see ongoing work for adaptation. A series of events to promote awareness at these sites have also been planned.


    Construction Technology India (CTI) 2019 Expo-cum-Conference under Global Housing Technology Challenge-India (GHTC-India) was inaugurated by Hon’ble Prime Minister on 2 nd March 2019 at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. GHTC-India aims to get globally acclaimed, alternate and proven construction technologies for speedier and cost-effective construction of affordable housing. The Hon’ble Prime Minister declared 219-2020 as Construction Technology Year. In continuation, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) has published Request for Proposals (RFPs) for construction of Light House Projects (LHPs) at six selected sitesunder GHTC-India.These LHPs will be constructed at Indore, Rajkot, Chennai, Ranchi, Agartala and Lucknow.


    A total of 6,368 houses including associated facilities and services will be constructedby using six distinct alternate technologies suitable to the geo-climatic conditions at selected sites within the framework of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (Urban) PMAY(U) Mission.The RFPs have been published on July 05, 2019 at www.eprocure.gov.in .for each location. A pre-bid meeting for clarifications in RFP is scheduled on July 29, 2019 at 11.00 AM in Room No. 101-A, CPWD Conference Hall, Nirman Bhawan, New Delhi. Last date for online submission of Technical and Financial Proposals is August 20, 2019 .


    Selected agencies who will complete the construction of LHPs within the stipulated 12monthsof construction period will be rewarded with USD 20,000 each and also gets an opportunity to work in future.These LHPs are envisaged to build an eco-system for the adoption of innovative technologies in the housing construction sector in a holistic manner and support further research and development in construction sector. Participating agencies may log on to www.eprocure.gov.in . to download the RFPs and for further details pertaining to RFP can be accessed on GHTC-India website https://ghtc-india.gov.in/ .


    RJ/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578189) Visitor Counter : 370
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi