      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Infestation by Pink Bollworm
      Posted On: 16 JUL 2019 6:02PM by PIB Delhi


    As informed by the State of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu,due to major interventions both on management and policy decisions no severe incidence of pink bollworm was reported during 2018-19. The pest was effectively managed and was kept below the Economic Threshold level (ETL).


    As reported by the above mentioned States and the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) - Central Institute for Cotton Research (CICR), pink bollworm infestation is not forcing farmers to use unapproved GM hybrid varieties of cotton.


    The following steps have been taken to check and control pink bollworm:

     1. The ICAR - CICR have formulated and communicated pink bollworm management strategies to State Agriculture Departments, State Agriculture Universities and KVKs for wider dissemination among farmers. Besides awareness campaigns, pest management advisories and regular monitoring of resistance is being carried out.
     2. The Central Integrated Pest Management Centres, inter alia have conducted 91 Farmers Field School (FFSs), 18 Integrated Pest Management Orientation programs and 1 Season Long Training Programmein Cotton crop. Besides, Regular survey and surveillance was undertaken to forewarn and issue advisories to the State Agriculture Departments for management of Pink bollworm.
     3. In additions, the States have undertaken exhaustive monitoring, surveillance programs and mass campaigns through print and electronic media were conducted. Besides, the States also provide plant protection inputs like pheromone traps, tricho-cards for effectively managing pink bollworm.

    This information was given in a written reply by the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shri Narendra Singh Tomar in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/JP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578972) Visitor Counter : 1450
    
    
    
    
    

3.