      Ministry of Education

      Promoting value education at schools across the country
      Posted On: 11 JUL 2019 4:42PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Curriculum Framework (NCF) 2005, developed by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), which sets the guidelines and direction for the development of syllabi and textbooks at all the school stages, emphasizes on ethical development, inculcating the values, attitudes and skills required for living in harmony with oneself and with others. However, education being a subject in the Concurrent List of the Constitution and majority of schools are under the jurisdiction of the State Governments, it is for the respective State Governments to ensure that the Values Education is taught effectively in their schools. So far as the schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) are concerned, the Board has introduced Life-Skills education in the schools affiliated to it, which promotes inculcation of Values.


    Values and attitudes are acquired and are best nurtured through experiences. These experiences need to be consistent and inbuilt in the personal and social environment of the students. NCERT has, therefore, incorporated such concerns, wherever possible, in the textbooks developed for the various stages of school education. NCERT has also brought out a Value Education Framework entitled ‘Education for Values in Schools – A Framework’, which provides guidelines to schools to identify their priorities of values and plan their actions accordingly. NCERT has also developed a Resource Book for teachers called ‘Ways to Peace’.


    CBSE has brought out Values Education Manual and Values Education Kit for classes I-XII. The Board has brought out Teacher’s Manual on Environmental Education and Adolescent Education, which help to foster values in children. CBSE also organizes Capacity Building Programmes in Values Education for teachers of its affiliated schools.


    This information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578391) Visitor Counter : 634
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi