      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister chairs the Consultation Workshop on 5-year Vision Document and National Education Policy
      Posted On: 09 JUL 2019 8:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Human Resource Development Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ chaired the national workshop on 5- year vision document and national education policy in New Delhi today. He addressed the Education Secretaries and other senior officials from the States and Union Territories (UTs) in this regard.


    While addressing the participants, the Minister emphasised on the importance of education for the development of the nation. He requested all States & UTs to hold consultations within their States and provide their tentative comments on the policy document by 31st July 2019. The Minister will also be holding consultations with all State Education Ministers on the policy in August 2019. The Minister said education is the foundation for making a new Bharat which is competent, empowered and prosperous (समर्थ, सशक्त और समृद्ध).


    Shri Pokhriyal said that the States & UTs have taken various initiatives to improve the quality of school education and are in the process of launching many more such new steps. Since they actually run most of the schools, their involvement in the process of finalising the Vision document is very crucial. Therefore, it was decided to hold this consultation with them.


    During the meeting, many valuable suggestions were made by the States and UTs. These will be passed on to NCERT for further collation and compilation.


    All Ministries and Departments in the Government of India have been asked to prepare a specific measurable and outcome oriented 5-year Vision Document with annual sub-plans, timelines and mile stones.


    Secretary, Department of School Education & Literacy, Smt Rina Ray was also present on the occasion.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578023) Visitor Counter : 443
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi