      Ministry of Finance

      Granting Educational Loans For Post Graduate Diploma Courses
      Posted On: 16 JUL 2019 6:16PM by PIB Delhi


    The Reserve Bank of India has advised all Scheduled Commercial Banks to adopt Education Loan Scheme, formulated by Indian Banks’ Association (IBA), vide circular RPCD.PLNFS. BC. NO.83/06.12.05/2000-01 dated April 28, 2001.


    IBA has formulated and circulated to all member banks including State Bank of India (SBI) a ‘Model Education Loan Scheme’ for providing financial support to meritorious students for pursuing higher education in India and abroad. S alient features of the scheme, inter-alia, include;

     1. Loan upto Rs 10 lakh for study in India and upto Rs 20 lakh for study abroad.
     2. Collateral free loans upto Rs 7.5 Lakh under the Credit Guarantee Fund Scheme for Education Loans (CGFSEL).
      * III. No Margin for loan up to Rs 7.50 Lakh.
      * IV. Repayment period of 15 years.
     1. One year moratorium for repayment after completion of studies in all cases.
      * VI. Moratorium taking into account spells of unemployment/under-employment, say two or three times during the life cycle of the loan.
     1. Moratorium for the incubation period if the student wants to take up a start-up venture after graduation.

    The IBA scheme provides broad guidelines to the banks to operationalise the educational loan scheme. However, the implementing banks may vary their products as may be required.


    As per IBA Model Scheme, approved courses leading to graduate/ post graduate degree and P G Diploma conducted by Colleges/ Universities recognized by the University Grants Commission, the All India Council for Technical Education, the Indian Council of Medical Research, etc. are eligible for education loan.


    SBI and other nationalised banks are granting education loan for post-graduation diploma courses conducted by the colleges and approved by AICTE without any discrimination.


    This was stated by Shri Anurag Singh Thakur, Minister of State for Finance & Corporate Affairs in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    DSM/RM/PD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578990) Visitor Counter : 573
    
    
    
    
    

1.