      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Grading of Skill Development Centres
      Posted On: 15 JUL 2019 4:48PM by PIB Delhi


    Under PMKVY 2016-20, training is being imparted through accredited and affiliated training providers / training centres (TPs/TCs). The entire accreditation and affiliation of TCs/TPs is done through an online portal, SMART (Skill Management and Accreditation of Training Centre) with inspection done by an independent third party assessment agencies. Accreditation and Affiliation Framework, Guidelines and the Portal for entire Skill Eco-system including PMKVY 2016-20 was released on 2 nd October 2016.


    The centres are graded on the basis of multiple parameters such as centre area, trainer qualifications, availability of equipments and other facilities at the centre. The Grading Methodology defines a set of indicators and classifies them into specific categories. The indicators within each category have appropriate weights assigned to them, forming a Grading Metrics. The total score for each category is 100. The overall performance of a Training Centre (TC) is being measured by assigning the scores. The corresponding scores are then converted into grades (represented by a Star rating). Based on band/range of the total percentage as per the scores computed, the TCs are being graded as 1 to 5 Stars where 5 Star denotes the highest grade, and 1 Star the lowest.


    Under PMKVY 2016-20, initially the TCs were either owned by Training Provider (TP) or franchises. The centers were allocated targets upon successfully meeting the criteria defined in the Grading Metrics. More than 2500 franchise centers were operational till August 2017. However, to improve the quality outputs of the scheme, the decision of phasing out franchise centers was taken in August 2017. The scheme made necessary modifications to enable erstwhile franchise TCs to convert into TPs via multiple efforts undertaken by National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) and Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship such as set up of call centre, handholding workshops, developed user manuals, checklist for physical inspection. Out of these franchise centers, 90% of centers have successfully applied for conversion to TP owned.


    Under PMKVY 16-20, TCs/TPs are not permitted to collect any charges from the enrolled candidates and this is being monitored or checked through various mechanisms like call validation of the candidates at the time of enrollment, Out-Bound dialling to make automatic voice call directly to the candidate and surprise visits of the TCs by the monitoring team. Apart from this, social media platform and mobile based applications are being used to make direct communications with the candidates.


    Under the scheme, a PMKVY Monitoring Committee has been constituted to monitor and review the empanelled TCs and impose penalties as per the penalty grid provisions in the case of violation of norms/guidelines. Apart from that, Steering Committee, Executive Committee, Accreditation Committee, Screening Committee, etc. also review and monitor the TCs as per extant provisions of the scheme.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri. R. K. Singh in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    SNC/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1578775) Visitor Counter : 391