      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Witness Protection Scheme
      Posted On: 10 JUL 2019 3:48PM by PIB Delhi


    Witness Protection Scheme, 2018 provides for protection of witnesses based on the threat assessment and protection measures inter alia include protection/change of identity of witnesses, their relocation, installation of security devices at the residence of witnesses, usage of specially designed Court rooms, etc.


    The Scheme provides for three categories of witness as per threat perception:


    Category 'A': Where the threat extends to life of witness or his family members, during investigation/trial or thereafter.


    Category 'B': Where the threat extends to safety, reputation or property of the witness or his family members, during the investigation/trial or thereafter.


    Category 'C': Where the threat is moderate and extends to harassment or intimidation of the witness or his family member's, reputation or property, during the investigation/trial or thereafter.


    The Scheme provides for a State Witness Protection Fund for meeting the expenses of the scheme. This fund shall be operated by the Department/Ministry of Home under State/UT Government and shall comprise of the following:


    i. Budgetary allocation made in the Annual Budget by the State Government;


    ii. Receipt of amount of costs imposed/ ordered to be deposited by the courts/tribunals in the Witness Protection Fund;


    iii. Donations/ contributions from Philanthropist/ Charitable Institutions/ Organizations and individuals permitted by the Government.


    iv. Funds contributed under Corporate Social Responsibility.


    The Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in its Judgment dated 05.12.2018 in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 156 of 2016 has endorsed the Scheme. As per Article 141/142 of the Constitution, the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018 endorsed in the said Judgment of the Supreme Court is binding on all Courts within the territory of India and enforceable in all States and Union Territories.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Nityanand Rai in a written reply to question in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/SS/JB/1933

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578108) Visitor Counter : 6798