      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Blood Banks in Remote Areas
      Posted On: 16 JUL 2019 4:41PM by PIB Delhi


    Government of India has formulated a policy for set up of at least one Blood Bank in every District. Public Health, being a State subject, it is the primary responsibility of the State Government to ensure the establishment of Blood Banks as per their need. However, support is provided to States/UTs to strengthen their healthcare system including strengthening existing blood banks/establishing new blood banks based on the proposals submitted by the States through National Health Mission. This includes six districts of Jharkhand namely Sarai Kela, Khunti, Jamtara, Godda, Ramgarh and Bokaro. In the State of Jharkhand, Blood Storage Units are also functional in the remote and rural areas in CHC and Referral Hospital.


    The National Blood Transfusion Council and the Blood Transfusion Councils in each State function as the mechanism aimed at coordinating between the Government on the one side and public sector voluntary organizations, and the private sector on the other. The National Blood Transfusion Council and State Blood Transfusion Council, in collaboration with public sector voluntary organizations, professional associations and private entities, etc does advocacy for Voluntary Blood Donation, organizes local and pan-India blood donation drives and does Information Education and Communication activities.


    National Blood Policy prohibits the sale and purchase of blood since it is a voluntarily donated commodity of human origin. Only licensed blood banks are permitted for collection, processing, storage and transportation of blood and blood components. At licensed blood banks, safety and quality of blood and blood components is ensured by the Food and Drugs Authority at State and National level through licensing and periodic inspections. All licensed blood banks are instructed to follow the guidelines for processing charges for blood and blood components and not levy any additional charges. They are also directed to display the charges prominently in the blood bank premises for public viewing. All hospitals are instructed to obtain blood only from licensed blood banks against such approved processing charges.


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Sh Ashwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578931) Visitor Counter : 424
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu