      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah Chairs a High Level Meeting to Review the Current Flood Situation
      Posted On: 13 JUL 2019 8:13PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah, today chaired a high level meeting to review the current flood situation in different parts of the country and the preparedness of the States and Central Ministries / Agencies concerned to deal with the situation.


    India Metrological Department (IMD) informed that during the last 3-4 days, Assam and Bihar have got excess rain fall with extremely heavy down pour. Heavy rain fall is expected in these two states during the next 48 hours. DG, NDRF apprised that 73 NDRF teams have been pre-positioned in vulnerable areas of flood affected states along with all necessary equipments. These teams are in addition to the teams kept on alert at battalion head quarter and Regional Response Centers (RRC). NDRF Teams have also rescued about 750 persons in Assam and Bihar.


    Central Water Commission (CWC) informed that in Assam Brahmaputra, Beki, Jiabharali, Katakhal and Barak and in Bihar Kamla, Bagmati, Mahananda, Gandak rivers are flowing in severe situation. Both IMD and CWC are issuing forecast bulletins at regular intervals. Control Rooms in MHA, NDRF, IMD and CWC are keeping close watch on the situation on 24*7 basis.


    After review, Union Home Minister directed the senior officers to take every possible measure to deal with the situation arising out of South-West Monsoon in the country and to extend all necessary assistance to the flood affected states.


    Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Nityanand Rai said that the Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah had directed all concerned officials to remain on high alert and provide the states with the assistance they required. He also said that Shri Amit Shah had emphasized that lives and property must be protected.


    During the meeting Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Nityanand Rai, Union Home Secretary, DG, NDRF, senior officers from Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), Central Water Commission (CWC), India Meteorological Department (IMD) and Sashastra Seema Bal were present.


    ****


    BB/VM/HS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1578664) Visitor Counter : 556
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu