      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      DUSIB asked to complete demand survey for identifying eligible beneficiaries (slum dwellers) squatting over Jhuggi Jhopri Clusters (JJCs) in Delhi
      
      GNCTD to submit status report to MoHUA on already constructed 17,660 houses & around 16,000 houses under construction
      
      Posted On: 16 JUL 2019 12:35PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Durga Shanker Mishra, Secretary, Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs has askedDUSIB to complete their demand survey for identifying eligible beneficiaries (slum dwellers) squatting over Jhuggi Jhopri Clusters (JJCs) in Delhi. He has also directed that GNCTD shall submit status report to MoHUA on already constructed 17,660 houses and around 16,000 under constructionhouses. He was chairing a meeting of officers of Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD), Delhi Development Authority (DDA), Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) and Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (DSIIDC) regarding the large number of applicants queuing up outside MoHUA and other offices for allotment of house under PMAY (U).


    It was also decided that DUSIB and DDA shall call for application forms online through their websites so that beneficiaries may be benefitted under all verticals of PMAY-U. These forms will be submitted through Common Service Centre (CSC) also. DUSIB shall undertake rehabilitation of slum dwellers whereas DDA shall undertake housing demand for other urban poor. Shri Mishra also asked DDA to organize camps for selling around 40,000 houses constructed by DDA by associating with various financial institutes, nationalized banks and in coordination with National Housing Bank (NHB) so that people get benefit upto Rs.2.67 lakh under Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme (CLSS) under PMAY (U). The officials of Delhi Govt. assured to strategically get the houses occupied in the next six months. Areview of the same will be held periodically.


    During the recent months, some group of unknown persons have circulated ‘fake application form’ among public that people can submit applications in the offices of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) and other offices for allotment of houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Urban (PMAY-U) Mission. A First Information Report (FIR) was lodged on 11.07.2019 at South Avenue Police Station, New Delhi against unknown persons indulged in the unauthorized activities circulating ‘fake application form’ among public.


    RJ/PS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1578856) Visitor Counter : 827
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi