      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Construction work in full swing at Passenger Terminal Complex of Kartarpur Sahib Corridor, Dera Baba Nanak, Punjab
      Posted On: 14 JUL 2019 2:45PM by PIB Delhi


    The construction work on the Rs 500 crore Passenger Terminal Complex at Dera Baba Nanak, Punjab for Kartarpur Sahib Corridor is going in full swing. Construction work is being carried out by the reputed company M/S Shapoorji&PallonjiPvt Ltd under the supervision of Land Ports Authority of India (LPAI),MHA. The project will be completed by 31 st October, before the commemoration of 550th birth anniversary of Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji in November 2019.


    The Passenger Terminal Complex is being built on 15 acres land. It will have all public amenities to enable smooth passage of approximately 5,000 passengers per day.


    Features of Passenger Terminal complex

     1. Fully air-conditioned building of 16000 Sqms approximately (13000 Sqms ground floor+ 3000 Sqms mezzanine floor). The main building which is akin to airport buildings will have:-
         1. 54 Immigrations counters for facilitating travel of 5000 pilgrims per day.

         1. Adequate seating capacityto accommodate 2000 pilgrims.


         1. All necessary public amenities likekiosks, washrooms, child care, first aid medical facilities, prayer room and snacks counters inside main building.


         1. Spacious parking lotsto station 10 buses, 250 Cars, and 250 two- wheelers.


         1. Robust security systems with CCTV surveillance and public address systems.


         1. Landscape area with water bodies, artefacts, sculptures of local culture, shaded seating spaces, canopies, benches up to zero point etc.


     1. A 300ft. National Monumental Flag at the International Border.


    The Construction work for the Passenger Terminal Complex is in full swing with more than 250 laborers and 30 engineers at site working in 3 shifts, aided by construction machinery such as batch mixing plant.


    Excavation for the foundation is nearly complete for the whole complex while the plinth and column RCC has already started for the main passenger building. Works are being executed in parallel to ensure simultaneous completion of different activities.


    The construction of this pre-engineered building mainly envisages the plinth, foundation and columns while rest of the steel structure would be fabricated separately at other factory locations and directly transported to the site and installed.


    Vendors and subcontractors for mechanical, electrical and plumbing works have been finalized and the orders for the steel structure, glazing and aluminum sheeting for roofing have been placed. Vendor for air-condition, heating & ventilation has also been finalised.


    Architecture schools at Amritsar have been consulted for the display of the rich Punjabi heritage, the life and works of Shri Guru Nanak Devji in the state-of-art building and for the landscaping of the complex.


    *****


    BB/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578673) Visitor Counter : 428
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Punjabi
    
    
    

1.