      Ministry of Tourism

      Incredible India Campaign Wins Pata Gold Award 2019
      Posted On: 17 JUL 2019 6:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The Incredible India "Find the Incredible You" campaign released globally by the Ministry of Tourism during 2018-19 has been declared winner of the PATA (Pacific Asia Travel Association) Gold Award 2019 in the “Marketing - Primary Government Destination” category. T his year’s awards attracted 198 entries from 78 organisations and individuals worldwide.


    The Ministry of Tourism, as part of its promotional initiatives annually releases Global Media Campaigns under the ‘Incredible India’ brand-line in the Television, Print, Digital and Social Media, in key and potential source markets overseas.


    To take the Campaigns to the next level, the ‘Incredible India 2.0’ Campaign was launched in September 2017, which marks a shift from generic promotions undertaken across the world to market specific promotional plans and content creation. The campaign focuses on digital and social media and the promotion of Niche Tourism products of the country.


    As part of the 2.0 Campaign, five new television commercials were produced by the Ministry, which were aired globally in the television, digital and social media. These were:

     1. Yoga : “The Yogi of the Racetrack”
     2. Wellness : “The Reincarnation of Mr. and Mrs. Jones”
     3. Luxury : “The Maharani of Manhattan”
     4. Cuisine : “The Masala MasterChef”
     5. Wildlife : “The Sanctuary in Paris”

    The campaign strategy was to shift the focus from the external experience of tourist destinations to the internal experience of travelers themselves. This series of transformative experiences was brought alive through unique storytelling in the format of autobiographies of travelers, with the tagline “Find the Incredible You”.


    The series of films have received a very good response and have registered over 153 million views on social media. They were earlier awarded the First Prize in the category of TV Cinema Spot at the International Golden City Gate Tourism Awards at Berlin in March 2019.


    PATA Gold Awards are given to tourism industry organizations and individuals making outstanding contribution towards the successful promotion of the travel industry throughout the Asia Pacific Region. The winners of the awards set industry standards for excellence and innovation and serve as examples for others to follow.


    *****


    NB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579228) Visitor Counter : 1303
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi
    
    
    

5.