      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      No compromise will be tolerated on Air Safety: Minister for Civil Aviation
      Posted On: 20 JUL 2019 5:04PM by PIB Delhi


    Speaking at the International conference cum awards on civil aviation and cargo, held today at the national capital, Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State(I/c) for Civil Aviation, Housing & Urban Development said that his Ministry would not tolerate any compromise on Air Safety and standards. The event organised by ASSOCHAM- Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry - one of the apex trade associations of India- was attended by H.E. Dr Ahmed Albanna, Ambassador, Embassy of the United Arab Emirates, H.E. Mr J. Goburdhun, High Commissioner of the Republic of Mauritius to India among other leaders from the Civil Aviation Industry.


    Calling on the industry operators and all stakeholders in theCivil aviation sector to work in aheathy aspect, the Minister stated that Indian aviation sector witnessing rapidly increasing demand and the that by 2040 air passengers traffic would increase nearly 5 timeswas a recipe for huge success.


    Minister as the Chief Guest for the occasionalso gave away the awards to the winners nominated under various categories. Some of the other winners were Airbus, AAI Cargo, Bird Academy, Air India Express, Spice Jet, Frankfinn during the summit.


    Addressing the ASSOCHAM conference, H.E. Dr Ahmed Al Banna, UAE Ambassador to India impressed upon the need to see how can both countries collaborate, cooperate and expand the industry and become partners in growth of the aviation sector.


    “The vision of our leadership with our plans, end goals, I think it will make us reach to the maximum relationship in all sectors, including airline as we are trying to grow people to people connections,” he stated.


    H.E. Mr J. Goburdhun, GOSK, High Commissioner of the Republic of Mauritius to India in his address said that civil aviation sector must collaborate in facilitating exchange of people among the Indian diaspora and make special flights or low-cost carriers available to visit the ancestral land and to develop tangible and intangible heritage.


    Growth of air cargo is critical for industries such as e-commerce, pharmaceuticals, electronics, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, animal husbandry and marine exports, and high-value goods, including gems and jewellery and fashion garments, where shipments are highly time-sensitive.In conformance with the objectives of the holistic National Civil Aviation Policy, 2016, a number of initiatives and measures were taken up to sustain the growth impetus in air cargo, efficiency improvement and promotion of ease of doing business across the air cargo value chain. The first National Air Cargo Policy’s (NACP) outline was released at the Global Aviation Summit in January 2019. It aims to achieve fundamental re-engineering of the whole-of-the-value-chains for domestic and export-import air freight for reaching the target of handling 10 million tonnes by 2026-27.


    Among others who addressed the conference included –Mr Vineet Agarwal, Vice President; Mr Ajay Singh, CMD, SpiceJet Limited; Shri Ashish Saraf, Head-Airbus Helicopters, India & South Asia; Mr Narayana Rao, Chairman and Mr Ankur Bhatia, Co-Chairman, ASSOCHAM National Council on Civil Aviation.


    ******


    RJ/PS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1579641) Visitor Counter : 505
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi