      AYUSH

      MoU Signed between Ministry of Health and Ministry of AYUSH for ‘Tuberculosis Free India’ initiative
      Posted On: 18 JUL 2019 6:52PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of AYUSH and Ministry of Health & Family Welfare have signed MoU today to forge inter-sectoral convergence at the level of policy, planning and programme implementation for accelerated response towards “Tuberculosis Free India” initiative. The intended collaboration between the two Ministries aims at development of linkages and integration of TB care services within the infrastructure and institutional network of AYUSH. The MoU was signed by Secretary Health and Family Welfare Smt. Preeti Sudan and Secretary AYUSH, Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha in the presence of Minister of Health and Family Welfare Shri Harshvardhan, MoS Health and Family Welfare Shri Ashwini Choubey and Minister of State for AYUSH and MoS Defence Shri Shripad Yesso Naik.


    On this occasion Shri Shripad Naik said that Tuberculosis is not only a challenge for medical fraternity but also a serious social problems mainly hitting the populations battling with poverty, malnutrition, poor hygiene, housing and working conditions. The Minister said that AYUSH systems have potential knowledge base, qualified & trained human resources and holistic healthcare practices to help achieving the objective of TB- free India. He further said that accordingly, it is expected that multifaceted issues of the people suffering from TB can be addressed with integrated approaches, inter-sectoral convergence and meaningful involvement of AYUSH sector.


    The MoU with the Central TB Division of the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare outlines the scope and extent of AYUSH involvement in sensitization, awareness generation, capacity building of AYUSH institutions and health service providers in the areas of TB diagnosis, control and management. Focused activities envisaged under the MoU will cover joint planning to work with AYUSH organisations & professional bodies and promote adjuvant use of evidence- based AYUSH interventions for, TB control and management. It is also intended to facilitate research collaboration and best practices of AYUSH healthcare and build up capacities for TB-free work places and communities. Both Ministries will appoint Nodal Officers for development of implementation plan, modalities of operationalization and steering the collaboration activities outlined in the MoU.


    *****


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579413) Visitor Counter : 1753
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu