      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Tobacco Export to China
      Posted On: 17 JUL 2019 5:29PM by PIB Delhi


    India and China have not entered into any agreement for exporting Indian tobacco to China. However, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India has signed a Protocol of Phytosanitary requirements for the export of tobacco from India to China with the General Administration of Customs of the People’s Republic of China (GACC) on 21.01.2019. It is expected that signing of said protocol will push overall export of FCV tobacco, primarily produced in the State of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, to China. The salient features of the protocol are as under:


    The protocol was signed on 21.01.2019 and the same will be in force for a period of four years from the date of signing of the protocol.


    The tobacco leaves exported to China, which must be produced in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka in India and have been cured and re-dried, must comply with the relevant phytosanitary and sanitary laws and regulations of China, and meet the requirements as stipulated in the Protocol.


    The importers of tobacco must obtain the import quarantine permit from GACC before trade contracts are signed. The tobacco leaves must be securely packaged in airproof way to prevent the contamination of quarantine pests.


    Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare (MOA&FW) will take effective monitoring measures in the field to ensure that the tobacco producing area is free of tobacco blue mold.


    MOA&FW shall conduct export quarantine inspection for tobacco leaves. For the consignment of tobacco leaves which meets the requirement stipulated in this protocol, MOA&FW shall issue a Phytosanitary Certificate according to the standards of International Plant Protection Convention (IPPC).


    This information was given by the Minister of State in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Hardeep Singh Puriin a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    MM/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579168) Visitor Counter : 438
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu