      Ministry of Power

      Enhancing Infrastructure in Arunachal Pradesh
      
      Cabinet approves 2880 MW Dibang Multipurpose Project in Arunachal Pradesh
      
      Rs. 1600 crore expenditure approved
      
      Posted On: 17 JUL 2019 4:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the expenditure on pre-investment activities and various clearances for Dibang Multipurpose Project (MPP) in Arunachal Pradesh for an amount of Rs. 1600 crore.


    The estimated total cost of Project is Rs. 28080.35 including IDC & FC of Rs 3974.95 crore at Jun'18 price level. The estimated completion period for the project shall be nine years from receipt of Government sanction.


    The project shall generate 2880MW (12x240MW) power to produce 11223MU of energy in a 90% dependable year. This is the largest ever Hydro Electric Projects to be constructed in India. The dam is 278 metres high and will be the highest dam in India once completed.


    The Project is located on river Dibang, in Lower Dibang Valley District of Arunachal Pradesh. The project envisages construction of a 278 m high Concrete Gravity Dam (above deepest foundation level), 6 Nos. horseshoe-shaped Head Race Tunnels of length varying from 300 m to 600 m with 9 m dia., an underground Power House and 6 Nos. horseshoe-shaped Tail Race Tunnels of length varying from 320 m to 470 m with 9m dia.


    On completion, the Government of Arunachal Pradesh will get 12% free power from the project i.e. 1346.76 MU. 1% free power (i.e. 112 MUs will be given in Local Area Development Fund(LADF). The total value of benefit to Arunachal Pradesh from Free power and contribution to LADF will be Rs 26785 crore over the project life of forty years.


    Dibang Multipurpose Project (Dibang MPP) is envisaged as a storage based hydro-electric project with flood moderation as the key objective. The construction of Dibang MPP shall prevent the sizeable downstream area from floods. After implementation of master plan of Brahmaputra Board for flood moderation of all rivers contributing to river Brahmaputra, of which Dibang MPP is one of the component, sizable area will be protected from flooding and help in mitigating the perennial damage due to floods in Assam.


    The project is having all statutory clearances viz. TEC, Environment Clearance, Forest Clearance (Stage-l) and Defence Clearance except Forest Clearance (Stage-II) for seeking Investment Sanction from Govt. of India.


    The approval of anticipated expenditure on pre-investment activities and various clearances shall enable payment towards compensation for land acquisition and R&R activities (Rs. 500.40 Crores) to project affected families and state government, payment of Net Present Value (NPV) of forests, Compensatory Afforestation (CA), Catchment Area Treatment Plan (CAT) to the state government for forest lands, to secure the Forest Clearance (Stage-lI) and construction of roads and bridges for accessing project site. In addition to the mandated R&R plan, it is also proposed to spend Rs. 241 crore on Community and Social Development plan and certain concerns raised by the local people during the public hearings. It is also proposed to spend an amount of Rs. 327 lakhs on a plan for protection of culture and identity of local people.


    *****


    AKT/PK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579130) Visitor Counter : 320
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi