      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Trauma Care Centres for Road Accident Victims
      Posted On: 22 JUL 2019 6:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Govt. of India has taken initiatives towards setting up of Trauma Care Facilities along National Highways, under the scheme “Capacity Building for Developing Trauma Care Facilities on National Nighways”. The overall objective of the scheme is to bring down preventable deaths due to road accidents by developing a pan-India trauma care network. The scheme provides for setting up a designated trauma center at every 100 km on NHs. During the 11th and 12th Five Year Plans, about 200 Trauma Care Facilities (TCFs) were identified and financial support provided under the Programme.


    Considering the shortage of medical and paramedical personnel in trauma care facilities, the scheme, implemented during the 11th & 12th FYP, provided for financial support for manpower component to these facilities for a period of 3 years. Further, as per MoU signed with the states, the state governments are required to create permanent posts to undertake the liability of the contractual manpower recruited under the program, to ensure unhindered functioning of the trauma care facilities. In addition to this, various training courses are being provided for capacity building of the existing manpower in these trauma care facilities so that they can provide better healthcare services. These include Advanced Trauma Life Support (ATLS) for doctors and Basic Life Support (BLS) for nurses. In addition, a Pre-Hospital Trauma Technician (PTT) course curriculum has also been developed under the Trauma scheme for paramedics to be posted in ambulances.


    As per the information received from police departments of State/UTs, number of road accidents on Highways in India for during the calendar year 2015 to 2017 is given below:-

                          
Year  Total Road Accidents
                          
                          
                          
2015  1,42,268            
                          
                          
                          
2016  1,42,359            
                          
                          
                          
2017  1,41,466            
                          
                          
                          

    Road accidents occur due to multiple causes such as use of mobile phones while driving, drunken driving/consumption of alcohol/ drug, overloaded vehicle, poor light condition, jumping red light, over speeding, overtaking, neglect of civic bodies, weather condition, fault of driver, driving on wrong side, defect in road condition, defect in condition of motor vehicle, fault of cyclist, fault of pedestrian etc.


    This information was given by the Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Shri Nitin Gadkari in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579798) Visitor Counter : 384
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu