      Ministry of Culture

      Culture Minister Shri Prahlad Singh Patel inaugurates the architectural illumination of the historic Safdarjung Tomb
      
      A total of 213 technologically advanced LED lights have been used to highlight the architectural beauty including arches and minarets of the Safdarjung tomb
      
      Illumination of historic monuments will enhance tourists’ experience: Culture Minister
      Posted On: 19 JUL 2019 7:50PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of State for Culture (I/C) Shri Prahlad Singh Patel inaugurated the illumination of the historic Safdarjung Tomb in New Delhi today.With the illumination the architectural beauty of the 17th century Mughal era monument will display its historic reflection on Delhi after sunset.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said that India is full of tourist attractions, where there is a unique blend of cultures, religions and beliefs. Our heritage is our identity, and hardly any country of the world presents such a lucrative mix of a rich and diverse heritage that is so old in terms of civilization. The intimacy between the people of different cultures and traditions has made this unique country 'India'.


    He further said that our Ministry of Culture is working in this direction that the youth get an opportunity to know the history and culture of the country better and to encourage the sense of shared identity of 'Indianness' among the citizens of our country.


    Shri Prahlad Singh Patel said that over the centuries, this Safdarjung Tomb has been giving testimony of the rich archaeological heritage of Delhi. Today, it is a magnificent example of the Incredible India. I hope that seeing this new innovative form of the Safdarjung Tomb, not only will the local residents be proud of their heritage but will also help in launching our rich cultural heritage on world tourism.


    The Minister informed that to highlight the archaeological magnificence of our historical monuments, Archaeological Survey of India has taken up the project to illuminate the important monuments of Delhi. Earlier, the illumination of Red Fort, Humayun’s Tomb, and Purana Qila has already been completed. Qutub Minar and Tughlakabad Fort are also expected to be illuminated in near future.


    He further said that continuing its endeavor to promote India’s glorious culture and Heritage, the Ministry of Culture, Government India is committed to showcase India’s cultural vibrancy to the entire world. The move to illuminate the historic monuments aims to showcase monuments during late evenings, thereby enhancing the visitor and tourists’ experience.


    Shri Patel also informed that to highlight the architectural beauty including arches and minarets of the Safdarjung tomb,a total of 213 technologically advanced LED lights have been used which will consume less electricity – the consumption of which is approximately 62% less than conventional light fixtures. The new architectural lighting will cast programmed light on components such as domes, ramparts, minarets, arches and balconies from different directions to highlight their architectural details. The new illumination comprises of simple yellow and static lighting that accentuates the silhouette of the monument with the interplay of light and shade. The duration of illumination will be from 7:00 PM to 11:00 PM daily with a monthly cost of Rs 8,880/- which comes out to Rs 1,06,560/- for a year.


    Safdarjung Tomb is one of those historical monuments which attracts thousands of tourists every year and is the pride jewel in Delhi’s history. The project has been completed by Archaeological Survey of India of Ministry of Culture.


    Member of Parliament from New Delhi, Smt. Meenakshi Lekhi and Secretary, Culture, Shri Arun Goel were also present on the occasion.


    Secretary, Culture, Shri Arun Goel said that o ur country India is not only culturally rich but is also one of the most diverse heritages in the world. Our historic environment is more than just a matter of material remains. It is central to how we see ourselves and to our identity as individuals, communities, and as a nation. It is important to connect the people-especially the youth with their indigenous culture, its multi-faceted nature, magnificence, opulence and historical importance in the context of India as a Nation. Ministry of Culture is committed to showcase India’s glorious culture and Heritage, & cultural vibrancy to the entire world.


    *****


    NB/AKJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1579609) Visitor Counter : 593
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi