      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Mantri pays homage to Martyrs at Kargil War Memorial at Dras
      Posted On: 20 JUL 2019 3:01PM by PIB Delhi


    The Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh visited the Kargil War Memorial at Dras in Jammu and Kashmir today. The Raksha Mantri commenced his visit by laying a wreath in memory of the gallant martyrs of Operation VIJAY at the iconic Kargil War Memorial, which was followed by observing of one minute silence as a mark of respect for the fallen heroes.


    He subsequently visited the 'Veer Bhoomi' and the ‘Hut of Remembrance’ which are co-located in the Memorial premises. During his visit, the Raksha Mantri was briefed on Operation VIJAY including the heroic actions of the Indian troops in thwarting the evil designs of the enemy in the Dras, Kargil and Batalik Sectors.


    As part of the commemoration of the 20 th anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas, Shri Rajnath Singh dedicated a 'Memory Lane' which displays information on a few important battles. The 'Memory Lane' recapitulates the gallant deeds of the brave Indian Army Officers, Junior Commissioned Officers and Jawans who fought against all odds to rid the Indian territory of enemy intruders.


    Later, Lieutenant General YK Joshi, General Officer Commanding Fire & Fury Corps, himself a veteran of Operation VIJAY, briefed the Raksha Mantri at Lamochan View Point on various battles that took place during the Kargil War in 1999. The Raksha Mantri also took the opportunity to share a cup of tea and interact with the soldiers presently deployed in the Sector. He appreciated the dedication of the troops who are defending the borders, in these challenging conditions and conveyed the appreciation of the Nation to the Indian Army, for always keeping 'Nation First'.


    Minister of State for Prime Minister's Office, Department of Atomic Energy andDepartment of SpaceDr Jitendra Singh, the Chief of Army Staff, General Bipin Rawat and the General Officer Commanding in Chief Northern Command Lt Gen Ranbir Singh were also present on the occasion.


    ABB/Nampi/RK/DK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579634) Visitor Counter : 391
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi