      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Substantial Reduction in Incidents of Terrorism in the Country
      Posted On: 23 JUL 2019 6:16PM by PIB Delhi


    The number of terrorist incidents has substantially reduced during 01.04.2009 till 30.06.2019 as compared to previous decade. Consequent to the adoption of the policy of zero tolerance against terrorism, security forces have been taking effective and continuous action in countering terrorism, resulting in corresponding change in the number of such incidents. The number of terrorist incidents in the Hinterland during the last decade as compared to the previous decade have reduced by 70% from 71 to 21 and the number of terrorist incidents in Jammu & Kashmir have reduced by 86% i.e. 23,290 to 3187.


    Further, as compared to the corresponding period of 2018, the first half of this year has witnessed a reduction of 28% in terrorists initiated incidents and an increase of 59% in actions initiated by the security forces against terrorists in Jammu & Kashmir.


    Government has zero tolerance policy against terrorism. Close and effective coordination mechanism exists between intelligence and security agencies at the Centre and the State level. The Multi Agency Centre (MAC) has been strengthened and re-organized to enable it to function on 24x7 basis for real time collation and sharing of intelligence with the central / state Agencies concerned.


    National Investigation Agency (NIA) has been strengthened for investigation of terrorism related cases. States have raised Special Forces to deal with terror incidents and Central Armed Police Forces & National Security Guards have also been stationed at different locations to assist the States in dealing with such incidents. The Central Agencies have been organising capacity building programmes for the States forces regarding intelligence sharing and investigation of terror cases.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri G.Kishan Reddy in a written reply to question in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    VG/VM/SS/JB/4937

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579972) Visitor Counter : 489
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali