      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      The Indian IT-ITES Industry Continues to be a Net Hirer and Provides on the Job Training
      Posted On: 22 JUL 2019 3:53PM by PIB Delhi


    As per National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM), Indian IT/ITES industry employs 41.38 lakhs persons as of FY 2018-19(E), adding around 1.7 lakhs employees from last year. The technology automation has not replaced workers, but improved productivity and provided workers the time to focus on other tasks involving complex decision making and social interactions. Rather, the adoption of new technology creat es jobs, increases productivity, and increases the demand for skilled labour. The Indian IT-ITES industry continues to be a net hirer and provides on the job training.


    IT industry is undergoing a transformative change. The stakeholders covering industry, academia and Sector Skills Councils are working to ensure that the existing workforce is re-skilled/up-skilled in emerging technologies and job roles. To cater to these requirements, a ‘technology enabled Re-Skilling/ Up-Skilling Framework’ for the employees of IT sector has been evolved in consultation with NASCCOM, Industry and Academia, with Government acting as an enabler/ facilitator. Through this initiative Industry and Government have come together to Re-skill/ Up-skill a total of 2 Million employees of IT sector over a period of five years. MeitY has also signed a MoU with NASSCOM to collaborate and strengthen cooperation in the re-skilling and up-skilling of employees in areas of new and emerging technologies.


    Further, Director General of Training, to keep pace with technological innovations has also introduced new trades in the year 2018 viz. Geo-Informatics Assistant, Aeronautical Structure and Equipment Fitter, Additive Manufacturing Technician (3D Printing), Drone Pilot, Electrician Power Distribution, Technical Mechatronics, Solar Technician (Electrical), Internet of Things (Smart Agriculture, Smart Healthcare and Smart City), Soil Testing & Crop Management and Firemen etc.


    This information was given by Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar Union Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employment in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579731) Visitor Counter : 421
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu