      Ministry of Tourism

      Kakinada Hope Island in Andhra Pradesh has been developed as a world Class Coastal & Eco Tourism Circuit: Tourism Minister
      Posted On: 22 JUL 2019 5:23PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Tourism, under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme provides Central Financial Assistance to State Governments/Union Territory (UT) Administrations for development of thematic tourist circuits in the country, with the objective of improving connectivity and infrastructure of tourism destinations to enrich overall tourist experience, enhance livelihood and employment opportunities and to attract domestic as well as foreign tourists to the destinations .


    The projects for development are identified in consultation with the State Governments/UT Administrations and are sanctioned subject to submission of project proposals, their adherence to relevant scheme guidelines, submission of suitable detailed project reports, availability of funds and utilization of funds released earlier.


    Based on the above, the Ministry has sanctioned the following projects to the State of Andhra Pradesh –


    (Rs. in crore)

                                                                                                                                                          
S. No.  Circuit/ Sanction Year  Project Name                                                                                Amt. Sanctioned  Amt. Released
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
1       Coastal Circuit         Development of Kakinada Hope Island Konaseema as World Class Coastal & Eco Tourism Circuit  67.84            64.44        
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
        (2014-15)                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
1.                                                                                                                                                        
        Coastal Circuit         Development of Coastal Tourism Circuit in Sri Potti Sriramalu Nellore                       59.70            47.76        
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
        (2015-16)                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
1.                                                                                                                                                        
        Buddhist Circuit        Development of Shalihundam-Thotlakonda- Bavikonda- Bojjanakonda- Amravati- Anupu            52.34            10.47        
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
        (2017-18)                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                          
Total   179.88                  122.67                                                                                    
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                          

    The components sanctioned under the projects include Buddhist Cultural Centre, Water Front Promenade, SEL/Laser shows, Water Fountain, Approach Roads, Tourist Facilitation / Reception / Interpretation / Amenities Centres, Seating Plazas and Lounges, Solar Lighting, Jetties, Information signages, Illumination, CCTV surveillance equipment and WiFi facilities etc. among other basic tourist amenities like Drinking water kiosks, Public conveniences etc.


    All the above projects are at various stages of implementation/completion. The project “ Development of Kakinada Hope Island Konaseema as World Class Coastal & Eco Tourism Circuit” sanctioned in the year 2014-15 has attained physical completion and the last installment of funds will be released after monitoring Operation & Maintenance of the site for one year.


    The information was given by Minister of State (I/C) for Culture and Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel in reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ********


    NB/UD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1579776) Visitor Counter : 620
    
    
    
    
    

           
           
           
           
1.         
           
1.