      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Various measures to bring transparency in administration
      Posted On: 17 JUL 2019 1:35PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government of India has implemented various measures bringing technological intervention to bring transparency in the day to day administration, such as, implementation of e-Office, e-Leave management system, Employee Information System, Smart Performance Appraisal Report Recording Online Window (SPARROW), Aadhar enabled Bio-metric Attendance System (AEBAS), Pension Sanction and Payment tracking System (Bhavishya), Public Financial Management System (PFMS), Government e-Market (GeM), Central Public Procurement Portal (CPPP), Foreign Visit Management System (FVMS), Web Responsive Pensioner’s Service for pensioners etc.


    Various other information related to departments are available on the websites of the Departments.


    1. AEBAS- Aadhar Enabled Biometric Attendance enables real time and flawless monitoring of employee attendance thereby ensuring punctuality among employee,


    2. e-Office aims to usher in more efficient, effective and transparent inter-government and intra-government transactions and processes. It enhances transparency, assure data security and data.


    3. GeM: - Government e-Market (GeM) provided rich listing products for individual categories of Goods Services, transparent and ease of buying and user-friendly dash board for buying and monitoring supplies and payment.


    4. Currently, approximately 46.4 lakh tenders with estimated value of Rs.66.00 lakh crores are processed through Central Public Procurement Portal (CPPP) since inception till 30th June, 2019. During the month of June, 2019 around 1.12 lakh tenders worth Rs.1.02 lakh crores were processed on CPPP. Apart from this, procurement of more than Rs.18700.00 crore has been taken place through Government e-Marketplace (GeM) till its inception in 2016.


    5. The Web Responsive Pensioner’s Service is providing single point web solution for pensioners to obtain comprehensive information relating to status of the pensions processing and payment.


    6. Foreign Visit Management System (FVMS) has been operational for regulating and ensuring efficient and effective foreign travel of officers of Government of India from the rank of Additional Secretary and above for obtaining the approval of the Screening Committee of Secretaries. The URL for the system is fvms.gov.in and all the Ministries / Departments are required to submit their proposal online on this website.


    7. The CAG’s Audit reports after they are tabled in the Parliament/Legislature, are uploaded on the website of CAG. Information related to the status of pension, GPF and Gazetted Entitlement cases are available on the websites of respective Account General’s Office. This enables the concerned stakeholders and other visitors to view information relating to audit and accounts activities of the department.


    This information was provided by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh in written reply to a question in LokSabha today.


    ****


    VG/NK/JMS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579061) Visitor Counter : 861
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali