      Finance Commission

      The Fifteenth Finance Commission holds meeting with the Ministry of Jal Shakti
      Posted On: 23 JUL 2019 4:45PM by PIB Delhi


      The 15 th Finance Commission headed by Chairman, Shri N.K. Singh alongwith its Members and senior officials today held a meeting with the Ministry of Jal Shakti headed by Minister, Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. The Ministry presented details of its fund requirements specially for the Jal Jeevan Mission – in a mission mode with 2024 as its deadline.


      The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi in a meeting chaired by him in March, 2018 had directed that the 15 th Finance Commission be requested to direct the States to earmark certain amount of funds for specific sectors and interventions in Health and Sanitation. As a follow-up the Ministry of Jal Shakti has today presented to the Finance Commission its achievements and its requirements thus far.


      According to the Ministry, the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) is different from the earlier National Rural Drinking Water Programme (NRDWP) approach, as it involves the Gram Panchayats in planning and implementation of the project. Now the funding in JJM is against outcomes. The good performing State draw more funds while the poor performers loose share. Further, there is more focus on sustainability and there is community involvement to finance and manage O&M. Also there is emphasis on IEC for water conservation.


      The Ministry has projected that the total estimated cost of 100% Piped Water Supply (PWS) is 7.88 crores (based on actual DPRs from State). In this the Ministry has proposed an amount of Rs. 50,000 crores through 15 th Finance Commission through Gram Panchayats for O&M and source sustainability. The Ministry has stressed upon the need for Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) financing through the 15 th Finance Commission.


      The Department of Water resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation also made a presentation before the Commission on its fund requirements.


      The Commission has noted the details presented by the Minister and his team and has promised to carefully look into all the recommendations in their report to the Union government.


      *****


      MC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1579924) Visitor Counter : 683
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Punjabi , Urdu , Marathi , Bengali