      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NDRF Evacuated more than 11,000 People
      Posted On: 17 JUL 2019 7:21PM by PIB Delhi


    The heavy rainfall created flood like situation and threw normal life out of gear in various parts of the Country. NDRF teams are relentlessly continuing rescue operations in the flood affected areas of Assam & Bihar NDRF rescuers are ferrying the people in Inflatable Rubber Boats (IRBs) to safer places and distributing the essential supplies like food packets, drinking water in affected areas.


    Assam: 18 teams of NDRF have been deployed in Assam in connection with the monsoon season. Today, NDRF team deployed in Distt. Morigaon, carried out rescue & relief operation and evacuated 594 stranded villagers to safer places. In addition, a team of doctors, medic and paramedic staff of NDRF organized a medical camp at Distt. Golaghat and provided medical assistance to 116 needy people.


    Bihar: NDRF teams are engaged in rescue and relief work in flood prone areas of Distt. Araria, Darbhanga, Katihar, Madhubani, Motihari, Sitamarhi & Supaul and also assisting the local administration in distribution of relief materials in the flood ravaged areas. So far, NDRF teams have evacuated more than 4100 people in Bihar.


    NDRF responders are doing their best to get in touch with each marooned person in the flood prone areas of the states. So far, NDRF teams have evacuated more than 11,000 people and provided medical assistance to the 230 people during this monsoon season.


    Shri S N Pradhan, DG NDRF is personally monitoring the situation and providing directions to the NDRF officials who are leading the operations in the flood affected areas.


    A 24X7, NDRF control room in Delhi is functioning round the clock to watch the ongoing operations and in touch with other agencies to further respond in case of emergencies.


    *******


    VG/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579246) Visitor Counter : 253
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi