      Ministry of Defence

      Recruitment of Matriculate Sailors in the Indian Navy
      Posted On: 23 JUL 2019 12:02PM by PIB Delhi


    The Indian Navy will conduct a computer-based examination called Indian Navy Entrance Test (INET) for recruitment of sailors in September 2019. Unmarried males born between 01 Apr 2000 and 31 Mar 2003 (both dates inclusive) will be eligible to apply. Candidates need to have passed Class X. Matriculate Recruit Entry sailors serve in the Indian Navy as Chefs, Stewards and Hygienists.


    Online applications only shall be accepted through www.joinindiannavy.gov.in . In order to save time before the application window opens, aspiring candidates are advised to register themselves only on www.joinindiannavy.gov.in . There is no other website or app for registration. By creating their user accounts on the website, candidates will receive email alerts about the online application submission window. After registering online, candidates would be required to update their personal, educational and communication particulars. Candidates will also be able to upload their supporting documents in their accounts. Pre-registration will save candidates’ time when the application window opens.


    On completion of INET, short-listed candidates will be called for the next phase of selection, i.e., Physical Fitness Test and Preliminary Medical Examination. On completion of this phase, a Merit List shall be published and successful candidates will be called for enrolment at the training establishment, INS Chilka in Odisha. Enrolment in the Indian Navy shall be subject to candidates successfully passing in the Final Enrolment Medical Examination at INS Chilka. Training will commence in April 2020. For details on eligibility and medical standards, please visit www.joinindiannavy.gov.in.


    Candidates may also choose to visit any Common Service Centre and receive assistance in filling-up the online application. A nominal fee of Rs 60 (plus GST) will be charged for this service. An examination fee will be required to be paid online while submitting the online application.


    ***


    DKS/AC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579845) Visitor Counter : 891
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu , Marathi , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil , Malayalam