      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      ACC Appointments
      Posted On: 19 JUL 2019 5:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) has approved the following appointments:

     1. Ms. Amita Prasad, IAS (KN:85), Director General, National Productivity Council, Department for Promotion of Industry & Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce & Industry as Chairperson, Inland Waterways Authority of India, Ministry of Shipping in the rank and pay of Secretary by temporarily upgrading the post.
     2. Shri Arun Kumar Jha, IES (1985), presently in the Cadre, as Director General, National Productivity Council, Department for Promotion of Industry & Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce &Industry in the rank and pay of Additional Secretary vice Ms. Amita Prasad, IAS (KN:85) on her appointment as Chairperson, Inland Waterways Authority of India.
     3. Ms. Jyoti Arora, IAS (HY:87), presently in the Cadre, as Additional Secretary & Financial Advisor, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology by temporarily upgrading the vacant post of Joint Secretary & Financial Advisor.
     4. Shri Rajesh Verma, IAS (OR:87), presently in the Cadre, as Additional Secretary, Department of Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare against existing vacancy.
     5. Shri Indevar Pandey, IAS (WB:88), presently in the Cadre, as Additional Secretary, Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region by temporarily upgrading a vacant post of Joint Secretary.
     6. Shri Bharat Lal, IFoS (GJ:88), Additional Secretary to the President as Additional Secretary, Department of Drinking Water & Sanitation, Ministry of Jal Shakti by temporarily upgrading a vacant post of Joint Secretary.
     7. Shri Shashank Priya, IRS:C&CE (88), presently in the Cadre, as Additional Secretary & Financial Advisor, Ministry of Commerce & Industry against existing vacancy.

    *****


    VG/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579555) Visitor Counter : 350
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

7.