      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Partnership Between Educational Institutes
      Posted On: 22 JUL 2019 4:29PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Policy on Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 2015 has highlighted the challenge of non-employability of large sections of the conventionally educated youth, who possess little or no job skills. Under Skill India Mission, the Government is implementing various schemes for imparting employable skills to the youth through short term and long term training. There are more than 20 Central Ministries/Departments running schemes/programmes to impart skill training to the youth of the nation.


    Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) is implementing a flagship scheme known as Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY 2.0) for imparting short term training across the country. As on 12.06.2019, a total of 52.12 lakh candidates have been trained under PMKVY . The Ministry has also taken initiative to set up Model Skill Centres called Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendras (PMKKs) in districts across the country. So far, 610 PMKKs have been established. Further, l ong term training is imparted through Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs). There are 14494 ITIs with a seating capacity of 33.98 lakh.


    MSDE’s Dual System of Training ( DST) scheme enables industries and establishments to partner with Government and Private ITIs for conducting training programmes under high employability courses so as to fulfil their skilled manpower requirements. The scheme helps enable industry linkages and provide hands on experience to students on industries latest/ updated technologies.


    MSDE through NSDC is working with UGC and Universities/ Colleges to boost the employability of the huge numbers of students passing out of general degree courses (viz., BA, BSc & B. Com) in the country, through a systematic integration of industry apprenticeship with education, supported by ‘National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme’ (NAPS). Ministry of Humans Resource Development (MHRD) has launched the Scheme for Higher Education Youth in Apprenticeship and Skills (SHREYAS) for providing industry apprenticeship opportunities to the general graduates exiting in April 2019 through the National Apprenticeship Promotional Scheme (NAPS) to enhance the employability of Indian youth by providing ‘on the job work exposure’ and earning of stipend. Further, MSDE has collaborated with MHRD for restructuring of BVOC by rolling out apprenticeship embedded degree programme under NAPS.


    As per the placement guidelines of PMKVY 2.0 (2016-2020), Training Providers (TPs) are mandated to facilitate placements of certified candidates. TPs need to organize Placement/Rozgar Melas every six months with support from the Sector Skill Councils and to ensure the participation of local industry along with awareness building in aspiring youth. National Skill Development Corporation, a PPP company under MSDE has also empanelled placement partners, with the objective of ensuring placement opportunities to PMKVY certified candidates not placed by TPs within 90 days from date of certification.


    Further, as per the Common Norms, the reimbursement of 20% of training cost to training centres is made only after wage employment or self employment is assured to at least 70% of the certified candidates. There is also a provision to provide post placement support to candidates belonging from special areas/ special groups in order to enable the newly skilled persons to settle into their jobs/vocations.


    All courses under PMKVY are appended with 40 Hours of Employability and Entrepreneurship skills. Further, 6 National Occupational Standards (NOS) and their Model Curriculum - 3 of English language skills, 2 of Employability skills and 1 of Basic Entrepreneurship skills – have been developed with the aim of embedding English and soft skills solution into the vocational training ecosystem to meet the expectations of employers and increase the chances of employment both in India as well as overseas. Training in ITIs is embedded with one compulsory subject titled ‘Employability Skills’ which covers topics on Communication skills, Entrepreneurship Skills and Quality tools etc. Also in order to keep updated the instructors of ITIs with latest knowhow about the Employability Skills, a MoU has been signed with NIESBUD where in a total of 600 instructors so far have been trained.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri. R. K. Singh in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    SNC/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579746) Visitor Counter : 428