      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Mantri to lay Wreath at Kargil War Memorial, DRAS
      Posted On: 19 JUL 2019 4:11PM by PIB Delhi


    Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh is going to lay wreath at Kargil War Memorial in Dras tomorrow on the occasion of 20 th Anniversary of Operation Vijay against the intrusion of heights by militias as well as regular troops of Pakistan in Kargil sector in Jammu and Kashmir.


    Raksha Mantri will also dedicate to the nation two bridges built by Border Roads Organisation at Ujh in Kathua district and Basantar in Samba district. The Ujh bridge is One kilometre long and the Basantar bridge is 617.4 metre.


    Brave soldiers of the Indian Army had overcome seemingly insurmountable odds, hostile terrain, weather, and a determined enemy occupying dominating heights, to win the Kargil war with the help of Indian Air Force which gave aiur support to the Army. On this momentous occasion, the proud nation is celebrating this victory in memory of its brave martyrs with events covering a myriad spectrum.


    One of the major events is the relay of a Victory Flame from National War Memorial (NMW) in New Delhi to Kargil War Memorial at Dras. Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh handed over the Flame to ace army shooter Subedar Jitu Rai who represented India as the first torch bearer, at the NMW on July 14, 2019.


    The Victory Flame is being carried by Indian Army’s outstanding sportsmen and war heroes. It is being passed through nine major towns/cities of North India and finally culminate at the Karambhoomi of the martyrs at the Kargil War Memorial located at Dras on July 26, 2019, where it will be received by the COAS. All along the journey, Indian Army personnel are paying homage to the heroes who fought valiantly for the Nation.


    This Victory Flame and the journey of the eternal flame from the National War Memorial to the Kargil War Memorial brings alive the theme of the 20 th anniversary of the Kargil Vijay Diwas - ‘Remember, Rejoice and Renew’. We ‘remember’ our martyrs by revisiting their sacrifices, we ‘rejoice’ by celebrating the victory in Kargil and we ‘renew’ our resolve to safeguard the honour of the Tricolour.


    BB/Nampi/DK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579489) Visitor Counter : 380
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Malayalam