      Prime Minister's Office

      PM’s message on Launch of Chandrayaan 2
      Posted On: 22 JUL 2019 3:47PM by PIB Delhi


    Text of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s message on the launch of Chandrayaan 2 is as follows:


    “Special moments that will be etched in the annals of our glorious history! The launch of Chandrayaan 2 illustrates the prowess of our scientists and the determination of 130 crore Indians to scale new frontiers of science. Every Indian is immensely proud today!


    Indian at heart, Indian in spirit! What would make every Indian overjoyed is the fact that Chandrayaan 2 is a fully indigenous mission. It will have an Orbiter for remote sensing the Moon and also a Lander-Rover module for analysis of lunar surface.


    Chandrayaan 2 is unique because it will explore and perform studies on the south pole region of lunar terrain which is not explored and sampled by any past mission. This mission will offer new knowledge about the Moon.


    Efforts such as Chandrayaan 2 will further encourage our bright youngsters towards science, top quality research and innovation. Thanks to Chandrayaan, India’s Lunar Programme will get a substantial boost. Our existing knowledge of the Moon will be significantly enhanced.”


    Special moments that will be etched in the annals of our glorious history!
    
    The launch of #Chandrayaan2 illustrates the prowess of our scientists and the determination of 130 crore Indians to scale new frontiers of science.
    
    Every Indian is immensely proud today! pic.twitter.com/v1ETFneij0

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 22, 2019

    Indian at heart, Indian in spirit!
    
    What would make every Indian overjoyed is the fact that #Chandrayaan2 is a fully indigenous mission.
    
    It will have an Orbiter for remote sensing the Moon and also a Lander-Rover module for analysis of lunar surface.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 22, 2019

    #Chandrayaan2 is unique because it will explore and perform studies on the south pole region of lunar terrain which is not explored and sampled by any past mission.
    
    This mission will offer new knowledge about the Moon.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 22, 2019

    Efforts such as #Chandrayaan2 will further encourage our bright youngsters towards science, top quality research and innovation.
    
    Thanks to Chandrayaan, India’s Lunar Programme will get a substantial boost. Our existing knowledge of the Moon will be significantly enhanced.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 22, 2019

    भारत के लिए यह एक ऐतिहासिक क्षण है।
    
    चंद्रयान-2 के सफल प्रक्षेपण से आज पूरा देश गौरवान्वित है।
    
    मैंने थोड़ी देर पहले ही इसके लॉन्च में निरंतर तन-मन से जुटे रहे वैज्ञानिकों से बात की और उन्हें पूरे देश की ओर से बधाई दी। #Chandrayaan2 https://t.co/50UodlbH0y

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 22, 2019

    ***


    VRRK/AK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579729) Visitor Counter : 1352
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada , Malayalam