      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Prakash Javadekar presents Report Card of First Fifty Days of Government
      Posted On: 22 JUL 2019 11:28AM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar interacted with Media persons and presented a report card of the First Fifty Days of the Government earlier today. He said that the government has hit the ground running in its second term and has strived to fulfil the goal of ‘SabkaSaath, SabkaVikas, SabkaVishwas’.The resolve of Reform, Welfare and Justice for All has been the driving force for the government.He highlighted that the primary focus of the government has been towards farmers, soldiers, youth, labourers, businessmen, research, relation with neighbouring countries, investment, infrastructure development, fight against corruption and social justice.


    The Minister enumerated several key decisions of the government. Rs. 6000 will now be provided to all farmers. MSP for several crops has doubled, and in some cases trebled in comparison to 2014 rates. 10,000 Farmers Producer Organization are being formed. Changes in Labour Code will benefit 40 crore informal sector workers through wage and labour security. For the first time, pension has been provided for traders. The Minister also highlighted the reduction in ESI contribution rates, for both employees and employers.


    The Minister highlighted the steps taken to boost investment in the country. Rs 70,000 crore has been provided for Public Sector Banks (PSB) recapitalisation. India is striving towards becoming a 5 trillion dollar economy. A separate TV channel for start-ups will soon be started.Non-functional financial up gradation has been provided to Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) officers.


    He said that in the next 5 years, Rs. 100 lakh crore will be invested towards development of infrastructure. He highlighted that the government is working in mission mode to comprehensively address water-related issues, which is evident through the formation of Jal Shakti Mantralaya.


    He also highlighted the success of steps taken by the Government in reducing the impact of separatists in Jammu & Kashmir. He added that India has emerged as a global leader through BIMSTEC and G-20, while highlighting the significance of the visit of Prime Minister to Maldives and Sri Lanka.


    Shri Javadekar expressed confidence in the successful launch of Chandrayaan-2 and added that India’s manned mission to space, Gaganyaan, will be launched in 2022.


    He also highlighted the massive action taken against corruption in bureaucracy. Steps have been taken to strengthen action against economic offenders. A Bill is being brought to act against Ponzi schemes.


    Shri Javadekar also talked about the decisiveness of government in safeguarding children against sexual crimes through amendments to POCSO Act. He also talked about steps taken to reform medical education in the country and to ensure transparency, accountability and quality in the governance of medical education in the country.


    The Minister stressed that making India a 5 trillion dollar economy is no more just a dream but a roadmap towards achieving it has been laid down in these fifty days.


    ***


    AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579695) Visitor Counter : 1558
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Malayalam