      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Rajya Sabha passes RTI Amendment Bill, 2019
      
      Bill passed in Lok Sabha on 22nd July
      
      No motivation to curtail the independence of the RTI Act: Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 25 JUL 2019 8:01PM by PIB Delhi


    After being passed in Lok Sabha recently, the RTI Amendment Bill, 2019 was passed by the Rajya Sabha today.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr Jitendra Singh said that there is no motivation to curtail the independence of the RTI Act. There is no interference as far as the independence of the Act is concerned, the Minister assured. Speaking about the fixation of the tenure of Information Commissioners, he clarified that it is never mentioned in the amendment that the Government will change it after every two years, as alleged by the Opposition. The Government will not have unbridled powers to amend the rules, he emphasised. The Minister said that the Government is open to the suggestions and the amendment is being done with a clean intention. On the issue of referring it to the Select Committee of the House, the Minister said that it is the prerogative of the members and it should be determined on the basis of the merit of the Bill.


    The Minister said that the Government has always focused on the principle of ‘maximum governance, minimum government’. He mentioned about various such initiatives of the Government such as self attestation, abolition of interviews etc. The essence of these initiatives is aimed at accountability and citizen-centric approach of the Government. The Minister also said that ‘Mobile App’ was brought by the Government to enable the citizens to file RTI any time. He added that in the last five years, most of the information is available in the public domain.


    Speaking about the objective of bringing this amendment, the Minister said that CIC is a statutory body and Election Commission is a Constitutional body. Therefore, the mandate of Election Commission of India and Central and State Information Commissions are different and needed to be determined accordingly. He clarified that this amendment has been brought in without any motivation. This will help in streamlining the RTI, he added. He assured that this will help to strengthen the RTI Act.


    The Bill was not referred to a Select Committee, with 117 members voting against referring the bill to a select committee, and 75 members voting for it.


    The Lok Sabha had passed the Right to Information (Amendment) Bill, 2019 on 22 nd July. In this amendment, it is proposed to amend the Right to Information Act, 2005 so as to provide that the term of office of, and the salaries, allowances and other terms and conditions of service of, the Chief Information Commissioner and Information Commissioners and the State Chief Information Commissioner and the State Information Commissioners, shall be such as may be prescribed by the Central Government.


    *****


    VG/NK/SP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580352) Visitor Counter : 1138
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali