      Ministry of Defence

      Inauguration of FCP and launching of Mobile Application “Indian Air Force: a cut above”
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2019 4:46PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Human Resource Development, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ inaugurated the ‘Facilitation cum Publicity Pavilion (FCP)’ at the National Bal Bhavan, New Delhi today. Present on the occasion were Minister of State for Human Resource Development Shri Dhotre Sanjay Shamrao and Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa PVSM AVSM YSM VM ADC, Chairman Chiefs of Staff Committee & Chief of the Air Staff. Later, Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa launched the upgraded 3D Air Combat Mobile Game “Indian Air Force: A Cut Above” at the same venue.


    The FCP is an endeavour to connect to more than 7.5 lakh children that visit the Bal Bhavan annually. It is a unique technologically advanced set up which has been conceptualized on the premise of “look and feel” norm for tender aged children of Class IV – X to connect to the IAF. It broadly comprises of a Flying Simulator, a Self-interactive career information Kiosk wherein the child can navigate amongst branch wise career prospects, a selfie point with fore drop of pilots in G-suit and flying overall, mannequins with flying and special clothing, LED display running video of various operations/ exercises showcasing the might of IAF, miniature models of IAF aircraft, digital flexes etc.


    The mobile application would highlight various missions and air combat scenarios undertaken by the IAF in an appealing manner, so as to help immerse the player in a game with a “having been there” sensation.


    The first phase of the game (Single Player campaign) was launched on 31 Jul 19 and the second phase (Multi Player campaign) will be launched during AF Day Celebrations in October 2019. “Indian Air Force: A Cut Above” would be available on Android, IOS and can be downloaded from the respective play stores.


    ***


    AB/BSK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580862) Visitor Counter : 778
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali