      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Central government has set a target to achieve 100 per cent digitisation of Waqf properties across the country in its first 100 days: Shri Naqvi
      
      8 Mutawalis awarded under “Qaumi Waqf Board Taraqqiati Scheme” for better management of Waqf properties
      
      Posted On: 29 JUL 2019 5:18PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minority Affairs Minister Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today inaugurated a national conference of Central Waqf Council (CWC), organised at NDMC Convention Centre in New Delhi. Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said here that the Central Government has set a target to achieve 100 per cent digitisation of Waqf properties across the country in its first 100 days. There are more than 6 lakh registered Waqf properties across the country.


    Shri Naqvi awarded 8 Mutawalis under “Qaumi Waqf Board Taraqqiati Scheme” for better management of Waqf properties in their respective state Waqf boards. This is for the first time that Mutawalis have been encouraged and awarded for better utilisation of Waqf properties especially for socio-economic-educational empowerment of needy.


    Shri Naqvi said that Mutawalis are “Custodian” of the Waqf properties and it’s their responsibility to ensure safety and better utilisation of Waqf properties.


    Secretary, Ministry of Minority Affairs Shri Shailesh, other senior officials, Central Waqf Council Secretary, CWC Members, senior officials of the council, Chairmen/CEOs of state Waqf boards attended this national conference.


    Shri Naqvi said that a programme on war footing has been launched for 100 per cent Geo tagging and digitalisation of Waqf properties across the country to ensure these properties can be utilised for welfare of the society. Central Waqf Council is providing financial help and technical assistance to state Waqf boards for digitalisation, GI Mapping/Geo Tagging of Waqf properties so that state Waqf boards can complete digitalisation work within decided timeframe.


    GIS/GPS mapping of the Waqf properties has been initiated with the help of IIT Roorki and Aligarh Muslim University. The Central Waqf Council has provided video conferencing facilities to 20 state Waqf boards and it would be provided in the remaining state Waqf boards by the end of this year.


    Shri Naqvi said that for the first time since Independence, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi led Government is providing 100 per cent funding to develop schools, colleges, ITIs, polytechnics, hospitals, multi-purpose community hall “Sadbhav Mandap”, “Hunar Hub”, common service centres, employment oriented skill development centres and other basic infrastructure on Waqf land under Pradhanmantri Jan Vikas Karykram (PMJVK) for weaker sections and needy especially girls in those backward areas which had been deprived of these basic facilities.


    Shri Naqvi said that while only 90 districts of the country had been identified for Minority communities’ development earlier; Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi led Government has expanded development programmes for Minorities in 308 districts, 870 blocks, 331 towns and thousands of the villages of the country.


    Shri Naqvi said that the report of a five-member committee, constituted to review Waqf properties lease rule, headed by Justice (Retd) Zakiullah Khan, has been submitted. The recommendations of the committee will ensure that Waqf rules are made easy and effective for better utilisation of Waqf properties and to free these properties, several of these entangled in disputes for several decades, from disputes. The Central Government, in consultation with the state governments, is taking necessary action on the recommendations of the committee.


    ***


    RCJ/RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580657) Visitor Counter : 850
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali