      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Juvenile Justice System in Jammu & Kashmir
      Posted On: 26 JUL 2019 5:30PM by PIB Delhi


    As per information provided by the State Govt. of Jammu and Kashmir, to strengthen Juvenile Justice System in the State, Juvenile Justice Boards, Child Welfare Committees and District Child Protection Units have been set up in all the 22 Districts of the State. The Special Juvenile Police Units have been set up in all the 25 Police Districts of the State. Child Protection Committees at Village and Block Level have also been set up. Three (03) Observation Homes have been approved during the year 2018-19 in addition to already existing two (02) Observation Homes one (01) each at Srinagar and Jammu.


    The State Government has approved setting up of four (4) Shelter Homes for boys and girls at Srinagar and Jammu. The State has also approved setting up of 44 Children Homes for Boys and Girls in all the 22 Districts of the State. The Juvenile Justice Boards have been connected with Video Conferencing system with the Observations Homes.


    Two Cradle Baby Reception Centers have also been set up at Srinagar and Jammu in addition to the help desk at the Maternity Hospital Srinagar. Sponsorships have been provided to 1298 Children in the State.


    In addition to the above, the State has set up State Child Protection Society governed by the Executive Committee and also by the Governing Committee. Under Rule 89 of Jammu and Kashmir Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Rules, 2014, Selection Cum Oversight Committee (SCOC) headed by a Retired Judge of the High Court has been set up for monitoring of the Juvenile Justice System. The Commission for Protection of Women and Child Rights has also been constituted.


    All the Health Institutions have been directed to set up Cradle Baby Points for taking care of abandoned and surrendered Children. Fit Persons and Fit Institutions have been declared for alternate care. State Government has projected 15000 Children for sponsorship during the year 2019-20


    The State Government has approved Children Homes to be set up in all the 22 Districts for Boys and Girls including District Anantnag to be run under Child Protection Service (erstwhile Integrated Child Protection Scheme).


    This information was given by the Minister of Women and Child Development, SmritiZubinIrani, in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    MM/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580456) Visitor Counter : 268