      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      22nd National Conference on e-Governance 2019 to be held at Shillong on 8-9, 2019
      
      Theme of the Conference is “Digital India: Success to Excellence”

      Posted On: 30 JUL 2019 12:38PM by PIB Delhi

    The Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances (DARPG), in association with Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY), Government of India and the State Government of Meghalaya will organize the 22 nd National Conference on e-Governance 2019 on 8-9 th August, 2019 at Shillong, Meghalaya. This is the first time the event is being organized in North-Eastern region of the country. This Conference provides a platform to disseminate knowledge on effective methods of designing and implementing sustainable e-Governance initiatives to provide end-to-end Digital Services, exchange experiences in solving problems, mitigating risks, resolving issues and planning for success. This was announced in a press conference addressed by Shri P. S. Thangkhiew, Chief Secretary, Government of Meghalaya, Shri V. Srinivas, Additional Secretary, Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, at Shillong today. The 22 nd National e-Governance Conference at Shillong is part of the DARPG’s 100 days initiatives in the new Government.


    The theme of this Conference is “ Digital India: Success to Excellence ”. Discussions will be held on 5 sub-themes in Plenary session during the Conference: India Enterprise Architecture (INDEA), Digital Infrastructure, One Nation – One Platform, Emerging Technology for Practitioners, Secretariat Reforms, National e-Governance Service Delivery Assessment (NeSDA). 4 Breakout Sessions will be held on sub-themes-Inclusion and Capacity Building, Engaging with Innovators and Industry, End- to- End Digital Services: IT initiatives of State Governments.


    28 States and 8 Union Territories have confirmed their participation in the 22 nd National e-Governance Conference. Over 450 delegates are expected to attend the Conference. An Exhibition will also be organized during the event to showcase India’s achievements in the field of e-Governance, along with a Hall of Fame/ photo exhibition on the award winners.


    Shri P. S. Thangkhiew, Chief Secretary, Meghalaya said that the 22 nd National e-Governance Conference would be inaugurated by the Shri Conrad Kongkal Sangma, Chief Minister of Meghalaya, and Dr. Jitendra Singh Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region and the Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Department of Atomic Energy, Department of Space. The Minister of Information Technology and Communication and Urban Affairs Department, Government of Meghalaya, Shri Hamletson Dohling would also address the inaugural session. Senior Secretaries from the Government of India including Shri K. V. Eapen, Secretary Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances and Pensions, and Shri Ajay Prakash Sawhney Secretary Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology would attend the conference. 15 States would be presenting their IT initiatives and success stories in the breakout sessions.


    Shri V. Srinivas, Additional Secretary DARPG said that the 22 nd National e-Governance Conference at Shillong would provide considerable momentum to the e-Governance initiatives in the region, providing opportunities for civil servants and industry captains of North Eastern region to showcase their successful interventions in e-Governance in improving end to end service delivery.


    ***


    VG/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580709) Visitor Counter : 1414
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Malayalam