      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Commerce & Industry Minister reviews preparations of India’s Participation in Dubai World Expo 2020
      
      India Pavilion to be a Permanent Showcase for the Country in Dubai: Piyush Goyal

      Posted On: 25 JUL 2019 3:07PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of Commerce & Industry and Railways, PiyushGoyal,reviewed the preparations underway by the Department of Commerce and other stakeholders for the construction of the India Pavilion at the Dubai World Expo 2020 which will take place for six months beginning 20 th October 2020 up to 10 th April 2021. The meeting was held last night in New Delhi where officials of the Department of Commerce, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), National Buildings Construction Corporation Ltd. (NBCC) and other stakeholders were present.


    The theme of the Expo is “Connecting Minds, Creating the Future” with three sub themes – Opportunity, Mobility and Sustainability – to generate sustainable solutions to global problems, demand and collaboration areas across cultures, countries and regions. More than 25 million visitors are expected and 180 countries will be represented at the Expo.


    The IndiaPavilion will be a permanent structure being constructed in the ‘Opportunity’ segment. The building will embody India’s worship of nature and will be environment friendly. It will also showcase the 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi being celebrated this year.


    Twenty-seven focus sectors have been identified to showcase India’s advances in space, pharmaceuticals, information technology, renewable energy and telecom sectors and also India’s strength in innovation and start-ups.


    NBCC has bagged the Rs. 400 crore project to build the Pavilion at Dubai World Expo 2020. The Pavilion will have stalls displaying Indian handlooms, showcasing India’s entertainment industry, the hospitality and tourism sector, India’s gem and jewellery sector, AYUSH and medical tourism and India’s tea, coffee and spices sectors. India’s businesses and State Governments will also put up stalls in the Pavilion.The cultural diversity of India will also be on display at the Pavilion with live performances, events and film shows.


    PiyushGoyal urged those attending the review meeting to think creatively keeping the Indian ethos in mind and explore all avenues to make the best of this opportunity provided by the Dubai World Expo. Commerce and Industry Minister added that India’s participation in the Expo may be a memorable and befitting one.


    Commerce & Industry Minister further added that although the Expo ends after 6 months, the India Pavilion must continue to function as a showcase in Dubai which is visited by 17 million tourists in a year and India must explore all avenues to make the best use of the India Pavilion, permanently.


    During the review meeting Commerce and Industry Minister said that it may be explored whether similar pavilions can be set up in the eastern and western parts of the country to showcase India’s sunrise sectors, exports and also function as a centre of information where other line Ministries will be able to set up their offices.


    India and World Expo 2020 signed participants contract on 10 th April 2018 for India’s pavilion in the prestigious World Expo held once in five years. The contract provided for the setting up of India Pavilion on an extra-large plot (about one acre). This is in tune with the opportunity for economic activity that India provides on its path to becoming a USD five trillion economy by 2025. FICCI has been tasked with helping the Government of India to prepare for Indian presence at the Expo.


    The Pavilion is being developed in Public Private Partnership mode. Leading industries and businesses are working with the Central Government and State Governments for participation in India Pavilion.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580242) Visitor Counter : 939
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Punjabi