      Ministry of Culture

      Shri Prahlad Singh Patel launches Mobile Library Buses procured by Delhi Public Library under C.S.R assistance from Airports Authority of India
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2019 6:20PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State for Culture and Tourism (I/C), Shri Prahlad Singh Patel launched the Mobile Library Buses procured under C.S.R assistance from Airports Authority of India. The Programme was organized by Delhi Public Library of Ministry of Culture in New Delhi today .


    Sh. Prahlad Singh Patel launched the Mobile Library Buses under the “Ghar-GharDastakGharGharPustak” Scheme of the Delhi Public Library, which aims to provide books to the citizens of Delhi, especially, the residents of slums, resettlement colonies and rural areas.The Minister of Culture also visited the library and interacted with young students/ readers and motivated them to develop reading habits. He expressed how a book has the same effect on a reader as a mother has on her child and how there cannot be all round mental development of person without reading books. Shri Patel directed the DPL to maintain a special collection of books on eminent personalities which should be made available among the masses, especially the youngsters through these mobile library buses.


    The occasion was also graced by Sh. Avtar Singh, Mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Dr. Ramsharan Gaur, Chairman, Delhi LibraryBoard & Dr. Lokesh Sharma, Director General, Delhi Public Library.


    Dr. Ramsharan Gaur, Chairman, Delhi Library Board gave a brief on the activities undertaken by the DPL for the development of the library and its services. He also informed the audience that various steps are being taken under the leadership of Minister of Culture to propagate the ideas of Indian Culture to common masses.


    Dr. Lokesh Sharma, Director General, Delhi Public Library concluded the programme with a thanks note.


    *****


    NB/AKJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580937) Visitor Counter : 747
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi