      Prime Minister's Office

      This is a Victory of Gender Justice and will Further Equality In Society: PM on the Passage of Triple Talaq Bill
      Posted On: 30 JUL 2019 8:53PM by PIB Delhi


    PM Shri Narendra Modi thanked all the parties and MPs who have supported the passage of the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill, 2019 in both Houses of Parliament. He said that they have risen to the occasion and this step of theirs will be forever remembered in India’s history.


    In a series of tweets he said that “An archaic and medieval practice has finally been confined to the dustbin of history! Parliament abolishes Triple Talaq and corrects a historical wrong done to Muslim women. This is a victory of gender justice and will further equality in society. India rejoices today!”


    He further tweeted that “This is an occasion to salute the remarkable courage of those Muslim women who have suffered great wrongs just due to the practice of Triple Talaq.The abolition of Triple Talaq will contribute to women empowerment and give women the dignity they deserve in our society.”


    I thank all parties and MPs who have supported the passage of The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill, 2019 in both Houses of Parliament. They have risen to the occasion and this step of theirs will forever be remembered in India’s history.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 30, 2019

    An archaic and medieval practice has finally been confined to the dustbin of history!

    
    Parliament abolishes Triple Talaq and corrects a historical wrong done to Muslim women. This is a victory of gender justice and will further equality in society.
    
    India rejoices today!

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 30, 2019

    This is an occasion to salute the remarkable courage of those Muslim women who have suffered great wrongs just due to the practice of Triple Talaq.

    
    The abolition of Triple Talaq will contribute to women empowerment and give women the dignity they deserve in our society.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) July 30, 2019

    ***


    VRRK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580793) Visitor Counter : 1448
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada