      Ministry of Railways

      Availability of Quality Food at Stations and in Trains
      Posted On: 26 JUL 2019 4:50PM by PIB Delhi


    To provide quality and hygienic food to passengers, a new Catering Policy has been issued on 27 th February 2017 vide which Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC) has been mandated to carry out unbundling of catering services by creating a distinction between food preparation and food distribution on trains. For this purpose, meals for trains are to be sourced from kitchens owned, operated and managed by IRCTC. To ensure hygienic and good quality food to passengers, following measures have been taken by Railways:

     1. To upgrade quality of food preparation, IRCTC has upgraded 46 Kitchen Units in the last two years. To ensure centralized monitoring of the kitchen activities, CCTVs have been installed in 38 Kitchen Units. Sharing of live streaming of the Kitchen Units through website of IRCTC has been made operational.
     2. To ensure compliance of Food Safety Norms, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) certification from Designated Food Safety Officers of each catering unit has been made mandatory. Food Safety Supervisors have been deployed at Kitchen Units to monitor food safety and hygienic practices. Food samples collected by Food Safety Officers/Supervisors are sent to the nominated accredited Laboratories under Food Safety & Standard Act for analysis and testing. Penalties are imposed in cases of detection of unsatisfactory food samples.

     1. Examination of quality of food, hygiene and cleanliness in Pantry Cars and Kitchen Units is done through Third Party Audit. Customer satisfaction survey is also conducted through Third Party Agencies.

     2. Regular and surprise inspections are conducted by Railway officials including Food Safety Officers.
     3. In addition to above, to ensure hygienic and good quality food to passengers, following measures have also been initiated by Railways:
     1. System of printing QR code and other details like name of kitchen, date of packaging etc. on food packets has been initiated.
     2. Introduction of Ready to Eat (RTE) Meals.
     3. Provision of E-Catering services in trains.
     4. Monitoring and supervision of catering service through operation of centralized Catering Service Monitoring Cell (CSMC) toll free number 1800-111-321, Twitter handle, CPGRAMS, E-Mail and SMS based complaints redressal.

    In its endeavour to provide quality and hygienic food to the passengers, Railways have institutionalized a mechanism for monitoring of quality, hygiene and sale of catering items at notified rates through regular inspections at various levels. The prescribed tariff of catering items has already been notified for both mobile and static catering units on Indian Railways. The notified menu and tariff are displayed prominently for information of passengers and is also available on websites of IRCTC/Indian Railways, in Trains at a Glance, Pantry Cars etc. “No Bill- The food is for FREE” campaign has also been launched by Indian Railways.


    This information was given by the Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    SVS/MKV/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580429) Visitor Counter : 342
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

4.