      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy visits NSG Garrison, Manesar
      Posted On: 29 JUL 2019 4:53PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri G Kishan Reddy visited NSG Garrison Manesar on 29 th July 2019 as the Chief Guest for the Flag in ceremony of Mt Everest Expedition of NSG. The union minister started his visit after paying his tributes to the martyrs who lost their lives fighting for the motherland. During the visit to Manesar, the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs reviewed the functioning of NSG. He was given detailed briefing on the working of the NSG by Director General, Sudeep Lakhtakia. He also addressed the Commandos of NSG Mt. Everest Expedition team, who scaled the Mt. Everest during the month of May, 2019. A total of 11 Commandos summited the Mt Everest in maiden attempt and unfurled National & NSG flag on the highest peak on the earth.


    Welcoming the Union Minister of State for Home and former Director Generals of NSG, Shri Sudeep Lakhtakia, IPS, Director General, NSG, briefly mentioned about the background of the creation of the Force and journey of last 35 years to honorable minister on its maiden visit to NSG. Shri Sudeep Lakhtakia , DG, NSG said that NSG is capable of doing what other forces are not capable of. 19 commandos have laid down their lives in the lines of duty. In recognition of their bravery, courage and valor, the nation has conferred three Ashok Chnakra, two Kirti Chakra, three Shaurya Chakra, One Param Vishisht Seva medal, One Ati Vishisht Seva Medal,44 Sena Medal and ten Police medal for gallantry on NSG Commandos. Shri Sudeep Lakhtakia, DG,NSG emphasized that there is no conventional war today, militants are out to hit civilization ,civil society and democratic fabric of the country, to counter such challenges we need swift operations with minimum collateral damage, NSG is a Zero Error force to meet out all such challenges. DG, NSG assured ministers that NSG is fully prepared and alert 24 x7 to move swiftly to deal with any crisis or hostage like situation.


    In his address, the MoS appreciated the achievements and operational capabilities of NSG during operations Ashwamegh in Amritsar, Vajra Shakti at AkshardhamTemple, Black thunder during 26/11 and Dhangu Suraksha at Pathankot which made the Nation proud and citizen feel more secure. He also appreciated the successful Summit of Mt Everest by team of “ Black Cats’’ . He also expressed his deep appreciation for the NSG Mt Everest Expedition team and congratulated the DG and entire NSG team for achieving heights of excellence in all professional fields. Minister witnessed demonstrations presented by Commandos depicting the scenarios in House intervention, counter Terrorism Ops, Close protection, BD, K-9 followed by display of Modern weapons & equipments used in counter insurgency operations was highly appreciated by the MoS. He made the stand of the union government clear that all kinds of internal security problems will be handled with firmness. Shri Reddy also said the government will provide all kinds of technical gadgets, modern weaponry for the troops and also will look after all the welfare issues of NSG. Shri Reddy also joined the troops for interaction with the former DGs, Jawans & Officers of NSG.


    *******


    VG/VM/HS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1580648) Visitor Counter : 549
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi