      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      President Witnesses Extraordinary Performances by Divyang Children at Cultural Event ‘Divya Kala Shakti- Witnessing Ability in Disability’
      Posted On: 23 JUL 2019 8:13PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind witnessed extraordinary performances by the Divyang Children at the cultural event ‘Divya Kala Shakti- Witnessing Ability in Disability’ organized by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan), Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment in G.M.C. Balayogi Auditorium, Parliament Library Building here today.


    The Vice President & Chairman, RajyaSabha Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu , the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, the Speaker, LokSabha Shri Om Birla were the Guests of Honour. Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot and many Ministers were present. Members of Parliament from Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha and the Secretaries to many Central Ministries/Departments also attended this special event, which was organized for the second time.


    In March, 2019, the DEPwD received a request from the President’s Secretariat to conduct a cultural programme for Divyang children in the premises of Rashtrapati Bhawan on 18 th April, 2019 with an aim to further create awareness regarding the tremendous potential that is waiting to be harnessed. In order to organise the function, three major steps were taken immediately:-

     1. To invite entries of participants through our National Institutes;
     2. To appoint a professional choreographer team to mentor the participating teams; and
     3. To make the RashtraptiBhawan cultural centre fully accessible.

    175 Artistes have been drawn from different states, cultural societies, institutions, civil societies to make it a truly nationalistic spirit. Department arranged for their rehearsals and practise session with the choreographer and the discipline and precision of timing and performance among such children is the greatest example of their intellectual, creative and their latent ability that needs to be harnessed for their optimal self-actualization.


    The President Secretariat made necessary arrangements for making the stage and venue accessible for Persons with Disabilities along with provided necessary arrangements including sound and light equipments.The Cultural event , “Divya Kala Shakti: Witnessing Ability in Disability” commenced in the evening of 18 th April, 2019 in the esteemed presence of the President of India who interacted with the participants and group photos were taken. The event was witnessed by about 300 dignitaries representing Ambassadors/High Commissioners/Senior Government officials, Creative personalities, Educators, Principals, various disability advocacy groups etc.


    The programme was anchored by 3 youths with visual impairments disabilities; and performances were presented only by children and youth with disabilities ranging from physical, visual, hearing, intellectual, autism to multiple disabilities. They are capable of excelling in any field of life, be it art, culture, sports, profession or anything which a person with disability can do. The children with disabilities and the audience will always remember the inspiring words said by the President of India, who said that we need to spread the message of the rights and skills of Divyang children in every corner of the country.


    Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan) was established in May, 2012 under the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment to give greater emphasis on policy issues and implementation relating to persons with disabilities. Besides administering three Acts of Parliament, the Department is providing rehabilitation services, training, education and conducting research on various disabilities through eight National Institutes spread across the country. Various Central Schemes are being run to provide support to institutions, State Governments and NGOs. Awareness Generation is a continuous process. Besides providing financial support to civil society organisations and institutions for sensitising people about the rights and entitlements of persons with disabilities; the Government confers National Awards every year in recognition of excellence of persons with disabilities and their organisations and also to individuals and organisations for the welfare of persons with disabilities.The RPwD-2016 has come into force on 19 th April 2017. Section 29 of RPwD Act envisions the Government to promote cultural and recreational activities amongst the Persons with Disabilities.


    The Divyang children who participatedtoday as well as their items are mentioned below:-


    National Anthem in Sign language


    Name : Students fromAkshayaPratishthan, National Association of Blind, Saksham, Tamanna


    Age : 11 to 31 years


    Disability : Hearing Disability, Visual Disability, Down Syndrome


    Place : Delhi


    Foot on Keyboard


    Name : Ms.RiniBhattacharjee


    Age : 17 years


    Disability : Locomotor Disability


    Place : Kolkata


    Two Classical Divyang Sisters


    Name : Ms.Kanmony. S, Ms. K. Jyothi


    Age : 18 years


    Disability :L ocomotor Disability, Visual Disability, Intellectual Disability


    Place : Kerala and Tamil Nadu


    Divyang Youth Sings


    Name : Mr MaharshiMandal


    Age : 25 years


    Disability : Cerebral Palsy with Left Hemiparesis


    Place : Delhi


    Let's Join Meera


    Name : AdarshVidyalaya, National Institute for the Empowerment of Persons with Visual Disabilities (NIEPVD)


    Age : 13 to 41 years


    Disability : Visual Disability


    Place : Dehradun


    Ganesh Vandana


    Name : Students from ALPANA Group


    Age : 13 to 41 years


    Disability : Intellectual Disability, Multiple Disability


    Place : Delhi


    Durga Kills Demon


    Name : Students fromNational Institute for the Empowerment of Persons with Intellectual Disabilities (NIEPID)


    Age : 14 to 18 years


    Disability : Intellectual Disability


    Place : Secunderabad


    Kathak dancing all the way


    Name : Ms Bulbul Panjre


    Age : 19 years


    Disability : Hearing Disability


    Place : Indore


    Manipuri Dance


    Name : Ms Daina Devi


    Age : 31 years


    Disability : Down Syndrome


    Place : Manipur


    Andal Marriage


    Name : Students from Sankalp Learning Center


    Age : 14 to 20 years


    Disability : Intellectual Disability and Autism


    Place : Chennai


    Sufi Dance on Wheelchair


    Name : Students from Aamad Dance Centre


    Age : 23 to 27 years


    Disability :Locomotor Disability


    Place : Delhi


    Harvesting in Meghalaya


    Name : Parents Association for Disabled


    Age : 11 to 42 years


    Disability : Intellectual Disability, Multiple Disability


    Place : Shillong


    Nagas Spinning Cotton


    Name : Indigenous Cultural Society


    Age : 15 to 22 years


    Disability :Locomotor Disability, Hearing Disability, Low Vision


    Place : Dimapur


    Enjoy Nepali Folk


    Name : Spastic Society of Sikkim


    Age : 19 to 22 years


    Disability : Intellectual Disability


    Place : Gangtok


    Assamese Bihu Dance


    Name : AshadeepMental Health Society


    Age : 17 to 37 years


    Disability : Intellectual Disability


    Place : Assam


    Mizoram Comes Live


    Name : Students fromGilead Special School for the Multi-Handicapped


    Age : 16 to 28 years


    Disability : Intellectual Disability


    Place : Aizwal


    Divyang Sports


    Name : Aamad Dance Centre, Delhi State Wheelchair Basketball Association


    Age : 16 to 28 years


    Disability :Locomotor Disability


    Place : Delhi


    Gujarati Garba Dance


    Name : Blind People's Association


    Age : 16 to 25 years


    Disability : Visual Disability, Locomotor Disability


    Place : Ahmadabad


    Rajasthan is Here


    Name : BalwantRai Mehta School


    Age : 12 to 20 years


    Disability : Specific Learning Disability, Intellectual Disability, Autism,


    Place : Delhi


    Lavani Dance on my Knees


    Name : Ms.JuliKar


    Age : 20 years


    Disability :Locomotor Disability


    Place : Cuttack


    Vishnu@ Shiva Marriage


    Name : AdarshVidyalaya, National Institute for the Empowerment of Persons with Visual Disabilities (NIEPVD)


    Age : 13 to 41 years


    Disability : Visual Disability


    Place : Dehradun


    Let's Play Holi Again


    Name : Students fromALPANA Group


    Age : 13 to 41 years


    Disability : Intellectual Disability, Multiple Disability


    Place : Delhi


    Bhangra Blast


    Name : Amarjyoti Charitable Trust


    Age : 9 to 23 years


    Disability :Locomotor Disability, Hearing Disability


    Place : Delhi


    Take us not for Granted


    Name : Mr.Munna Malik, Aamad Dance Centre, Abhoy Mission, Tripura


    Age : 13 to 27 years


    Disability :Locomotor Disability, Intellectual Disability


    Place : Cuttack, Delhi and Tripura


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/MoSJ&E(DEPwD)/23.07.2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580005) Visitor Counter : 535
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

3.