      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Government is determined to firmly handle Internal Security problems: Shri G. Kishan Reddy
      Posted On: 27 JUL 2019 3:16PM by PIB Delhi


    While speaking on the sidelines of 81 st raising day celebrations of CRPF at Group Centre, CRPF, Chandrayan Gutta at Hyderabad Union Minister of State for Home affairs, Shri G. Kishan Reddy made the stand of the union government clear that all kinds of internal security problems will be handled with firmness.


    While lauding the role of CRPF in containing Maoists violence, the Minister expressed his satisfaction as Maoist violence has come down drastically in the last five years due to firm stand on the issue. He also praised the role of CRPF in maintaining internal security while handling various challenges across the country, particularly in J&K and north eastern States.


    Shri Reddy also said the government will provide all kinds of technical gadgets, modern weaponry for the troops and also will look after all the welfare issues of CRPF. He also congratulated officers and men for their professionalism in the successful conduct of General Elections, 2019.


    On the eve of raising day celebrations, CRPF organized various programmes at Hyderabad. While remembering sacrifices made by CRPF personnel in the line of duty across the country Shri Reddy paid homage to Pulwama martyrs at the martyrs memorial along with Shri Anjani Kumar CP Hyderabad and Shri M R Naik IGP, Southern Sector and other Senior Officers of the Force.


    As symbolic respect to the 40 martyrs died in Pulwama attack, 40 varieties of saplings planted on this occasion. A Blood donation camp was inaugurated by the Minister in which 81 personnel of CRPF donated blood, commemorating 81 st Raising day of CRPF.


    Shri Reddy also visited Sector Training Node and witnessed demonstrations presented by troops under going various professional training programmes. Depicting the scenarios in Naxal areas troops presented raid on Naxal hideouts followed by display of Modern weapons & equipments used in counter insurgency operations and also a demonstration on physical fitness training schedules.


    Another demonstration presented by Rapid Action Force on mob disbursal and crowd control mesmerized all the audience witnessed the event. Later the Minister chaired a meeting with all senior officers of CRPF, on various operational and administrative issues of the force personnel deployed in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh States.


    Shri Reddy also joined the troops for interaction with the Jawans & Officers and their families.


    *****


    VG/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580545) Visitor Counter : 868
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Telugu