      Ministry of Home Affairs

      CRPF Celebrates 81st Raising Day
      
      MoS Home Affairs Shri Nityananda Rai offers floral tribute to Martyrs, at the National Police Memorial in New Delhi

      Posted On: 27 JUL 2019 3:15PM by PIB Delhi

    CRPF today paid rich tributes to those who laid down their lives for the cause of the Nation at the National Police Memorial, New Delhi on the occasion of its 81 st Raising Day.


    Gracing the function, the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Nityananda Rai offered floral tribute at the Memorial in honour of all those valiant soldiers who have sacrificed their lives for the honour of the motherland.


    Addressing the gathering, Chief Guest Shri Rai dwelt at length on the rich tradition of valour and sacrifice blazed by the Force personnel. Summing up the overarching spirit of the Force, the Minister said that CRPF lives for the country and dies for the country. He underlined the fact that CRPF leaves no stone unturned in winning the hearts of those who have turned against the nation to get them mainstreamed before coming down heavily on the anti-national elements-be they the terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, insurgents in the North East or the Maoists. He expressed the hope that in the period ahead, Jammu and Kashmir will be free from the scourge of terrorism.


    Shri Rai appreciated the role of CRPF in securing free and fair elections which in turn strengthened the democratic edifice of the country. He said the entire country feels a sense of pride over the impeccable qualities of service, valour, sacrifice and dedication to duty displayed by the CRPF personnel. On the occasion the Minister wished the Force achieve success in all its future endeavour in up-keeping the internal security of the country.


    Shri Rai also visited the museum within the premises of the National Police Memorial before leaving the venue. Shri Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, DG, CRPF and a number of senior officers and jawans were present on the occasion. Various programmes are being organized in all the Force formations scattered across the length and breadth of the country to commemorate the Raising Day.


    Later in the day, another commemorative function is scheduled at the India Gate, wherein the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Sh. Nityananda Rai will be the chief guest. The function, spread over more than an hour will feature CRPF music band display, motor cycle demonstration by women daredevils of the Force and the flagging in of the Rapid Action Force cycle expedition from Ahmedabad that will terminate at the India Gate today itself.


    CRPF had been raised as the Crown Representative’s Police on this very day way back in 1939. It was given a fresh lease of life soon after independence when it was renamed and redesigned as the Central Reserve Police by on 28 th December 1949 and was mandated to secure the internal security scenario of the country- a task which CRPF has been relentlessly carrying on with all dedication and unique valour for over 80 years now.


    *****


    VG/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580544) Visitor Counter : 540
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi