      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh releases e-Civil List-2019 0f the IAS Officers
      
      Linked to ER Sheets of officers, Civil List provides multiple search options & photographs of IAS officers
      
      This is a step towards PM’s priority for digitalization of functioning, says Minister
      Posted On: 29 JUL 2019 5:00PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh launched the e-Civil List-2019 of the IAS Officers, here today. This is the 64 th edition of Civil list and for the first time, the Civil list contains photographs of the IAS officers.


    The IAS Civil list contains vital information in respect of officers in respect of their batch, cadre, present posting, pay scale, qualification and superannuation with their overall cadre strength with search features. The Civil list has been linked with the ER sheets. The List has been designed through DoPT, which gives multiple search options to the users. The Department of Personnel and Training is the cadre controlling authority of IAS officers and the Civil List is prepared with the help of inputs received from the States Cadres. The e-IAS Civil list is also available on the website of the Ministry at http:persmin.nic.in under the link https://easy.nic.in/civilListIAS/YrCurr/StartCL.htm


    While congratulating the DoPT for this initiative, Dr Jitendra Singh said that this is an important step keeping in mind the Prime Minister’s priority to move towards digital functioning in the Government. This is also in line with citizen-centricity in working as it provides the information related to IAS officers in public domain which is accessible to the users from anywhere. The Minister added that other departments and ministries should also be encouraged to adopt this practice. Dr Singh emphasized that the State Governments should emulate this model to have a complete and systematic information about their respective state civil services officers.


    Speaking about the advantages of this Civil list, Dr Singh said that it will also facilitate the Information Commissions as the information demanded by RTI activists about the officers is already in public domain that too with multiple search options. He added that DoPT being the HR wing of the government, it will also facilitate in research and comparative data analysis based on many parameters such as age, sex. educational qualifications etc. It will also assist in the human resource management of the Government to ensure that the services of these officers are utilized to the best of their abilities, the Minister said.


    The Secretary, DoPT, Dr C Chandramouli, said that this list contains information about 5,104 IAS officers. He said that this will not only help in the day to day administration, but also help in research, as lot of demographics are available. He added that this is in line with PM’s emphasis on ‘Digital India’ and ‘ease of living’. He disclosed that by the end of this year, almost all departments will be on e-HRMS, which means information related to their service book, LTC , among others will be available electronically. This will also assist in predicting the number of vacancies, he added. The Secretary also briefed the Minister about the dashboard of DoPT which gives entire functioning of this department available on dashboard.


    The Secretary, DARPG, Shri K. V. Eapen and senior officers of the Ministry were also present on the occasion.


    ******


    VG/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580650) Visitor Counter : 3530
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali