      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ inaugurates Indian Air Force Facilitation-cum-Publicity Pavilion (FCP) at National Bal Bhawan
      
      Official Mobile Gaming App ‘Indian Air Force: A Cut Above’ launched
      
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2019 3:50PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister for Human Resource Development Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ inaugurated the Indian Air Force Facilitation-cum-Publicity Pavilion (FCP) in presence of Minister of State for HRD Shri Sanjay Dhotre and Air Chief Marshal Shri B. S. Dhanoa (PVSM, AVSM, YSM, VM, and ADC) in National Bal Bhawan here today. The Pavilion has been set up by Indian Air Force to motivate students to join Indian Air Force.


    Addressing a gathering of more than 2500 children and teachers, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said that National Bal Bhavan is a haven for children and he motivated them to develop love for the country. He emphasised that India is a great country and Indian Air Force is one of the best forces in the world. He also said that he will request the Prime Minister to take National Bal Bhavan to greater heights.


    The HRD Minister said that India needs student volunteers who can be trained to serve the nation with integrity. S tudents have boundless energy and endless curiosity and have potential todevelop, empower and brighten the future of the country. He motivated the students to serve in Indian Armed Forces. The Minister hoped that the Students will emerge as responsible citizens of India and leaders in different walks of life.He also congratulated the students of National Bal Bhawan for the wonderful cultural programme and wished them success in the future endeavours.


    The "Facilitation-cum-Publicity Pavilion" is a unique technologically advanced set up broadly comprising of a Flying Simulator, a self interactive career information Kiosk, a selfie point with fore drop of points in G suit and flying overall mannequins with special clothing. LED displays, running videos related to IAF exercises/operations, models of IAF aircraft, digital flexes etc., all laid out in an appealing manner.


    After the inauguration, a cultural programme was presented by the jubilant and bubbly children of the performing art section of National Bal Bhawan. The dance and music by these children was a heart warming and joyous performance to celebrate the occasion with 2500 children, the Chief of Air staff and other dignitaries from, IAF and MHRD. The NCC provided support in organising the event.


    During the cultural programme, Air Chief Marshal Shri B. S. Dhanoa launched the official mobile gaming application - Indian Air Force: A Cut Above. The official mobile gaming application of the IAF will allow an aspirant to experience firsthand the roles of an IAF air warrior, as well as means to apply and appear for recruitment from the comfort of his/her mobile phone. The gaming application will have various features, including offline single player missions, an online multiplayer and a career navigator information section as well as augmented reality features. It would highlight various missions and air combat scenarios undertaken by the IAF in an appealing manner that would fascinate the tech savvy generation.


    Secretary, Department of School Education & Literacy,Smt Rina Ray, Joint Secretary, MHRD, Shri R. C Meena, and other senior officials of the Ministry were also present on the occasion.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580838) Visitor Counter : 301
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi