      Cabinet

      Cabinet approves Memorandum of Understanding between Indian Space Research Organisation and the Bolivian Space Agency on Cooperation in the Exploration and Uses of Outer Space for peaceful purposes
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2019 3:40PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between India and Bolivia on Cooperation in the Exploration and Uses of Outer Space for Peaceful Purposes".


    The MoU was signed between the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and the Bolivian Space Agency on March 29,2019 at Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia during the visit of President of India to Bolivia.


    Details:

      * This MoU shall enable the following potential interest areas of cooperation such as, space science, technology and applications including remote sensing of the earth; satellite communication and satellite based navigation; Space science and planetary exploration; use of spacecraft and space systems and ground system; and application of space technology.
      * This MoU would lead to setup a Joint Working Group, drawing members from ISRO and the Bolivian Space Agency (ABE), which will further work out the plan of action including the time-frame and the means of implementing this MoU.

    Implementation Strategy and Targets:


    The signed MoU would lead to concluding specific implementing Arrangement and setting up of Joint Working Group, to work out the plan of action including the time-frame and the means of implementing this MoU.


    Major Impact:


    The signed MoU will provide impetus to explore newer research activities and application possibilities in the field of remote sensing of the earth; satellite communication; satellite navigation; space science and planetary exploration.


    Expenditure involved:


    The financial contribution with respect to each specific activity would depend on the nature of Joint activity and will be detailed in corresponding Implementing Agreements (Arrangements) / Contracts.


    Benefits:


    This MoU would lead to develop a joint activity in the field of application of space technologies for the benefit of humanity. Thus all sections and regions of the country will get benefited.


    Background:

      * Bolivian Space Agency (ABE), in a letter to Indian Ambassador to Bolivia in December 2016, expressed interest to establish space cooperation with ISRO. As a follow-up, ISRO hosted 02-member delegation on June 05-06, 2017 and discussed on potential cooperation in Earth Observation and Satellite Communication. ABE delegation has also visited ISRO's Technical facilities at Bengaluru. Bolivian side expressed strong interest to pursue space cooperation with India and the Indian Ambassador to Bolivia has requested ISRO to send a standard draft on space cooperation, that could be shared with Bolivian side.
      * Considering the importance of this request, Agency-level draft MoU for India-Bolivia space cooperation was shared to Bolivian side, with the approval of Chairman, ISRO/ Secretary, DOS. Subsequently, Bolivian side has given its concurrence and both sides have arrived at mutually agreed version for signing.

    *****


    VRRK/PK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580830) Visitor Counter : 1345
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

*