      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      PRE-BID meeting for construction of Light House projects under GHTC-India, receives overwhelming response
      Posted On: 30 JUL 2019 5:12PM by PIB Delhi


    A pre-bid meeting for construction of Light House Projects under GHTC-India was organized on 29th July 2019 at Nirman Bhawan, New Delhi in which officials of MoHUA, CPWD, BMTPC, HPL, NBCC and the concerned State governments were present to address the queries of potential bidders. The Pre-bid meeting was attended by 125 participants representing more than 40 agencies. All queries raised by the potential bidders were addressed during the meeting. Responses to each query would be provided through a corrigendum and be made available on E-Procurement Portal.


    Clarifications were provided that the aim of the Request for Proposal (RFP) is to identify agencies that can deliver the pre-specified number of houses in minimum time and minimum cost using six-distinct innovative and alternate technologies at six locations. It was clarified during the pre-bid meeting that the concerned State Governments will extend the required support for all necessary approvals.


    Chairing the meeting, Shri DurgaShanker Mishra, Secretary, MoHUA said that the excitement and buzz around GHTC-India was visible during the pre-bid meeting and it clearly reflected the confidence of various stakeholders towards this initiative. He opined that these LHPs are envisaged to build an eco-system for the adoption of innovative technologies in the housing construction sector in a holistic manner. The overwhelming response at the pre-bid meeting is an encouraging sign towards the realisation of the LHPs the secretary said.


    Participating agencies may log on to www.eprocure.gov.in . to download the RFPs and for further details pertaining to RFP can be accessed on GHTC-India website https://ghtc-india.gov.in/ . The last date to submit the bid is 20th August 2019.


    The Hon’ble Prime Minister declared 2019-20 as Construction Technology Year during the inauguration event of Construction Technology India (CTI) 2019 Expo-cum-Conference under Global Housing Technology Challenge-India (GHTC-India). GHTC-India launched by Shri Hardeep S Puri, Hon’ble Minister of State (I/C), Housing & Urban Affairs, aims to get globally acclaimed, alternate and proven construction technologies for speedier and cost-effective construction of affordable housing. Subsequently, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) has published Request for Proposal (RFP) for construction of Light House Projects (LHP) at six selected sites under GHTC-India. These LHPs will be constructed at Indore, Rajkot, Chennai, Ranchi, Agartala and Lucknow.


    The RFP was published on July 05, 2019 at www.eprocure.gov.in . for each location.


    *************


    RJ/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580756) Visitor Counter : 632
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi