      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh holds discussions with Minister of Interior of Mozambique, Mr Jaime Basilio Monteiro; gifts 44 SUVs to Mozambique
      
      Shri Rajnath Singh returns tonight after concluding his fruitful visit to Mozambique
      
      Posted On: 30 JUL 2019 4:50PM by PIB Delhi


    Continuing with his high-level engagements in Mozambique, Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh today held discussions with Minister of Interior, Mr Jaime Basilio Monteiro in capital Maputo.


    After the talks, the Raksha Mantri gifted 44 SUVs to the Minister of Interior. The SUVs are expected to boost safety and security of the Mozambican police forces. During the handing over ceremony, Mr Jaime Basilio Monteiro expressed gratitude towards India’s grant assistance to National Criminal Investigation Agency.


    Yesterday, the Raksha Mantri called on Mr Carlos Agostinho do Rosario, the Prime Minister of Mozambique. During the talks, the Prime Minister of Mozambique thanked India for timely and valuable assistance in the aftermath of Cyclone IDAI, underlining that India was the first responder in the hour of crisis.


    Shri Rajnath Singh also met with Minister of Foreign Affairs and Co-operation, Mr Jose Pacheco, who warmly recalled his visit to India last year for 4 th Joint Commission Meeting and expressed satisfaction at the enhanced political engagement between India and Mozambique.


    During the Raksha Mantri’s visit, India and Mozambique signed two MoUs - agreement on sharing white shipping information and co-operation in the field of Hydrography – which will further strengthen defence co-operation between the two countries and result in enhanced security in the Indian Ocean Region.


    A dinner was hosted last night by the Defence Minister of Mozambique, Mr Atanasio Salvador M’tumuke in the honour of Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh.


    Mozambique has sought co-operation from India to deal with the growing menace of terrorism and radicalisation. Shri Rajnath Singh assured co-operation and reiterated commitment to work together in this regard.


    During his meetings with the leaders of Mozambique, Raksha Mantri discussed the entire spectrum of bilateral relations and noted the excellent Government-to-Government ties, strong business exchanges, vibrant development partnership, and long-standing people-to-people links between the two countries.


    Shri Rajnath Singh is accompanied by a high-level delegation including Defence Secretary, DG, Coast Guards and senior officials of Ministries of Defence and External Affairs.


    The Raksha Mantri will return to India tonight after concluding his fruitful visit to Mozambique from July 28-30, 2019.


    India shares close, warm and friendly relations with Mozambique which is cemented by robust development partnership and a large presence of the Indian Diaspora. The visit of RM is expected to further strengthen relations with Mozambique.


    ABB/Nampi/DK/Savvy

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580748) Visitor Counter : 731
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi