      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Shri Prakash Javadekar launches several e-projects of Publications Division
      
      Reading Culture of People should be revitalised: Prakash Javadekar

      Posted On: 31 JUL 2019 12:21PM by PIB Delhi

      Union Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar launched several e-projects of Publications Division including its redesigned dynamic website, mobile app “Digital DPD”, e-version of Rozgaar Samachar and e-book “Satyagrah Geeta” during his visit to Book Gallery at Soochna Bhawan in Delhi today.


      Speaking on the occasion, Shri Javadekar said that in line with PM Modi’s call to citizens in ‘Mann Ki Baat’ 2.0 programme, to make reading a habit, we should revitalise the reading culture. He also urged for the creation of Reading Clubs in the neighbourhood to improve the reading culture. He added that the role of Rozgar Samachar can be improved when all the job listing including the private jobs are listed in the newspaper. He suggested that Rozgar Samachar when distributed in the Colleges will help the students to improve their skill sets and make them better suited for the job market. He said that the revamped website of Publications Division looks attractive and dynamic, updating it daily would make the people visit the site frequently. He was happy for the launch of a mobile app for Publications Division which would help in improving the reading habits of people in the era of e books and Kindle.


      The details of the e-projects launched is as under:


      1. Redesigned Dynamic Website: The newly revamped dynamic website ( www.publicationsdivision.nic.in ) with integrated payment gateway is capable of providing real time purchase facilities as well as updated information about Publications Division’s books and journals. The website will facilitate ease of purchase. All books are available on the website for sale via payment gateway of Bharatkosh.


      The website has an attractive look and feel and a well planned architecture. Catalogue of books and updates and new books’ releases are displayed prominently for effective engagement with aesthetic layout, soothing colour, well-designed icons with good contrast between background and text for easy viewing. The information is organised into different sections and categories, catering to all stakeholders, viz. readers, authors, other publishers, printers, agents etc.,in neatly stacked lists, with proper visual material which is easy to understand.


      The website is user-friendly with easily accessible Social Media tools . It is clutter-free with effective search feature and informative menus and sub-menu. The smooth interface provides easy interactivity in English and Hindi. It is accessible to everyone including specially-abled persons (with a screen reader). Easy interface for feedback and suggestions with Facebook and Twitter links for connecting with the organisation on Social Media have also been provided.


      It has a special section on Gandhi@150. This section details with the work undertaken with special features including special Gandhi Catalogue, link to Gandhi Heritage Portal for reading volumes of Collected works of Mahatma Gandhi and other Gandhian publications.


      2. Mobile App “Digital DPD”: It is available for free download on Google Play Store and will facilitate tapping into the growing mobile commerce potential. The Mobile App is synced with the Digital Rights Management System to keep a check on a piracy and integrated with the Bharatkosh payment gateway for the ease of payments.


      3. e-version of Rozgar Samachar: Rozgar Samachar, a corresponding version of Employment News (English), is a prominent job journal in Hindi providing information about job opportunities in Central Government including Public Sector Enterprises. It also provides information and guidance about admission and career opportunities in various streams through career-oriented articles by experts.


      The e-Rozgar Samachar will provide the journal in digital form and is available @ Rs.400 for yearly subscription The e- Rozgar Samachar is expected to fulfil the growing needs of young readers, turning to electronic modes of communication.


      4. e-book “Satyagraha Geeta”: The heritage value book written by eminent poet Dr Kshama Rao in 1930s in Sanskrit verses presents the life and activities of Gandhiji. As part of Gandhi@150 commemoration, DPD procured a PDF version of the book and prepared the e-version of the book. English translation has also been added to ensure wider reach. Divided in eighteen chapters (like Adhyays of Bhagwat Geeta ), Satyagraha Geeta presents Gandhi's ideas, philosophy of life and his methods of action in Sanskrit verse form, capturing Gandhian ethos and tenets.


      ***


      AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580801) Visitor Counter : 2211
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Malayalam