      Prime Minister's Office

      PM releases results of 4th cycle of All India Tiger Estimation – 2018
      
      Count of Tigers in India rises to 2967; PM describes this as a historic achievement

      Posted On: 29 JUL 2019 11:32AM by PIB Delhi

    On the occasion of Global Tiger Day today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi released the results of the fourth cycle of All India Tiger Estimation - 2018, at Lok Kalyan Marg in New Delhi.


    The count of tigers in India, has risen to 2967, in 2018, according to this survey.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister described this as a historic achievement for India, and reaffirmed India’s commitment towards protecting the tiger. The Prime Minister appreciated the speed and dedication with which various stakeholders worked to achieve this. He described it as one of the finest examples of Sankalp Se Siddhi. Once the people of India decide to do something, there is no force that can prevent them from getting the desired results, he declared.


    The Prime Minister said that with almost 3000 tigers, India is today among the biggest and most secure habitats.


    Shri Narendra Modi asserted that the way ahead is “collectiveness” instead of “selectiveness.” He said that a broad-based and holistic look is essential for environmental conservation. He said, it is possible to strike a healthy balance between development and environment. “In our policies, in our economics, we have to change the conversation about conservation ,” he added.


    India will build more homes for our citizens and that the same time create quality habitats for animals. India will have a vibrant marine economy and a healthier marine ecology. This balance is what will contribute to a strong and inclusive India, the Prime Minister asserted.


    He expressed confidence that India will prosper both economically and environmentally; India will build more roads and India will have cleaner rivers; India will have better train connectivity and also greater tree coverage.


    He said that in the last five years, while work has proceeded at a fast pace for next-generation infrastructure, the forest cover in the country has also grown. There has also been an increase in the “protected areas.” In 2014, there were 692 protected areas, which increased to more than 860 in 2019. The “Community Reserves” have also grown from 43, in 2014, to more than 100 now.


    He said that India is making a sustained effort to make its economy “clean-fuel based” and “renewable energy based.” He said “waste” and “bio-mass” are being made a big part of India’s energy security. He mentioned the progress made in schemes such as “Ujjwala” and “Ujala” for LPG connections and LED bulbs, respectively.


    In conclusion, the Prime Minister called for even greater efforts, towards Tiger Conservation.


    The Union Minister for Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Shri Prakash Javdekar; the Union Minister of State for Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Shri Babul Supriyo; and the Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Shri C.K. Mishra, were present on the occasion.


    ***


    VRRK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580611) Visitor Counter : 3012
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada , Malayalam