      Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises

      Release of India’s R&D expenditure eco-system report
      Posted On: 24 JUL 2019 3:25PM by PIB Delhi


      SeemaBahuguna, Secretary, Department of Public Enterprises addressing the special session on India’s R&D expenditure eco-system


      A special session was held to discuss India’s Research and Development (R&D) expenditure eco-systemduring the Global launch of Global Innovation Index (GII) – 2019 in New Delhitoday.


      Investments in R&D are key inputs in economic growth. The impact of this is proven on productivity, exports, employment and capital formation. India’s investment in R&D has shown a consistent increasing trend over the years. However, it is a fraction of India’s GDP, it has remained constant at around 0.6% to 0.7% of India’s GDP. This is below the expenditure of countries like the US (2.8), China (2.1), Israel (4.3) and Korea (4.2).


      Government expenditure, almost entirely the Central Government, is the driving force of R&D in India which is in contrast to the advanced countries where private sector is the dominant and driving force of R&D spend. There is a need for greater participation of State Governments and private sector in overall R&D spending in India especially in application oriented research and technology development.


      The special session was attended by Prof. K VijayRaghavan, Principal Scientific Advisor to the Government of India, RatanWatal, Member Secretary, Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister (PMEAC), SeemaBahuguna, Secretary, Department of Public Enterprises, Dr.ArabindaMitra, Scientific Secretary, Office of Principal Scientific Adviser to Government of India and B.N. Satpathy, Senior Consultant, PMEAC.


      Speaking on this occasion Secretary, Department of Public Enterprises said that India’s R&D story is at an interesting juncture where public sector units owned by the Government are geared up to play an important role. During the interaction with CPSEs in April 2018 in the CPSE Conclave in Delhi the Prime Minister of India had underlined that there should be greater emphasis on collaborative R&D by the CPSEs with focus on partnerships with Indian Institute of Technologies and Universities. After that interaction with Prime Minister of India it has now been mandated that all CPSEs will set up innovation cells which will work on market oriented research informed Secretary, SeemaBahuguna.


      One hundred fifty-four such innovation cells have been setup by CPSEs where research is on like the NALCO MIDHANI Lithium -Aluminium Alloy Plant in Odisha, research is being conducted by Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited on generation of methanol from high ash Indian coal and Hindustan Aeronautics Limited is working on aero engines for various types of aircrafts/ helicopters for use by defence forces.


      Secretary, Public Enterprises further informed that from the year 2014-15 to 2017-18 there has been an increase of 116% in R&D spending by CPSEs. But the need of hour is that all CPSEs must come on board for higher spend on R&D and not just CPSEs of the petroleum and power sector, who are the biggest spenders in R&D, she further said.


      The report has been compiled by PMEAC and inputs for the report have been taken from various stakeholders including industry, academia and government.


      After the release of the report,RatanWatal, Member SecretaryPMEAC, informed that the objective of the report is to address the data gaps in compiling R&D data so that up to date data on R&D is available in order to reflect India’s true rank globally. The second objective is to examining expenditure trends in various sector and their short coming. The final objective is to lay down the road map for achieving the desire target of R&D spend by the year 2022.


      He further said that India needs to re-double its efforts to improve its ranking in the science and research ecosystem by increasing the national expenditure on R&D. The growth in R&D expenditure should be commensurate with the growth of GDP and should reach at least two percent of GDP by 2022.


      ***


      MM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580049) Visitor Counter : 3965
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi