      Ministry of Culture

      Union Culture Minister Shri Prahlad Singh Patel Inaugurates an Exhibition of 'Monuments of Valour & Victory Homage to Kargil Warriors' on the 20th Anniversary of Kargil Vijay Divas
      Posted On: 26 JUL 2019 7:34PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Culture Minister (IC) Shri Prahlad Singh Patel Inaugurated anExhibition of 'Monuments of Valour & Victory Homage to Kargil Warriors' on the 20th Anniversary of Kargil Vijay Divas today in New Delhi. The Exhibition was organized by National Monuments Authority of Ministry of Culture.


    Speaking on the occasion the Minister said that the nation is grateful to brave solders and paid homage to those who sacrificed their lives to save our country during the Kargil War. The Minister further said that the memories of martyrdom last indefinitely. He appreciated the efforts of National Monuments Authority to showcase glorious heritage of an invincible ever victorious India through the exhibition.


    Shri Prahlad Singh Patel urged National Monuments Authority to find out some more unknown yet historically important moments and events through which we can understand our history in better way. He further said that we should do some more research on our Independence Movement to find out some important yet ignored moments which can be great heritage of our country.


    The Minister said that the exhibition shows that we have a large number of sculptures, currencies and inscriptions, which show that the history of India is about its heroic legends.


    Shri Patel also said that the celebration of ‘Vijay Diwas’ in the memory of India’s thumping victory over Pakistan, culminating in the recapture of high altitude peaks in the Kargil region of Jammu and Kashmir on this day in 1999, brings to fore a great sense of pride for the valour of our armed forces. While remembering the martyrdom of those who laid their lives for the sake of their Motherland, it also freshens our minds about the long and glorious tradition of victory over the evil and the remarkable courage shown by sons and daughters of the soil through the ages.


    Chairman, National Monuments Authority Shri Taru Vijay said that numerous forts such as those of Chittorgarh (including the famous Vijay Stambha of Rana Kumbha, built in 1448); Pratapgarh in district Satara, Maharashtra; Jhansi in U. P. and Red Fort, Delhi stand living testimony to the valour of our national heroes – Maharana Pratap, Shivaji, Rani Lakshmi Bai of Jhansi and several others. Along with these the role of numerous great kings and queens and even commoners who took up the cause of the country’s defence has to be remembered. In true spirit to remember our brave soldiers and as befitting tribute several memorials have been built throughout the country. Shri Tarun Vijay also said that they serve as a source of inspiration for the generations to come in the grateful nation. The National Monuments Authority through this humble attempt feels proud of our glorious past and pays its tribute to the brave daughters and sons of the country.


    ******


    NB/AKJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1580510) Visitor Counter : 480