      Prime Minister's Office

      PM’s interaction through PRAGATI
      
      In first PRAGATI meeting of the new term, PM strongly reiterates commitment for "Housing for All" by 2022
      
      PM reviews progress of flagship schemes of Ayushman Bharat and Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan
      
      PM calls upon States to put in maximum efforts towards water conservation, especially during the current monsoon season
      
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2019 5:26PM by PIB Delhi


    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today chaired his thirtieth interaction through PRAGATI - the ICT-based, multi-modal platform for Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation.


    This was also the first PRAGATI meeting in the new term of the Union Government.


    The 29 PRAGATI meetings in the previous term, saw a cumulative review of 257 projects with a total investment of over 12 lakh crore rupees. 47 programmes/schemes were reviewed. Resolution of Public Grievances was also reviewed across 17 sectors (21 subjects).


    Today, the Prime Minister reviewed the progress in resolution of grievances related to the PM AwasYojana (Urban). He underlined the resolve of the Union Government to ensure that no family will be left without a home by 2022, and exhorted the officers to work diligently towards this objective, and remove all hurdles coming in the way. Towards this end, the Prime Minister also reviewed the resolution of public grievances related to the Department of Financial Services.


    The Prime Minister reviewed in detail, the working of Ayushman Bharat. He was informed that around 35 lakh beneficiaries have availed of hospital admissions and over 16000 hospitals have joined the scheme so far. Prime Minister called for dialogue with States which could help in evolving best practices, and further improvements in the scheme. He said that especially in the Aspirational Districts, a study should be done on the benefits and positive impact of the scheme. He sought to know what steps are being taken to curb occasional cases of fraud and misuse in this scheme.


    Reviewing the progress in Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan, the Prime Minister called for use of technology to evolve a mechanism to collect feedback from Divyang-jan, on accessibility issues being faced by them in public premises. He called for greater public involvement and sensitivity in finding solutions for promoting accessibility for the Divyang-jan.


    Emphasizing the importance of Jal-Shakti, the Prime Minister called upon States to put in maximum efforts towards water conservation, especially during the current monsoon season.


    The Prime Minister reviewed the progress of eight important infrastructure projects in the railway and road sectors. These projects are spread over several states including Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat.


    ***


    VRRK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580889) Visitor Counter : 1968
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada