      Ministry of Education

      Several steps have been taken to improve job orientation of higher education: HRD Minister
      Posted On: 25 JUL 2019 5:04PM by PIB Delhi


    Higher education system has many educational streams which are directly job-oriented.Further, in order to enhance job orientation and employability, the following steps have been taken:

     1. There are 1109 skill oriented courses being run by University Grants Commission (UGC) and All India Council for Technical Education(AICTE) through 556 institutions (300 B.VoC. colleges, 188 Community Colleges and 68 DDU Kaushal Kendra Colleges),in which 38414 students are receiving Skill training with education.
     2. New and updated vocational curricula are being developed in line with industry demand in B.VoC. programmes.
     3. AICTE has launched an Internship portal to facilitate industry internship to students. Internship has been made mandatory for students of engineering colleges.
     4. Wheebox Employability Skill Test(WEST) for all pre-final and final year graduates of AICTE approved institutions to identify the core strengths of students and certify the same.
     5. Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme (TEQIP) Phase-III is under implementation to enhance quality, equity and employability in selected engineering education institutions.
     6. National Career Service (NCS) portal has been launched as a common platform to bring together stakeholders like job seekers, employers, counsellors, local service providers and trainer etc. to facilitate convergence of information and link job seekers with job providers.
     7. MHRD is working in co-operation with Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) and Sector Skill Councils (SSCs) which comprise representatives of Industry, and Service Sectors to develop curricula that reflect industry –demanded skills so that higher education can be linked with employment opportunities.

    This information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource Development,Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1580291) Visitor Counter : 568
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

7.