      Department of Space

      Cabinet approves Memorandum of Understanding between India and Bahrain on Cooperation in the Exploration and Uses of Outer Space for Peaceful Purposes
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2019 3:39PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was apprised about the signing of Memorandum of Understanding between India and Bahrain on Cooperation in the Exploration and Uses of Outer Space for Peaceful Purposes.


    The MoU was signed in March 11, 2019 at Bengaluru by India and on March 28, 2019 at Manama by Bahrain.


    Details:

      * This MoU shall enable the following potential interest areas of cooperation such as, space science, technology and applications including remote sensing of the earth; satellite communication and satellite based navigation; Space science and planetary exploration; use of spacecraft and space systems and ground system; and application of space technology.
      * This MoU would lead to set up a Joint Working Group, drawing members from DOS/ISRO and the Bahrain National Space Science Agency (NSSA) of the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain, which will further work out the plan of action including the time-frame and the means of implementing this MoU.

    Implementation Strategy and Targets:


    The signed MoU would lead to concluding specific implementing Arrangement and setting up of Joint Working Group, to work out the plan of action including the time-frame and the means of implementing this MoU.


    Impact:


    The signed MoU will provide impetus to explore newer research activities and application possibilities in the field of remote sensing of the earth; satellite communication; satellite navigation; space science and exploration of outer space.


    Expenditure involved:


    The financial contribution with respect to each specific activity would depend on the nature of Joint activity and will be detailed in corresponding Implementing Agreements (Arrangements) / Contracts.


    Benefits:


    Cooperation with the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain through this MoU would lead to develop a joint activity in the field of application of space technologies for the benefit of humanity. Thus, all sections and regions of the country will get benefited.


    Background:

      * Chief of the Bahrain National Space Science Agency (NSSA) and the Minister of Transportation and Telecommunication of Bahrain have expressed interest to have space cooperation with ISRO to Indian Ambassador in April 2018.
      * As a follow up, on the request of MEA in July 2018, an MoU for India-Bahrain Space Cooperation was drafted and shared with MEA. Subsequently, Bahrain side has given its concurrence and both sides have arrived at mutually agreed version for signing.

    *****


    VRRK/PK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580827) Visitor Counter : 445
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada
    
    
    

*