      Ministry of Power

      Power Ministry notifies Fuel Economy Norms for Light & Medium Commercial Vehicles
      Posted On: 18 JUL 2019 3:00PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Power has notified Fuel Economy Norms for Light & Medium Commercial Vehicles on 16 th July 2019 after completing all formalities including vetting by the Law Ministry. These norms shall apply on the vehicles being sold or manufactured in India and having gross vehicle weight ranging between 3.5 tonnes and 12 tonnes. The vehicles shall be tested for constant speed fuel consumption as specified by the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways and shall meet the target diesel fuel consumption value derived from the equations corresponding to their weight and category as given in the notification. The fuel saving by implementation of the norms is estimated as 0.06 MMT in one year and cumulative fuel savings of 0.25 MMT in three years from the date of implementation of the norms.


    India’s estimated requirement of High-Speed Diesel (HSD) is likely to increase from 74.6 MMT in 2015-16 to 104.1 MMT in 2020-21. The transportation sector is the major consumer of diesel and accounts for more than 2/3 rd of total diesel sales in India. To reduce the average fuel consumption of the vehicles thereby reducing primary fuel consumption as well as reducing the import burden, an initiative was taken to introduce more fuel-efficient vehicles in the country through Fuel Economy Norms. Earlier, Fuel Economy Norms for Heavy duty vehicles and Passenger Cars were notified by the Ministry of Power. Subsequently, Development of Fuel Economy norms for Light & Medium Commercial Vehicles started in November 2017 by setting up a Steering Committee by Ministry of Petroleum and Natural gas.


    The steering committee for development of norms was chaired by Joint Secretary (Refineries) Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas. Norms were finalised in the steering committee.


    ****


    RCJ/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586404) Visitor Counter : 91