      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh participates in the MUDRA Promotion Campaign in Srinagar
      Schemes to bring a massive transformation in the lives of millions of youth, says Minister

      Posted On: 05 OCT 2017 7:52PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh participated in the MUDRA Promotion Campaign in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir today.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr Jitendra Singh said the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana and Stand Up India are the two major schemes initiated by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi that will bring about a massive transformation in the lives of millions of youth across the country.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said job and placement are the two key words in the lives of millions of educated youth, therefore schemes like Mudra Finance were inspired by the idea of employability rather than employment. He said schemes like Mudra reflect the sensitivity of the Government towards the need for a behavioral shift that is required of the people to inculcate certain values for sustainable progress. We believe these schemes will usher a change in mindset of people in general from seeking employment to self-employment and then towards job-providing, he added.


    Dr Jitendra Singh further said technology is also being leveraged to expedite the economic progress. We also need to be innovative in our approach at the level of State Government. We have unexplored resources within the state. He said that the first thing we need to do is to assess the skill-profile required to explore and exploit these local resources. Then only can we properly train the human resource available and leverage the whole process for the overall development of the state.


    Later Dr Jitendra Singh along with other dignitaries visited the stalls set up by the participating banks, insurance companies and other agencies including UIDAI, SIDBI, NPC (National Payments Corporation), JKEDI, Tourism Department, Horticulture and Handloom. J&K State Finance Minister Mr. Haseeb Drabu, Principal Secretary Finance, J&K, Shri Navin Kumar Chawdhary and Chairman, J&K Bank, Mr. Parvez Ahmed were also present during the function.


    Few films were also screened on the occasion. These films depicted the Stand-Up India and Mudra schemes besides highlighting the beneficiaries of Mudra Scheme who have availed loans and succeeded in realizing self-employment besides helping others to earn. A symbolic transaction for a small purchase was also effected on the occasion through BHIM App, which is a UPI application for electronic fund transfer.


    ******


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504996) Visitor Counter : 225