      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Over 80 lakh people took part in Swacchat Hi Sewa campaign in cities and towns
      Posted On: 01 OCT 2017 4:36PM by PIB Delhi


    Delhi got to be clean to be real global city, Says HUA Minister Shri Hardeep Singh Puri


    Shri Puri voices concern over manual, unsafe cleaning of sewers; takes up the issue with CM of Delhi


    Gyan Bharti School, Saket wins Swacchata Painting contest organized by CPWD


    Minister of Housing & Urban Affairs Shri Hardeep Singh Puri has expressed serious concern over sanitation workers dying while manually cleaning clogged sewers in the national capital. Participating in ‘Swacchata Hi Sewa’ campaign organized by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) at India Gate here today, the Minister stressed the need for mechanized cleaning of sewers.


    Addressing a gathering after felicitating the winners of Swacchata Painting Competition for students organized by CPWD, Shri Puri said his concern over unsafe and manual cleaning of sewers was shared by the Chief Minister of Delhi Shri Arvind Kejriwal met him on Tuesday this week. He further said a good portion of the Rs.300 cr sanctioned by his ministry for the three Municipal Corporations of Delhi would be spent on procuring mechanized sewer cleaners. Shri Puri said that the national capital of Delhi is among the major global cities of the world and it needs to be clean to be worthy of that status.


    Shri Puri appealed to the citizens of Delhi and other agencies like hotels not to dump garbage in to sewers so as to prevent their clogging. “We should give up the attitude of we litter and others would clean” the Minister said and called for ensuring segregation of waste at source on a war footing in the national capital.


    Stating that the ongoing ‘Swacchata Hi Sewa’ campaign, started on the 15 th of last month has proved to be a trigger towards making the country clean. He informed that as per the reports last received, over 80 lakhcitizens have enthusiastically participated in this campaign in the urban areas of the country. A total of over 3.50 lakh mass action campaigns have been taken up so far, he said.


    Shri Durga Shanker Mishra, Secretary(HUA) spoke of the need for making cleanliness a part of daily lives to realise Clean India.


    Shri Abhay Sinha, DG of CPWD said his organization is adopting clean and new construction technologies to ensure a neat and tidy environment besides focusing on energy efficient construction to reduceCarbon footprint. He informed that CPWD built 1,200 toilet for Mahanadi Coalfields at a cost of about Rs.20 cr.


    The on the spot painting competition on the theme of Swacchata organized by CPWD witnessed enthusiastic participation with over 200 students from 15 schools showcasing their ideas and vision about cleanliness in colors. Students of Gyan Bharti School, Saket won the first prize in both the categories in the age groups of 8-10 and 11-14 years. Master Shubham Samantaray and Ms.Shreya Samantaray have won in respective categories. Students from Manav Bharti School, Panchsheel Park, Sona Public School, Khanpur, SDMC Pratibha School, Mithapur Base and Hamdard Public School, Shalimar Bagh were among the prize winners.


    Shri Puri also felicitated Ms.Akanksha, a differently abled student for depicting in colors her view of cleanliness.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1504511) Visitor Counter : 261