      Vice President's Secretariat

      We should all strive together to realise the dreams of Gandhiji: Vice President
      Unveils the Statue of Mahatma Gandhi

      Posted On: 02 OCT 2017 11:28AM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that we should all strive together to realise the dreams of Gandhiji and usher in ‘Ram Rajya’ where all are equal and there is no discrimination of any kind. He was interacting with the children from Dayanand Vidlaya school after unveiling the Statue of Mahatma Gandhi on the occasion of the 148th Birth Anniversary, here today. The 1.8 meter long bronze statue is the first statue at Rajghat Complex. The Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs (Independent Charge), Shri Hardeep Singh Puri and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.
    
    The Vice President said that Gandhi ji's thoughts are immortal, his wish for Ramya Rajya should be properly understood and governments and people must work in that direction. He further said that Rama Rajya means an ideal rule, where there is no fear, where there is no huger, where there is no corruption, where there is no exploitation, where there is no discrimination. It is our duty at various levels and we must all work for the ideals of Ramarajya, given to the expectations of Mahatma Gandhi, he added.
    
    The Vice President inaugurated an Interpretation Centre in the Parking Area of the complex. This Centre enables interactive learning about the life and works of the Mahatma through Digital Display using LED screens. Visitors can watch films, life events, listen to speeches of Gandhiji besides participating in quiz, using ear phones for interaction without disturbance.
    
    The Vice President also inaugurated a new Administrative Wing of Rajghat Samadhi Committee that equipped with Visitors Room, Publication Unit, Staff Room, Drinking Water facility.

    *****


    KSD/AAR/BK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504545) Visitor Counter : 127
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil