      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi inaugurates the 3rd edition of 'Women of India Organic Festival' at Dilli Haat, INA
      “Good for Women; Good for India; Good for You!”
      Posted On: 01 OCT 2017 7:13PM by PIB Delhi

      The Union Minister of Women and Child Development, Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi inaugurated the 3 rd annual ‘Women of India Organic Festival’ at Dilli Haat (INA), today, in the presence of Minister of State, Ministry of Women and Child Development, Shri Virendra Kumar. The festival, which will be held till October 15, has on display India's most varied offerings of organic products ranging from food, wellness, personal care, home improvement, kitchen composters and solar products by nearly 530 participants. For most women, this is the first time that they are travelling to Delhi from remotest parts of the country to showcase their unique merchandise to the people of Delhi and surrounding areas.

        While emphasizing on the importance of going the organic way, Smt. Maneka Gandhi said , “Organic food has been proven to contain far more vitamins, minerals and nutrients than similar foods produced with chemical fertilizers, pesticides and preservatives. Economically too, organic farming is preferable since it ultimately reduces cost of cultivation by 20-40% and increases the incomes of farmers by improving quality of production as well as the quality of soil. Above all, children are particularly vulnerable to the harmful effects of pesticide exposure. Now with the affordability factor coming into organic produce, we should make a concerted effort to promote this sustainable alternative, thereby boosting the financial well-being of farmers as well as the health and longevity of consumers especially children.”


        With the theme ‘Good for Women; Good for India; Good for you’, the Ministry intends to highlight the health and environmental advantages of organic goods, provide a platform for women engaged in it and boost the development of sustainable and easily accessible sales outlets for women producers from the remotest corners of India.


        Apart from rural women who will sell organic food produce, women participants with prominent brands such as Pro Nature Organics, Him Fresh Organics, Aura Herbal Textiles, Sonal WhiteCub, Sutra Pure Ayurveda, Real Life Organic, Guna Organics, Bhandora Organics, Quinta Essentia Organic, Nourish Organics, are some of the participants who will add further value with their vast lifestyle and personal care range.


        During the last edition of the festival, over 500 women entrepreneurs from Leh to Kanyakumari and from Kohima to Kutch came together with their organic products such as cereals, rice, pulses, spices, cosmetics, household products, pickles, organic ice cream, oils, honey, tea, hair care, bath care, beauty care, aromatherapy products, solar products, kitchen composters, organic cotton fabric, linen, organic seeds and other bio products. Seeing the success of last year’s Festival in Delhi, the Ministry extended the duration of the Festival from 10 days to 15 days for this year's edition.


        https://twitter.com/MinistryWCD;


        https://www.facebook.com/Women-of-India-Festival-2017-Organic-Products-170237486643358/


        *****


        NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504524) Visitor Counter : 228
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil