      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Rajghat gets Mahatma Statue, for the first time
      Posted On: 02 OCT 2017 10:39AM by PIB Delhi


    Vice-President Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu unveils the 1.80 metre bronze statue


    Interactive Interpretation Centre on the life and works of Gandhiji another new visitor attraction

    
    Rajghat, the Samadhi of the Father of the Nation in the national capital , has for the first time acquired a new feature that could appeal to the large number of visitors. Vice-President of India Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu today unveiled a 1.80 metre tall bronze statue of Mahatma Gandhi on the occasion of the 148 Birth Anniversary of the champion of country’s independence.
    
    The statue, sculpted by the renowned Shri Ram Sutar is installed in the Parking Area of Rajghat Samadhi Complex at a cost of Rs.8.73 lakhs. It is mounted on a two feet high pedestal clad with granite. The famous message of Gandhi ji “Be the Change You Wish to See” is inscribed on the front side of the pedestal. Installation of the Statue is a part of a large number of improvement works at Rajghat undertaken during the last three years.
    
    Over 10,000 people visiting Rajghat daily and foreign dignitaries pay homage to the Father of the Nation at the simple black stone platform marking the place where Gandhi ji was cremated. The new statue would offer another spot for them to pay their respect to the great soul.
    
    Shri Venkaiah Naidu also inaugurated an Interpretation Centre in the Parking Area of the complex. The Rs.59 lakhs facility enables interactive learning about the life and works of the Mahatma through Digital Display using LED screens. Visitors can watch films, life events, listen to speeches of Gandhiji besides participating in quiz, using ear phones for interaction without disturbance.
    
    The Samadhi Complex also got a new administrative block that is equipped with Visitors Room, Publication Unit, Staff Room, Drinking Water facility. This has been built at a cost of about Rs.75 lakhs.
    
    During the last three years, Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs and the Rajghat Samadhi Samiti have undertaken several works at Rajghat to enhance visitor experience.

    *****


    AAR/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504541) Visitor Counter : 116