      Ministry of Rural Development

      Unprecedented Public Participation in Gram Sabhas
      Posted On: 03 OCT 2017 11:41AM by PIB Delhi


    Unprecedented public participation was seen in Gram Sabhas organised on Mahatma Gandhi’s Birth Anniversary on 2 nd October in Gram Panchayats across the country, in partnership with States and Local Governments as part of the Gram Samridhi Evam Swachta Pakhwada (Village Well-being and Cleanliness fortnight) from 1-15 October, 2017. Children conducted Prabhat Pheris in the morning to encourage all the adults of the village to attend Gram Sabhas. Women Self Help Groups, of whom there are more than five crore members across the country, participated in full strength in the Gram Sabhas. Elected representatives of Panchayats provided full details and disclosure of all the programmes being implemented in the Gram Panchayats and the money being spent on these interventions.


    As part of the public information campaign during Gram Samridhi Evam Swachta Pakhwada, flex boards and wall paintings regarding all programmes, entitlements, beneficiary lists, etc., has been put up in Panchayat buildings across the country for perusal of citizens. Work on cleaning public facilities like Schools, Anganwadi Centres, Panchayat Ghars, public spaces, etc., is being undertaken during this fortnight with a thrust on overall cleanliness through better solid and liquid waste management. Concerted public campaign for behaviour change for use of Individual Household Latrines (IHHL), thrust on water conservation to ensure better water availability specially in 5,000 clusters (spread over 50,000 Gram Panchayats) in all States selected for coverage under Mission Antyodaya.


    Through convergent use of resources from Deen Dayal Antyodaya Yojana – National Rural Livelihood Mission (DAY-NRLM), MGNREGS, Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) and other national and state level programmes sincere efforts are being made for a community led sustained interventions for cleanliness and well-being.


    To promote well-being of households, efforts are being made during this fortnight to enlist youth and women for skill programmes for diversification and development of livelihoods to improve incomes. Griha Pravesh of the 4.55 lakh houses, under Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana (Gramin) (PMAY(G), already completed is being undertaken as also site visit of all the ongoing remaining nearly 51 lakh houses where work will be completed by March, 2018. Likewise, community initiatives for better health, nutrition and education is also being attempted during the period.


    The activities undertaken in each and every Gram Panchayat is being monitored through SwachGram Portal which can be accessed by the general public at http://swachhgram.nic.in . The uploading of activities is an ongoing process and may be done over the next few days.


    <><><><><>


    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504568) Visitor Counter : 289
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil