      Ministry of Education

      All untrained teachers are to be trained by March, 2019 - Shri Prakash Javadekar
      Union HRD Minister launches Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed)
      Posted On: 03 OCT 2017 7:32PM by PIB Delhi


    A quality programme of National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) for in-service untrained teachers training Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed) was launched by Union Human Resource Developement Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar in New Delhi today. The Teacher Training Programme is designed for all Untrained Govt. /Govt. aided /Private unaided recognized in- service Untrained teachers of Elementary Schools & 15 lakh (approx) teachers have been enrolled so far.
    
    It is an initiative in Online and Distance Learning (ODL) mode of National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) for upgrading the professional competence and Information and Communication based capacity building for teachers. With an objective of enhancing quality, NIOS has been focusing its attention on the quality and excellence in the training aspects of the in service teachers of Govt. /Govt. aided /Private unaided recognized schools across the country. It is important that trainings are put in place to help develop skills through their job & to retain knowledge, skills need to be refreshed on regular basis.
    
    Speaking on the occasion Shri Prakash Javadekar said that the all untrained teachers are to be trained by 2019. Teachers and quality education are the rights of the students. Innovation and best practices will ensure that the best minds are able to innovate in the country and therefore NIOS has taken a step in this direction to get engaged at the grass root level. He also said that the government is committed to improve the education system and will be training approximately 15 lakh untrained teachers by 31st March 2019 and teachers will get diploma after the successful completion of the course. He also informed that in the first year of SWAYAM launch, we have made a world record in online training. He categorically said that there will be no further extension for this training programme after 31st March, 2019.
    
    Shri Upendra Kushwaha, Minister of State for HRD (School Education & Literacy) appreciated the sincere efforts of Shri Prakash Javadekar towards bringing new dynamics of the educational requirement with regard to quality, innovation & research aiming to make India a knowledge super power by equipping people with improved skills and knowledge. He also congratulated NIOS for its objective to build quality of teachers and to review how the term excellence and quality can be shaped by the training. Additionally several issues and challenges in ensuring quality of teachers can also addressed in the journey.
    
    Prof. C.B Sharma, Chairman, NIOS on this occasion said that training isn’t just important to any institution, it is vital also. The way teachers teach is of critical concern in any reform designed to improve the quality.

    *****


    
    
    GG/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504694) Visitor Counter : 133