      Ministry of Tourism

      An Enthusiastic Start of Paryatan Parv
      Posted On: 05 OCT 2017 7:35PM by PIB Delhi


        Ministry of Tourism has launched the ParyatanParv ” celebrations country wide today. ‘Paryatan Parv’ activities began with the flagging of the cycle rally by Smt. Rashmi Verma, Secretary, Ministry of Tourism from India Gate, New Delhi to Qutab Minar. Approximately 80 cyclists from across Delhi including members of tourism Industry Stakeholders, officials from central Ministries, doctors, teachers, students participated this rally.


        The other activities in the capital included a Guided Heritage Walk at Humayun’s Tomb & painting competition for children etc.


        Tourism awareness Walk & Run were organised in Shillong , Bhubaneswar , Kovalam (Kerala), Hajipur (Bihar), Gurudaspur, Chennai, Guwahati, Mumbai, Ahmedabad , Jaipur, Imphal, Lucknow, Agra, Hyderabad , Gwalior, Bhopal, Panaji(Goa), Delhi .100’s of student from Institute of Hotel Management in the said cities & local stakeholders enthusiastically participated in the Tourism walk & Run. The various State Tourism Departments also joined the celebrations by organising various events like trekking programme, photography contest, essay competitions, sensitization program etc.


        In Guwahati, the students took to rowing in the Brahmaputra river spreading the message of Paryatan Parv.


        The Indian Institute of Tourism &Travel Management, Noida organised a painting competition for school children on the theme “Tourism for All”& “Dekho Apna Desh”.


        The celebrations will run from 5 th to 25 th October, 2017 across several cities and iconic tourism destinations in the country. Throughout these 20 days, the ‘ParyatanParv’ will give an opportunity for the citizens of the country to explore the cultural heritage and enjoy the diverse cuisine, cultural programmes, music, theatre, etc.


        *****


        Sanjay Kumar/Tourism-3/05.10.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504988) Visitor Counter : 245