      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      FB Group ‘My Delhi Keep It Clean’ gets Swacchata Award for voluntary citizen action
      Posted On: 01 OCT 2017 4:35PM by PIB Delhi


    KRIBHCO gets award for compost marketing; 2 institutions from Ambikapur chosen for honors


    Agencies from Gurugram, Mysuru, Coimbattore, Pune among 20 to be honoured tomorrow


    Sikkim Monastery also to be felicitated for Zero waste generation


    Fertilizer Cooperative, KRIBHCO will be conferred the Swacchata Award tomorrow by the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs on the occasion of the third anniversary of the launch of Swacch Bharat Mission(Urban) for leading in marketing of compost made from Municipal Solid Waste. The Ministry will felicitate 20 individuals and agencies in 7 categories for significant contribution towards furthering the Clean India objective in urban areas.


    KRIBHCO has been chosen among the Companies category for marketing the highest quantity of 22,768 tons of compost during 2016-17.


    Delhi based citizen group ‘My Delhi Keep It Clean’ gets the award for promoting voluntary efforts to clean public places effectively using Face Book, in the Self-Help Group category.


    Richmond Park, Gurugram, located in DLF Phase-IV and completed in 2002 has been chosen for the award for exemplary decentralized waste management initiative through waste segregation at source, in the RWAs category. RWA Federation of Mysuru has shown the way in Zero-waste effluent management system. Roseland Housing Society, Pune also gets the award for waste segregation initiative. ‘No Food Waste’ initiative of Coimbattore has been selected in the Innovative Practices category for end-to-end cycle to manage and reduce food waste.


    Kasturba Gandhi Balika Awasiya Vidyalaya, Ambikar gets the award in the Schools and Colleges category while Swacch Ambikapur Sahakari Samiti has been chosen in Self-Help Group category for women empowerment and livelihood generation by converting garbage into wealth.


    Pemayangste Monastery, Gyalshing, Sikkim will be felicitated in the category of religious institutions for being a Zero-waste institution.


    AAR/KM


    October 1, 2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504510) Visitor Counter : 195