      Ministry of Tourism

      4TH Day of Parytan Parv Celebrated with Full Fervour across The Country
      Posted On: 08 OCT 2017 7:28PM by PIB Delhi


        4 th day of Paryatan Parv saw various activities taking place across the country. Indiatourism in association with the Cycle Club Jaipur and the travel industry organized a cycle rally. In the North East, several activities were kicked off under Paryatan Parv. Indiatourism, Guwahati organized activities to generate awareness on the importance of tourism while a Tourism Sensitization programme was organized in the University of Dibrugarh in association with INTACH chapter and Assam Tourism. IndiaTourism in association with the Ministry of DONER, North Eastern Tourism Development Council (NETDC) and State Governments of Manipur and Meghalaya organized various events showcasing local cuisine, handicraft & handlooms.


        Indiatourism offices in Goa, Patna and Kolkata organized various activities including Heritage Walks, a ‘Run for Incredible India’ and quiz contests for students to promote ‘Dekho Apana Desh’ as part of the Paryatan Parv celebrations.


        The Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav in the World Heritage City of Ahmedabad, Gujarat which has been beautifully illuminated as part of the ParyatanParv celebrations, witnessed yoga sessions by AYUSH. A guided Heritage Walk and an excursion trip for students was also organized by Indiatourism Mumbai in association with the State Government.


        In Delhi, Sensitization programmes for service providers was undertaken by India Tourism Delhi while Institute of Hotel Management, Pusa organized a tourism awareness rally in the city.


        The State Government of Madhya Pradesh as part of Paryatan Parv organized Narmada Utsav, a Cultural Event showcasing folk heritage at various heritage destinations of Madhya Pradesh. Go Heritage Runs were also organized.


        Keeping with the spirit of Paryatan Parv, the Uttarakhand Government organized a Trek while Himachal Pradesh Government conducted a Youth Parliament, to deliberate on the importance of Tourism and involvement of youth in the promotion of tourism. The Government of Uttar Pradesh organized a Dance competition.


        Other Central Ministries are also participating in Paryatan Parv by organizing various activities. The Railway Ministry has illuminated some of the major railway stations in the country. Under the Ministry of Civil Aviation, some of the major airports in the country have also been illuminated.


        The Online contests on MyGov platform for Dekho Apna Desh Photo Contest, Incredible India Quiz, Dekho Apna Desh Blog Contest have elicited tremendous response. Winners of the contests will receive attractive prizes.


        *****


        Sanjay Kumar/Tourism/08.10.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505209) Visitor Counter : 216