      Ministry of Power

      Power Minister reviews the Power Sector Development in Jammu & Kashmir
      Posted On: 10 OCT 2017 7:09PM by PIB Delhi


    

    Union Minister of State (IC) for Power and New & Renewable Energy, Shri R.K. Singh reviewed power sector development in the State of Jammu & Kashmir in Srinagar today. The senior functionaries from Ministry of Power, Government of India, Central Power Sector Undertakings (CPSUs) and key officials of Government of Jammu & Kashmir were also present during the review meeting.

    
    During the review, Shri Singh reiterated the commitment of Government of India to provide uninterrupted reliable power supply to all the citizens of the country including Jammu & Kashmir and advised all concerned to ensure electrification of remaining 100 census villages by December 2017. These villages exist in remote areas with difficult hilly terrain in the districts of Kishtwar, Kupwara, Reasi, Bandipore, Leh, Kargil & Rajauri. Electrification of these villages would ensure electricity access to 100% census villages of the State and catalyse desired improvement in the quality of life of people of the State and also create new opportunities for economic activities and jobs for the youth. The CPSUs of Government of India are providing requisite support to Government of J&K for implementation of these projects.
    
    During the visit, Shri Singh emphasized on expeditious implementation of projects sanctioned by Government of India under Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana (DDUGJY), Integrated Power Development Scheme (IPDS) and Pradhan Mantri Development Plan (PMDP) for strengthening of transmission, sub-transmission and distribution system of the State. Apart from transmission & distribution, the status of generation and availability of power supply was also reviewed. Effective implementation of these projects would ensure availability of a robust electricity infrastructure in the State to realise the goal of ‘24x7 Power for All’ at affordable prices, Shri Singh said.
    
    Shri Singh also emphasized upon desired improvement in operational efficiency in distribution sector including billing & collection efficiency to ensure financial sustainability. Further, the officials of Government of J&K were also advised to initiate preparatory activities for implementation of new scheme ‘Saubhagya’, recently launched by the Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi for providing last mile connectivity and electricity connections to all remaining households in the country and assured all kind of support from Government of India.
    
    During the day, the Minister also met the Governor, Shri N. N. Vohra and Chief Minister of the State, Ms. Mehbooba Mufti and discussed about faster implementation of power projects in the State so that the people of J&K get 24x7 Quality Power at affordable prices.

    ******


    RM/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505554) Visitor Counter : 179