      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Water Storage Level of 91 Major Reservoirs of the Country Goes up by one per cent
      Posted On: 06 OCT 2017 1:10PM by PIB Delhi


    

    The water storage available in 91 major reservoirs of the country for the week ending on October 05, 2017 was 105.851 BCM which is 67% of total storage capacity of these reservoirs. This percentage was at 66% for the week ending on September 28, 2017. The level of water storage in the week ending on October 05, 2017 was 90% of the storage of corresponding period of last year and 89% of storage of average of last ten years.


    The total storage capacity of these 91 reservoirs is 157.799 BCM which is about 62% of the total storage capacity of 253.388 BCM which is estimated to have been created in the country. 37 Reservoirs out of these 91 have hydropower benefit with installed capacity of more than 60 MW.


    REGION WISE STORAGE STATUS:-


    NORTHERN REGION


    The northern region includes States of Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan. There are six reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 18.01 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 14.73 BCM which is 82% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 75% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 81% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the corresponding period of last year and is also better than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.

      * EASTERN REGION

    The Eastern region includes States of Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and Tripura. There are 15 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 18.83 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 14.51 BCM which is 77% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 85% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 78% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the corresponding period of last year and is also less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.

      * WESTERN REGION

    The Western region includes States of Gujarat and Maharashtra. There are 27 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 27.07 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 20.77BCM which is 77% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 83% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 80% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the storage of last year and is also less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    CENTRAL REGION


    The Central region includes States of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. There are 12 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 42.30 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 27.38 BCM which is 65% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 91% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 73% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the storage of last year and is also less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.

      * SOUTHERN REGION

    The Southern region includes States of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, AP&TG (Two combined projects in both states) Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. There are 31 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 51.59 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 28.46 BCM which is 55% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 53% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 72% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the corresponding period of last year but is less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    States having better storage than last year for corresponding period are Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Tripura, Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. States having equal storage than last year for corresponding period is Maharashtra. States having lesser storage than last year for corresponding period are Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, AP&TG (Two combined projects in both states), Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.


    Samir/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505016) Visitor Counter : 80
    
    
    
    
    

  
*