      Ministry of Culture

      Dr. Mahesh sharma inaugurates ‘Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav - 2017’ at Ahmedabad
      
      Gala Inaugural Event Showcases an Amalgamation of Crafts & Art forms, Cuisine Fest and Magnificent Performances

      Posted On: 07 OCT 2017 10:35AM by PIB Delhi

        Continuing its endeavor to promote India’s Heritage, Ministry of Culture has organised 3 days long diversified cultural carnival ‘Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav - 2017’ at the premises of Sabarmati River Front Event Centre, Ahmedabad, Gujarat. The festival was inaugurated by Dr Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State for Culture (I/C) and Environment, Forest & Climate Change in the presence of Shri Gautam Shah, Mayor, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and Dr.Kirit Solanki , Member of Parliament, Ahmedabad ( West ) in Ahmedabad today. Ms.Sujata Prasad , Additional Secretary, M/o Culture and Shri Pranav Khullar , Joint Secretary, M/o Culture and many dignitaries were present .


        The inaugural day witnessed soulful performances such as Pandvani by Teejan Bai and Vedic chants and Bhajans by Krishna Kant Shukla and fusion performances of more than 150 folk artists, highlighting different dance forms including folk and tribal . The celebrated festival that began today, will continue to connect people of Ahmedabad with India’s rich culture till 9 th October, 2017 and the same folk dances will be presented in the four cities of Gujarat i.e Vadodara, Rajkot, Somnath and Dwarka from 10 th to 13th October 2017. The Seven Zonal Cultural Centers under the Ministry of Culture have been enjoined upon with the task of organizing the RSM in Ahmedabad as well as taking it to above mentioned cities under the banner of the slogan “EK BHARAT SHRESHTHA BHARAT. Dr. Mahesh Sharma and other dignitaries also visited cuisine and craft stalls and interacted with artists and artisans.


        Addressing on the occasion, Dr Mahesh Sharma said, “We are delighted to bring to you the our beloved and Hon'ble PM shri Narendra Modi's vision of Strong aand united India with respect and appreciation of multicultural and respect for each other's rich cultural heritage exemplified by Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat programme through Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav 2017, a cultural festival that will powerfully revive India’s heritage, like never before. The event brought together the art, artisans, dance, handicrafts, flavours and music from different regions, making itself the largest ensemble of Indian culture. While this event introduced and connected country’s youth to the various facets of our rich and vibrant culture, it also gave people from different regions a chance to showcase their talent, artworks and delicacies at a larger-than-life podium”. He further added, “We thank Shri Gautam Shah, Mayor, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and Dr.Kirit Solanki , Member of Parliament, Ahmedabad ( West ) for gracing the occasion "


        Dr. Mahesh Sharma released the book written by Shri Chandrakant Topiwala on 19th Century poet Kavi Dalpatram.


        While addressing the gathering Shri Gautam Shah thanked Ministry of Culture for supporting the task of inscription of city of Ahmedabad on world heritage site and celebrating the same through organising Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav in Ahmedabad. He also added that the dream of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat will be fulfilled through organisations of such festivals.


        Dr Kirit Solanki appreciated the efforts of the Ministry of Culture for organising Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav. He further added that there is unity in diversity in our country and it is the Culture which binds all of them together. He also mentioned that organizing such a unique cultural event which gives people from different regions a chance to showcase their talent, artworks and delicacies at one platform. Ministry of Culture plays a very important role in preserving our rich cultural heritage and in uniting our country.


        The festival showcases a titanic variety of tribal and classical art forms from different cities and towns across the country accompanied by dance, music, drama, entertainment and food. The 10- acre River front event Centre campus, came live to 10 food stalls, showcasing an assortment of regional cuisines such as ‘Litti Chokha’ from Bihar’, Puran Poli from Maharashtra , sweet delicacies such as ‘Mave ki Kachori’ from Rajasthan and many more. In addition, power- packed performances were delivered by different artists including folk, contemporary etc.


        Guests experienced an unparalleled shopping journey viz handicrafts, cuisines, rangoli painting, sculpture, photography, documentation and performing arts- folk such as Pung Cholom dance (Manipur), Mer Ras (Gujarat) and Mayur nrutya ( Uttar Pradesh), all under one- roof.


        Apart from this, other activities are being organized by the Ministry of Culture during RSM as follows:


        · Walled-city memorial of 19 th century poet and social reformer Kavi Dalpatram at Lambeshwar ni Pol: ‘An oasis of calm, a celebration of the written word’- Book exhibition and eclectic reading of poetry and prose, and Exposition on Chhattisgarhi language and literature organised by Sahitya Academy on 8 th October 2017 .( Time:4.30 am to 7.00 PM)


        · Sabarmati Ashram: An exhibition on Sabarmati Shatabadi by National Archives of India ( Time:8.30am to 7.00 pm )


        · Bhadra Fort: ‘Conserving Ahmadabad’s Historic Monuments, an exhibition by Archaeological Survey of India ( Time :10.00am to 7.00pm)


        · Campaign on Swachhta: Street murals as part of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan by National Gallery of Modern Art (Time: 11.00 am to 5.30pm).


        *****


        Sanjay Kumar/Culture-2-RSM/07.10.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505186) Visitor Counter : 299