      Ministry of Tourism

      Engaging Youth Through Paryatan Parv
      Posted On: 11 OCT 2017 8:07PM by PIB Delhi


        India is abundant with rich cultural heritage and pristine natural beauty which not only attracts foreign tourists but also domestic tourists. India is promoted as tourist destination by central government as well as different states to attract tourists within the country.Thus, tourism has emerged as a major contributor to the economy and job creation for women and youth.


        In the last few years’ youth travel within the country has witnessed a strong growth. Paryatan Parv is one event which motivates youths to not only travel to different parts of the country but also involve in spreading the message of Paryatan Parv among the countrymen. Various activities are planned to engage the youth of this country .Various competitions like Essay, painting, Quiz are being organised. Sensitization of Youth through seminars, Excursions trips, Nukkad Natak etc. are core components of Paryatan Parv. The Parv aims at inculcating tourism culture among youths so they could become key influencers in promoting tourism in the country.


        As a part of the Paryatan Parv , Department of Youth Affairs, Government of India is organising activities likeTribal Youth Exchange Programme, Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat -Inter State Youth Exchange Programme, Neighbourhood Youth Parliament (one programme in each State),District level Sports Tournament, District level Cultural Programme (one programme in each State),Awareness programme on the importance of tourism especially for rural youth and tourism (one programme in each State ) across the Country. In addition, activities like Cyclothon, River Walks, Heritage walks and Trekking has also been organised.


        Day 7-Paryatan Parv


        The highlight of the day seven of the ParyatanParv was a colourful and unique programme organised on the Rural Tourism theme at Pollachi, Tamilnadu. The event gave an insight of the life of rural India and how the rural sites can be promoted as tourist destination.


        As Part of the ParyatanParv, Cultural Evening and Tourism Exhibition was organised by Government of Himachal Pradesh in association with Indiatourism Delhi.State Government of Telangana in association with IndaiTourism Hyderabad organised various events such as Cultural Evening, Illumination around Taramati Baradari s ite, Guided Heritage Walks in City, Sensitisation Programmes for Stakeholders, Quiz / Essay / Painting Competitions for students and Ministry of Textile ,Government of India has organized exhibition of Handicraft.


        State Government of Gujarat has organised a Seminar on Home Stay Policies. Government of Madhya Pradesh setup a Craft Mela including Craft Bazaar, cultural evening and food festival near Western Group of temples at Khajuraho, Government Uttarakhand organised an exhibition of Cultural Arts of the State at Almora.


        Doordarshan is celebrating Paryatan Parv by hosting a Photography Contest titled ‘Smile India Smile’.The general public is invited to participate in thiscontest by sending pictures at ddsmileindia@gmail.com , Winners of the contests will receive attractive prizes by Doordarshan .


        Other Central Ministries are also participating in ParyatanParv by organizing various activities. The Ministryof Railways has illuminated some of the railway stations of tourist importance like Vasco, Shimla, Siliguri, NewJalpaiguri, Sanchi, Varanasi, New Tinsukia, Rampur Hat, Sealdah in the country.


        The Ministry of Civil Aviation has illuminated, some of the major airports in the country such as Delhi, Chennai, Hyderabad, Varanasi, Srinagar, Jaipur, Aurangabad, Dimapur, Imphal, Vijaywada, Raipur, Bhubaneshwar.


        The Online contests on MyGov platform for Dekho Apna Desh Photo Contest, Incredible India Quiz, Dekho ApnaDesh Blog Contest have elicited tremendous response. Winners of the contests will receive attractive prizes.


        *****


        Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism-11.10.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505724) Visitor Counter : 231