      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Taking Science to the Masses and Building Effective Communication by Bridging Communication Gap
      Dr. Harshvardhan Releases Book titled “Bridging the Communication Gap in Science & Technology”

      Posted On: 09 OCT 2017 7:06PM by PIB Delhi
      

        An effective communication strategy is very important to take science to the masses, said Minister for Science & Technology, Earth Sciences and Environment, Forests & Climate Change, Dr. Harshvardhan while releasing the book “ Bridging the Communication Gap in Science and Technology: Lessons from India”, in New Delhi today. Dr Harsh Vardhan, released the book at the CSIR auditorium and spoke about the current status of science communication in India .


        Dr. Harshvardhan while appreciating the efforts of the writers in bringing out the book said that the book provides a snapshot of existing science communication policy and practice in India across different S&T sectors, and offers solutions to building effective communication. It has contributions from stalwarts in the areas of research, policy, and media across the S&T spectrum in India. . The volume includes academic, policy and practice-driven papers by scholars, practitioners and bureaucrats who have in many cases formulated or been at the helm of S&T communication strategies in independent India, and who offer innovative and new solutions for improving public communication on science and technology in the country


        The release was followed by a panel discussion on theme, ‘When Science Meets the Public, How Do You Bridge the Gap?’. Secretary, Department of Science and Technology (DST) Prof. Ashutosh Sharma, Dr Girish Sahni, Director General of CSIR, Professor Deepak Kumar, a former professor and historian of science from JNU, and Mr Pallava Bagla, a long-time senior correspondent with Science magazine and science editor for NDTV. Mr Hasan Jawaid Khan, who is the editor of Science Reporter (NISCAIR) moderated the panel discussion.


        Secretary, DST, Prof. Ashutosh Sharma said that Science communication and journalism are too important to be left either to Scientists or to journalists alone. He announced that the Department will launch an internet TV, 24x7 Science TV channel, and web portal for Science & Technology to reach out and increase science awareness and building the scientific temper amongst common people. He also talked about the scientific social responsibility. He said that scientists are responsible and accountable to people about what they are doing and how their work affects common men’s lives.


        ***


        RDS/nb

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505378) Visitor Counter : 232