      Ministry of Tourism

      Paryatan Parv Spreads to Every Nook and Corner of the Country
      Posted On: 09 OCT 2017 8:06PM by PIB Delhi


    Slowly but surely the festive atmosphere of the Paryatan Parv could be felt across the country. Whether it is Jammu and Kashmir in the North or Kerala down south, from Gujarat to Odisha or entire North East, the festival of tourism has taken all to its grip. Truly symbolising the Anekta Me Ekta and Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat spirit of India. The coming together of all the State Governments, various Central Ministries, Trade and Hospitality Associations, Organisations under one umbrella to promote Tourism in the country is unprecedented.


    Day five of the Parv witnessed numerous activities organised acrossthe country.


    ‘CLEANLINESS IS NEXT TO GODLINESS’, A phrase which speaks volumes of the importance of cleanliness in our World. Maintaining Cleanliness is not a one-time performance but should be incorporated in our daily Lives, necessary for our good health whether it is personal cleanliness, surrounding cleanliness, cleanliness of the environment, work place cleanliness (like school, college, office, etc). As part of Paryatan Parv Sensitization programme, awareness on Hygiene among tourists, street food vendors, other unorganized sector stakeholders on Tourism was organized on 9th October’2017 from 9 am onwards at the Old Goa, surrounding St. Xavier’s Church which is frequented by Tourists.


    IHM-Bangalore organized a Sensitization Program in association with India Tourism, Bangalore at a very prominent tourist/travellers embarking/disembarking point i.e., Bangalore City Railway Station. This sensitization was mainly to create awareness to the various service providers who directly and indirectly promote tourism in the State.


    As part of the celebration of “ParyatanParv” a “Yoga Demonstration” was organized by Indiatourism, Mumbai and Kaivalyadham (Yoga Institute) at Churchgate Railway Station, Mumbai on 09.10.2017.The Yoga Demonstration took place in the morning and there were over 10 Yoga Demonstrators who demonstrated the “Common Yoga Protocol” as per the department of AYUSH, Govt. of India to hundreds of travellers embarking and disembarking from the Station.


    North East region of India has taken a lead in sensitizing the stakeholders by conducting seminars/ workshops on Homestays and Sustainable Tourism. Ministry of DONER in partnership with State Governments has started these programmefrom today which will continue till 17 th October 2017. Online video content generation through participation of students, tourists, local entrepreneurs, tourism stakeholders has also been started today in the North East region. Eco Tourism Drive through Tree Plantation by students, railway and tourism officials at Railway Stations has been organised at Naharlagun and Gumto.


    State Government of Mizoram is organising the Autumn Fair (till 13 th October) as part of the Paryatan Parv State Governments of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra have organised various programmes as a part of the ParyatnParv .


    Sensitazation programmes, were held in Odisha, Punjab, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh. Heritage Walks were held at Diaper, Uttarkashi . Essay & Quiz Competitions for students were also organised in Nellore AndhraPradesh. IHMs, IITTMs, Indiatourism Offices has actively organised these events.


    Delhi saw plethora of activities being organised, Yoga Session, Heritage Walk and Sensitization programme was organised by Indiatourism, Delhi. Delhi Tourism is organising Musical Programmes at Dilli Haat, Pitampura which will continue till tomorrow.


    Sensitization Programme was organised with Ministries and ASI on “Adopt a Heritage” Project at National Museum.


    Other Central Ministries are also participating in ParyatanParv by organizing various activities. The Railway Ministry has illuminated some of the major railway stations in the country. Under the Ministry of Civil Aviation, some of the major airports in the country have also been illuminated.


    The Online contests on MyGov platform for DekhoApnaDesh Photo Contest, Incredible India Quiz, DekhoApnaDesh Blog Contest have elicited tremendous response. Winners of the contests will receive attractive prizes.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/Tourism/09.10.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505422) Visitor Counter : 118