      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh interacts with students from border districts of J&K
      Posted On: 09 OCT 2017 4:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today met a group of students from border districts of Jammu and Kashmir, who were on a visit to the national capital. The students belonged to the age group of 16 to 20 years and are studying in different government schools or government degree colleges.


    Arrangements were made for the students, many of whom were visiting Delhi for the first time, to visit the museum of Rashtrapati Bhavan which was a rare and unique experience for them at this tender age. In addition, they went for sightseeing to historic destinations like Red Fort and Qutub Minar. Dr Jitendra Singh suggested that a visit could also be arranged for them during the Parliament Session so that they can witness the proceedings.


    In a lively interaction, Dr Jitendra Singh answered a wide range of questions from the students and also responded by offering his views on a number of current topics as well as elaborating several youth-centric initiatives taken by the Central Government. He said, these young students are going to have the privilege of being the architects of New India which is soon going to emerge as a global power. He said, most of the students in this age group have their aspirations but need to work out their inner aptitude and their inner capacities.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said, the students, living in border districts of Poonch and Rajouri, have the privilege of being globally connected with their counterparts across the world. Many of them, who have moved out to other parts of the country, have made a name for themselves at a young age.


    The students were accompanied by Deputy Superintendent of Police, J&K Police, Ms. Preeti Verma, who coordinated the visit.


    ***


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505672) Visitor Counter : 107