      Ministry of Finance

      The Union Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley to leave on a one week Official Visit to USA early morning tomorrow
      
      
      i.e. 9th October, 2017 to participate in the Annual Meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) among others.

      Posted On: 08 OCT 2017 7:33PM by PIB Delhi

    

    The Union Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley will leave on a one week Official visit to USA early morning tomorrow i.e. 9thOctober, 2017 to participate in the Annual Meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) among others. The Finance Minister, Shri Jaitley will lead the Indian Official Delegation consisting of the Governor, RBI, Dr. Urjit Patel, Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs (DEA), Ministry of Finance, Shri Subhash Chandra Garg, Chief Economic Adviser (CEA), Dr Arvind Subramanian, Special Secretary, DEA, Shri Dinesh Sharma among others.

    
    On the First Leg of his US visit, the Finance Minister, Shri Jaitley will arrive in New York on the morning on 9th October, 2017.Major engagement of the Finance Minister, Shri Jaitley during his one day stay at New York on 9th October, 2017 include Meeting with the Investors in partnership with Bank of America and Confederation of Indian Industries (CII). Thereafter, the Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley will participate in the Roundtable Meeting of CEOs of USIBC-CII.
    
    Next day, i.e. Tuesday,10th October, 2017, the Union Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley will deliver a Lecture on "FDI: Achievements and Challenges" at Columbia University . In the evening, the Finance Minister will leave for Boston.
    
    On Wednesday, 11th October, 2017, the Finance Minister, Shri Jaitley will participate in the Roundtable Investment Meet being organised in Boston in collaboration with NIIF, USISPF and FICCI on the subject of "Indian Economy - The Road Ahead". Later in the evening, the Union Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley will deliver a Lecture on India's Tax Reforms at Harvard University. On the morning of Thursday, the 12th October, 2017, the Finance Minister will leave for Washington D.C. to participate in the Annual Meetings of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) among others.
    
    During his three day stay at Washington, the Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley will hold Bilateral Meeting with US Commerce Secretary. He will also participate in an Interactive Seminar organised by FICCI on the subject of "India Opportunity Conference". The Finance Minister, Shri Jaitley will also attend the G-20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors’ Working Dinner on 12th October, 2017.
    
    On Friday, the 13th October, 2017, the Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley will participate in the Annual Meetings Plenary, G-20 Finance Ministers (FMs) and Central Bank Governors (CBGs)’ Meeting and Development Committee Luncheon Meeting among others. Later, the Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley will participate in the Finance Ministers’ Meeting with Multilateral Development Banks. The Finance Minister, Shri Jaitley is also likely to hold separate Bilateral Meetings with the Italian Minister for Economy and Finance and the Iranian Minister for Economy and Finance respectively.
    
    In the evening on 13th October, 2017, the Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley will participate in the Special event to be hosted by US India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF) on the theme of "Indian Economy: Prospects and Challenges". Thereafter, the Finance Minister, Shri Jaitley will attend the Dinner being hosted by the Indian Ambassador in USA, Shri Navtej Sarna at ‘India House’ in Washington D.C. in the honour of the visiting Finance Minister.
    
    On Saturday, the 14th October, 2017, the Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley will participate in the IMFC Restricted Breakfast Session followed by the IMF Governors’ Photo Session. Later, the Finance Minister, Shri Jaitley will participate in the IMFC Plenary.
    
    In the afternoon, the Finance Minister, Shri Jaitley will host a lunch for THE Constituency Members consisting of Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal and Sri Lanka. Later, the Finance Minister, Shri Jaitley will participate in the 96th Meeting of the Development Committee Plenary.
    
    On Sunday, the 15th October, 2017, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will leave for back home after completing his one week official visit to USA and will arrive in the national capital on Monday, 16th October, 2017.

    ***


    
    
    DSM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505214) Visitor Counter : 188