      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      First ever Conference of Partner NGOs of WCD Ministry held in New Delhi today
      
      
      An online facility to be created by WCD Ministry for receiving complaints/suggestions from NGOs in the field of women and children: Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi

      Posted On: 09 OCT 2017 5:48PM by PIB Delhi
      

        The first ever conference of Partner NGOs of WCD Ministry was held in New Delhi today. The Minister of Women and Child Development, Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi inaugurated the conference titled “Implementation of Policies, Schemes and Programmes for Women and Children: Challenges and Way Forward”. More than 130 participants from various NGOs across the country attended today’s conference aimed at sensitizing them about the various schemes of WCD Ministry and to give them an opportunity to share their experiences and insights.


        Addressing the participants, Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi said that NGOs play a very vital role since a large numbers of schemes, programmes and policies of the government, which are being implemented at the ground level with the help of NGOs. The Ministry of Women and Child Development has taken up several new initiatives like One Stop Centres, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, Women Helpline, National Policy for Women, Bill against Trafficking, National Alliance against Child Abuse amongst many such others, the Minister explained. She urged the NGOs to play an active role in the implementation of these initiatives as well as to give their suggestions for better delivery.


        Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi said that the flagship scheme launched by the Prime Minister, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao has shown a tremendous success since 104 out of 161 BBBP districts have shown an increasing trend in Sex Ratio at Birth. This implies a clear cut change in attitude and urged the NGOs to come forward to ensure further success of the scheme.


        The WCD Minister held half an hour interaction with the participants in which they highlighted the various issues and problem being faced by them at the grass root level. Smt Maneka Gandhi said that Ministry is already training sarpanches and anganwadi workers and as suggested by the participants, it can also organize training programs for NGOs working in the field of women and children. The Minister also assured that an online facility will soon be created for the NGOs in the field of women and children to enable them to lodge their complaints or highlight their issues.


        MoS WCD, Dr. Virendra Kumar lauded the role played by the NGOs in different areas. He said that the NGOs have been playing an important role in rehabilitation of trafficked women. Dr. Virendra Kumar said that issues related to security of women and children have become a matter of concern and the NGOs must come forward to work with the government in this area. Secretary WCD, Shri Rakesh Srivastava, while commending the important role of NGOs, hoped that the partnership between the government and the NGOs will grow and help in implementing the schemes and programmes successfully.


        The today’s conference was based on the following broad themes:


        i) Violence Against Women: Prevention and Facilitating Access to Justice


        ii) National Policy for Women: Policy Interventions for Gender Parity


        iii) Trafficking of Women and Children: Role of State Institutions


        iv) Cyber Crime and Children: Prevention and Harm Reduction


        v) Implementation of JJ Act: Structural Challenges and Mainstreaming of Children


        The expected outcome of the Conference is to ascertain the existing problems and drawbacks in the present set up of delivery system at the grassroots level; to develop ways for constructive policy formulation and programme implementation by assessing the lessons discussed during the conference; to increase engagement of these organizations for advocacy on women empowerment and child safety and security.


        *****


        NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505348) Visitor Counter : 287