      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister attends Passing Out Parade at CISF Regional Training Centre Arakkonam in Tamil Nadu
      Shri Rajnath Singh asks CISF to raise specialised wing and conduct regular cyber security audits

      Posted On: 09 OCT 2017 7:09PM by PIB Delhi

    

    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh has said the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) needs to upgrade and technologically advance itself to face and counter any incident of cyber terrorism. Addressing the Passing Out Parade of Assistant Commandants (Executive), Sub Inspectors (Executive) and Assistant Sub Inspectors (Executive) at the CISF Regional Training Centre (RTC) Arakkonam, in Vellore district of Tamil Nadu today, Shri Rajnath Singh said a specialised Wing in the CISF should be created to conduct regular cyber security audits and build capacities to deal with cyber-terrorism.

    
    Pointing out that cyber-terrorism has emerged as a major terror threat facing several countries in the world, the Union Home Minister said the cyber terrorists use digital tracks to attack important institutions, buildings and installation.
    
    Shri Rajnath Singh also called upon the CISF to conduct regular security audits of all important buildings and installations. The CISF should strengthen its security mechanism based on these audit reports and also by adopting new technological solutions, he added. The Union Home Minister said the CISF needs to maintain its core competence against terrorism so that our strategic installations are not hit by any terrorist group. Shri Rajnath Singh said India is one of the fastest emerging economies of the world. Certain anti-India forces are not able to appreciate these visible economic trends in India, he added.
    
    Noting with satisfaction that the CISF has largest number of women among the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), Shri Rajnath Singh said he’s confident the CISF will be the first Force to achieve 33% reservation target for Women. The CISF has crossed many milestones during its journey of nearly 48 years since inception. The role of CISF has been further diversified and expanded with rapid increase in globalisation and liberalization, he added. Applauding the excellent turnout of the Parade, the Union Home Minister also congratulated the trainers who have trained these CISF probationers. He said training is the most important pillar of any force. Shri Rajnath Singh said he is hopeful the training given to probationers will help them in performing their duties.
    
    During the Dikshant Parade, the Union Home Minister also awarded medals and prizes. Shri Rajnath Singh later laid the Foundation Stone of the Sub-Officers’ Ladies Hostel, at the CISF RTC, Arakkonam. The Director General, CISF, Shri O.P. Singh and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.

    ***


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505381) Visitor Counter : 215