      AYUSH

      The two day International Conference on ‘Yoga for Wellness’ concludes successfully in New Delhi today
      Posted On: 11 OCT 2017 5:16PM by PIB Delhi


    Speaking at the valedictory session today, the Minister of Road Transport, Highways, Shipping, Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Shri Nitin Gadkari said that Yoga has a huge potential for generating employment opportunities. He said that to capture these opportunities we have to give professional training to practitioners of yoga. He insisted that a systematic yoga education syllabus should be prepared and scientific research should be developed in a professional manner.


    Addressing the valedictory session, the Minister of State for AYUSH (Independent Charge), Shri Shripad Yesso Naik expressed his happiness over the overwhelming response from the people across the globe to participate in the Conference. He said that the level of participation has forced us to think to organise a bigger event than this in the coming years.


    Shri Shripad Naik explained that the Western countries are showing much interest towards Yoga and in USA alone, nearly 20 million people are practicing Yoga. This number is increasing average by 5% every year he added. The Minister also informed that the USA military training has adopted Yoga in its training curriculum and many other countries like UK, European countries, and south eastern countries are increasingly practising Yoga.


    The AYUSH Minister also said that our Government is committed to the development of AYUSH systems especially Yoga not only in the country but outside as well. He further said that several modern medical institutes have adopted Yoga as an alternative or adjuvant treatment for many of the disorders. Shri Naik said that in India also, the system of Yoga is gradually gaining popularity as a best mode of alternative therapy to the modern medical system. Minister of State for Health & Family Welfare Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey said that both modern medicine and yoga understand the need for total health and even the World Health Organization has recently added a new dimension to the modern understanding of health by including spiritual health in its definition of the “state of health’. Shri Choubey said that Spiritual health is an important element of yoga and now that even the WHO has come around to understanding this point of view, there is hope for a true unification of these two systems. Secretary (AYUSH), Shri C.K. Mishra, Special Secretary, Shri Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, Managing Director of Patnjali Acharya Balakrishna, founder vice chancellor of S-VYASA shri H.R. Nagendra and, renowned Yoga Guru from Austria Swami Maheshwarananda were also present in the inaugural function.


    The two day conference consisted of seven technical sessions and a panel discussion on different aspects of Yoga and Wellness including recent research trends, Integrated medicine, non communicable diseases, mental health, women health, cancer, pain management and policy making. The purpose of the conference was to provides a common platform for the AYUSH and Allopathy Practitioners, Researchers, Academicians, Policy Makers and students and enable them to capture and understand various dimensions of the yoga for wellness.


    NB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505692) Visitor Counter : 129