      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      MoU signed between V.V. Giri National Labour Institute (VVGNLI) and Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Guwahati
      Posted On: 06 OCT 2017 5:12PM by PIB Delhi


    A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between V.V. Giri National Labour Institute (VVGNLI) and Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Guwahati was signed today by Dr. H. Srinivas, Director General of VVGNLI and Dr. D.K. Srivastava, Deputy Director of TISS, Guwahati in the august presence of Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, the Union Minister of State (IC) for Labour & Employment in Guwahati. Shri Pallav Lochan Das, Minister of State (IC) for Labour Welfare, Govt. of Assam and Smt. M. Sathiyavathy, Secretary, Ministry of Labour & Employment, Govt. of India were also present during the occasion.


    Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar in his message advised that the good collaborative work proposed to be done in the North Eastern states could also be replicated in the entire country so that all get benefited. Shri Pallav Lochan Das stated that labour laws applicable in other states may not be applicable in Assam due to different local conditions. Hence, there is necessity to devise customized laws. He welcomed the MoU initiated by the Union Ministry of Labour & Employment.


    Smt. M. Sathiyavathy in her message outlined the activities of VVGNLI and the MoU’s it has with the International Training Center of International Labour Organisation, Turin; IIM Lucknow etc. She complemented VVGNLI for its various activities and Director General, VVGNLI and Director, TISS, Guwahati for the present collaboration.


    Dr. H. Srinivas, in his welcome address outlined the features of MoU. He stated that the collaborative activities under the MoU will focus on organising joint training programmes for different social partners as well as research on various issues related to labour.


    The MoU ceremony was attended by senior officials of the Labour Ministries of Govt. of India and State of Assam, ESIC, VVGNLI, and faculty and students of TISS, Guwahati.


    *****


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505061) Visitor Counter : 87