      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar lays foundation stone for renovation and upgradation of ESIC Model Hospital in Guwahati
      Posted On: 06 OCT 2017 4:36PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Labour & Employment, laid the foundation stone for renovation and ugradation of ESIC Model Hospital in Beltola, Guwahati today. While addressing the gathering, Shri Gangwar said that, this hospital will prove a boon for the beneficiaries of ESI Scheme in North Eastern Region in general and beneficiaries of Guwahati in particular. Shri Gangwar also stated that centre is giving special focus on labour welfare and development of North –Eastern States. The Ministry of Labour & Employment is all geared up to for the betterment of the life of the working class of this region.
    
    Shri Gangwar informed that with the upgradation and renovation of ESIC Model Hospital, Beltola, Guwahti, all the indoor and outdoor facilities viz. OPDs, 24x7 Emergency Service, ICU, Operation theatres, Pathology Rooms, Radiology, Physiotherapy, Wards, etc. will be made available. Shri Gangwar appreciated ESIC for upgrading this hospital to 100 bedded, and due to which more than 2 lakh Insured Person and around 7.00 lakhs family members from North Eastern Region will be benefited.
    
    Shri Pallab Lochan Das, Minister of State (IC) for Labour & Employment, Govt. of Assam appreciated and thanked the efforts of Union Minister of State (IC) for Labour and Employment and was full of praise for the reforms undertaken by the Union Govt. Smt. Bijoya Chakravarty, the Member of Parliament, Lok Sabha also thanked the Union Minister for upgradation of ESIC Model Hospital and said that this Hospital would be exclusively run for the benefit of insured persons and their family members under ESI Scheme.
    
    Smt. M. Sathiyavathy, Secretary, Ministry of Labour & Employment, Govt. of India also spoke on the occasion and reiterated that Ministry of Labour & Employment, Govt. of India is taking decisions keeping in view of the principle of the workers’ welfare and well being.

    ****


    
    
    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505041) Visitor Counter : 158