      Ministry of Tourism

      2ND Day of Paryatan Parv Creates a Climate of Tourism across The Country
      Posted On: 06 OCT 2017 6:50PM by PIB Delhi

      

        On Day 2, the ‘Paryatan Parv’ wave spread all over the country creating a climate of Tourism from Gurdaspur in the North to Kovalam in the South up until Portblair down south, with Ahmadabad in the west to Shillong in the east - Everyone celebrating the new season of travel this “PARYATAN PARV 2017”! The netizens on Twitter took up to sharing their interesting travel pictures under the #IncredibleIndia and #ParyatanParv2017.


        Starting off the day with a cycle rally at Old Delhi (Purana Quila) all through Daryaganj, Jama Masjid, Red Fort organised by India Tourism Delhi flagged off by the Director General (Tourism) Shri. Satyajeet Rajan.


        India Tourism office in Guwahati organised a yoga session. This was followed by students Rally from Borbari to Six Mile, Guwahati with 150 Students, faculty members of IHM and officials of India Tourism.


        From the Gwalior IITTM campus, A Hygiene awareness Program for the Street food vendors and local shopkeepers was organized where gloves were distributed to all the vendors for their use along with the training of serving and keeping the nearby space clean and hygienic.


        India Tourism, Chennai in collaboration with Tamil Nadu Tourism Department, organized “Absolute India Travel Bazaar” where “Importance of Tourism” was conveyed to the large gathering of 1500 people which included State Tourism Departments, Airlines like Sri Lankan Airlines, Spicejet, Indigo and foreign tourism boards from Malaysia, Thailand, Seychelles and Oman.


        A “Rally on Tourism” was organized by India Tourism, Goa in association with IHM Goa and the National Institute of Water Sports, Goa at the historic Fort Agauda, Goa early in the morning with participants numbering more than 100 taking part in the Paryatan Parv rally. A “Sensitization Programme” was also conducted in front of the Fort Aguada for the Street Food Vendors , Souvenir sellers on importance of personal grooming and hygiene .


        In Hajipur the students and faculty of the Institute of Hotel Management participated in the "Rally on Tourism" from IHM Hajipur to Gandhi Chowk and back to IHM Hajipur for a symbolic distance of about 5 kilometers to celebrate “Paryatan Parv” (Tourism Festival) .


        The events for the day culminated with the first ever ASEAN-India Music Festival Purana Quila in New Delhi.


        ****


        Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism/06-10-2017


    

    
    (Release ID: 1505107) Visitor Counter : 247