      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar inaugurates disabled friendly building of National Career Service Centre for Differently Abled (NCSC-DA) in Guwahati
      Posted On: 06 OCT 2017 5:43PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Labour & Employment, Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar inaugurated the disabled friendly building of National Career Service Centre for Differently Abled (NCSC-DA) in Guwahati today. The Union Minister expressed his desire to expand the Ministry’s footprints in the North East Region with the motive of Labour Welfare at various levels.


    Shri Gangwar reiterated that the NCSC-DA building would be an inspiration for others to emulate the model apart from bringing positive changes in the lives of Persons with Disabilities. He also applauded the contribution of the State Government not only for their support in the construction of building but also to have synergy in other areas too.


    The Guwahati building has been constructed at cost of Rs. 10.40 Cr. The land for the building was provided by Government of Assam. The state-of-the-Art building is unique in nature of its kind in the State of Assam and is one among 8 buildings constructed so far for National Career Service Centres for Differently Abled (erstwhile VRCs).


    The objective of the NCSC-DA is to evaluate the residual capacities of PwDs, impart non formal skill training & extend the vocational rehabilitation assistance for economically mainstreaming them.


    Govt. of India is also implementing the National Career Service (NCS) Project as a Mission Mode Project for transformation of the National Employment Service to provide job matching and other employment services in a transparent and user friendly manner. The NCS Portal is hosted at URL www.ncs.gov.in and supported with a toll free number 1800-425-1514 to assist and guide the youth including PwDs. More than 100 Model Career Centres have been established.


    ****


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505082) Visitor Counter : 233