      Ministry of Defence

      Territorial Army Celebrates 68th Raising Day
      Posted On: 09 OCT 2017 7:08PM by PIB Delhi


    Territorial Army (TA) celebrated its 68th Raising Day here today. As per tradition, the TA fraternity led by ADG TA Major General DA Chaturvedi, called on the President Shri Ram Nath Kovind and payed their respect to the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. In the run-up to the Raising Day several events were organised across the country. In Delhi the TA organised a half marathon on October 02, 2017 in the true spirit of Citizens’ Army and also to promote healthy life style. The event comprised 5 Km, 10 Km and 21 Km run and was flagged off from Army Parade Ground, Delhi Cantt by DGMO Lieutenant General AK Bhatt, and Lt Col (Hony) Kapil Dev. The event was rich by its participation with over three thousand Defence personnel and their families taking part in various categories. TA symphony Band performed at the iconic India Gate on October 08, 2017 which attracted large crowds who were enthralled by the excellent music of the Band and added to the patriotic fervour of the evening. The TA is citizen's army of volunteers, who have the zeal to contribute towards the country's defence. The Territorial Army provides an ideal opportunity to the youth of the country to receive military training in their spare time and serve the Nation in times of national emergency and internal disturbances.

    
    The TA is in the process of expanding its footprint with raising of one Infantry Battalion (TA) at Nicobar and an Ecological Task Force Battalion for drought region of Marathwada, in Maharashtra. Also, case for raising of one Composite Ecological Task Force for National Mission for Clean Ganga is in final stages of approval. These new raisings and especially the unit for Namame Ganga Mission will allow the TA to contribute immensely in a National cause. In near future the unique strength of TA could be an ideal platform to build national effort during disaster management.
    
    The TA has achieved many glorious feats and earned laurels during the past wars of 1962, 1965 and 1971. It has displayed its grit and courage in operations Pawan, Vijay and Parakram. For outstanding performance in various operations, the TA personnel have been conferred with numerous awards. The award of Kirti Chakra (Posthumous) to Maj David Manlun of 164 Inf Bn (TA) (H&H) NAGA and Army Commander’s Unit Citations awarded to three TA units on the occasion of Independence Day 2017 bears testimony to the bravery and unrelenting spirit of the Terriers.
    
    After Independence in 1947, the Territorial Army Act was enacted on 18 August 1948 by the Constituent Assembly resulting in the constitution of the present Territorial Army. The TA started functioning through re-designation and re-organisation of 11 Indian Territorial Force Infantry units. The TA’s first camp was formally inaugurated by Shri C Rajagopalachari, the first Indian Governor General of India on 09 October 1949 and therefore, 09 Oct is celebrated as TA Day every year.
    
    With Savdhani and Shoorta as the emblem, the 47,000 strong TA comprises 46 non-departmental units, funded by Ministry of Defence and 18 departmental units, funded by various State Government and Central Ministries like the Oil sector, Railways and Environment. 42 Infantry Battalions with 70% of TA troops being deployed on Counter Insurgency/Counter Terrorism environment have achieved a high degree of op focus and synergy with relentless efforts. 10 Home & Hearth Battalions deployed in Eastern and Northern theatre and three Engineer Regiments deployed in Northern theatre for maintenance of LC Fence are tasked in challenging operational environment and have shown exemplary professional standards, commitment, devotion and dedication to service.
    
    Departmental units of the TA have always risen to the occasion to support the national effort in rail communications, oil and natural gas refining and supplies. Ecological Task Forces have been addressing the environmental concerns in their assigned areas on a war footing and have achieved commendable results. The Ecological Force has also taken a unique initiative to help the people of border villages in Malari region of Uttarakhand by planting 4160 saplings of Walnut and Chilgoza to provide them livelihood and prevent economic migration.

    ***


    
    
    MJPS/NAo/NM/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505380) Visitor Counter : 155