      Ministry of Steel

      Union Steel Minister Shri Birender Singh asks MECON to think big and rise to its potential
      Posted On: 12 OCT 2017 5:36PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Steel Minister Shri. Birender Singh chaired a mid-year review meeting with top management of MECON, a PSU under Ministry of Steel. The meeting was held in the presence of attended by Secretary, Steel Dr. Aruna Sharma. and senior officials from Ministry and MECON.
    
    In his opening remarks, Shri Birender Singh said,"MECON must utilize its rich experience and expertise in the metallurgical engineering to enhance capacity utilization and product improvement by Steel PSUs. MECON can surely play a significant role in enhancing steel consumption in India by working on steel-intensive structures and exhibiting the advantages of using steel in buildings and other structures. With envisaged 300 Million tonne capacity of steel production by 2030, increasing steel exports is very crucial and the company must contribute to this end by application engineering and market development. In India, new aveneues for steel use like crash barriers, railway sleepers, food grain silos, electric poles, underpass structures etc. must be explored without losing time. Setting up of coa l washeries, pellet plants are some other areas where MECON can play a leading role in steering the development .”
    
    The Steel Minister added that the company must be in constant state of improvement and its physical and financial targets must be dynamic and in tune with the times. As a pioneering engineering consultancy firm of the country, MECON must think big to accomplish in short and long term. Diversification for topline improvement can be done but MECON must give due attention to its primary mandate of enabling growth of manufacturing, innovation and technology in India. MECON can play a big role in “Make in India” initiative in collaboration with capital goods and machinery manufacturers and steel producers, specia lly in the secondary sector. As the Key Project Consultant for NMDC’s Nagarnar Steel Plant, MECON must put in all efforts to commission the steel plant at the earliest. The company must develop and market new and latest technologies and market them in a professional manner.
    
    The company must keep itself update with latest technologies and developments. The company must play a proactive role in solving technological challenges specific to the country and facilitate optimal use of raw materials and import substitution, Shri Birender Singh further added.
    
    YSK/MI

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505864) Visitor Counter : 182