      Ministry of Shipping

      Union Home Minister and Union Minister for Shipping, Road Transport & Highways and Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation laid foundation stone for roads and bridges construction projects at Andaman & Nicobar Islands
      Posted On: 07 OCT 2017 4:07PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh and Union Minister for Shipping, Road Transport & Highways and Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Nitin Gadkari laid the foundation stone for rehabilitation and upgradation of NH-4 to a two-lane from Austin Creek to Kalara at Diglipur and Beodnabad-Ferrargunj Section of NH-4 at Bartang, construction of major bridge over Humphrey Strait Creek and Middle Strait Creek also at Baratang in Andaman & Nicobar Islands on October 6, 2017. The Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir, Lt. Governor of A & N Islands Prof Jagdish Mukhi, M.P. Shri Bishnupada Ray, Chief Secretary of A & N Islands Shri Anindo Majumdar were also present amongst the dignitaries on the occasion.
    
    In his address at Diglipur, Union Home Minister said, India is emerging as a powerful nation in terms of economy and security and is being recognized and respected by other countries. Lauding the untiring efforts of the Armed Forces in protecting the borders of the country, he said, no nation, including any neighbouring country, can destabilize the security of the country as the Government is strengthening the security at all fronts. Stating that A & N Islands truly depict Mini India where people of diverse culture and languages live in peace and harmony, Shri Singh also said, these Islands have played significant role in the freedom struggle, where brave sons of India who fought for freedom were repatriated. Referring to the series of developmental activities taking place in A & N Islands, he said, Union Government under the dynamic leadership of PM Shri Narendra Modi has taken initiatives for overall development of A & N Islands. He stated that Prime Minister desires that all states & union territories must be well connected to streamline the process of development and that out of 1382 islands in the country, 10 have been selected for infrastructure development of which 5 are located in the A & N Islands. He also stated that infrastructure development in these islands will boost tourism and generate employment. Later in the day, at Baratang, the Union Home Minister stated, A & N Islands are strategically important and thus the Central Government is developing these Islands while acknowledging its strategic importance. He also stated that an Island Development Agency (IDA) has been created for taking care of the development and security of these Islands. He further said, A & N Islands may be far from New Delhi geographically, but are close to New Delhi emotionally.
    
    Speaking on the occasion at Diglipur, Union Minister for Shipping, Road Transport & Highways and Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation stated, the Government under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi plans to invest Rs 15,000 crore for various developmental projects at A & N Islands, of which projects worth Rs 10,000 crores have already commenced. He also announced a series of projects that will be started in the Islands. At the other function held at Baratang, Shri Gadkari informed that for the first time in the history of A & N Islands, foundation for so many development projects has been laid. He stated that NHIDCL has been constituted to create basic infrastructure facilities in remote areas and state-of –the-art infrastructure like tunnels and bridges being constructed in different states. He stated that 12 expressways are under construction in the country and road construction work has increased from 2 Km to 28 Km per day during the last three years. Referring to the tourism sector which has good prospects in the A & N Islands, Shri Gadkari said, better roads, round the clock power and good hotels are needed to boost tourism which will also generate employment for the youths.
    
    The Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir stated that the naturally beautiful A & N Islands is poised to become most sought after tourist destination with better connectivity.

    ***


    
    
    NP/MS/PC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505165) Visitor Counter : 355