      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      “Run for Clean air Campaign Harbinger of Positive Energy”: Union Environment minister
      “Swacchata has to be a Collective Endeavour, Legacy that we Leave Behind is Important”, Says Minister of State for Environment
      
      Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Dr. Mahesh Sharma flag-off Mini Marathon as Part of Clean Air Campaign
      Posted On: 15 OCT 2017 2:56PM by PIB Delhi


    Exhorting the children to spread the message of ‘Clean Air’ throughout the nation, Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan, said that the “Run for Clean Air” campaign is the harbinger of positive energy for Clean Air. With Deepawali festivities in the air, Dr. Harsh Vardhan told the gathering of students that the scientists have been asked to develop Zero-pollution fire-crackers that do not cause health hazards to children. Flagging off the “Run for Clean Air” campaign along with Minister of State for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Mahesh Sharma, from India Gate lawns here today, Dr. Harsh Vardhan said that the ill-effects of pollution cause the maximum problems for children. He added that combating pollution and protecting the environment can be effectively done through small steps by each and every citizen of the nation. The Minister pointed out that when children take a pledge, they ensure that the campaign becomes a success. Dr. Harsh Vardhan also administered a Pledge to promote Clean Air on the occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Mahesh Sharma pointed out that Swacchata (cleanliness) has to be a collective endeavour. He added that the legacy that we leave behind in terms of Clean Air is very important. The Minister emphasised that Clean Air is crucial for the children of future generations.


    About 10, 000 children from various schools from Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR) were present on the occasion. The Clean Air Campaign has been launched to create a mass movement to reduce air pollution. Swachh and Swasth Bharat cannot be achieved without Swachh Hawa. The idea behind the Campaign is to entrust a sense of responsibility among people, so that they consider clean air as a collective responsibility. The campaign organised today by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change is an extension of the ‘Harit Diwali-Swasth Diwali Campaign’. Today’s campaign coincides with the birth anniversary of former President Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. Both the Ministers paid tributes to Dr. Kalam on the occasion.


    Eminent singer, Ms. Durga Jasraj, sang a couple of compositions, including a song on the importance of Clean Air.


    Environment-friendly slogans on banners dotted the India Gate lawns. Some of the messages on posters read - “Sab milkar karo virodh, roko Paryavaran ka durupayog” (Everyone must oppose, prevent the misuse of environment), “Saansein rahi hain tham, aao Paryavaran bachayen hum” (Breathing is getting affected, come, let us protect the environment), “Mera Shahar Saaf ho, ismein sab ka haath ho” (Let my city be clean with everyone’s participation), “Hum sab ka ek hi naara, saaf-suthra desh hamara” (All of us have only one slogan - Let our nation be neat and clean)


    Click here to see PDF


    ***


    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506126) Visitor Counter : 297