      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Shri Narendra Modi to inaugurate International Conference on Consumer Protection for East, South and South-East Asian Countries with the theme of “Empowering Consumers in New Markets” tomorrow
      Posted On: 25 OCT 2017 4:59PM by PIB Delhi


    Curtain Raiser


    “Empowering Consumers in New Markets” International Conference on Consumer Protection to be held on 26-27 October, 2017


    The United Nations Guidelines for Consumer Protection (UNGCP) were adopted by United Nations General Assembly on 16 April 1985 and revised in December 22 nd 2015. The new guidelines call for greater International cooperation. Against this backdrop, the Department of Consumer Affairs, Government of India and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) are organizing an International Conference on Consumer Protection for South, South East and East Asian Nations on the theme “Empowering Consumers in New Markets” on 26-27 October, 2017 in New Delhi. This is the first time an international conference on consumer protection is being organised by India for countries of the region which account for a majority of the global consumers and share common challenges and experiences. 22 countries from East, South and South-East Asia are participating in the international conference.


    The Conference will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi. The Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, Shri Ram Vilas Paswan and Secretary General, UNCTAD will also address the participants. Besides the delegates, the inaugural session will be attended by the dignitaries from the Centre and States including Ministers, Heads of Consumer Commissions, Heads of Regulatory authorities and Senior officials.


    The Conference will have six working sessions on the subjects of the United Nations Guidelines for Consumer Protection and Implementation, Stakeholder Participation in Consumer Protection, Protection of Online Consumers, Stakeholders participation, Fostering Consumer Inclusion in Financial Services , Protection of vulnerable Groups of Consumers and Consumer empowerment through education. Experts from different Countries and India will be presenting their papers and views.


    The Conference will provide a platform to discuss and deliberate upon different aspects of consumer protection in the backdrop of revised UNGCP, aimed at shared learning and will explore a way forward for enhanced regional cooperation on the subject.


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506993) Visitor Counter : 109