      Ministry of Defence

      Bi-Annual Naval Commanders’ Conference to be held at New Delhi from - 24-27 oct 17
      Posted On: 22 OCT 2017 6:53PM by PIB Delhi


    A four day Naval Commanders’ Conference is scheduled at New Delhi from 24-27 Oct 17. The Conference serves as a platform for institutionalised interaction between the Naval Commanders and senior government officials, as also, with the Chiefs of Indian Army and Indian Air Force.


    The Hon’ble RM will address and interact with the Commanders’ during the bi-annual conference. The Chief of the Naval Staff, with the Commanders’-in-Chief, will review major Operational, Materiel, Human Resource, Training and Administrative activities undertaken in the last six months and deliberate the way-ahead on important activities and initiatives. An interaction is also planned with Shri Amitabh Kant, CEO, Niti Aayogto provide the Commanders’ a perspective on broader national interests.


    The Navy’s combat readiness would be reviewed with focus on operational effectiveness of combat platforms, logistics and development of shore support infrastructure for sustaining distant operations. Efforts towards ‘indigenisation and standardisation’ so as to make the Navy self-reliant and modernise its warfare capability by means of unmanned systems would also be examined. Aspects complementary to combat effectiveness, such as Training, Human Resource Management, Fleet Maintenance and pan-Navy measures for enhancing safety will be reviewed. With reference to safety, IN Safety Organisation including rescue support during submarine accidents in the IOR will be discussed. The Commanders’ will also review the security of establishments in the backdrop of terrorist threats and the prevailing security scenario.


    The Commanders will also discuss plans for ‘enhancing and sustaining IN’s operational footprint in the IOR’ in keeping with the Hon’ble Prime Minister’s vision of ‘ Security and Growth for All in the Region’ (SAGAR). In this regard, initiatives to further maritime cooperation with other navies in the IOR as also the IN ’s ability to proactively respond to maritime security challenges, including natural calamities, in the IOR will be reviewed.


    ***


    DKS


    Follow us on:


    https:/www.facebook.com/IndianNavy


    https://twitter.com/indiannavy

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506680) Visitor Counter : 118