      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      Jaipur and Srinagar Airports rated Best Airports in the World in 2-5 million Passenger category in ACI-ASQ Survey
      Posted On: 18 OCT 2017 8:13PM by PIB Delhi


        The Jaipur and Srinagar Airport got First and Second rank respectively in the category of 2-5 million passengers in ACI-ASQ Survey. Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, Chairman, Airports Authority of India along with his team received the ACI-ASQ Award at a function held in Mauritius on 17th October 2017. The Chairman congratulated both APDs for their stupendous achievement and challenged more AAI airports to compete and win at ACI-ASQ Awards in their respective categories in future.


        This is for the second consecutive time that Jaipur Airport has been rated the Best Airport in the World in the traffic volume of 2 to 5 million passengers per year. Jaipur was ranked as the Best Airport in the World catering to a traffic volume of 2 to 5 million passengers per year in 2016 also.


        The Airport Service Quality (ASQ) Awards are the aviation industry's most prestigious accolades. The awards recognize the airports which have achieved the highest passenger satisfaction ratings in the ASQ Survey - the world's benchmark measure of airport excellence. It is the only worldwide programme to survey passengers at the airports on their day of travel. Every year, the programme delivers some 600,000 individual surveys in 41 languages in 84 countries. It measures passengers’ views on 34 key performance indicators, including airport access, check-in, security screening, restrooms, stores and restaurants. Each airport uses the exact same survey, creating an industry database that allows airports to compare themselves to other airports around the world. The ASQ programme also has a feature that facilitates sharing of best practices among airport operators.


        (from Left to Right) Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, Chairman, AAI with ACI official receiving the award of Best Airport along with Mr. J.S. Balhara, APD, Jaipur Airport accompanied by Mr. I.N. Murthy, Member (Operations), AAI


        ****


        NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506521) Visitor Counter : 142