      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      CIPAM-DIPP Launches Logo and Tagline Contest for Geographical Indications of India
      Posted On: 18 OCT 2017 10:51AM by PIB Delhi


      The Cell for IPR Promotions & Management (CIPAM) under the aegis of the Department of Industrial Policy Promotion (DIPP), Ministry of Commerce and Industry, has launched a logo and tagline/slogan contest for Geographical Indications (GIs) of India on MyGov.in website.


      A Geographical Indication (GI) is primarily an agricultural, natural or a manufactured product (handicrafts and industrial goods) originating from a definite geographical territory. Typically, such a name conveys an assurance of quality and distinctiveness, which is essentially attributable to the place of its origin. Some of the examples of registered Indian GIs are Darjeeling Tea, Tirupathi Laddu, Kangra Paintings, Nagpur Orange, Kashmir Pashmina etc.


      GIs are not only part of our rich culture and collective intellectual heritage, but they also supplement the incomes of our rural farmers, weavers, artisans and craftsmen across the country. The promotion of GIs is in line with the Government of India’s ‘Make in India’ campaign and therefore, it is our responsibility to preserve and protect them.


      Taking forward its ongoing social media campaign #LetsTalkIP to promote Indian GIs, DIPP aims to launch a certifying GI mark/logo that can be used to identify all registered GIs irrespective of the categories, and a suitable tagline/slogan for promotion of GIs. This will also help in engaging more people on the subject of GIs and making them aware about the benefits of a GI tag.


      DIPP has taken several initiatives for promoting awareness and outreach on GIs. One of the ways to promote GIs could be to present them as gifts. In this context, CIPAM has also launched “Gift a GI” campaign to enhance the visibility and thus help in branding and promotion of registered GI products. DIPP is also working with State governments to spread awareness on GIs.


      This contest is an opportunity for creators who aspire to see their creation recognized on a national platform. The last date for receiving entries is 17th November, 2017. The winning entry will receive a cash award of Rs. 50,000/- each, for logo design and slogan for GIs of India.


      
      The details of the logo competition for ‘Design a Logo and Suggest a Tagline Competition’ can be obtained from MyGov.in online platform.


      The complete list of all registered GIs in India can be viewed here. http://www.ipindia.nic.in/registered-gls.htm


      ***


      NW

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506454) Visitor Counter : 355