      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Vigilance Excellence Awards to be given during Vigilance Awareness Week, 2017
      Posted On: 24 OCT 2017 4:23PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vigilance Excellence Awards will be given during Vigilance Awareness Week, 2017. The awards would include a memento and a citation.


    Institution of Awards


    The Central Vigilance Commission as the apex integrity institution in the country has been tasked with exercising superintendence over the vigilance administration and implementing Government policies against corruption. To give recognition to the reforms and good work done by organizations in the field of punitive, preventive and participative vigilance, the Vigilance Excellence Awards have been instituted from this year.


    Purpose of the awards


    Apart from providing encouragement and motivation to the Chief Vigilance Officers (CVOs) and organizations, the awards have been instituted for the purpose of:


    a) Bringing out new ideas that are shown to be effective in advancing the cause of vigilance and anti-corruption measures;


    b) Giving due recognition to individuals and teams for their resourcefulness and perseverance in making a positive contribution to the organizational efficiency and effectiveness turning concepts into reality;


    c) Documenting the innovation process from inception to achievement of results to facilitate replication;


    d) Sharing knowledge and experience, so that the same can be propagated in other organizations.


    Award Categories


    The award will be in three categories:


    (i) Award for the CVOs/Vigilance functionaries of CPSEs, PSBs & PSICs in recognition of exceptional work done in the field of punitive, preventive and participative vigilance, divided in the following sub categories :


    1. Vigilance Innovation


    2. Excellence in Investigation


    3. Vigilance Awareness Initiative


    4. Timely Completion of Disciplinary Proceedings


    (ii) Award for CVOs/Vigilance functionaries of Ministries/ Departments/Others in recognition of exceptional work done in the field of punitive, preventive and participative vigilance, divided in the following sub categories :


    1. Vigilance Innovation


    2. Excellence in Investigation


    3. Vigilance Awareness Initiative


    4. Timely Completion of Disciplinary Proceedings


    (iii) Award for management in recognition of exceptional work done for creating overall environment of transparency and integrity, with the following sub categories :


    1. Best Institutional Practice to Fight Corruption


    2. Vigilance Awareness Initiative


    3. IT Initiative for Transparency in the Organization


    ******


    KSD/NK/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1506840) Visitor Counter : 69