      Ministry of Tourism

      Paryatan Parv- Festival of Festivals 14th Day Of Paryatan Parv Celebrated Across The Country
      Posted On: 18 OCT 2017 5:42PM by PIB Delhi


    Tourism itself is all about celebration and Paryatan Parv celebrates tourism across the country during the festive season. Paryatan Parv, the festival of festivals enters the Diwali week. The festive atmosphere all across the country adds colour and light to the already existing flavours of Paryatan Parv.


    In India, celebration is a many coloured palette that has no comparison elsewhere in the world. Simply because we, as a nation are more a calendar of joyous colours than mere dates. Life here is more like a Ferris wheel of festivals. Every fortnight or month marks a new festival, every state has its own celebration and every season is devoted to new festivities. It feels like the entire country lives in anticipation and preparation. All year long.


    Festivals are an integral part of the rich Indian culture, some celebrated to rejoice the harvest, some to religious faith and believe, some simply to celebrate happiness. Tourism and festivals go hand in hand, festivals are core tourism product to entice tourists to coincide their visit to the country. Festival of Diwali (Festival of Lights) is now known to the world. Similarly, whether its Holi –the Festival of Colour or the Dessert Festival of Rajasthan amongst many more, these festivals have found a place in the itineraries of travelers from across the globe. Festival of Tourism has brought the entire country into a festive mood.


    Day 14 of Paryatan Parv


    The day fourteen started with a cycle rally organized at Amritsar by State Government of Punjab in association with India Tourism Delhi. Other events organized in Amritsar were a guided heritage walk, crafts mela and a cultural evening at Govindgarh fort.


    The State Government of Gujarat has organized various events across the state like exhibition on Tourism Destinations of Gujarat at River Front and Kankaria, Ahmadabad and Porbandar, Exhibition on Wildlife at Dwarka and Somnath, Exhibition on Beach tourism at Saputara. State Government of Uttarakhand has organized Dev Deepawali at the Ghats of Haridwar.


    An event to mark Return of Sri Ram to Ayodhya and Deepawali was organized by the State Government of Uttar Pradesh. State Government of Kerala has organized Essay & Painting Competitions at Wayanad District. District level cultural programme was organized at West Champaran District by Ministry of Youth Affairs through NYKS.


    India Tourism Offices in association with IHMs has organized various activities like Sensitization programmes, Nukkad Natak, Heritage walks, Workshops for local public and stakeholders at locations across the country.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/Tourism/18.10.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506495) Visitor Counter : 102