      Ministry of Tourism

      Adopt A Heritage During Paryatan Parv
      11th Day of Paryatan Parv Celebrated Across the Country
      Posted On: 15 OCT 2017 6:47PM by PIB Delhi

      India has always been renowned for its rich cultural heritage. India’s glorious past and cultural diversity make a potent blend which attracts millions of tourists each year to its tourist destinations. India's rich heritage is abundantly reflected in the form of numerous temples, palaces, monuments, forts etc. This has led to an increase in India's tourism particularly at the heritage sites. Tourism in India has registered a considerable growth in the last few years, ever since additional initiatives were taken by the Government of India to boost India’s image as a destination for tourism.

        Ministry of Tourism in close collaboration with Ministry of Culture and Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) envisages providing world class tourist facilities at the various heritage sites / monumentsand other tourist sites across the country under the “Adopt A Heritage” initiative.


        The project would begin with ASI ticketed monuments and would be expanded to other cultural sites across India. Itenvisages entrusting of heritage sites/monuments and other tourist sites to private - public sector companies, or individuals for the “Monument Mitras” development of tourist friendly amenities and facilities.


        DAY 11 OF PARYATAN PARV


        Highlight of day eleven was an exhibition organized titled the Khadi March: Just Five Meters by Ministry of Culture and NGMA in Bengaluru . Exhibition titled Reflections of Man and Nature in the Paintings of Bireswar Sen has commenced from today in Delhi.Kolkata witnessed an exhibition titled Calcutta Ephemera – A selection of 40 digital prints of memorabilia of Old Calcutta.


        India Tourism Varanasi in association with the State Government of Uttar Pradesh has organized various programmes like , heritage walk from AsiGhat to HarishchandraGhat, Sensitization Programmes for Stakeholders,Quiz / Essay / Painting Competitions for Students ,Yoga Session from 6:00 am to 6:30 am in association with Subah-e-Banaras.The State Government of Uttar Pradesh has organized Cultural Evening at Lal Khan’s Tomb Varanasi and at Kapilvastu.


        The State Government of Uttarakhand has organized BadrinathMahotsav at Chamoli and various other programmes like Cleanliness Drive at ThandiSadak, Naini-jheel, Yoga Session at Flats, Mallital, Paragliding at Naukuchiatal, Folk Dance Performances at Tallital,Boating Competition at NainiJheel, Inter-School Dance & Drama performances and Quiz Competition, Food and Cultural Festiva at Mallital and a vibrant cultural evening showcasing rich heritage and folk dance and music of the State.District Level Cultural Programme organized by NYKS at Nainital.


        The State Government of Madhya Pradesh has organized various events like Food Festivals, Nature Walks, Sensitization programme, at various places of the State. State Government of Kerala has organized Essay and Painting Competitions for Students at Idukki District. State Government of Rajasthan has organized Lantern Festival at Udaipur.


        The State Government of Bihar has organized various programmes like Cleanliness Awareness, Cultural evening at Gaya. Youth Parliament : Lectures and Discussions on importance of Tourism and youth involvement organized by NYKS at Vaishali


        Odisha Travel Bazar a travel industry event organized by the State Government of Odisha in collaboration with FICCI at Bhubaneshwar.


        Ministry of DONER in association with State Tourism Children Festival at Energy Park,Story Telling, Photography Workshop, Adventure Tourism activities, Quiz Competition, Painting Competition for hearing and visually impaired students at Itanagar .


        India Tourism Offices in association with IHMs and IITTM has organised various activities like Sensitization programmes, NukkadNatak, Heritage walks, Yoga Sessions Workshops for local public and stakeholders at locations across the country.


        *****


        Sanjay Kumar/Tourism/15.10.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506135) Visitor Counter : 183