      Ministry of Tourism

      More than 5 Lakh people participated in The Paryatan Parv event across the country
      18 Central Ministries & 31 States/UTS participated in Paryatan Parv
      
      Three week long ‘Paryatan Parv’ from 5th to 25th October 2017 concludes today

      Posted On: 25 OCT 2017 5:00PM by PIB Delhi

    Three week long “Paryatan Parv” a nation-wide celebration of Tourism organized by Ministry of Tourism, in collaboration with other Central Ministries, State Governments and Stakeholders from 5 th to 25 th October 2017 concluded here today. Addressing a Press Conference on the conclusion of Paryatan Parv here today, Smt. Rashmi Verma, Secretary Ministry of Tourism said that the Parv was organized with the objective of drawing focus on the benefits of tourism, showcasing the cultural diversity of the country and reinforcing the principle of “Tourism for All”. She informed the media persons that a total of more than 5 Lakh people participated in Paryatan Parv event across the country.


    Secretary, Tourism informed the media persons that the three component Paryatan Parv focused on: -


    · Dekho Apna Desh : To encourage Indians to visit their own country.


    There were several activities organised across the Country like Photograph and Blog Competitions of sites visited during the Event, Stories of India through Travelers’ Eyes, on Social Media, Tourism related Quiz, Essay, Debate and Painting Competitions for Students. The general public has shown tremendous response and shared their activities on MyGov platform.


    · Tourism for All : Tourism Events at sites across all States in the country were organised. The activities at these sites included illumination in and around the Sites, Cultural Programmes of Dance, Music, Theatre, Story Telling, Sensitisation Programmes for Stakeholders around the Sites, Tourism Exhibitions, Showcasing Culture, Cuisine and Handicrafts / Handlooms, Guided Heritage Walks, etc. Large scale public participation made it “People’s Events” with


    · Tourism & Governance: Interactive Sessions & Workshops with Stakeholders on varied themes were organised across the Country:


    ü Skill Development in Tourism Sector


    ü Innovation in Tourism


    ü For inducting Ex-servicemen as service providers for Taxi Operation


    ü Developing Rural Tourism in locations near established Destinations


    ü Community Sensitisation Workshops on Homestay and B&B Opportunities


    ü Conference on investment Opportunities in tourism sector


    She said that the Event would not have been possible with the support of Central Ministries.Central Ministries have proactively come forward and became partner of the event by organising various activities: -


    ü Ministry of Culture has arranged cultural programmes of dance, music, theatre, storytelling at various sites, arranged Artists’ Camps at different venues and undertake illumination of ASI monuments during the Parv.


    ü Ministry of Information & Broadcasting has extended support for generating awareness about Tourism and the event.


    ü Ministry of Textiles has arranged exhibition of handlooms and handicrafts by artisans at the different sites.


    ü Ministry of Rural Development, through its National Rurban Missions has arranged local activities focusing on rural tourism at their identified rural clusters.


    ü Ministry of Human Resource Development has organised quiz, painting and essay competitions at Kendriya Vidyalayas and excursion trips for students to iconic tourist sites.


    ü Ministry of Skill Development partnered in workshops on Skill Development in the Tourism Sector and sensitization of service providers


    ü Ministry of DONER with NETDC has coordinate tourism events, exhibitions, cultural programmes and sensitisation programmes in the North East Region.


    ü Ministry of Ayush has organised Yoga demonstrations / sessions and workshops.


    ü Ministry of Youth Affairs with NYKS has organized youth camps, adventure activities and a Tribal Youth Exchange programme during the Parv.


    ü Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has partnered in the event for public outreach by organizing tourism related quiz / photography / video competitions on MyGov.


    ü Ministry of Environment & Forests has arranged sensitization programmes on responsible tourism for stakeholders.


    ü Key airports were given a festive look during the Parv by the Ministry of Civil Aviation and sensitization programmes for staff at the airports will also be organized.


    ü Similarly, Ministry of Railways has arranged for a festive look at major railway stations and organized sensitization programmes for the railway staff.


    ü Ministry of Road Transport & Highways has collaborated by way of launching wayside amenities in identified tourist circuits.


    ü Ministry of Finance (Revenue) has conducted sensitization programmes for Customs officials at airports and sea ports.


    ü Ministry of Home Affairs has conducted sensitization programmes for Immigration and CISF officials and staff.


    ü The Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, Ministry of Commerce with Invest India has organised a Tourism Investor Round Table Conference with participation of Investors.


    The Secretary, Ministry of Tourism gave the details of participation and major activities during the Three week long Paryatan Parv across the country to the media persons which are as follows: -


    ü Number of States / UTs Covered : 31


    ü Number of Cities/ Towns/ Districts : 205


    ü Number of Participating Central Ministries: 18


    ü Number of Activities : 1125


    ü Major Activities Organised


    ü Cultural Programmes 146


    ü Sensitisation & Awareness Programmes 174


    ü Competitions 182


    (Essay, Quiz, Painting & Drawing, Blog, Photography, Video, Poster, etc.)


    ü Tourism / Heritage Walks / Runs, 192


    ü Cycle Rallies, Nukkad Natak, etc.


    ü Yoga Sessions 54


    ü Exhibitions 76


    (Tourism, Handicrafts, Handlooms)


    ü Food Festivals 54


    ü Workshops and Seminars 63


    ü Excursion Trips to Tourist / Heritage Sites 66


    (for Students, especially abled children, senior citizens, etc.)


    ü Illuminations 74


    (including airports & railway stations)


    ü Sporting Activities 39


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism-1/25.10.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506990) Visitor Counter : 96