      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Women of India Organic Festival 2017 comes to a successful close with record sales of Rs.1.84 Crores
      Posted On: 16 OCT 2017 5:19PM by PIB Delhi


      The Women of India Orgnaic Festival organized by the Ministry of Women & Child Development came to a successful close on 15 th October, 2017. The festival was organized at Dilli Haaat, INA, New Delhi as the largest festival of organic products by women farmers and producers. The Women of India Organic Festival has now become an annual event and exhibits/offers for sale most varied range of organic products including food, kitchen products, spiceies, pure fabric to wellness, personal care among others.


      The total sales by the women farmers and entrepreneurs who came from 25 States was Rs.1.84 Crores in this year’s women of India Organic Festival. Women participated from as far as Ladakh, Manipur, Sikkim and Pudduchery alongwith other states of the country. The festival saw footfall of around 2.35 lakhs visitors.


      The Women of India Organic Festival 2017 was inaugurated at Dilli Haat, INA by the Union Minister of Women and Child Development, Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi and Minister of State, Dr. Virender Kumar on 1 st October, 2017.


      While emphasizing on the importance of going the organic way, Smt. Maneka Gandhi said, “Organic food has been proven to contain far more vitamins, minerals and nutrients than similar foods produced with chemical fertilizers, pesticides and preservatives. Economically too, organic farming is preferable since it ultimately reduces cost of cultivation by 20-40% and increases the incomes of farmers by improving quality of production as well as the quality of soil. Above all, children are particularly vulnerable to the harmful effects of pesticide exposure. Now with the affordability factor coming into organic produce, we should make a concerted effort to promote this sustainable alternative, thereby boosting the financial well-being of farmers as well as the health and longevity of consumers especially children.”


      The main aim of the Festival was to support and encourage women and women-led groups that promote organic farming, thus supporting their local community’s economy, creating jobs and keeping farmers thriving, in addition to spreading proper awareness about the benefits of organic products.


      According to Ms. Damyanti Devi, a farmer from Uttarakhand , “We are so happy that the Ministry has given us the opportunity to sell our merchandise in Delhi. We had to procure merchandise twice over as we sold our initial goods in less than a week. This monetary benefit would certainly help in my daughter’s further education.” According to Ms. Thokcham Sonalika Devi, a farmer from Manipur , “We would like to thank the Ministry of Women and Child Development for organizing the Women of India Organic Festival and also giving us the chance to display our Chakhao black rice of Manipur, which was a total novelty for the people of Delhi. We also got many bulk orders for our products and hope to participate in many such festivals organized by the Ministry in the future too.”


      The participants of Women of India Organic Festival 2017 also enrolled themselves in Mahila E-Haat, another initiative of the Ministry of Women & Child Development to meet the aspirations and needs of women entrepreneurs. This unique e-platform exponentially strengthens the socio-economic empowerment of women beyond the Festival.


      www.wcd.nic.in ; https://twitter.com/MinistryWCD ; https://www.facebook.com/Women-of-India-Festival-2017-Organic-Products-170237486643358/


      *****


      NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506272) Visitor Counter : 143