      Ministry of Steel

      SAIL must ramp up production from New Rail Mill in Bhilai and meet all the requirements of its major customers, says Shri Birender Singh
      SAIL must take its Joint Ventures at international level to logical conclusion at the earliest, says Steel Minister
      Posted On: 24 OCT 2017 3:15PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Steel Minister Shri Birender Singh chaired a mid-year review meeting with top management of SAIL at Udyog Bhawan yesterday. The meeting was attended by the Minister of State for Steel, Shri Vishnu Deo Sai, the Secretary Steel Dr. Aruna Sharma, senior officials from Ministry and SAIL including CEOs of SAIL Steel Plants.


    While expressing displeasure over tardy progress in critical areas of strategic importance, Shri Birender Singh said, “SAIL must ramp up production from New Rail Mill in Bhilai without wasting any more time, and meet all the requirements of its major customers. Company shouldchalk-out a time bound action plan to cater to the Indian Railways’ increasing demand. SAIL must take its joint ventures at international level to logical conclusion at the earliest. Company must leverage its position in the industry, instead of not being able to fulfill its commitments and agreements.” The Minister directed to the company management to submit quarterly plans and targets, which will be reviewed after every three months. Steel Minister will also be meeting CEOs and EDs of Steel plants next month, to get direct feedback about constraints, bottlenecks and issues of concern.


    The CEOs have to understand their direct accountability and responsbility for performance of the Unit under their charge, the Minister added. Shri Singh emphasised that accidents in the Plants must be curtailed and highest safety standards must be adhered to in all Units. Safety should be a prime focus of all the plant heads and stress should be given on repair and regular maintenance to avoid unforeseen breakdowns, downtime and resulting loss of production. SAIL should focus on ensuring raw material security to avoid the vagaries of coal supplies currently afflicting the company, he added.


    Shri Birendra Singh said that SAIL should explore possibilities for developing new markets by adopting new technology and adding value added products to its basket, like non corrosive steel products for construction in coastal areas. SAIL should also focus on product differentiation to create value for the shareholders, thereby creating an exclusive space for the company. Efficiency improvement and product quality improvement at individual plant level should be focused upon to meet the customer requirements and to improve the financial performance of the company.


    In the meeting, SAIL’s overall performance as well as that of individual Integrated Steel Plants (ISPs) on critical techno-commercial parameters were reviewed. The Chairman, SAIL Shri P. K. Singh made a presentation on action taken on the recommendations by Group of Experts appointed by Ministry of Steel.


    YSK/MI

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506834) Visitor Counter : 63