      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister inaugurates the new Viewers' Gallery-cum-Museum at JCP Hussainiwala border in Ferozepur, Punjab
      India expects reciprocity from Pakistan to our repeated overtures of friendship & goodwill: Shri Rajnath Singh
      Posted On: 17 OCT 2017 9:05PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh dedicated to the nation the new Viewers' Gallery-cum-Museum at the Joint Check-Post (JCP) Hussainiwala border in Ferozepur district of Punjab today. He was accompanied by Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Director General, Border Security Force (BSF) Shri KK Sharma. Senior Officers of Punjab Government were also present.


    At JCP Hussainiwala, Union Home Minister later adddressed a big gathering of BSF officers and jawans. He emphasized that the BSF has the distinction of being the largest Border Guarding Force in the world. It is doing exemplary work in protecting the Indo-Pak and Indo-Bangladesh borders. He referred to the Force as India’s formidable First Wall of Defence. Shri Rajnath Singh stated that the people living in the border areas are strategic assets of the nation. He appealed the BSF personnel to take care of them while doing their duties.


    Referring to India's relations with Pakistan, the Union Home Minister repeatedly emphasized that India wants cordial and peaceful relations with its neighbour. India has taken many initiatives to ensure that both the neighbouring countries co-exist in an atmosphere of peace and mutual trust, Even the Beating Retreat ceremony at Hussainiwala was started on India's initiative so that citizens of both countries could see the ceremony conducted by BSF and Pak Rangers together. Shri Rajnath Singh said India expects reciprocity from Pakistan to our repeated overtures of friendship & goodwill.


    Speaking on the occasion, Punjab Chief Minister lauded the role of BSF for effectively safeguarding the Punjab component of the Indo-Pakistan border and assured all help of State Administration to the BSF.


    Earlier, the Union Home Minister paid rich tributes to martyrs Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Shaheed Rajguru and Shaheed Sukhdev at the Samadhi Sthal, also known as the Hussainiwala Memorial.


    ******


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506464) Visitor Counter : 56