      Ministry of Tourism

      Seven shortlisted companies given ‘Letters of Intent’ for 14 monuments under ‘Adopt a Heritage Scheme’ of M/O Tourism
      Posted On: 26 OCT 2017 12:21PM by PIB Delhi


    Seven shortlisted companies were given ‘Letters of Intent’ for fourteen monuments under ‘Adopt a Heritage Scheme’ of Ministry of Tourism at the closing ceremony of ‘Paryatan Parv’ at Rajpath Lawns, New Delhi yesterday. These companies will be the future ‘Monument Mitras’ who would associate pride with their CSR activities.


    The Inter-Ministerial Oversight and Vision Committee members appreciated the positive response received from reputed organisations in the Initial phase, wherein Fifty Seven (57) responses have been recorded and fourteen (14) monuments have been opted through seven (7) Expression Of Interest(s). After detailed scrutiny, the following companies ranging from hospitality industry, travel industry and banking industry were shortlisted for vision biding for final selection of Monument Mitras:


    1. SBI Foundation shortlisted for the adoption of -


    o Jantar Mantar, Delhi.


    2. TK International Limited shortlisted for the adoption of -


    o Sun Temple, Konark


    o Raja Rani Temple, Bhubaneshwar


    o Ratnagiri Monuments, Jajpur, Odisha


    3. Yatra Online Pvt. Limited shortlisted for the adoption of:


    o Hampi, Karnataka


    o Leh Palace, Jammu & Kashmir


    o Qutub Minar, Delhi


    o Ajanta Caves, Maharashtra


    4. Travel Corporation of India Ltd. shortlisted for the adoption of:


    o Mattancherry Palace Museum, Kochi


    o Safdarjung Tomb, Delhi


    5. Adventure Tour Operator Association of India shortlisted for the adoption of :


    o Gangotri Temple Area and Trail to Gaumukh


    o Mt. StokKangri, Laddakh, Jammu and Kashmir


    6. Special Holidays Travel Pvt. Ltd. (With) Rotary Club of Delhi shortlisted for the adoption of Agrasen ki Baoli, Delhi


    7. NBCC shortlisted for the adoption of Purana Quila, Delhi.


    The ‘Adopt a Heritage Scheme’ of Ministry of Tourism was launched on World Tourism Day i.e. 27 th September, 2017 by the President of India. Thereafter, Ministry of Tourism invited Private Sector Companies, Public Sector Companies and Corporate individuals to adopt the sites and to take up the responsibility for making our heritage and tourism more sustainable through conservation and development. This scheme is a unique endeavour of Ministry of Tourism in close collaboration with Ministry of Culture and Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) which envisages developing monuments, heritage and tourist sites across India and making them tourist friendly to enhance their tourism potential and cultural importance, in a planned and phased manner.


    India is renowned across the World for its rich and diverse cultural and natural heritage. Adopt a Heritage /Apni Dharohar Apni Pehchan Project is a unique endeavour of Ministry of Tourism in close collaboration with Ministry of Culture and Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) which envisages developing monuments, heritage and tourist sites across India and making them tourist friendly to enhance their tourism potential and cultural importance, in a planned and phased manner.


    The project primarily focuses on development and maintenance of world-class tourist infrastructure and amenities which includes basic civic amenities and advanced amenities like Cleanliness, Public Conveniences, Ease of access, secure environment, illumination and night viewing facilities for an overall inclusive tourist experience that will result in more footfall from both domestic and foreign tourists.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism/26.10.2017


    

    
    (Release ID: 1507106) Visitor Counter : 184