      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      DoNER Ministry sanctions Rs 200 cr for flood affected reconstruction works in Northeast
      Posted On: 31 OCT 2017 6:54PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) has sanctioned Rs 200 crore for flood affected reconstruction works in the four North Eastern States of Assam, Nagaland, Manipur and Mizoram.
    
    This was disclosed here today by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh.
    
    Pertinent to mention that during his visit to Northeast in August this year to review the flood situation in the four States, the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi had announced a flood relief package of Rs 2,000 crore.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh said, this year had witnessed unprecedented floods and the rainfall was more than 100% higher than that in the preceding months during the same period of time. As a result, he said, the damage was colossal and the relief and rehabilitation operations also got disrupted.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh said, a high-level committee has also been constituted to monitor the flood related operations and plan for future roadmap to avoid such situations.
    
    Referring to the keen interest and priority shown by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, Dr Jitendra Singh recalled that not only the Prime Minister began monitoring the flood situation right from day one, but he was also personally calling up the Chief Ministers of the concerned States for the latest feedback and also offered important tips and advice.
    
    Earlier today, Senior Sikkim leader and Member of Parliament, Shri P.D. Rai called on Dr Jitendra Singh and updated him about preparations for the upcoming "Start up Conference" to be held in Gangtok on the 24th of November. He also thanked Dr Jitendra Singh for the financial and other logistic support offered by the Ministry of DoNER for successful conduct of this conference.
    
    The first-ever airport at Sikkim coming up at Pakyong is ready to become functional soon, informed Dr Jitendra Singh.

    *****


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507640) Visitor Counter : 125