      President's Secretariat

      President of India Addresses the Valedictory Function of the Diamond Jubilee Celebrations of High Court of Kerala
      Posted On: 28 OCT 2017 3:10PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, graced and addressed the valedictory function of the diamond jubilee celebrations of High Court of Kerala in Kochi today (October 28, 2017).
    
    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that the Kerala High Court is known for sensitivity to people’s rights and civil liberties. The judgements of this High Court have contributed to deepening the traditions of democracy and civic freedom in our country. This High Court is a pioneer in supporting environmental and ecological norms and standards. It has given important verdicts, including on the right of the people for clean air; the right of the people for clean water; the right of the people for healthy surroundings; assigning the supply of safe drinking water to citizens in adequate quantity as the primary constitutional responsibility of the state and banning of smoking in public places.
    
    The President said that the judiciary is one of India’s most valued and respected institutions. Its fearless and independent functioning and stature has enhanced India’s credibility in the democratic world. Every Indian is proud of the judiciary and respects its verdicts and its commitment to the values that embody our nationhood.
    
    The President said that our legal system, with an independent judiciary as its bedrock, is an essential part of our nation building process. It acts as a corrective and it upholds the sanctity of the law and of natural justice. And it functions as the guardian of the ethical principles underlying the Constitution. This makes everybody connected with the process of justice delivery a nation builder.
    
    The President said that delay in justice delivery is a pressing concern in our country. Often those who suffer are among the poorest and most underprivileged in our society. We must find mechanisms to ensure quick disposal of cases. We could all consider an approach that makes adjournments the exception in an emergency situation rather than a tactic to prolong court proceedings.
    
    The President said that our common citizens have that sacred trust and faith that the judiciary will ever stand by them, and never let them down. He was confident that the judiciary will always live up to the high expectations that our people have of it.

    ******


    
    
    AKT/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507346) Visitor Counter : 87