      Ministry of Defence

      MoS Defence addresses JSR&A/D Conference of NCC
      Posted On: 26 OCT 2017 11:36AM by PIB Delhi


    Raksha Rajya Mantri Dr Subhash Bhamre emphasised the need to focus on the enhancement of incentives for National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets both in education and employment. He was inaugurating the 22nd Joint State Representatives and Additional / Deputy Directors General (JSR&A/D) Conference of the NCC here today.

    
    Commenting that NCC plays an important role in nation building Dr. Bhamre said, NCC is responsible for moulding our youth into becoming responsible, disciplined and motivated citizens and for providing leadership in all walks of life. He said the popularity of the NCC is reflective in the long list of institutions waiting to join the NCC. The expansion of cadet strength from 13 to 15 lakh in the next few years would help the cause to some extent. He stated that the government has recently drawn up fresh areas of priority with regard to expansion of NCC. ‘I believe that Naval Wing NCC in coastal areas, border and LWE areas need greater impetus for the expansion. We also need to encourage more girls to join NCC’ he further said.
    
    Dr. Bhamre also appreciated the performance of NCC on the occasion of Swacch Bharat Abhiyan, International Yoga Day and all social activities that serve national interest simultaneous to conventional training. He also called upon the state governments to honour their commitment with regard to provisioning of manpower, funds and suitable infrastructure for raising new NCC establishment in their states.
    
    DGNCC Lt Gen Vinod Vashisht, gave a presentation on the progress and achievements of the NCC over the years. He emphasised on the need for providing tangible and substantial incentives to NCC cadets so that they are well compensated for their dedication of time and energy to train with the NCC. This would also motivate others to join the NCC and enable the nation to have a disciplined and trained work force in the future. He also complimented all Directorates for successful conduct of various training activities.
    
    JSR&A/D is a biennial event attended by the senior representatives from all states of the country and the NCC heads of the states. The control and conduct of NCC activities is a joint responsibility of the Central and State Governments in terms of policies, finances, administrative and other aspects. This conference provides a platform to plan, implement and coordinate the NCC activities in the entire nation.
    
    This year achievements of NCC included the voluntary participation of more than 07 lakh cadets and staff on the occasion of Yoga Day pan India. NCC has also once again been felicitated by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for its nationwide efforts during the Swacch Bharat Abhiyan. A number of adventure activities were undertaken by the organization to nurture the spirit of adventure amongst the cadets.
    
    All representatives from the states confirmed their commitment to promote and help the NCC in form of infrastructure, training facilities, compensating benefits to cadets and funds in their respective states to help groom the potential leaders for tomorrows India.

    ******


    
    
    MJPS/NA/NM/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507239) Visitor Counter : 111