      Ministry of Defence

      Vice Admiral Karambir Singh takes over as the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, ENC
      Posted On: 31 OCT 2017 2:26PM by PIB Delhi


    Vice Admiral Karambir Singh, AVSM took over as the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command (ENC) from Vice Admiral HCS Bisht, PVSM, AVSM, ADC at a Ceremonial Parade held at the Naval Base here today, 31 October 2017. Vice Admiral Karambir Singh inspected the Ceremonial Guard and reviewed platoons of naval personnel drawn from various ships and establishments of the ENC.


    Vice Admiral HCS Bisht will be retiring from the Naval Service today on completion of forty years of illustrious career. He was accorded a farewell by the ENC by the traditional ‘Pulling Out’ ceremony, wherein he was ceremonially pulled out in a jeep by Flag Officers and Commanding Officers of Ships and Naval establishments, to resounding ‘Teen Jais’ from the men to the outgoing Commander-in-Chief.


    Commissioned into the Indian Navy in July 1980, Vice Admiral Karambir is an alumnus of the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, the Admiral earned his wings as a helicopter pilot in 1982 and has flown extensively on the Chetak and Kamov helicopters. He is a graduate of Defence Services Staff College, Wellington; College of Naval Warfare, Mumbai and has served as Directing Staff in both these Institutions.


    In his career spanning over 37 years, the Admiral has commanded an Indian Coast Guard Ship Chandbibi, Missile Corvette INS Vijaydurg as well as two Guided Missile Destroyers INS Rana and INS Delhi. He has also served as the Fleet Operations Officer of the Western Fleet. Ashore, the Admiral has served at Naval Headquarters as the Joint Director Naval Air Staff, and as Captain Air and Officer-in-Charge of the Naval Air Station at Mumbai. He has also served a member of the Aircrew Instrument Rating and Categorisation Board (AIRCATS).


    On promotion to flag rank, the Admiral was appointed as Chief of Staff, ENC. His other important flag appointments include Chief of Staff of the Tri-Services Unified Command at Andaman & Nicobar Islands and as the Flag Officer Commanding Maharashtra and Gujarat Naval Area (FOMAG).


    In the rank of Vice Admiral, he has been the Director General Project Seabird, in-charge of infrastructure development of the Navy’s modern base at Karwar. He was also assigned higher responsibilities at IHQ MoD(Navy) as Deputy Chief of Naval Staff and Vice Chief of the Naval Staff, prior to the present appointment. The Admiral is a recipient of the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal (AVSM) awarded by the Hon’ble President of India.


    CGR/VZ/130-17

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507565) Visitor Counter : 105