      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Vice President inaugurates the Vigilance Awareness Week, 2017
      Posted On: 30 OCT 2017 4:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice-President Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu inaugurated the Vigilance Awareness Week, 2017 here today.


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that we must ensure that the benefits of democratic governance reach every citizen in our country. He was addressing the gathering after inaugurating the ‘Vigilance Awareness Week’ with the theme “My Vision-Corruption-free India”, organised by the Central Vigilance Commission. The Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh, the Cabinet Secretary, Shri P.K. Sinha, the Central Vigilance Commissioner, Shri K.V. Chowdary and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President said that we should go to the roots of corruption and strike at it. He further said that constant vigilance is required to see that the vast beautiful tree of our country is not eaten up by weeds and pests. The tree must be protected, preserved and nourished continuously by rejuvenating the entire eco-system, he added.


    The Vice President said that Sardar Patel represents the best values in the Indian tradition so far as governance is concerned and he integrated the country and also was a shining example of integrity and probity in public life. He further said that we must draw inspiration from Sardar Vallabhai Patel’s messages and his life. His sense of realism and pragmatic approach to issues allowed him to face challenges and demonstrate his successful leadership qualities, he added.


    The Vice President said that honesty and integrity are essential components of social capital. They add value to the economic capital and intellectual capital of any society and country, he added.


    The Vice President said that procedures and implementation of laws should become more citizen-centric. Each citizen should be able to access quality services without harassment, undue delays and corrupt practices, he added.


    The Vice President said that all out efforts should be made to improve the educational system to inculcate strong values, ethical conduct and commitment towards the welfare of the society at large. He further said that the Central Vigilance Commission is trying to promote “Integrity Club” in schools and colleges and this initiative will no doubt pay rich dividends in future.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh said that under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, the Government has followed the principle of ‘Minimum Government, Maximum Governance’. Emphasising on the integrity, he said that the civil servants are the tools of governance and results cannot be achieved by bad tools. He said that the Governemnt has followed the approach so to have zero tolerance towards corruption and at the same time to provide protection to the honest officers. The Minister said that not only the magnitude of, but acceptability of such crimes also matters. He said that the ultimate goal of any successful society has to be the target of incorruptibility of society at all levels. He further said that the recent steps taken by the Government such as demonetization show its will, conviction and strength. He also highlighted other initiatives of the Government such as abolition of interviews at lower levels and self-attestation. Dr Jitendra Singh said that RTI portal has also been set up where RTI can be filed online from anywhere. He also complemented CVC for working towards preventive vigilance. He also said that we should resolve towards making India corruption-free by the year 2020.


    Shri K. V. Chowdary said that the CVC has adopted multi-pronged strategy to fight corruption consisting of punitive measures, preventive measures and participative measures which are complementary to each other. The punitive measures alone do not yield serious results, he added. He said that the overall systems should be improved and possible reasons for delays should be identified. He also said that to give recognition to the reforms and good work done by organization in the field of punitive, preventive and participative vigilance, the Vigilance Excellence Awards have been instituted in two categories from this year onwards. He also said that the Commission is developing an Integrity Index based on bench marking of internal processes and controls within an organization as well as management of relationships and expectations of external stake holders. He further said that initially Integrity Index will be developed for 25 organisations including Government organisations and PSUs and will be replicated in other organizations also. This Integrity Index will be developed with technical support form IIM, Ahmedabad, he added. He said that “My Vision-Corruption Free India” has been chosen as theme of this year’s Vigilance Awareness Week and awareness programmes will held to educate masses on this theme.


    The Vice President of India gave away the Vigilance Excellence Awards for good work done by officers and organizations in the field of punitive, preventive and participative vigilance.


    Click here for detail list of awardees


    Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu also released the e-leaning project of the CVC. A Booklet on “Preventive Vigilance Initiatives” was also released. During the function, a short film titled “The rise of a Corruption Free India” vigilance was also screened.


    Earlier the Chief Vigilance Commissioner Shri K. V. Chowdary administered the Integrity pledge to the participants.


    The Cabinet Secretary Shri P. K. Sinha, Vigilance Commissioners Shri Rajiv and Dr T.M. Bhasin, senior serving and retired functionaries of various Constitutional and Statutory bodies, senior officers of various Ministries, Departments and other Central Government Organisations, Central Public Sector Enterprises, representatives of Professional Associations, Trade and Industry Associations and NGOs, Vendors and Contractors for Central Government Organisations, Principals and Heads of Educational Institutions as well as Students attended the inaugural function.


    ********


    KSD/NK/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1507448) Visitor Counter : 222