      Ministry of Culture

      Sardar Patel was Committed to Unity of Our Country-Vice President
      Vice President Inaugurates 2-Day National Conference “Making of a Gandhian Nationalist: Life and Times of Sardar Patel”
      Posted On: 31 OCT 2017 2:22PM by PIB Delhi


    On the occasion of 142 nd Birth Anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, the Vice President of India Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu inaugurated a 2-day National Conference “Making of a Gandhian Nationalist: Life and Times of Sardar Patel” and an Exhibition on the Sardar Patel in Teen Murti Bhawan, New Delhi today. Minister of State (I/C) for Culture Dr. Mahesh Sharma was the Guest of Honour. The National Conference and Exhibition has been organised by Nehru Memorial Museum and Library under Ministry of Culture.


    Addressing on the occasion, the Vice President said that he has always seen Sardar Patel as an ideal person in his life. He congratulated Nehru Memorial Museum and Library for organizing such a valuable exhibition on Sardar Patel. Sardar Patel was an ardent follower of Mahatma Gandhi and the service to nation was his first priority. Sardar Patel prevented the division of our country after independence and unified 562 princely States. There was no rebellion and no blood shed during the unification of princely States. He always believed that agriculture needs to be strengthened for overall development. Sardar Patel’s vision for unification of India led to the creation of an All India Administrative Service. Sardar Patel’s life is an inspiration for all, especially for young generation. He was committed to the Unity of our country.


    In his address, Dr. Mahesh Sharma said that Sardar Patel, popularly known as Lauh Purush, is a source of inspiration for all countrymen who unified 562 princely States in to India. He said that our Prime Minister’s vision of “Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat” is based on the unification of our country. Sardar Patel inherited the nationalism from his father who was a freedom fighter. The Minister called upon people to visit the Exhibition on the Life of Sardar Patel going on in National Science Museum, Mathura Road, New Delhi to know many aspects of his life.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/Culture/31.10.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507563) Visitor Counter : 199