      Ministry of Tourism

      Paryatan Parv with Full of Activities Across The Country Concludes Today
      Posted On: 25 OCT 2017 7:11PM by PIB Delhi

      

        Each day of the “Paryatan Parv” organised by the Ministry of Tourism in collaboration with other Central ministries, State governments and Stakeholders from 5 th to 25 th october 2017 was full of activities. Paryatan Parv received a very enthusiastic response from other Central Ministries and State Governments, who had come forward in organizing various activities and events and based on reports received, the event which spread to all regions of the country has been received very well and has attracted participation in large numbers.


        Day 1


        ‘Paryatan Parv’ activities began with the flagging of the cycle rally by Smt. Rashmi Verma, Secretary, Ministry of Tourism from India Gate, New Delhi to Qutab Minar.


        Tourism awareness Walk & Run were organised in Shillong , Bhubaneswar , Kovalam (Kerala), Hajipur (Bihar), Gurudaspur, Chennai, Guwahati, Mumbai, Ahmedabad , Jaipur, Imphal, Lucknow, Agra, Hyderabad , Gwalior, Bhopal, Panaji(Goa), Delhi .100’s of student from Institute of Hotel Management in the said cities & local stakeholders enthusiastically participated in the Tourism walk & Run.


        Day 2


        India Tourism, Chennai in collaboration with Tamil Nadu Tourism Department, organized “Absolute India Travel Bazaar” where “Importance of Tourism” was conveyed to the large gathering of 1500 people which included State Tourism Departments, Airlines.


        In Hajipur the students and faculty of the Institute of Hotel Management participated in the "Rally on Tourism" from IHM Hajipur to Gandhi Chowk and back to IHM Hajipur for a symbolic distance of about 5 kilometers to celebrate “Paryatan Parv” (Tourism Festival) . The events for the day culminated with the first ever ASEAN-India Music Festival Purana Quila in New Delhi.


        Day 3


        The day started with “Yoga Demonstration” organized by Indiatourism, Mumbai and Kaivalyadham (Yoga Institute) at the Priyadarshni Park, Nepean Sea Road, Mumbai there were over 30 Yoga Demonstrators who demonstrated the Common Yoga Practice to over 300 early morning joggers. Ministry of Culture as a part of ‘Paryatan Parv’ has organised ‘Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav’ under the Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat matrix in Gujarat.


        Day 4


        IndiaTourism in association with the Ministry of DONER, North Eastern Tourism Development Council (NETDC) and State Governments of Manipur and Meghalaya organized various events showcasing local cuisine, handicraft & handlooms


        The State Government of Madhya Pradesh as part of Paryatan Parv organized Narmada Utsav, a Cultural Event showcasing folk heritage at various heritage destinations of Madhya Pradesh. Keeping with the spirit of Paryatan Parv.


        The State Government of Uttarakhand has organized a Trek while Himachal Pradesh Government conducted a Youth Parliament, to deliberate on the importance of Tourism and involvement of youth in the promotion of tourism. The Government of Uttar Pradesh organized a Dance competition.


        Day 5


        North East region of India has taken a lead in sensitizing the stakeholders by conducting seminars/ workshops on Homestays and Sustainable Tourism. Ministry of DONER in partnership with State Governments has started these programme from 9 th till 17 th October 2017.


        Online video content generation through participation of students, tourists, local entrepreneurs, tourism stakeholders started on 9 th October in the North East region. Eco Tourism Drive through Tree Plantation by students, railway and tourism officials at Railway Stations has been organised at Naharlagun and Gumto.


        State Government of Mizoram organised the Autumn Fair (till 13 th October) as part of the Paryatan Parv.


        Day 6


        Maharashtra Government has inaugurated guide training course in Mumbai, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Pune. District level cultural programmes have been organised in Aurangabad and Goa by Ministry of Youth Affairs (NYKS). Various events have been organised by Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Culture and State Government of Uttar Pradesh in the land of Taj Mahal, Highlight of the event was Dastan-e-Amir Khusrau presented by Dr.Syeda Hameed, Ms. Zakia Zaheer & Ms.Rene Singh at Taj Khema Mound.


        Day 7


        The highlight of the day seven of the ParyatanParv was a colourful and unique programme organised on the Rural Tourism theme at Pollachi, Tamilnadu. The event gave an insight of the life of rural India and how the rural sites can be promoted as tourist destination.


        Department of Youth Affairs, Government of India has organised activities like Tribal Youth Exchange Programme, Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat -Inter State Youth Exchange Programme.


        Day 8


        The Ministry of Rural Development under the National RURBAN Mission launched Tourism Projects in Spituk Rurban Cluster for development of Tourism Infrastructure, Tourist Information Centre, Amusement / Theme Park and Parking Facilities at Spituk Gompa, Leh


        Ministry of DONER conducted Sensitisation Programme for Stakeholders, including Transporters, Tour Operators, Hoteliers, Students, Community Sensitisation Workshop for Homestays and Bed & Breakfast Opportunities at Itanagar.


        Day 9


        Ministry of Human Resource Development has organized quiz, painting and essay competitions at Kendriya Vidyalayas and excursion trips for students to iconic tourist sites. Ministry of Skill Development is partner in workshops on Skill Development in the Tourism Sector and sensitisation of service providers.


        Day 10


        Ministry of Rural Development under National Rurban mission has Launched of Tourism Projects in Moorang Rurban Cluster for development of Pilgrim & Spiritual Tourism and Adventure Tourism at Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh.


        State Government of Uttarakhand has organized Kedarnath Mahotsav at Rudraprauag.Yoga Session was conducted in collaboration with Ministry of Ayush at Jageshwar Dham, Almora.


        Day 11


        The State Government of Madhya Pradesh has organized various events like Food Festivals, Nature Walks, Sensitization programme, at various places of the State. State Government of Kerala has organized Essay and Painting Competitions for Students at Idukki District. State Government of Rajasthan has organized Lantern Festival at Udaipur.


        The State Government of Bihar has organized various programmes like Cleanliness Awareness, Cultural evening at Gaya. Youth Parliament : Lectures and Discussions on importance of Tourism and youth involvement organized by NYKS at Vaishali


        Day 12


        State Governments of Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra have organised various programmes like Cultural Evenings, Sensitization programme, Competitions etc.


        Day 13


        Highlight of day thirteen was a workshop organised by the Ministry of Tourism with Department of Ex-Servicemen’s Welfare, Travel Trade Associations and State Governments for utilization of services of Ex-Servicemen in Tourism sector.


        Ministry of Culture & IGNCA organised an exhibition titled Kurai Onrum Illai, MS : A Life in Music at Lalit Kala Akademi in Chennai.


        Day 14


        The State Government of Gujarat has organized various events across the state like exhibition on Tourism Destinations of Gujarat at River Front and Kankaria, Ahmadabad and Porbandar, Exhibition on Wildlife at Dwarka and Somnath, Exhibition on Beach tourism at Saputara. State Government of Uttarakhand has organized Dev Deepawali at the Ghats of Haridwar. An event to mark Return of Sri Ram to Ayodhya and Deepawali was organized by the State Government of Uttar Pradesh.


        Day 16


        Highlight of the day sixteen of Paryatan Parv was launch of Tourism Projects by Ministry of Rural Development in Aibawk Rurban Cluster for Development of Cycling Track, Construction of 3 km road and footpaths, Beautification of Historical Sites and setting up of Orchid Research Centre at Aizawl, Mizoram. The other activities organized in Aizawl were Sensitization Programme for local community, Painting Competition for Children Cultural Show, Eco Trail.


        Day 17


        Ministry of Tourism in association with Ministry of Culture has organized Cultural evening at Hampi. Ministry of DONER in association with the State Government of Manipur has organized Imphal Evening, Boating at Kangla Moat, Flea Market, Food Stalls, Handloom & Handicraft Stalls etc.


        
        The State Government of Jharkhand has organized various programmes like Cultural Programme, Painting Competition on Tourism Destinations of Jharkhand, Quiz Programmes on Tourism, Cleanliness Awareness Programmes at Tourist Sites and Photography Competition at Hundru.


        Day 18


        The State Government of Bihar has organised several programmes such as Cultural evening showcasing the Cultural & Heritage of Bihar, Cleanliness Awareness Programmes at Tourist Sites, Painting Competitions on tourism related themes, Quiz Programmes at Pawapuri and Nalanda.


        The State Government of Uttarakhand has organised Aerosports activities at Pithoragarh, The State Government of Madhya Pradesh has organised Children’s theatre, group singing and painting competition on flora & fauna at Pench National Park, Essay & Painting Competitions were organised at Ernakulam District by the State Government of Kerala.


        Day 19


        A CEO Round Table Conference on Tourism Sector organised by Invest India under the Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion.


        As a grand finale to the 21 day Paryatan Parv, a three-day event is being organised at the Rajpath Lawns, New Delhi (between Rafi Marg and Janpath) from the 23rd to 25th October 2017


        Shri Rajnath Singh, Union Minister for Home Affairs inaugurated the “Paryatan Parv-Grand Finale” at the Rajpath Lawns, New Delhi today. Shri K.J. Alphons, Minister of State (Independent charge) for Tourism presided over the inaugural function.


        Day 20


        Shri Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways and Shipping visited the “Paryatan Parv-Grand Finale” on its second day at the Rajpath Lawns, New Delhi. Shri K.J. Alphons, Minister of State (Independent charge) for Tourism was also present.


        Second day of Grand Finale witnessed some amazing Cultural Performances by troupes from the different States/UTs of the country. In the afternoon, Karnataka presented Jaggalige; Manipur showcased Ras Lila, Dhol Cholon ; Maharasthra presented Bhupali te Bhairavi ; Chhattisgarh showcased Pandwani; Uttar Pradesh presented Awadhi/Bhojpuri Lok Geet ; and Punjab presented Bhangra. In the evening, Wayside Amenities in Ramayan & Buddhist Circuits/ Dash Board for Swadesh Darshan were launched. Prashant & Nishant Mallick (Mallick Brothers) presented “Dhrupad Vocal” and North Zone Cultural Centre presented Choreographed Cultural Performance.


        Day-21


        Shri Arun Jaitley, Union Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister was the Chief Guest at the “Official Closing Ceremony of Paryatan Parv” at the Rajpath Lawns, New Delhi. Shri K.J. Alphons, Minister of State (Independent charge) for Tourism was also present.


        In the afternoon, different States/ UTs presented their cultural performances viz. Assam presented Bihu ; Daman & Diu presented Macchi Dance; Andhra Pradesh presented Kuychipudi ; Rajasthan presented Chari & Ghoomer; Tamil Nadu presented Karakattam Thappattarm; Jammu & Kashmir presented Kashmiri Dances; and Telangana presented Perini. In the evening, Smt. Savita Devi presentede ‘Purab Ang Gayaki of Banaras Gharana’ which was followed by Choreographed Cultural Performance by North Zone Cultural Centre.


        *****


        Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism-2-F/25.10.2017


    

    
    (Release ID: 1507069) Visitor Counter : 138