      Vice President's Secretariat

      Terrorism is a global concern that demands global attention and requires global cooperation: Vice President
      Interacts with Italian Prime Minister, Mr. Paolo Gentiloni
      Posted On: 30 OCT 2017 7:46PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that Terrorism is a global concern that demands global attention and requires global cooperation. He was interacting with the Prime Minister of Italy, Mr. Paolo Gentiloni, who called on him, here today.
    
    The Vice President said that India believes in an early conclusion of negotiations and the adoption of the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism in the United Nations. He further said that we also need to coordinate our action at the forthcoming meeting of the Financial Action Task Force and ensure that designated individuals and entities have no access to property and financial services. We must ensure that Pakistan continues to remain under the Asia Pacific Group and Financial Action Task Force monitoring, he added.
    
    The Vice President thanked for Italy’s support which led to India’s eventual membership in the MTCR. Membership of the NSG remains a priority for Indian Government and we look forward to Italy’s continued support for India’s membership of the NSG, he added.
    
    The Vice President said that the bilateral trade between India and Italy is at US$8.7 billion (Rs. 57,878 crores), which is below potential. He further said that India’s unprecedented reform initiatives including ease of doing business, flagship programs and roll out of the Goods and Services Tax offers unlimited business opportunities to Italian companies.
    
    The Vice President said that Climate Change is a very important issue for the two countries and India ratified the Paris Agreement on 3rd October 2016. We have a renewable energy target of 175 Giga Watts by 2022, launched the International Solar Alliance initiative and are working on a road map for introducing all electric vehicles beginning 2030.
    
    The Vice President said that many Italians take active interest in Indian culture, cuisine, music, dance, Yoga and Ayurveda. We will be happy to collaborate with Italy in enhancing the understanding of traditional systems of Indian medicines, he added.

    ***


    
    
    KSD/BK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507504) Visitor Counter : 220