      Ministry of Power

      Dr. Fatih Birol calls on the Minister of Power and New & Renewable Energy, Shri R. K. Singh
      Posted On: 25 OCT 2017 6:18PM by PIB Delhi


    

    Dr. Fatih Birol, Executive Director, International Energy Agency (IEA), called on the Union Minister of State (IC) for Power and New & Renewable Energy, Shri R.K. Singh, here today. The two dignitaries discussed the role of India on the emerging Global energy stage, the steps that the country is taking to boost clean energy dependence of its economy; and the role that India can play in reducing global carbon footprint by using the IEA platform. The four main areas of focus of IEA are energy security, economic development, environmental awareness and engagement worldwide.


    During the interaction, Shri R.K. Singh noted that energy is the basic need for any economy for bringing its citizens out of poverty, generate livelihood and improve the general standards of living. India, with 1/6th of World’s population, still has very low per energy consumption and emissions intensity, when compared to the World average value. The scope of India’s Energy sector expansion is huge, Shri Singh added.


    Shri Singh said that the cost of energy generated through clean energy sources such as solar and wind have drastically come down in the last 3 years and ‘Renewable Energy (RE) is the Energy of the Future’. India is taking huge strides in the RE sector and has taken a lead on the global stage by launching the International Solar alliance. IEA should encourage all its member countries to increase the share of RE in their respective energy baskets, Shri Singh added.


    “India is moving to the centre of the Global Energy Stage”, said Dr. Birol sighting IEA’s flagship World Energy Outlook (WEO). Dr. Birol is responsible for the WEO publication, which is recognised as the most authoritative source for strategic analysis of global energy markets. He is also the founder and chair of the IEA Energy Business Council which provides a forum for cooperation between the energy industry and policymakers.


    *****


    RM/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507022) Visitor Counter : 84