      Ministry of Tourism

      Ministry of Tourism conducts Workshop on Innovation in Tourism
      Posted On: 27 OCT 2017 7:46PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Tourism, Government of India today organised a workshop on ‘Innovation in Tourism’ to receive innovative ideas and suggestions from stakeholders in the tourism sector to keep abreast with the developments taking place around the globe and respond to them in a proactive and adequate manner.
    
    The workshop was chaired by Shri K. J. Alphons, Minister of State for Tourism (I/C) and attended by approximately 50 participants representing various segments of tourism industry viz hotels, tour operators, travel Agents, adventure tour operators, tourism professionals, media representatives and Trade Associations. Secretary, Ministry of Tourism and other senior officials also participated in the workshop.
    
    The workshop deliberated extensively on various issues affecting Indian tourism and the came out with innovative solutions to overcome such issues and in order to position India as the most preferred destinations.
    
    Some of the key innovative ideas that emerged in the workshop included effective promotion of Buddhist circuits and opening of land border at Piprahwa, countering negative publicity by putting in place an integrated ‘Reputation Management’ strategy and appointing a dedicated PR agency, constituting a Crisis Management Cell making available quality tourist guides (including those proficient in foreign languages), engaging with travel bloggers for generating positive stories on India on social media , setting up of a company through SPV to handle marketing and PR , advising the State Governments to replicate the best practices followed by states proactive in tourism , engaging with the NRI’s & POI through India missions abroad and preparing a country wide festival calendar.
    
    Shri K. J. Alphons during the workshop informed that Ministry of Tourism will be constituting two Committees to work on Development of Buddhist Circuits and to, advise on Marketing & PR . It was also decided to regularly interact with the related central Ministries on matters pertaining to development and promotion of tourism and facilitating the tourist to ensure that they have a pleasant & memorable experience during their visit to India.

    ******


    
    
    SK/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507331) Visitor Counter : 170
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil