      Ministry of Jal Shakti

      Awareness Raising Programme under National Hydrology Project
      Posted On: 06 FEB 2020 5:50PM by PIB Mumbai


    Nagpur, Dt 06 th February,2020


    Central Ground Water Board, an apex organisation of the Ministry of Jal Shakti , Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Govt. of India, organized one day Awareness Raising Program under National Hydrology Project on 5th February 2020 at YASHADA, Pune .


    The prime objective for organizing the programme is to create the awareness on National Hydrology Project, it’s aims on data generation, dissemination and utilization for sustainable management of surface and groundwater resources of the State of Maharashtra.


    The program was attended by about 60 officers from various State & Central Government Departments, subject experts from NWA/CWC/GSDA/IMD/IITM/ SOI/WRD/CWPRS/CGWB/NGO/Jalsampada/Agriculture/Soil Conservation/State Surface Water Data Centre/Survey of India/Water Supply and Sanitation department, Govt of Mahrashtra etc. and other stake holders.


    Dr. P.K. Jain , Regional Director, CGWB, Nagpur delivered the Welcome Address. In his address, Dr. Jain informed that the objective of NHP is to improve the extent, quality and accessibility of data for planning development, and management of water resources (both SW & GW) and focus on accessibility of water resources information and real-time operations and awareness raising campaign under National Hydrology Project to involve the people from various fields and spoke about demystification of science, highlighted about data sharing and dissemination under NHP.


    Shri. Kaustubh Diwegaonkar (IAS), Director, GSDA, Pune graced the function as the Chief Guest . He also urged the technocrats and administrators to develop management plan for water resources keeping in view of the prevailing social, economic and traditional, agricultural practices in the area.


    Dr. S.D. Umrikar, Additional Director, GSDA, Pune graced the occasion as the Guest of Honour .


    During the program, Presentations were delivered by the subject experts of CGWB, CWC & State NH implementing agency i.e. GSDA, WRD etc. as listed below.


    1) Overview of National Hydrology Project (NHP) & PIP of CGWB, Status of Ground Water Resources in the State of Maharashtra


    2) Project Implementation Plan (PIP) of State Implementing Agency (Surface Water)


    3) PIP of State Implementing Agency (GW)


    4) PIP of Central Implementing Agency (CWC),


    5) Water Management (like drinking water supply, etc.


    At the end of the program, a panel discussion was held under the chairmanship of Dr. P.K. Jain, Regional Director, CGWB, Nagpur on “Issues & possible management intervention or road map for further work in NHP” which was participated by all the state & central implementing agency.


    The inaugural function, technical session and valedictory functions were conducted by Shri D. Venkateswaran, Scientist-D, CGWB, Nagpur and Shri. S.D. Waghmare, Scientist-B, CGWB, SUO, Pune.


    The vote of thanks was proposed by Ms. Anuradha Bhatia, Scientist-D & OIC, CGWB, SUO, Pune.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602280) Visitor Counter : 175