      AYUSH

      One-day Naturopathy Camp organized at University of Mumbai-Kalina Campus
      
      Dignitaries in naturopathy camp highlights Gandhi’s strong connection with nature-care

      Posted On: 09 FEB 2020 8:45PM by PIB Mumbai

    A one-day Naturopathy Camp was organized by National Institute of Naturopathy (NIN), Union Ministry of Ayush, in association with Indian Naturopathy and Yoga Graduates Medical Association- Maharashtra Chapter, at University of Mumbai- Kalina campus, here today. The focus of this initiative called ‘Nisargopchar Mahotsav’ has been on ‘Self Reliance Through Self Health Reliance’. This topic, and also Mahatma Gandhi’s vision on nature cure and naturopathy, was deliberated upon in the inaugural function by the dignitaries, including noted medical anthropologist Dr. R.K.Mutatkar, eminent Gandhian Shri Jayant Diwan and Director of NIN – Prof. Dr. K. Satyalakshmi. This programme, also observed ‘150 years of the Mahatma’ and focused on Mahatma Gandhi’s strong connection with naturopathy and nature-cure. Eminent naturopathy exponent and Programme Director, Nisargopchar Ashram, Urlikanchan - Dr Ravindra Vasant Nishal was also felicitated on the occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Mutatkar said, we have lost connection with nature with evolution of civilization and fallen prey to lifestyle diseases. He remarked that, tribal population remains close to nature and thus, enjoy a disease-free life. He urged that finding cure for our health problems amidst nature is the best solution and remarked “the connection between man and nature is sacred”. He further said, Gandhiji was a proponent of naturopathy and included nature cure in his public-health programmes. Dr. Mutatkar remarked, “We still have a lot to learn from Gandhi” and stated that nature-cure was an important component of his social reforms.


    Prof Dr. K. Satyalakshmi said, “Not many people know about the Mahatma’s connection with nature cure”. It is a proud moment for us to acknowledge Mahatma Gandhi’s immense contribution to naturopathy treatment in India, on his 150 th birth anniversary, said the Director NIN, and also narrated incidents from Mahatma Gandhi’s life where he tried naturopathy treatment on his family members and others. “He understood the essence of nature-care like no one”, remarked the professor. She further said, it is the ethical and moral responsibility of every individual to remain healthy. Speaking about NIN, she said, NIN is trying to bring back nature-cure in people’s life. So long as we remain dependent on doctors and drugs, we are not independent, she further remarked. She urged all to reach out to people and tell them about the benefits of nature-cure.


    Acclaimed naturopathy exponent Dr. Ravindra Vasant Nishal said, natural substances and nature-cure form a part of modern medicines, but lifestyle is not focused upon by the modern medicine practitioners.


    The dignitaries also included Dr. Abhishek Devikar, President of Indian Naturopathy and Yoga Graduates Medical Association- Maharashtra Chapter. Apart from stalls on naturopathy treatment, a healthy -cooking workshop and activities for children, like a drawing competition was also organized.


    The Regional Outreach Bureau, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, had organized an exhibition on ‘150 Years of the Mahatma’ on the occasion.


    RT/SC/DR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602586) Visitor Counter : 136