      President's Secretariat

      President of India to attend Golden Jubilee Celebrations of NIBM in Pune tomorrow
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2020 5:51PM by PIB Mumbai


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind will be the Chief Guest and will deliver the golden jubilee address at the Golden Jubilee Celebrations of National Institute of Bank Management (NIBM) at its sylvian campus in Pune tomorrow. The first lady of the country Smt Savita Kovind will also grace the event.


    Governor of Maharashtra, Shri Bhagat Singh Koshyari will be the Guest of Honour and Governor, Reserve Bank of India & Chairman, NIBM Governing Board, Shri Shaktikanta Das will welcome the dignitaries. The Deputy Governors and Executive Directors of RBI and heads and directors of many banks and financial institutions are expected to participate in the celebrations. In all, more than 550 persons are expected to attend the function.


    On the occasion, the NIBM Golden Jubilee logo will be unveiled by the Governor of Maharashtra. The Governor will also release a coffee-table book and present the first copy of the same to the President of India.


    The Governor of RBI will present a customized stamp on Golden Jubilee of NIBM, to the President of India.


    The event can be watched below, from 12 PM onwards, on February 12, 2020.


    About NIBM


    NIBM was established in 1969 as an institution of national importance, when 14 banks were nationalised. Since then, the institute has been providing capacity-building, research and consultancy support to the banking industry. Till December 31, 2019, NIBM has trained more than 1,10,000 senior and top executives of banks and financial institutions from India and abroad. NIBM caters to the capacity-building requirements of foreign countries as well. During the current year, executives from around 60 countries have participated in various training programmes of the institute. The institute also has contributed significantly to policy making of the banking system in the country.


    Since 2003, the institute has been offering a post-graduate programme in banking and finance (PGDM (B&FS)) and in 2017 it started offering online certificate courses. 100% placement for the students has been achieved since inception and many of the students have reached very senior positions in banks, consulting companies, rating agencies, non-banking finance companies, multilateral financial institutions and so on. Seven different online certificate courses are being offered by the institute.


    ***


    DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602827) Visitor Counter : 1403
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi