      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Curtain Raiser
      
      2-Day National Conference on e-Governance, India 2020: Digital Transformation’ to be inaugurated tomorrow
      
      17 States to present their IT initiatives and success stories.
      Posted On: 06 FEB 2020 7:42PM by PIB Mumbai


    National Conference on e-Governance (NCeG), 2020 is being held at NSCI Dome, Worli, Mumbai, on 7 th and 8 th February 2020. The theme of this Conference is “ India 2020: Digital Transformation ”. The 23 rd edition of the National Conference is being organised by Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances (DARPG) and Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY), Government of India in association with Department of Information Technology, State Government of Maharashtra.
    
    During the conference, civil servants and industry captains will showcase their successful interventions in e-Governance and methods adopted in improving end to end service delivery. 17 States are presenting their IT initiatives and success stories through various sessions. 28 States and 9 Union Territories have confirmed their participation in the Conference and more than 1000 delegates are expected to attend it.


    Slated to be inaugurated by Minister for Environment, Tourism & Protocol, Government of Maharashtra, Shri. Aaditya Uddhav Thackeray on Friday morning and presided over by Minister for Industries and Mining, Government of Maharashtra, Shri. Subash Desai, the two day conference aims to provide a platform to disseminate knowledge on effective methods of designing and implementing sustainable e-Governance initiatives.
    
    The conference is organised to provide considerable momentum to the e-Governance initiatives across the country by focusing on end-to-end digital services and sharing experiences in resolving issues and planning for success.
    
    National e-Governance Awards 2020 and Hackathon Awards will be presented during the valedictory session on the second day of the conference.
    
    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region and Minister of State for Prime Minister’s Office, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Department of Atomic Energy and Department of Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh and Minister of State for Home (Urban), Housing, Transport, Information Technology, Parliamentary Affairs, Ex-Servicemen Welfare, Government of Maharashtra Shri Satej D. Patil will attend the valedictory session
    
    Discussions will be held on the following themes in Plenary session during the Conference:

     1. Digital Platforms and Digital Economy
     2. Improving Service Delivery
     3. Building Digital Trust- Transparency, Security and Privacy
     4. Digital Payments and Fintech
     5. National e-Governance Service Delivery Assessment (NeSDA)/ Digital Service Standard (DSS)
     6. Skilling and Capacity Building

    Seven other Sessions will also be held on the following sub-themes:
    
    1. End to End Service Delivery (3 sessions),


    2. Procurement Reforms,


    3. AI/Machine Learning and Language


    4. Building Digital Trust- Transparency


    5. Security and Privacy


    
    An Exhibition will also be organized during the event to showcase India’s achievements in the field of e-Governance, along with a Hall of Fame/ photo exhibition on the award winners.
    
    Senior Secretaries from the Government of India including Secretary, Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances Dr. Kshatrapati Shivaji, Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Shri Ajay Prakash Sawhney and Chief Secretary, Government of Maharashtra, Shri Ajoy Mehta, will address the Conference.

    *****


    DJM/DL/DR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602322) Visitor Counter : 164
    
    
    
    
    

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
6.