      Ministry of Education

      NSS volunteers from Odisha participate in Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat residential camp in Maharashtra
      Posted On: 21 FEB 2020 5:36PM by PIB Mumbai


    National Service Scheme (NSS) youth volunteers from Odisha participated in a special residential camp along with NSS volunteers from different universities of Maharashtra at Mhaskal village near Titwala in Thane district last month (Jan 12-18, 2020). The Odisha youngsters consisted of five women and five men along with two program officers from Fakir Mohan University of Balasore. Notably, University of Mumbai has been paired with Fakir Mohan University of Balasore under Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat student cultural exchange programmes. A MoU was also signed to this effect, between Dr. Ajay Deshmukh, Registrar, University of Mumbai and Dr. Pabitra Naik, N.S.S. Program Coordinator of Fakir Mohan University, Balasore.


    The participants also included more than 150 volunteers and program officers from Gondwana University, Gadchiroli; Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University, Aurangabad; Kavayatri Bahinabai Chaudhari North Maharashtra University, Jalgaon; S. R. T. M. Nanded and SNDT, Mumbai. This state level camp on the theme of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ was hosted by SST College of Arts and Commerce, Ulhasnagar, in collaboration with NSS Cell, University of Mumbai and Ministry of Higher and Technical Education, Government of Maharashtra. Camp activities included lectures on culture, traditions, history and food of Odisha.


    The visiting team from Fakir Mohan University attended an interactive meet with the Honourable Chancellor of University of Mumbai, Prof Suhas Pednekar; Honourable Pro-VC, University of Mumbai, Prof Ravindra Kulkarni and Dean of Commerce Faculty, Dr. Ajay Bhamre in the Management Council Hall of the University.


    Notably, University of Mumbai conducts State Republic Day Parade Camp every year in its Vidyanagari Campus, Kalina, on behalf of the Higher and Technical Education, Government of Maharashtra, where NSS volunteers from all universities of Maharashtra take part. Dr. Surekha Sundari Swain, State NSS Officer and Deputy Secretary, Higher Education Department, Government of Odisha ceremoniously inaugurated the camp in presence of other dignitaries this year.


    MoU was signed between Dr. Ajay Deshmukh, Registrar, University of Mumbai and Dr. Pabitra Naik, N.S.S. Program Coordinator of Fakir Mohan University, Balasore.


    The Fakir Mohan University students visited KC College where they met Principal Dr. Hemlata Bagla and NSS Co-ordinator of Mumbai City, Dr. Satish S. Kolte.


    The visiting team from Fakir Mohan University also had a chance to attend an interactive meet with the Honourable Chancellor of University of Mumbai, Prof Suhas Pednekar; Honourable Pro-VC, University of Mumbai, Prof Ravindra Kulkarni and Dean of Commerce Faculty, Dr. Ajay Bhamre in the Management Council Hall of the University. They also visited iconic buildings and structures of the university like Rajabai Clock Tower, the Convocation Hall and the library. The students were also taken for a visit to KC College where they met Principal Dr. Hemlata Bagla and NSS Co-ordinator of Mumbai City, Dr. Satish S. Kolte. Their local sightseeing in Mumbai included Gateway of India. Further, the Odisha team also visited a state level special camp organized by Dr C D Deshmukh Commerce College, Sau Kusumtai Arts College, Roha at Sane Guruji Rashtriya Smarak Vadghar in Raigad district.


    Dr. Surekha Sundari Swain, State NSS Officer and Deputy Secretary, Higher Education Department, Government of Odisha ceremoniously inaugurated the State Republic Day Parade Camp at University of Mumbai Vidyanagari Campus, Kalina this year


    The visiting team from Fakir Mohan University at Convocation Hall of the University of Mumbai


    ***


    DJM/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603960) Visitor Counter : 143
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi