      Ministry of Education

      Maharashtra students visit Central University of Odisha to learn about the state’s culture and society
      
      ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ will bring about cultural & regional integration: Shri Tusharkanti Behera, Odisha Minister

      Posted On: 13 FEB 2020 5:29PM by PIB Mumbai

    52 students of Mahatma Gandhi Antarrashtriya Hindi Viswavidyalaya (MGAHVV), Wardha got a memorable taste of the rich culture and heritage of Odisha, thanks to the ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ (EBSB) programme, under which Odisha has been selected as the paired state of Maharashtra. The students and faculty members of the Viswavidyalaya got to visit Central University of Odisha (CUO), Koraput, the institution with which theirs has been paired. As part of the exchange programme between the two institutes, the team from MGAHVV was able to understand and experience Odia culture through lectures, educational tours, presentations, village visits and NSS activities. They took part in a workshop on Odia language and literature and a regional cooking workshop as well. The students were also taken to the famous Jagannath Mandir in Puri, Tribal Museum in Koraput, Gupteswar Cave, Upper Kolab Dam and Hindustan Aeronautics Limited campus in Sunabeda during the course of the student exchange programme.


    Addressing the valedictory programme organized on February 8, 2020, Minister (Independent Charge), E & IT, Sports & Youth Services, Government of Odisha, Shri Tusharkanti Behera said that Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat re-affirms the concept of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam which transcends limitations of racial origins, religious restrictions and national boundaries. He also stated that the idea of a sustained and structured cultural connect between denizens of different regions was mooted to commemorate the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. He stated that the CUO is a step towards bringing inclusiveness through learning and capacity building in an economically backward region like Koraput. He expressed hope that India can move forward as a nation only through unity in diversity and that EBSB will bring about cultural and regional integration.


    Prof. I. Ramabrahmam, Vice Chancellor, CUO explained the principles and importance of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat and the partnership of the two universities in Koraput and Wardha. He gave a vision of the future course of action the Central University of Odisha intends to follow for the development of education. Pro Vice Chancellor of MGAHVV, Wardha, Prof. Chandrakanta Ragit expressed his optimism over the pairing of CUO with MGAHVV and hoped that through EBSB, the partnership will give way to fruitful academic exercises.


    Collector & District Magistrate, Koraput, Shri Madhusudan Mishra and Executive Director, NALCO, Shri R S Das expressed their happiness about the student exchange programme under EBSB and affirmed the full support of district administration and NALCO respectively towards endeavors of the CUO.


    Nodal Officer for EBSB in CUO, Dr. Sourav Gupta and faculty members of the university were also present at the closing function.


    Check out the activities under Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat, involving Maharashtra and Odisha here .


    *****


    DJM/SC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1603094) Visitor Counter : 89