      Ministry of Education

      Annual Theatre Event of IIT Bombay to celebrate ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ today
      Posted On: 14 FEB 2020 4:51PM by PIB Mumbai


    Drawing inspiration from the essence of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’, IIT Bombay’s Cultural Council and Fourthwall - the Dramatics Club, is organizing ‘Ann Prod’, the annual theatre showcase event of the institute, at P C Saxena Auditorium at the campus in Powai at 7 p.m. today.


    Through different forms of theatre, Ann Prod will focus on the states of Maharashtra and Goa. Maharashtra - the third largest state of India, spans multiple cultures and has a long history of Marathi saints. Each part of Maharashtra has its own cultural identity in the form of different dialects of Marathi language, folk songs, food and ethnicity. On the other hand, Goa - a popular tourist destination, is known for its cultural richness too. Football and music are deeply entrenched in Goan culture. Goa is also known for its New Year celebrations and the Goan Carnival is known to attract a large number of tourists. The plays are in alignment with the current cultural scenario of these two states. In this way, the annual theatre event of IIT Bombay will celebrate the cultural diversity of India, which is in tune with the very spirit of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’. The plays will uphold a common spirit of understanding that resonates throughout the country and also ‘Unity in Diversity’ that is sought to be celebrated through mutual interaction and reciprocity between people of different states and UTs.


    The plays based on this theme to be performed today, include: Alazia, Saanp, Death Note, The Final Draft, Chitthi and Monoact.


    Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat is an initiative of the Government, which seeks to promote the sppirit of national integration through a deep and structured engagement among all Indian States and Union Territories.


    DJM/SC/P.Kor

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603216) Visitor Counter : 735
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi