      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      12-km stretch of Pune Metro Phases I and II to be completed by March 2020: Union Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar
      
      Union Minister Prakash Javadekar reviews Pune Metro, Mula Mutha River Rejuvenation Project and implementation of Mid Day Meal Scheme in Pune District

      Posted On: 14 FEB 2020 2:21PM by PIB Mumbai

    The Union Minister for Environment, Forest & Climate Change; Information & Broadcasting; and Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises, Shri Prakash Javadekar reviewed the progress of Pune Metro Rail Project, Mula Mutha River Rejuvenation Project and the implementation of Mid Day Meal Scheme in Pune district. He did this, as Chairperson of the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA), at the DISHA meeting held in Pune today.


    Addressing the media today after what was the fifth DISHA meeting, the Minister said that DISHA is a commendable initiative of the Central Government, under which Central Sector Schemes for improvement of infrastructure and human development are reviewed and a report card presented to the people.


    The Minister announced that the 12-km long stretch of first and second phases of the Pune Metro Rail Project will be completed by March 2020. He informed that the foundation stone for Hinjawadi Line will also be laid by next month.


    Citing the importance of waste disposal in all gram panchayats, the Minister informed that a decision has been taken to prepare a master plan for waste disposal in Pune district, which would especially benefit more than 300 localities.


    Speaking about the progress of Mid-Day Meal Scheme in the district, Shri Javadekar said that provision of supplementary foods to lactating mothers has resulted in the reduction of malnourished and under-nourished children by more than half, in a short span of three years. Stating that this is a significant achievement, he added that all children receiving Mid-Day Meal Scheme have registered improvement in both height and weight. This is a sound investment for the future of the nation, the Minister said.


    The Minister said that the Mula Mutha River Cleaning Project is going to be expedited and that meetings at both central and state levels have been planned. He reiterated that the loan given by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for Mula Mutha River Cleaning Project will be repaid neither by the Government of Maharashtra nor by the PMC but by the Government of India, and that the project is Government of India's gift to Pune . Observing that discharge of sewage into rivers is a major cause of river pollution in the country, the Minister said that sewage treatment plants are being set up for cleaning of Mula Mutha and other rivers.


    The pollution in Delhi has come down significantly, the Minister said in reply to a query. "We spent 17,000 crore rupees on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway and Western Peripheral Expressway, which has provided an alternative route to around 60,000 vehicles such as trucks, which used to transit via Delhi. We have adopted and are continuing to work on many other fronts too, to reduce pollution and combat climate change".


    ***


    DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603185) Visitor Counter : 262
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi