      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare will Inaugurate New Institutional Campus of National Institute of Public Health Training & Research
      Posted On: 21 FEB 2020 4:06PM by PIB Mumbai


    The Inauguration of New Institutional Complex of National Institute of Public Health Training & Research (NIPHTR) Formerly known as Family Welfare Training & Research Centre Mumbai, is organized a at New Panvel on 22th February 2020 at 11.00am The inauguration will be done at the auspicious hand of Chief Guest Honourable Dr Harsh Vardhan, Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Minister of Science and Technology and Minister of Earth Sciences. (GOI). The Guest of Honour on this occasion are Shri. Rajesh Tope, Minister for Public Health and Family Welfare, Maharashtra, The Health Secretary Smt. Preeti Sudan will be also present as special Invitee. On this occasion the foundation stone laying ceremony of the residential staff quarters also organized.


    Backgrounder:


    National Institute of Public Health Training & Research (NIPHTR) was established in 1957 under Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, GOI. This year the institute has completed 62th year of inception. At present the institute offers Two full time training courses for the paramedical workers, i.e. Diploma in Health Promotion Education and Post Graduate Diploma in Community Health Care. The Institute has launched several skill-based training Programs e.g. Sanitary Health Inspector Course, Diabetes Educator, First Responder, Home Health Aide, General Duty Assistant. The institute also conduct short term training programs for Medical and Paramedical personnel from all over the country. It conducts community-based research activities in the key public health areas.


    Under the leadership of Dr Deepak Raut, Director, NIPHTR has been developed a new institution and hostel campus in Navi Mumbai at plot no. 6 & 6A sector 18 New Panvel to provide state of art training facilities for the participants coming from pan India and south East Asia region. In this complex the institute has established Training halls equipped with modern training facilities, Library, Computer lab, Public Health Laboratory, Skill lab, Public Health Museum, Audio Visual department with in-campus residential facilities of the trainees.


    A new residential staff quarter building is also coming up near the institutional campus at Plot no. 20 Sector 17 New Panvel, which will provide accommodation facilities to the officers and staff of NIPHTR.


    ***


    BG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603942) Visitor Counter : 246