      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      75 More advanced Medical Collages Get Sanctioned to Built in CFY; 500 more Hospitals Needs of the Country–Harshvardhan
      
      NIPHTR New Residential Complex Inaugurated by Dr. Harshvardhan
      
      Ask New Ideas & Contribution to the Retired Medical Officers, Gynecologists on Public Health – Dr. Harshvardhan
      Posted On: 22 FEB 2020 3:33PM by PIB Mumbai


    Union Minister for Health & Family Welfare Dr. Harshvardhan inaugurated New Institutional Campus and laid foundation stone of Residential Complex of National Institute of Public Health Training & Research (NIPHTR), in Panvel today.


    Speaking on the occasion Dr. Harshvardhan said, in last 70 years of Independence of the nation, due to negligence, country couldn’t focus on public health which is fundamental right of the every citizen. In last 57 years, only 82 medical advance collages were set up in the country, but more 500 advanced medical collages needs to set up all over the country to provide immediate health services to the masses under the Auyshman Bharat and other health schemes of Union Government. Under the second term of Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, with immediate effect 75 medical collages get sanctioned to build in the aspirational districts of the nation.

    Minister further said that, at present, 650 -700 medical collages and various health institutions working on public health of India should work with constructive way to make aware about health to the public. 700 medical collages are having 7000 departments of Social and Preventive Measures with 7 faculty members and 5000 committed trained professors, if this strength is utilize for preventive medicines and social issues, India can achieve its Health for All target. He further informed about newly introduced Robbot National Surveillance system, which can work to reduce mortality rate of Ebola and corona virus.


    Dr. Harshvardhan further said that, I am requesting to all retired medical officers, gynecologists, and other doctors of the country, who can contribute their ideas on public health, need to enter into the one umbrella and share their ideas to build new public health system.


    Dr. Harshvardhan further explained how the country was faced many epidemic diseases like pelage, polio, Malaria and Tuberculosis, but every time, Health Ministries united efforts benefitted to over all reduction of mortality rate and eradicate such diseases. He also explained the urban and Rural Health Mission implemented by the health ministry. Under the NRHM, government is providing free health check up camps.


    On this occasion, MLA of Panvel Shri Prashant Thakur and Mayor of Panvel Dr.Kavita Chautmal , NIPHTR Director Dr. Deepak Raut, Director Geo Magnetic Department and Director CPWD and all officers and staff of the health department were present.


    BG/DR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604037) Visitor Counter : 142
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi