      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      With a strong presence at the Berlin Film Festival, Indian Cinema explores greater world cooperation
      
      Festival to screen three Indian Films, including the Marathi film ‘Sthalpuran’

      Posted On: 22 FEB 2020 2:27PM by PIB Mumbai

    With the first of the three major European Film Festivals kicking off at Berlin – the other two being Cannes and Venice - the Indian delegation is holding wide ranging discussions on forging ties for co-production of films and developing partnerships.


    The presence of Indian Cinema is being marked by the screening of three films : Prateek Vats’ Eeb Allay Ooo!, Pushpendra Singh’s Laila Aur Saat Geet and Akshay Indikar’s Sthalpuran — Chronicle of Space.


    Akshay Indikar’s Marathi film ‘Sthalapuran’ tells the story of 8 year old Dighu, who longs for his missing father and struggles to adjust to life in his grandparents’ village in Konkan. The film has been hailed as a tender tail of coping with change and loss.


    India Networking Reception


    On the opening day of the Berlin International Film Festival, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting in collaboration with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) hosted India Networking Reception. The occasion saw a gathering of Prominent Film Festival Heads, International Film Associations, Film Agencies and Renowned Production Houses interested in fostering collaborations with India.


    The Indian delegation has already met with a number of representatives from the Global Film industry who have expressed their interest in working with India and keenness to participate in the International Film Festival of India.


    The delegation held meetings with the Artistic Director of the Israeli Pavilion Lior Sasson and discussed scope of working together to showcase India as a focus country at the Jerusalem International Film Festival, Israel and their participation at IFFI 2020.


    They also interacted with CEO of National Film & Video Foundation of South Africa (NFVF) to explore collaborations in the fields of animation, gaming, Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality sectors.


    The delegation will also meet with officials from Raindance Film Festival, Sundance Film Festival, Cannes Film Festival, Edinburgh International Film Festival, among others.


    India Pavilion


    Earlier, the India Pavilion at the Berlinale was inaugurated by the External Affairs Minister Dr.S Jaishankar. The Minister also unveiled the Poster of the 51st IFFI to be held in Goa in November.


    With a strong presence at Berlin, India is seeking to promote the ease of shooting films in India through Film Facilitation Office (FFO) that facilitates Single Window Clearance for filmmakers and provides the platform for ‘Cinematic Tourism’ in India. The Audio-Visual Services sector has been recognized as one of the Champion Services Sectors by the Government of India with an aim to promote India as a leading destination source for Media and Entertainment.


    MD/DR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604024) Visitor Counter : 213
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi