      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      NCPCR expresses concern over revealing child sexual abuse victims in media reports
      
      Calls for strict adherence of POCSO Act provisions

      Posted On: 27 FEB 2020 2:17PM by PIB Mumbai

    The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has observed that various media reports are revealing key information of the child sexual abuse victims such as their address, photograph, family details, school name, and neighbourhood having connection with their identification. Disclosure of such information linked with the child sexual abuse victim is restricted and punishable under Section 23 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act 2012.


    As per Section 23 of the POCSO Act 2012:


     1. No person shall make any report or present comments on any child from any form of media or studio or photographic facilities without having complete and authentic information, which may have the effect of lowering his reputation or infringing upon his privacy.


     2. No reports in any media shall disclose, the identity of a child including his name, address, photograph, family details, school, neighbourhood or any other particulars which may lead to disclosure of identity of the child.


     3. The publisher or owner of the media or studio or photographic facilities shall be jointly and severally liable for the acts and omissions of his employee


     4. Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall be liable to be punished with imprisonment of either description for a period which shall not be less than six months but which may extend to one year or with fine or with both.


    In this context, NCPC has recommended editors of various media entities to ensure strict compliance of such significant provision of the POCSO Act. A letter in this regard has been forwarded to Secretary, Press Council of India, as well.


    NCPCR is constituted under Section 3 of the Commission For Protection of Child Rights Act 2005 to safeguard child rights.


    ***


    MD/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604516) Visitor Counter : 118
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati
    
    
    

4.