      Ministry of Education

      HRD Minister, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ reviews new initiatives by HRD Ministry in designing vocational courses for generating employment
      Posted On: 04 JUN 2019 8:39PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of Human Resource Development, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ held another review meeting of the schemes and programmes of HRD Ministry in New Delhi today. Secretary, Higher Education Shri R. Subrahmanyam and the senior officers of the Ministry gave presentation on (i) Generation of skills and employment through vocational education, (ii) working of IIMs and setting up of new IIMs (iii) Study in India programme and international cooperation in the field of education (iv) Review of working of language councils.


    During the review meeting, Dr. Pokhriyal highlighted the importance of quality education and the need to create as many vocational courses as possible in order to push the youth into the employment stream without delay. The Minister advised the officers to set up a definite target of employment generation through these courses and also to customize these courses region-wise by providing proper linkages with industry and trade plus other employment opportunities available in that particular region. The skill and education should be given as per the aptitude which should be identified at an early stage, the Minister added. The Minister was briefed about the new vocational courses designed by the Ministry to cater the requirements of industry.


    The HRD Minister asked the officers to prepare an action plan on how the various Indian languages across the country can be developed in an integrated manner. We should also try to do further research in the wealth of knowledge hidden in our ancient texts and integrate them with modern day science, the Minister opined. He directed that the foundation stone of the six IIMs, which are in pipeline, should be laid at the earliest.


    Commenting on Study in India programme, the HRD Minister said that India-centric courses should be started to attract foreign students. Branding of these courses should be undertaken, for example in the field of yoga, spirituality, ayurveda among others since these are specific to India and have a great potential.


    Earlier yesterday, the HRD Minister at an eight hour long meeting, reviewed the working of School Education, Higher Education and plan for filling up of vacancies, quality initiatives of UGC and quality initiatives of AICTE. The Minister also reviewed the working of IITs, IIITs, IIMs and CBSE.


    *****


    NB/AJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573462) Visitor Counter : 745
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi