      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Union Minister Shri Narendra Singh Tomar officially takes charge of Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers welfare
      
      Ministers of State Shri Parshottam Rupala and Shri Kailash Choudhary also take charge
      
      Posted On: 01 JUN 2019 2:30PM by PIB Delhi


      Union Minister Shri Narendra Singh Tomar today officially took charge of the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers welfare. Shri Parshottam Rupala and Shri Kailash Choudhary also took charge as Ministers of State in the Ministry. All senior officials of the Ministry welcomed the Union Minister and the Ministers of State.


      Addressing the media after taking charge Union Minister Shri Narendra Singh Tomar lauded the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for his dynamic leadership and his concern for farmers. He said acting on poll promises the Modi government in its first cabinet meeting approved extension of the PM-Kisan income support scheme to all farmers, removing the ceiling of two hectares, and also cleared a pension scheme for agriculturists. A new initiative was also taken to control animal diseases to support livestock rearing farmers.


      The Minister said that the path breaking pension scheme will provide pension cover to farmers who toil day and night to keep our nation fed. It is also for the first time since independence that such a pension coverage has been envisioned for farmers. It is estimated that 5 crore small and marginal farmers will benefit in the first three years itself. On PM-Kisan he said that the revised Scheme is expected to cover around 2 crore more farmers, increasing the coverage of PM-Kisan to around 14.5 crore beneficiaries.


      Addressing the officials of the Ministry after taking charge Shri Tomar stated that numerous measures are being taken to empower the hardworking farmer. He urged the Agriculture Ministry officials to make a lasting contribution in their respective fields for the growth of agricultural production and welfare of farmers.


      ***


      APS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1573067) Visitor Counter : 962
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi