      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      NCGG and Maldives Civil Services Commission sign MOU on Training and Capacity Building
      Posted On: 09 JUN 2019 9:49AM by PIB Delhi


    The National Center for Good Governance (NCGG), India’s leading civil services training institution, has entered into an MOU with the Maldives Civil Services Commission for capacity building of 1000 Maldives civil servants over the next 5 years. The agreement was signed during the visit of the Prime Minister of India to Male on 8 th June 2019.


    The agreement envisages that NCGG will be the nodal institution for designing customised training modules and its implementation taking into account the requirements of the Civil Service Commission, Maldives. The subject matters of the training program will include public administration, e-governance and service delivery, public policy and governance, information technology, best practices in fisheries in coastal areas, agro-based practices,self help group initiatives, urban development and planning, ethics in administration and challenges in implementation of SDGs. Maldives will nominate suitable civil servants in the senior/ executive/ middle management levels as per agreed timelines.


    Further the NCGG will assist the Civil Services Training Institute, a subsidiary of the Civil Service Commission, Maldives to develop training programs and materials, assist in organizing the exchange of experts as needed by the Civil Services Commission.


    The Ministry of External Affairs will bear all expenses pertaining to the training program.


    Shri K.V.Eapen Director General NCGG and Secretary to Government of India Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances said that NCGG had trained 28 Maldives Civil Servants in April 2019 and this successful engagement encouraged the two countries to take the collaboration forward. Shri. Eapen said that in 2019 NCGG has successfully conducted training programs for civil servants of Bangladesh, Myanmar, the Gambia and Maldives.


    ***


    BB/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573744) Visitor Counter : 1280
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi