      Ministry of Rural Development

      Performance Review Committee Meeting held (6-7 June, 2019) at New Delhi
      Posted On: 07 JUN 2019 8:00PM by PIB Delhi


    The first Performance Review Committee meeting for the current Financial Year (2019-20) was organized on 6-7 June, 2019 at VigyanBhawan, New Delhi. Hon’ble Minister of Rural Development,Agriculture& Farmers Welfare andPanchayati Raj addressed the forum on 7 th June, 2019. The Hon’ble Minister appreciated the effort of the State Governments and Union Territories in implementing the rural development programmes to achieve inclusive growth and sustainable development. He reflected upon the aspirations of Hon’ble Prime Minister’s vision of new India @ 75 in the year 2022 when India would be celebrating the 75 th year of Indian Independence. He spoke about the changes that rural India is witnessing through various programmes of the Government and the need for accelerated process of development with greater engagement of the community and Panchayat Raj Institutions in decentralized planning and implementation of Government programmes.


    Hon’ble Minister highlighted the relevance of Pradhan Mantri GramSadakYojana in bringing about rapid economic growth in the rural areas of the country, how road connectivity not only enhances better access to public services but has a higher multiplier effect in various other socio-economic parameters also. He congratulated the states in achieving pace of constructions of PMGSY roads at 130-135 Kms. Per day in the last three years. He emphasized on last mile connectivity to all villages by 2022 and to prepare an Action Plan for implementation of the same.


    Pradhan MantriAwasYojana (Grameen) is changing the Rural landscape. In phase-II, 60 lakh houses have to be constructed in the F.Y. 2019-20 and 1.95 crore houses by the year 2022 to fulfill the Government’s vision of “Housing for All”. He urged the states to build credible and transparent systems for implementation of this ambitious programme.


    Hon’ble Minister appreciated the work of self-help groups across the states and the way women are organizing themselves in various socioeconomic activities. Speaking on the occasion, the minister emphasized the need for convergence of NRLM with MGNREGA and various schemes of the Agriculture and other Ministries to facilitate more and more coverage of women Self-help Group members with Government schemes. He also emphasized that the women Self-Help Group Members should be actively involved in the Gram Sabhas and participate in preparation of the Gram Panchayat Development Plans.


    In the last few years, a number of governance reforms has been undertaken for implementation of MGNREGA in an effective and transparent manner. Hon’ble Minister emphasized on the need to create productive assets through the programme and take up more works relating to natural resource management specially creating irrigation facilities for small farmers and water conservation.


    Secretary, Department of Rural Developmentgave a detailed presentation on the road map for inclusive development of rural areas. He highlighted the importance of convergence of different programmes and cooperative federalism to chart the strategy for economic transformation in rural areas by 2022, which would be helpful in achieving the overall objective of sustainable development in rural India. While crafting the strategy for the rural development, the focus should be on community led approach, partnership with different stakeholders and use of digital technology for greater transparency and accountability.


    Secretary, Ministry of Panchayati Raj highlighted the importance of PRIs as development institutions at the grass root level and its significant role in community mobilization. He emphasized on the importance of preparation of robust Gram Panchayat Development Plans encompassing all funds and schemes devolved to the Gram Panchayats and the need for a credible and transparent system for funds utilization.


    The meeting was attended by more than 200 participants from the States and Union Territories and Central Ministries.


    *****


    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573714) Visitor Counter : 902
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi