      Ministry of Defence

      Indian Navy SAILS towards pursuance of the energy and environmental goals of country - World Environment Day 2019
      Posted On: 04 JUN 2019 5:03PM by PIB Delhi

      * Clean and Green Navy – Indian Navy pledges 1.5 % of its “Works” budget towards Renewable Energy generation
      * Indian Navy Environment Conservation Roadmap (INECR) – Indian Navy has formulated specific plans covering the entire gamut of operations, maintenance, administration and infrastructure/ community living.
      * 24 MW of Solar Photovoltaic (PV) projects consisting of both Rooftop and Land based solar panels are under execution at various shore establishments of the Navy under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission (JNNSM).
      * Indian Navy has taken up initiatives for sustained usage of biodiesel for all MT vehicles.
      * The Green Initiatives Programme would aid in boosting the national interests of environment sustainability and self-reliance in energy.

    Indian economy has seen unprecedented growth over the past two decades, which has spurred the energy demand. Being a responsible and mature nation, our Government policies have seen a paradigm shift in energy policy. The focus has been on reducing the carbon footprint by ways of using alternate sources of energy.


    Towards achieving the goal of Clean and Green Navy, Indian Navy has formulated a plan - Indian Navy Environment Conservation Roadmap (INECR) with specific action plans covering the entire gamut of operations, maintenance, administration and infrastructure/ community living. The Roadmap envisions ‘Reduction in Energy Consumption’ and ‘Diversification of Energy Supply’ as the Key Result Areas. While the existing military, diplomatic, constabulary and benign roles envisioned in the Indian Navy’s Maritime Doctrine define the objectives of its operations, the Green Initiatives Programme of the Indian Navy has added a new dimension i.e. social responsibility to it. Under the INECR, numerous policies aimed at reduction of energy consumption and environment sustenance have been formulated and disseminated to all ships, as well as shore establishments. As a progressive step, Indian Navy has pledged 1.5% of its ‘Works’ Budget towards Renewable Energy generation.


    Solar photovoltaic (PV) projects has been one of the focus areas of the IN since the inception of the INECR. The efforts undertaken in the last few years have started to fructify now. 24 MW of Solar PV projects consisting of both Rooftop and Land based solar panels are under execution at various shore establishments of the Navy under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission (JNNSM). Similarly, pilot projects utilizing wind or a mix of both solar and wind (hybrid) are also being taken up progressively which will not only reduce carbon footprint but also help achieve self-sustenance in energy security.


    IN has taken up initiatives for sustained usage of biodiesel for all MT vehicles. Continued usage of B5 blend of High Speed Diesel (HSD) for PAN Navy use in all Motor Transport vehicles is a step in this direction. IN plans to replace HSD (annual usage – 6300 kL) with B5 blend of HSD, which would accrue a direct savings of 5 per cent of HSD which translates to approximately 315 kL annual savings of HSD. The project to blend the HSD is planned to start at Visakhapatnam in the coming months.


    Indian Navy has also focused attention towards addressing the menace of Air Pollution by way of various environmental remediation measures for mitigating it such as sapling plantation, arboriculture and horticulture, anti-plastic drive, effluent treatment plants etc which are an example of integration of the policies supported by concrete actions. During afforestation drives at Naval stations, more than 18000 plants have been planted over the past one year which are being nurtured by Naval personnel and would mitigate an estimated 365 tonnes of CO 2 .


    Towards reduction in the energy consumption of all our bases and ships, focused attention has been paid towards use of renewable energy sources and institution of various energy conservation measures such as use of occupancy sensors, battery operated vehicles, solar street lights, LED lights, audit of yards, SCADA based electric metering etc. Water Conservation at various Naval stations has been achieved through incorporation of drip irrigation technique, rain water harvesting, re-use of RO water and SCADA based water distribution system.


    Segregated Waste Collection Centre (SWCC) was inaugurated with the support from Defence Wives Welfare Association (DWWA) at Port Blair, which incorporated modern methods of waste collection and management system. This has been one of the pioneering initiatives taken up by Indian Navy, which has facilitated the process of waste management for units based at Port Blair.


    ­


    Biogas Plant, Compost Pits, Vermi-culture, Paper Recycling Machine and Composter machine are some steps taken in Waste Management domain. An estimated savings of 140 LPG cylinders per year is accrued through implementation of biogas plant using bio-degradable waste and Organic Waste Converters across naval units.


    Awareness drives and programmes by means of coastal cleanship, lectures etc are organized regularly to enhance participation and ensure better outreach amongst communities and contribute to the “Swachh Bharat Abhiyan”.


    Emphasis is also being accorded to ensure that pollution is kept minimal in harbours and seas. Effluent treatment plants for neutralizing toxic waste prior discharge, utilization of Sullage Barges for collection of floatsam and induction of equipment which ensure compliance to MARPOL requirements though not mandated for men-of-war are some of the few steps taken to ensure for the purpose.


    Although a lot has been achieved in the last one year, Navy is furthering its march towards pursuance of the energy and environment goals of our country to ensure a greener and cleaner tomorrow for our future generations. The Green Initiatives Programme would aid in boosting the national interests of environment sustainability and self-reliance in energy.


    ********************


    DKS/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573389) Visitor Counter : 1047
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

*