      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr. Jitendra Singh lays down the roadmap for Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances
      
      National Conference on e-Governance will be convened at Shillong in August this year

      Posted On: 04 JUN 2019 2:45PM by PIB Delhi

    The Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (Independent Charge), MoS PMO, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Department of Space and Department of Atomic Energy Dr Jitendra Singh chaired a meeting of officials of Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, here yesterday. The Minister laid down the future road map for the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances.


    During the meeting, it was discussed that the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances shall undertake a series of new initiatives aiming at promoting excellence in Public Administration and efficient discharge of Government business.


    Dr Jitendra Singh emphasised that the Government under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi had undertaken various initiatives for ‘Minimum Government, Maximum Governance’ during the last five years. He added that the Department will continue to focus on these initiatives, as well as introduce new measures to provide efficient administration. Speaking about the priorities, the Minister said that the highest priority will be accorded to the Citizen-Centric Administration by undertaking CPGRAMS Reforms in order to optimize the grievance redressal time and improving the quality of disposal. The National Conference on e-Governance will be convened at Shillong (Meghalaya) in August, 2019 for dissemination of the success stories and Nation’s strides in e-Governance.


    Dr Singh also emphasised on an overhaul of the Office Procedures of Central Secretariat to enable the Central Secretariat to meet the demands of the digital age with the publication of the comprehensively revamped Central Secretariat Manual of Office Procedure 2019. He also disclosed other priorities including Publication of India’s 1 st National e-Services Delivery Assessment to serve as a benchmark assessment on the quality of e-Services being provided in the country, Publication of the Good Governance Index of States covering 10 sectors and 50 indicators, Extension of e-Office to Attached Offices and Subordinate Offices of Government of India and Consultations with State Governments for formulation of a scheme for State Secretariat Reforms by implementation of e-Office in State Secretariats.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh further said that the Awards Ceremony for the Prime Minister’s Excellence in Public Administration Awards, 2019 will be convened as per the Prime Minister’s directions and availability.


    The Secretary, DARPG & Pensions, Shri K. V. Eapen and senior offices of the Department were also present on the occasion.


    *******


    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573344) Visitor Counter : 867
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi