      Ministry of Railways

      Ministry of Railways observes World Environment Day
      Posted On: 06 JUN 2019 3:42PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Railway observed World Environment Day today i.e. on 6.6.2019 at National Rail Museum. Shri Rajesh Agrawal, Member, Rolling Stock, Shri S.N. Agrawal, Member Staff, Shri V.P. Pathak, Member (Materials Management), Shri N. Kashinath, Member (S&T), Dr. Ajay Mathur, DG, The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) & senior railway officers were present on the occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Rajesh Agrawal, Member Rolling Stock said, “Railways have been seriously committed to Environment Sustainability in a big way. Under the leadership of Hon’ble Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, in the previous government, the thrust on Swachchta has been immense. The results of Swachchta Campaign are discernible. Railways have acted as a game changer as introduction of bio-toilets in the trains has made the length and breadth of the country stench free. Further also, Railways will continue to make efforts in promoting Cleanliness across its network. In promoting Green environment and renewable energy, Railways have taken steps like accelerating electrification at a fast pace and installing solar panels in Railway premises. Railways look forward to continue to collaborate with TERI in seeking environment friendly techniques.” Further, Shri Rajesh Agrawal, Member, Rolling Stock added that the movement “Shift to Rail” is the need of the hour as it will bring a significant drop in logistics transportation cost and it will also enable environment protection.


    On the occasion of Environment Day, “Environmental Sustainability Annual Report 2018-19” of achievements of Environment Management of Indian Railways was released. Best performing Production Unit in the field of environment was awarded to Rail Wheel Factory,Yelahanka. Test launch of Mobile App for On Board House Keeping Services on Important Trains was also held on this occasion.


    Railways being a major consumer of energy, systematic programs have been launched towards improving energy efficiency and energy conservation including use of renewable sources of energy and alternative fuels in its energy mix. As part of its initiative for Green Buildings, 8 Production Units and 42 major Workshops are certified to ISO 14001 : 38 Diesel Sheds, 61 Coaching Depots, 21 Freight Depots and 8 Electric Loco Sheds 3 MEMU/ DEMU Car Sheds, 2 Engineering Workshops and 1 Stores Depot have been certified. Sanitary Napkin Vending Machines and Incinerators are being installed at a number of stations. MOUs have been signed with States for planting of trees on vacant railway land to increase Carbon Sink. Use of plastics of less than 20 micron thickness in packaging is banned.166 Plastic bottle crushing machines have been set up at 128 stations. Apart from focus on Water Recycling Plants and Rain Water Harvesting, a number of old/dead water bodies have been revived. IRCTC has been mandated to install Water Vending Machines (WVM) on stations.


    Indian Railways is a lead signatory to India’s NDC by committing to reduce 20% of fresh water consumption by 2030 and to reduce carbon emission by 32% over the base year 2005 by improving rail traction energy & fuel efficiency. Indian Railway has planned various initiatives to meet its commitment on sustainability.


    ***


    SVS/AP/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573547) Visitor Counter : 969
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Urdu , Hindi