      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Shri. Ashwini Kumar Choubey takes charge as MoS for Health and Family Welfare; takes Metro to reach Nirman Bhawan.
      
      We will make efforts to make Ayushman Bharat scheme accessible up to the last mile: Shri Choubey

      Posted On: 04 JUN 2019 2:39PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey took charge as the Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare at Nirman Bhawan, here today. He took the Delhi metro to reach the nearest metro station (Udyog Bhavan) from where he then walked down to the Health Ministry to take charge. Before taking charge, he also planted five trees in the Nirman Bhavan campus.


    Thanking the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, Shri Choubey stated that he will carry on with his efforts to implement the mandates of Ayushman Bharat and will now further push for the benefits of Ayushman Bharat to reach the very last mile people; those people who still are unable to access the services provisioned for them through this revolutionary program of the Government.


    Speaking on joining the office again, Shri Choubey said that ‘ sarve santu niramaya ’ i.e. health for all is the policy mandate of the Government and he will make all efforts towards realising the same. He added that Hon’ble Prime Minister has visualised a New India and thus it is our responsibility that we take a pledge to work towards realising this vision of New India, a Healthy India. Shri Choubey further mentioned that the environment affects our health and hence we should make effort to keep it clean and green, like planting trees and plants, like he did today. He also emphasised that opting for walking and cycling over vehicles for short distances will not only benefit the environment but also keep us healthy. Shri Choubey appealed to everyone towards adopting a healthy habit of brisk walking or cycling for at-least 20-30 minutes each day to maintain good health.


    ***


    MV/PP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573343) Visitor Counter : 596
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali