      Ministry of Education

      HRD Minister, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ reviews Open Distance learning, RUSA and Digital initiatives of HRD Ministry
      Posted On: 06 JUN 2019 7:52PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of Human Resource Development, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ held the third consecutive review meeting of the schemes and programmes of HRD Ministry in New Delhi today. Secretary, Higher Education Shri R. Subrahmanyam and the senior officers of the Ministry gave presentation on (i) Open Distance learning (ii) Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) (iii) Digital initiatives of the HRD ministry.


    During the review meeting, Dr. Pokhriyal advised the officers to focus on the effective implementation of the schemes at the grass root level. In Open Distance learning, we should improve quality of education and increase the credibility of the degree provided by the open universities, the Minister added. He emphasized on bringing the drop outs into the mainstream education system.


    The Minister was briefed about the new developments taking place in RUSA. The Minister directed that the Ministry will take strict action, if affiliated institutions fail to implement the guidelines issued by the HRD ministry from time to time. The HRD Minister also asked the officers to prepare an action plan to fill vacant seats at every level in educational institutions across the country. The Minister also stressed on the mandatory training of teachers in all educational institutions.


    Commenting on the Digital initiatives, the HRD Minister said that realizing the great potential to bring out positive changes through technology, the ministry is committed to make the best use of technology to transform the education sector. He said that initiatives like SWAYAM, National Digital Library, Operation Digital board, etc will be carried forward in mission mode.


    *****


    NB/AJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573616) Visitor Counter : 1261
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi