      Ministry of Defence

      Retired Officers Digital Records Archive (Rodra) Website
      Posted On: 04 JUN 2019 6:54PM by PIB Delhi


    Manpower Planning (MP) Directorate, (MP 5&6) is responsible for custody and maintenance of approximately 1.2 Lakh service records of serving and retired officers of the Indian Army. However, due to lack of digitisation and non-availability of latest address and contact details of veterans, connecting with veteran officers/family pensioners and addressing their grievances was a major challenge.


    To over come the same a website Retired Officers Digital Records Archive (RODRA, https://rodra.gov.in ) was launched. The aim was to establish an interface between the custodian of officers’ Records i.e AG/MP 5&6 and veteran officers/Next of Kin (NOK) and to create a digital data repository in order to address documentation/pension related grievances and update on relevant policies.


    Some of the facilities extended to veterans through website are updation of records. Registration and tracking of documents/ pension related grievances. Communicating with veteran officers/ NOK on various issues.


    After the launch of RODRA website various types of Pension Payment Order (PPOs) issued by PCDA (P) from time to time to veterans has now been discontinued thereby saving of manpower, stationery and postal charges. The PPOs are now uploaded on the website and veterans are able to download it from the website. Monitoring and management of grievances of veterans has been streamlined thereby improving satisfaction levels.


    Automation of the records of serving officers is also in progress. An application has been developed and is being launched on the internal Army Portal in Jun 2019. This would facilitate serving officers to view their service and other records online as well as interact with AG/MP 5&6 on various Records/documentation related issues.


    Lt Col Mohit Vaishnava


    for PRO (Army)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573452) Visitor Counter : 1389
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi