      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Accelerating “vehicle of Development” on the “Highway of Trust” will be our priority in the next five years: Shri Naqvi
      
      Our target is to provide “Pradhanmantri Scholarship” to 5 crore students, which will include 50 per cent girl students: Minority Affairs Minister
      Posted On: 04 JUN 2019 4:54PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi chaired meeting of officials of Minority Affairs Ministry at Antyodaya Bhawan in New Delhi today. Shri Naqvi emphasised that to accelerate the “vehicle of development” on the “highway of trust” will be our priority in the next five years to ensure “happiness in eyes and prosperity in life” of every needy.


    Minister of Minority Affairs said that we have to remain alert and cautious to ensure that there is no “speed breaker” or any obstacle comes on this “highway of trust”.


    Shri Naqvi said that our target is to provide “Pradhanmantri Scholarship” to 5 crore students in the next five years, which will include 50 per cent girl students. The entire process of “Pradhanmatri Scholarship” has been made easier and transparent through DBT mode.


    Union Minister of State for Minority Affairs Shri Kiren Rijiju was also present in the meeting.


    Shri Naqvi added that ensuring socio-economic-educational empowerment of Minorities through “3E”- Education, Employment and Empowerment is our target and we will work hard to achieve this goal.


    The Minister also said that “Padho-Badho” campaign will be launched across the country to encourage education of Minority girls. Educational infrastructure will be developed on war footing in those areas of the country where people don’t send their daughters to schools due to socio-economic reasons.


    He added that 100 “Hunar Haat” will be organised across the country to provide market and employment opportunities to master artisans. A system will also be developed to provide online platform to master artisans to sell their hand-made “Swadeshi” (indigenous) products.


    Shri Naqvi further said that employment oriented skill development schemes such as “Seekho aur Kamao”, “Nai Manzil”, “Garib Nawaz Skill Development”, “Ustaad” will be made more effective to ensure skill development of 25 lakh youths in the next five years.


    The Minister also stated that an awareness campaign will be launched across the country to make the people aware of various educational and skill development schemes of the Central Government through 100 vans. Cultural programmes, street play, short films will be part of this awareness campaign.


    Union Minority Affairs Minister Shri Naqvi said that “Pragati Panchayat” will be organised across the country where he will be present with senior officials of the Minority Affairs Ministry and officials of the state government concerned. The Ministry of Minority Affairs has developed “people friendly” 100 per cent online system to ensure transparency in all the welfare schemes. This online system has eliminated the role of middlemen.


    The Minister said that soon zonal coordination meetings will be organised in Mumbai, Ranchi, Lucknow, Kerala where senior officials of the Minority Affairs Ministry and Ministers and senior officials of various state governments will take stock of the effective implementation of welfare schemes.


    *****


    RCJ / RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573381) Visitor Counter : 2574
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi