      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railway Station Development Corporation (IRSDC) enters into Tripartite Agreement with French National Railways (SNCF) & AFD, a French Agency
      
      AFD a French agency, has agreed to provide in-kind grant financing up to 7,00,000 EURO, through French National Railways (SNCF)-Hubs and Connexions as a Technical Partner to IRSDC to support the Railway Station Development Program in India
      
      This will impose no financial liability on IRSDC or Indian Railways

      Posted On: 11 JUN 2019 10:41AM by PIB Delhi

    Indian Railway Station Development Corporation (IRSDC) entered an Tripartite Agreement with French Railways (SNCF) & AFD, a French Agency on 10 th June, 2019. On this occasion, Shri Suresh Angadi, Minister of State of Railways and H. E. Mr. Jean Baptiste Lemoyne, Minister of State, Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, Government of France, H.E. Mr Alexandre Ziegler, Ambassador of France in India & senior officers were present from both side.


    Under this agreement, AFD a French agency, has agreed to provide in-kind grant financing up to 7,00,000 EURO, through French National Railways (SNCF)-Hubs and Connexions as a Technical Partner to IRSDC to support the Railway Station Development Program in India. This will impose no financial liability on IRSDC or Indian Railways.


    Speaking on this occasion, Shri Suresh Angadi, Minister of State said, “India and France have a strong and long standing prosperous partnership in the Railway sector. French Railways (SNCF) in the past has been associated with Indian Railways in conducting speed upgradation study for Delhi-Chandigarh section and station development of Ludhiana & Ambala stations. I am sure that this effort will go a long way in further strengthening Indo-French cooperation and will help Indian Railways in positioning its stations to world class standards.”


    ****


    SVS/MKV/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573850) Visitor Counter : 2494
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Tamil