      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President calls for out-of-box ideas and innovations to protect data;
      
      Cyber security must become an essential part of technology culture: Vice President
      
      Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning are capable of solving many complex problems;
      
      India must become global leader in cutting-edge technology;
      
      Inaugurates Seminar on ‘New Paradigms in Artificial Intelligence and Cyber Security’
      
      Posted On: 06 JUN 2019 2:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has called for out-of-box ideas and innovations to protect data as new advancements in science and technology would pose a big challenge to cyber security.


    Inaugurating a two-day Seminar on “New Paradigms in Artificial Intelligence and Cyber Security” organized by C.R.Rao Advanced Institute of Mathematics Statistics and Computer Science, in Hyderabad today, the Vice President expressed concern over the rise in cybercrimes and said that cyber security must be an essential part of our technology culture.


    With around 8.4 billion connected devices currently in use across the globe, Shri Naidu observed that traditional cyber security systems were becoming obsolete and stressed the need to constantly update technology, improve software and computing prowess to meet myriad challenges confronting the world.


    Observing that the 21st century has witnessed the creation of disruptive technologies that have caused paradigm shifts in our way of life, the Vice President said that Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) were the most exciting of these technologies with potentially endless applications. “These technologies are capable of solving many complex problems of our times”, he added.


    Referring to the use of AI and ML in large enterprises, Shri Naidu said “We also, have to explore the possibility of using these technologies in small and medium enterprises (SMEs), small-scale businesses, and seasonal businesses to make the business processes more robust”, he added.


    The Vice President also called for making India a global leader in modern, cutting-edge technology with significant investments in research and development. India must also boost exports and soon become a net exporter of technology.


    Stating that India embarked on a path of rapid growth and aspiring to raise the economy’s size to nearly USD 4 trillion by 2022-23, Shri Naidu said technology and innovation were crucial to translate India’s growth to make tangible and positive impact on the lives of our people by addressing key development challenges like poverty, hunger, illiteracy and disease.


    Pointing out that about 600 million young Indians were below 25 years of age, the Vice President said that these technology-savvy youngsters present a demographic dividend and their youthful zeal and acumen must be channelized for national development.


    The Vice President visited the Wireless Communication Lab and High Performance Computing Facility at the Institute and interacted with the Researchers and others. He also visited the Gallery on Dr. C.R. Rao at the Institute and said that he is a great son of this great country and let us all get inspiration from his life. Shri Naidu also visited the e-Learning Centre at the Institute and interacted with the Researchers there and said that these e-learning centres are the powerful medium to achieve the dream of prosperous and peaceful India.


    The Chairman of the Governing Council of C.R. Rao Institute and Member NITI Aayog, Dr. V.K. Saraswat, the ViceChancellor, University of Hyderabad, Prof. Appa Rao Podile, the Director, C.R. Rao Institute, Prof. D.N. Reddy, the Project Director of ARCC, Cmdr. A. Anand, Faculty members, Scientists and Research Fellows were present at the event.


    Following is the text of Vice President’s address :


    “ Invitees, Faculty, Scientists, Research Fellows, Media personnel, sisters and brothers,


    At the outset, I congratulate C.R. Rao Institute for organizing this One Day Seminar on“ New Paradigms in Artificial Intelligence and Cyber Security ”, disciplines which are crucial to the proper functioning of various sectors likebanking, health care, governance and public and private enterprises and in ensuringnational security.


    I am delighted to be here at the C R Rao Advanced Institute of mathematics, statistics and computer Science with all of you today. The institute has been named after the Padma Vibhushan Awardee, C R Rao, an eminent Statistician who has won laurels for the country in the field of statistics. I hope that the life and work of Dr. C R Rao will inspire scholars engaged in research activities in this institute to excel in their chosen disciplines.


    My dear sisters and brothers,


    India has embarked on a path of rapid growth and development.


    We aspire to achieve a steady economic growth, which will raise the economy’s size in real terms from USD 2.7 trillion in 2017-18 to nearly USD 4 trillion by 2022-23.


    We hope to translate this growth into real, tangible and positive impact on the lives of our people by addressing key development challenges like poverty, hunger, illiteracy and disease.


    Technology and innovation are crucial components of our approach to achieve this goal.


    The ‘Strategy for New India @75’ put together by NITI Aayog attempts to bring innovation, technology, enterprise and efficient management together, in an attempt to fast-track growth.


    Technological progress is essential to economic growth and development.


    In addition to fostering economic development, technology helps in improving levels of education and training, aids in addressing social issues, improves connectivity exponentially, strengthens governance and transparency and democratizes knowledge and information.


    Technology can save time, contribute to efficiency of processes and makes businesses and governments more productive.


    Thanks to the increased efficiency of labor with the ever-improving state of technology, businesses are able to increase total output, which in turn leads to higher profits and accelerated growth.


    Better technology has also inspired further research into nearly all domains of human enterprise.


    With About 600 million young people who are below 25 years of age, no country has more youthful energy than India. These technology savvy youngsters present a demographic dividendthat is waiting to be harnessed. The government of India has already embarked upon anambitious initiative to skill these young people.


    We must not fail to channelize their youthful zeal and acumen for national development.


    India must also boost exports and soon be a net exporter of technology.


    The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in its first bi-monthly monetary policy statement (MPS) 2018-19, speaks about a marked shift in the country’s exports basket -- a clear swing away from primary and traditional low value-added exports to higher value-added manufacturing and technology-driven items.


    We have to sustain this momentum and be a world leader in technology exports.


    The long-term plan should be to invest significantly in research and development so that we could, eventually, be the owners of cutting-edge technology and one of the global industry leaders.


    My dear Sisters and Brothers,


    The 21 st century has witnessed the creation of disruptive technologies that have caused paradigm shifts in our way of life. Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) are the most exciting of these technologies with potentially endless applications. These technologies are capable of solving many complex problems of our times.


    The reason behindthe popularity of these technologies is that, coupled with advances in data collection and aggregation,they give machines intelligence, enabling high-level cognitive processes like thinking, perceiving, learning, problem solving and decision making.


    They present opportunities to complement and supplement human intelligence and enrich the way people live and work.


    Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are extensively used in large enterprises. We have to explore the possibility of using these technologies in small and medium enterprises (SMEs), small-scale businesses, and seasonal businesses to make the business processes more robust.


    The penetration of Information Technology and Internet in all walks of life have made Cyber Security hotly debated topic.


    At present, Cyber security is often an afterthought.We have to change this mindset. Cyber security must be an essential part of our technology culture.


    We must also be intensely aware of the data privacy concerns raised by the infiltration of internet into our daily lives.


    Corporate espionage, spying, financial crimes, identity theft, phishing, privacy compromises and cyber terrorism have become matters of concern from a national, commercial as well as individuals’ perspective.


    The global cybersecurity landscape today is more challenging than it has ever been before. Growing adoption of smart devices and the Internet of Things (IoT) has led to a complete dissolution of previously secure network perimeters.


    Small business, organizations, and especially healthcare institutions who cannot afford significant investments in defensive emerging cybersecurity technology such as AI are the most vulnerable.


    I am, happy to know that this seminar will discuss the new paradigms of Artificial Intelligence and Cyber Security. I hope that this forum will facilitate exchange of knowledge and lead to the shaping of new ideas to combat these threats.


    AI’s massive computing power can support, enhance, and sharpen the capabilities of human security experts when it comes to handling large attack volumes and analyzing the wide variety of threat data generated at multiple touch points.


    With around 8.4 billion connected devices currently in use across the globe, the concept of rigidly-defined network perimeters has become a thing of the past.


    Traditional cyber security systems are becoming obsolete, and their prevention-focused approach cannot provide adequate defense against the complex threats of today.


    We have to keep updating technology, keep learning from setbacks and keep improving our systems, software and computing prowess to meet the myriad challenges that are confronting us.


    I understand that C R Rao Institute is working on important projects in the fields of Cryptography, Cryptanalysis and Wireless Communication with focus on Artificial Intelligence and Network Security, sponsored by Government of India.


    Let me take this opportunity to remind all the budding researchers present here that the ultimate aim of technological advancement should be the betterment of the life of the common man. We should maximize the positive impact and ward off the destructive threats.


    I hope that the institute will lend leadership to India’s journey towards being self-sufficient in technology, thereby improving the lives of the masses.


    I wish all the faculty, scientists and Research fellows working in C R Rao Institute the very best in their future endeavours.


    Thank You!


    Jai Hind!”


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1573543) Visitor Counter : 1462
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali