      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President, Shri Venkaiah Naidu offers prayers at Tirumala;
      
      VP said he prayed to see India as a developed nation and for universal peace

      Posted On: 04 JUN 2019 10:20AM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu had darshan of Lord Sri Venkasteswara along with his wife, Smt. Ushamma and other family members, in Tirumala, Andhra Pradesh today.


    After the darshan, the Vice President said that he wished to see India as a developed nation and attain its rightful place in the comity of nations. He prayed for realizing the same wish.


    The Vice President said that he prayed for the Lord’s blessings for universal peace and a world free of conflicts, inequalities, corruption, hunger and poverty.


    Shri Naidu said that he had been visiting various countries and participated in several international fora aimed at promoting world peace. He prayed to the Lord to give strength to the society for eliminating all forms of discrimination and inequalities.


    The Vice President said the country was moving in the right direction towards economic prosperity and wanted the fruits of development to reach to every section.


    Shri Naidu also prayed for the prosperity and happiness of all people.


    The Vice President also invoked the Lord’s blessings for a good rainfall and farmers’ well-being.


    Shri Naidu said that everyone was equal before the Lord and should get opportunity to have the darshan. He suggested that all VVIPs should volunteer to visit Tirumala only once a year so that no inconvenience was caused to the devotees. This was only an advice, he added.


    Shri Naidu said that if any VVIP wanted to visit a second time, he or she should not avail of the VVIP facility and visit as an ordinary devotee.The Vice President said that he has been visiting Tirumala once every year.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573317) Visitor Counter : 681
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali