      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Dr. Harsh Vardhan reviews the public health measures for Nipah Virus
      
      Assures all support to Kerala Government to manage Nipah Virus

      Posted On: 04 JUN 2019 10:54AM by PIB Delhi

    Following confirmation of a suspect case of Nipah Virus Disease by National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune, an urgent meeting was convened by the Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare, Dr. Harsh Vardhan at his residence at 8 am, here today.


    The following officers were present at the meeting:

     1. Ms. Preeti Sudan, Secretary (HFW)
     2. Dr. Balram Bhargava, Secretary (DHR)
     3. Shri Sanjeeva Kumar, Addl. Secretary (H)
     4. Dr. S. Venkatesh, DGHS
     5. Dr. Sujeet K Singh, Director, NCDC and
     6. Dr. Gangakhetkar, Scientist G and Head ECD, ICMR

    The Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan spoke to the Health Minister of Kerala, Smt K. K. Shailaja, and discussed the current situation and assured all support from the Centre. He had also spoken to her yesterday.


    The following actions have been taken:

          + A Central Team with six officers has been deployed and have reached for epidemiological investigation protocol, contact tracing for early detection of suspects, testing protocols for suspects and review of isolation facilities
          + A Control room established and NCDC Strategic Health Operations Center (SHOC) activated. The phone number of control room is number 011-23978046.
          + A team from National Institute of Virology, Pune (ICMR) with Monoclonal Antibodies is being sent to Ernakullam.
          + A team from NIV for conducting/testing bats for Nipah virus is being dispatched today. The Union Health has spoken to DG Forest to extend all cooperation in this regard.

    The State has already initiated the following actions:

          + Contact tracing and surveillance
          + Standard capacity building for health functionaries, ambulance fleet drivers and others
          + Infection control activities in hospitals. Dedicated trained teams to handle cases
          + Rapid Response Teams at institutions
          + Help desk at Medical College Ernakulam established.
          + Dedicated trained doctors, nurses, paramedics at hospitals. Vigil activated in all districts.
          + Awareness generation.

    *****


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573318) Visitor Counter : 3039
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali , Tamil , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

+