      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Launch of electronic collection facility of Non-Tax Receipts of Survey of India by Professor Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, Department of Science & Technology
      Posted On: 04 JUN 2019 6:21PM by PIB Delhi


    Maps and other publications of Survey of India can now be bought using Point of Sale Machines. Such facility wasinaugurated by the Secretary, Department of Science & Technology Professor Ashutosh Sharma today. The electronic collection facility for the costs of maps and other publications will now be available at all the sale counters of Survey of India (SoI). This will help students, researchers and other customers to buy what they would need using credit/ debit cards etc.


    This Point of Sale facility is based on the platform of the Non Tax Receipts Portal of Government of India and is administered by the office of the Controller General of Accounts. Professor Sharma while inaugurating the new facility said that the new utility would facilitate a central real time MIS generation for all receipts, near- real time credit of receipts in Consolidated Fund of India while ensuring accounting of the receipt as well as empowering citizen to make payments via digital channels while having the option to download electronic copy of payment receipt at any point of time via web application. Secretary emphasized the need to enable the digital channels and bringing the governmental service delivery right at the citizens’ doorstep.


    The Secretary, Department of Science & Technology Prof. Ashutosh Sharma launched the facility through a web conference from New Delhi, in the presence of Lt. General Girish Kumar, the Surveyor General of India at the headquarters of Survey of India in Dehradun. This function was attended by other senior officials of Government of India and Shri Debacharan Mishra, Executive Vice President of the Axis Bank, the Banking partner for this new initiative.


    Survey of India, the national survey and mapping organization of the country under the Ministry of Science & Technology and set up in 1767, is the oldest scientific department of Government of India. In its assigned role as the nation's Principal Mapping Agency, Survey of India bears a responsibility to ensure that the country's domain is explored and mapped suitably and to provide base maps for expeditious and integrated development. Survey of India takes a leadership role in providing user focused, cost effective, reliable and quality geospatial data, information and intelligence for meeting the needs of national security, sustainable national developmentand new information markets.


    ***


    KSP/GK/nb

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573439) Visitor Counter : 638
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi