      Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs

      Government holds All Party Leaders Meeting to discuss important issues to come up during Budget Session of Parliament 2019
      
      Shri Narendra Modi calls upon all Political Parties to cooperate with Government to achieve the true meaning of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas'
      
      Lok Sabha to have 30 sittings and Rajya Sabha 27 sittings between 17th June to 26th July

      Posted On: 16 JUN 2019 2:31PM by PIB Delhi

    Addressing floor leaders of various parties in the Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha here today, ahead of the Budget Session of Parliament 2019 beginning tomorrow, Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi called on leaders of all political parties in Parliament to work cohesively with the government in running the House smoothly and to collectively address issues related to the welfare of people.


    The Prime Minister welcomed newly elected MPs and expressed hope that fresh zeal and energy would be infused in the functioning of the Parliament. Shri Modi urged all leaders to introspect whether members of Parliament are able to fulfill peoples’ aspirations as their representatives. He said, “We are for the people, we cannot win hearts by disrupting the functioning of the Parliament. All parties must keep political differences aside and commit themselves to tirelessly work in the direction of Nation's progress”.


    The Prime Minister exhorted all leaders to cooperate with the Government and strive in the direction of making a New India by 2022 and achieve the true meaning of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas'. Shri Modi said that Government is always receptive to the issues raised by all Political Parties and is ready to discuss all issues of national importance on the floor of both Houses of Parliament.


    A host of issues were brought up by the leaders of parties during the meeting. There was a consensus across party lines on ensuring smooth functioning of the Parliament without disruptions and deadlocks to be resolved through constructive discussions in both the Houses.


    Briefing the media persons after the meeting, Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines, Shri Pralhad Joshi said that Government has requested all parties, especially the opposition, for their co-operation for the smooth functioning of both Houses of Parliament. Further, Shri Joshi informed about two new initiatives taken by the Prime Minister during the meeting with all leaders.


    Shri Joshi said that, in order to build esprit de corps among members of all parties in Parliament, the Prime Minister has put forward two new initiatives with the beginning of 17 th Lok Sabha. To begin the newly constituted Lok Sabha on a positive note, Shri Modi has invited Party Presidents of all political parties with representation in the Parliament, on 19 th June, and MPs of both Houses, on 20 th June, to freely interact and exchange views with the Government. This novel initiative would go a long way to build team spirit among all Parliamentarians and in turn would ensure smooth functioning of Parliament in future, Shri Joshi said.


    Giving details about the ensuing budget session, Shri Joshi informed that the first session of 17 th Lok Sabha is scheduled to commence on Monday, 17 th June, 2019 and 249 th session of Rajya Sabha on 20 th June, 2019. Subject to exigencies of Government Business, the Session may conclude on Friday, 26 th July, 2019. The Minister said that the session will provide 30 sittings spread over 40 days in Lok Sabha and 27 sittings spread over 37 days sittings in the Rajya Sabha.


    The Session will mainly be devoted to Oath taking, Election of Speaker, the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address, Financial Business relating to Union Budget for 2019-20. However, time will also be provided for the transaction of essential Legislative and Non-Legislative business during the Session.


    Resolution seeking Extension of Proclamation issued by the President on 19 th December, 2018 under article 356 of the Constitution of India in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir is also required to be approved by both Houses of Parliament by 2 nd July, 2019.


    The Economic Survey of India will be presented to Parliament on Thursday, 4 th July, 2019.The Union Budget for 2019- 20 will be presented to Lok Sabha on Friday, 5 th July 2019 at 11.00 A.M.


    Ten Ordinances have been promulgated during the inter-session period which are to be replaced by Acts of Parliament as they shall cease to operate at the expiration of six weeks from the reassembly of Parliament i.e. by 1 st August, 2019.


    46 Bills have lapsed on dissolution of 16 th LokSabha which were various stages in both the Houses. Some of these important Bills are likely to be revived and brought before Parliament.


    The all-party meeting was attended by Union Minister for Defence, Shri Rajnath Singh, Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment, Shri Thawar Chand Gehlot, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal and Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs and External Affairs, Shri V. Muraleedharan, along with other leaders.


    *****


    KSP/VM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1574718) Visitor Counter : 1388
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Punjabi , Tamil