      Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

      Power Minister Shri RK Singh participates inG20 Ministerial Meeting on Energy Transitions and Global Environment for Sustainable Growth in Japan
      
      ‘India, implementing one of the largest Renewable Energy expansion programs and Energy Efficiency programmes’, says the Minister
      
      ED, IEA praises the successful story of India’s Electrification program at the meet
      
      DG, IRENA also mentions the success in Renewable Energy by India in his speech
      Posted On: 15 JUN 2019 7:41PM by PIB Delhi


    ‘India is implementing one of the largest Renewable Energy expansion programs, Energy Efficiency programmes and moving towards the achievement of our target to fulfill our commitments made in Paris Agreement on Climate Change’ said Shri RK Singh, Minister of State for Power and New & Renewable Energy (IC) and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship today. The Minister was making interventions at the G20 Ministerial Meeting on Energy Transitions and Global Environment for Sustainable Growth being held in Karuizawa, Nagano Prefecture, Japan on 15-16 June, 2019.


    In the intervention made by the Minister, he highlighted the pathbreaking achievements in household electrification and providing energy access to all in India. The Minister also mentioned about the progressive steps towards the achievement of our target to fulfill our commitment made in Paris Agreement on Climate Change. He expressed confidence that India will achieve 40% RE in energy mix by 2030. In addition to this Shri Singh mentioned various energy efficiency programssuch as through PAT, UJALA, Standard & Labelling, ECBC etcand reiterated India’s commitment for greener and healthier planet.


    Shri Singh said that India is achieving one of the largest expansion of renewable energy in the world and has become a net exporter of power in past 5 years. He also talked about India’s achievements in Transmission systems- One nation one Grid, Green Energy Corridors etc.


    India’s achievements in power & RE sectors got appreciation at the Ministerial meet. DG, IRENA mentioned about the success in RE by India in his speech.ED, IEA also mentioned about the successful story of India’s Electrification program and praised it.


    On the sidelines of the Meet, Shri Singh had bilateral meeting with ED, IEA, Mr.FatihBirol and discussed cooperation between India and IEA.


    Shri RK Singh also had bilateral meeting withMs. Therese Coffey, Parliamentary Under Secretary for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, UKand discussed various areas of cooperation between the two countries related to Energy and environment.


    Further, the Minister had a b ilateral meeting with Mr. Hiroshige Seko, Minister of Economy, Trade& Industry, Japan and discussed various aspects of bilateral cooperation in Energy sector.


    After that Shri Singh had a meeting with Russian Deputy Minister of Energy Mr Anton Inyutsin.


    *****


    RCJ/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1574709) Visitor Counter : 1304
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi