      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Secretary reviews the preparatory measures arising out of the Cyclonic Storm ‘VAYU’
      Posted On: 12 JUN 2019 4:57PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Secretary, Shri Rajiv Gauba chaired a high level meeting here today to review the preparedness of State and Central Ministries/Agencies concerned to deal with the situation arising out of Cyclone ‘VAYU’.


    India Meteorological Department (IMD) apprised that Cyclone ‘VAYU’ is expected to cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Diu around west of Veraval as a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm with wind speed 145-155 kmph gusting to 170 kmph in the forenoon of 13th June 2019. It is likely to cause heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of Gujarat and Storm surge of height of about 1.5-2.0 m above the astronomical tides likely to inundate the low lying coastal areas of Kutch, Devbhoomi Dwarka, Porbandar, Jamnagar, Rajkot, Junagarh, Diu, Gir Somnath, Amreli and Bhavnagar districts at the time of landfall. IMD has been issuing regular bulletins to all the concerned States.


    The meeting was attended by senior Officers from Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Defence, Department of Telecom, Ministry of Power, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, National Disaster Management Authority, Integrated Defence Staff, India Meteorological Department and National Disaster Response Force.


    In this meeting Chief Secretary of Gujarat and Advisor to Administrator of Diu were also connected through Video conferencing and they apprised about preparatory measures put in place for dealing with cyclonic Storm. Gujarat has already evacuated about 1.2 lakhs people from low lying areas to safer places and would complete the evacuation of 3 lakh people by 4 PM today. Similarly Diu has evacuated 8000 people and would complete the evacuation of over 10000 people by 4 PM.


    Department of Telecom (DoT) has issued orders to telecom service providers to allow inter-circle roaming without any extra charge.


    Ministry of Home Affairs is in continuous touch with the State Governments/UT and the Central Agencies concerned. NDRF has pre-positioned 52 teams equipped with boats, tree-cutters, telecom equipments etc.


    Indian Coast Guard, the Navy, Army and Air Force units have also been put on standby and surveillance aircraft and helicopters are carrying out aerial surveillance.


    Reviewing the preparedness of the State and Central Agencies, Union Home Secretary directed the concerned officials to take all precautionary measures with a view to ensure that no human life is lost and minimize damage to infrastructure. He also reviewed arrangements for making available essential food, drinking water and medicines in relief camps and to ensure maintenance of all essential services such as Power, Telecommunications, health etc. and that these are restored immediately in the event of damages caused to them.


    ****


    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1574026) Visitor Counter : 415
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Marathi , Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Gujarati