      Ministry of Education

      Cabinet approves “The Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers' Cadre) Bill, 2019"
      
      University/college to be considered as one unit based on 200 point roster
      
      7000 existing vacancies to be filled up by direct recruitment in Teachers’ Cadre
      
      The New Bill will be introduced in the forthcoming session of Parliament
      Posted On: 12 JUN 2019 7:50PM by PIB Delhi


    Giving a major push to the reforms in Education sector, making it inclusive and keeping in mind the aspirations of the people from different categories, the Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has approved the introduction of a Bill namely "The Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers' Cadre) Bill, 2019".


    The Cabinet decision will address the long standing demands of persons belonging to SCs/STs/SEBCs and ensure their rights envisaged under the Constitution. It will also ensure providing of 10% reservation to EWS.


    Impact:


    This decision will:

      * Allow filling up of more than 7000 existing vacancies by direct recruitment in Teachers' Cadre with 200 point roster. Ensure compliance of the Constitutional Provisions of Articles 14, 16 and 21.
      * Ensure full representation of Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes Socially and Educationally Backward Classes and Economically Weaker Sections in direct recruitment in teachers' cadres.
      * Expected to improve the teaching standards in the higher educational institutions by attracting all eligible talented candidates belonging to SCs/STs/SEBCs/EWS.

    Implications:


    The Bill will replace "The Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Teachers' Cadre) Ordinance, 2019". And will be introduced in the forthcoming session of the Parliament.


    Implementation:


    It will consider the University/ College as one unit restoring earlier reservation system based on 200 point roster. No longer will 'Department / Subject' be treated as one unit.


    The unit for reservation of posts in direct recruitment in teachers' cadre will be the University/Educational Institutions and not the Department.


    The Cabinet decision will address the long standing demands of persons belonging to SCs/STs/SEBCs and ensure their rights envisaged under the Constitution. It will also ensure providing of 10% reservation to EWS.


    *****


    AKT/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1574078) Visitor Counter : 1861
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Kannada
    
    
    

*