      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Crackdown on Unauthorised Occupants of Public Premises
      
      Summary Eviction proceedings for Unauthorised Occupants in Residential Accommodations
      
      Cabinet approves “The Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Amendment Bill, 2019
      
      New Bill to be introduced in the ensuing session of Parliament
      
      Posted On: 12 JUN 2019 7:58PM by PIB Delhi


    In a crackdown on the u nauthorisedoccupants of residential accommodations in public premises, t he Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given a go ahead to introduce "The Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Amendment Bill, 2019".


    Impact:


    The amendments will facilitate smooth and speedy eviction of unauthorised occupants from Government residences, and those vacant residences will be available for allotment to eligible persons on maturity of their turn in the waiting list.


    This will decrease the waiting time for availing the facility of residential accommodation.


    Implications:


    The new bill comes in place of "The Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Amendment Bill, 2017".


    It will be introduced in the ensuing Session of Parliament.


    Implementation:


    The Bill seeks amendments in Section 2, Section 3 and Section 7 of the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971, by inserting clause (fa) before clause (fb) in Section 2, a new section 3B below section 3A of Section 3 and a new sub-section 3A below sub-Section (3) under Section 7 of the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971.


    The proposed amendments would enable the Estate officer to apply summary proceedings for evicting unauthorised occupants from residential accommodations and to levy damage charges for accommodation held during the period of litigation.


    This Bill result in speedy eviction of unauthorised occupants from Government residences and increased availability of residential accommodations for eligible persons.


    Background:


    The Government of India has to evict unauthorized occupants from Government accommodations under the provisions of PPE Act, 1971. However, the eviction proceedings take unusually long time, thereby reducing the availability of Government accommodations to new incumbents.


    Under the existing PPE Act,1971 as amended by PPE Amendment Bill, 2015, the eviction proceeding take around 5 to 7 weeks’ time. However, it takes much longer, even years, to evict unauthorized occupants. Under the proposed bill, the state officer will not have to follow elaborate proceedings like serving notice, show cause, inquiry, rather he or she can initiate summary eviction proceedings.


    The decision is yet another reflection of the Government’s commitment for a transparent and hassle-free governance for the citizens of the country.


    ****


    AKT/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1574090) Visitor Counter : 425
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada