      Ministry of Defence

      Andaman & Nicobar Command joins hands with Sadhguru for International Day of Yoga
      Posted On: 19 JUN 2019 10:45AM by PIB Delhi


    Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC) will be joining hands with Sadhguru, Founder, Isha Foundation to celebrate the International Day of Yoga. As part of celebrations, Yoga sessions will be conducted in various clusters on 20th and 21st June 2019 at Birchgunj, Minnie Bay and INS Utkrosh. For the final day on 21st June 19, Sadhguru will lead the yoga session on board Floating Dock of Indian Navy (FDN-2). Vice Admiral Bimal Verma, AVSM,ADC, Commander-in-Chief, Andaman and Nicobar Command along with senior officers, personnel and families of the Indian Army, Navy , Air Force and Coast Guard will participate in the event. During both the days, more than 800 personnel and their families are expected to participate. To train the yoga instructors in Ayush protocol, a yoga camp was also conducted from 10th to 16th June 19 at Minnie Bay to enable all components of ANC to conduct independent yoga sessions at various locations. Sadhguru is expected to arrive Port Blair on 20th June 19 and depart on 22nd June 19, post attending the events earmarked for International Day of Yoga. During the visit Sadhguru will be felicitating the organ donors of the Command and will also be interacting with personnel and families of ANC. Discussions during the interaction will cover a range of issues including personal and professional challenges that men and women in uniform face in the line of duty and how yoga can provide much needed balance and vigour that will empower the Armed Forces to perform at peak efficiency in times of peace and conflict. “Andaman and Nicobar Islands are one of nation’s most desolate and vulnerable terrains. The effort of the military’s tri service command to guard the nation’s sovereignty is truly invaluable. It is paramount to equip these soldiers with yogic tools for transformation.” said Sadhguru, ahead of the visit.


    *********


    DKS/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1574898) Visitor Counter : 868
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi