      Ministry of Culture

      Culture Minister, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel, inaugurates the exhibition-‘Astitva: The Essence of Prabhakar Barwe’, in New Delhi
      Posted On: 13 JUN 2019 8:09PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Prahlad Singh Patel, Minister of State (I/C) of Culture & Tourism, Government of India inaugurated the exhibition titled " Astitva: The Essence of Prabhakar Barwe ”, at National Gallery of Modern Art, New Delhi today.


    Highlighting the significance of museums, the Culture Minister said that museums are required ‘to look into our past thereby helping us to move forward in life by learning things from the past’. The Minister also added the museums act as a ‘symbol of respect for our ancestors’. The Minister further added that going to the nature and art, helps us to have a peaceful mind and quell arrogance, for this we also need to respect our art & Gurus.


    ‘Astitva : The essence of Prabhakar Barwe’ , is the first of its kind to be held in New Delhi that will present his artistic oeuvre in four distinct phases. The artworks are chronologically orchestrated in each space, each representing a peculiar phase of Barwe's practice. Beginning with Roop Tantra , one encounters Barwe's early works from Sir J.J. School of Art and their transition into Tantric formations. Accompanied with designs made by the artist during his years at the Weavers Service Centre and a few textile works will be displayed, depicting Barwe's engrossment and turn from design into Tantra, and ultimately into his own Swatantra , reflected through his work Ethereal Transitions. Works beginning from 1958 until 1977 form a part of this space. The next two segments are the Roop Artha that traces the cognitive shifts in the mind of the artist; the paintings with subtle tones comprising Barwe's creations from 1972 to 1988, and the Roop Tattva , which becomes an allegory to Barwe's work, Many Identities of the Self that displays paintings from the late 1980s to his last unfinished canvas.


    A fascinating feature of this exhibition is the section RoopVichaar , that will exhibit a selection from Barwe's 52 diaries – displayed as diary pages, animated videos and facsimile reproductions of a few diaries. In addition, a documented timeline, which chronicles the artist's life, accompanied by a reading corner with collated archives also forms part of the exhibit.


    The exhibition will be open for public until Sunday 28 th July, 2019; timings are Tuesday to Friday: 11.00 am to 6.30 pm, Saturday & Sunday: 11.00 am to 8.00 pm; Mondays Closed.


    *****


    NB/JP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1574529) Visitor Counter : 791
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi