      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Shri Mansukh Mandaviya reviews Supply and Availability of Fertilizers in Jammu and Kashmir
      
      Minister stresseson shift to Organic Farming Practices

      Posted On: 16 JUN 2019 7:03PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State for Shipping (Independent Charge) and Chemical & Fertilizers, Mansukh Mandaviya convened a review meeting regarding supply and availability of fertilizers in Jammu and Kashmir.The Minister said that avenues would be explored to set up storage facilities for fertilizers, to create a buffer stock and ensure no shortages occur during peak demand seasons.


    Shri Mandaviya was also apprised of the problems being faced in the fertilizer movement in the State, the need for augmenting current infrastructure including need for opening of additional rake points, to whichhe said that the demand would be taken into consideration.


    The Minister also asked the fertilizer supplying companies to ensure timely stocking of fertilizers particularly in the valley in view of the closure of Jammu–Srinagar National Highway during winter and inclement weather conditions.


    Shri Mandaviya directed officers of the State Agriculture Production Department and the fertilizer supplying companies to adhere to the guidelines and deadlines to bring transparency in the fertilizer business and to ensure timely supply of quality fertilizers to the farmers. He asked to monitor the correct data entry regarding fertilizer stocks and sale records by the Wholesalers and Retailers in their respective areas.


    Stressing on the importance of inculcating sustainable and organic agricultural practices in farmers, the Minister said that indiscriminate and injudicious use of chemical fertilizers is harmful for the health of humans as well as animals. It is essential that government actively supports farmers to shift to organic practices that will not only yield healthy crop but also help improve structure and quality of the soil and increase its ability to hold water and nutrients.’


    For this, Shri Mandaviya asked the department to actively promote use of organic/bio-fertilizers in the State. He also asked the department to engage with agriculture experts to identify sustainable ways for adoption of need-based technology in farm sector.


    The meeting wasattended by senior officers of State Agriculture Production Department and the fertilizer supplying companies.


    *****


    KSP/VM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1574725) Visitor Counter : 795
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi