      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ and MoS for HRD, Shri Sanjay Dhotre took oath as Members of Lower house of Parliament.
      
      Both the Ministers met all the officers of the Ministry and extended their best wishes to them
      
      Dr Pokhriyal directed officers to keep the Ministry clean as envisioned by Prime Minister in Swachh Bharat Mission

      Posted On: 17 JUN 2019 5:35PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Human Resource Development Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ and Minister of State for HRD, Shri Sanjay Dhotre took oath as Members of Lower house of Parliament in Lok Sabha today.


    After taking oath, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ met Secretaries, Joint Secretaries and other officers of the Ministry. He extended his wishes to them and urged them to put in their best to achieve the goals of the Ministry. The Minister of State also accompanied Dr. Pokhriyal and met all the officials.


    Dr. Nishank also took a view of the interiors of the rooms of the officers to keep the Ministry clean as envisioned by Prime Minister in Swachh Bharat Mission. He also directed the officials to clear the new and pending files quickly.


    During his visit to the chamber of Secretary, School Education, Dr Pokhriyal admired the paintings in various art forms like Madhubani, Gond and Pithora with the theme of School education. Dr. Nishank also admired the greenery and organic artefacts placed in the room of Secretary, Department of Higher Education.


    While doing the rounds of the various offices, the Minister also appreciated the kitchen garden set up in the office of the Joint Secretary, School Education. He suggested that the HRD Ministry should use creative decoration items relating to education and pictures of achievements of all the departments under the Ministry.


    Dr. Nishank also said that officers should not overburden themselves, and reduce stress of work by practicing Yoga, Healthy eating etc. The Minister also met employees working in various departments and sections of the Ministry.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1574808) Visitor Counter : 723
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi