      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Cabinet approves two months extension to the Committee for Sub-categorization within Other Backward Classes in the Central List
      
      The term of the Commission now extended till 31st July, 2019

      Posted On: 12 JUN 2019 7:59PM by PIB Delhi

    NDA Government led by the Prime Minister Modi is committed to all round development of the people from different walks of life. In keeping with this spirit and the need to have equitable distribution of benefit amongst the OBC Castes/Communities, a Commission was set up under article 340 of the Constitution to examine the issue of sub-categorization within Other Backward Classes in the Central list.


    Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has accorded ex-post facto approval for the extension of the term of the Commission to examine the issue of Sub-categorization of Other Backward Classes, by two more months i.e. upto 31 st July 2019.


    This is the sixth extension to the commission whose term would have expired on May 31, 2019.


    Impact:


    The extension of the tenure of the commission would enable it to evaluate the issue of Sub-categorization of OBC’s in the Central list based on wider consultations with various stakeholders. It will enable the commission to submit a comprehensive report on the issue.


    Background:


    The Commission was constituted under article 340 of the Constitution with the approval of President on 2 nd October, 2017. The Commission, headed by Justice (Retd.) Smt. G. Rohini commenced functioning in October, 2017 and has since interacted with all the Stats/UTs which have subcategorized OBCs, and the State Backward Classes Commissions. The Commission has come to the view that it would be appropriate to have a detailed consultation with the States/UTs in the light of the response received with respect to for the Consultation Papers issued by the "Commission" earlier. This is essential to ensure that no community is put in a grossly undeserving position and this process is likely to take a couple of months.


    In view of this fact, the Commission has sought extension of its term by two more months, i.e. upto 31 st July 2019 which has been approved by the commission.


    *******


    AKT/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1574092) Visitor Counter : 324
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada