      Ministry of Education

      Scientific temperament and research will provide foundation stone for a New India – Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal
      Posted On: 12 JUN 2019 6:02PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Human Resource Development Minister, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal chaired the meeting with Directors of all National Institute of Technology (NITs) and Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST), Shibpur in New Delhi today. Secretary, Higher Education, Shri R. Subrahmanyam was also present on the occasion.


    While addressing the participants, the Minister said that NITs are one of the best institutions for providing technical education, so they have to foucus on qualitative and research based education. He said that technical education and research must be focused on solution of fundamental problems. While appealing to scientific institutions to participate in holistic development of the country, Dr Nishank said that it is the responsibility of all the scientific institutions that they work on development of nearby villages. He added that industry and education sector should collaborate so that job oriented education can be provided.


    Dr Nishank said that combination of scientific temperament and research will be foundation stone for a New India. Citing example of USA and European countries he said that technical institutions have played a major role in transforming thoughts of social and economic development into reality. He urged for making a strong alumni network on the lines of Harvard & Yale and said this will not only encourage the students for innovative research but also help in generating resources.


    Highlighting the importance of independent competitive atmosphere in the country, the Minister said that India needs to establish India on Global Education platform. He urged for good research in basic science.


    The Minister further said that IIEST has gained its reputation in education and scientific activities. And it is need of the hour that we should work on collaboration of scientific institutions both in India and abroad, to utilise resources wisely. He added that we should ensure that the last person in the line should get the benefit of research. And to fulfil the expectations of 130 crore citizens, all the scientific institutions have to work with full dedication and mission mode, he added.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1574041) Visitor Counter : 423
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi