      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Sikkim Chief Minister Shri Prem Singh Tamang calls on DoNER Minister
      Posted On: 18 JUN 2019 6:57PM by PIB Delhi


    The Chief Minister of Sikkim, Shri Prem Singh Tamang, currently on his first visit to the union capital after taking over his present assignment, today called on Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh.

    During the meeting, Shri Tamang spelt out a number of projects which the State government wishes to be taken up on priority. These include three tourism projects, namely Bhaley Dhunga SkyWalk project at Yangang in South Sikkim, passenger ropeway from Pelling to Sangachoeling in West Sikkim and tourist resort at Yuksom.


    The Chief Minister also requested for financial support to complete the multi-speciality hospital which was constructed recently. According to him, the DoNER Ministry had earlier agreed to provide Rs.1.6 crore for medical equipment and furniture and accordingly the DPR has been submitted to the North East Council(NEC).


    The memorandum submitted by the Chief Minister on behalf of the State Government also included 60 bedded Hospital at Mangong at a cost of Rs. 20 crore. The project, according to Chief Minister, has been retained by NEC .


    The Chief Minister and his team also submitted a list of priority projects of Sikkim Government which included proposed projects of roads and bridges, water security and PHE, energy and power, urban development & housing and healthcare.


    DoNER Minister Dr Jitendra Singh, while congratulating Shri Tamang for taking over as Chief Minister, said that he will direct the officials in the DoNER Ministry to deliberate on the list of priority projects submitted to him. He also issued instructions that an official level meeting between the officers of the State of Sikkim and officers of DoNER will be held to come out with a brief note regarding the feasibility and possible budget allocation for these projects.


    *****


    BB/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1574883) Visitor Counter : 558
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi