      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Dispute over Forest Land
      Posted On: 24 JUN 2019 1:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006 (in short FRA, 2006) was notified for operation on 31.12.2007 to undo the historical injustice done to forest dwellers (both tribal and other forest dwelling communities) whose rights over the forest land were not recognized during colonial period well as independent India. This is an Act to recognize and vest the forest rights and occupation in forest land in forest dwelling Scheduled Tribes and other traditional forest dwellers who have been residing in such forests for generations but whose right could not be recorded; to provide for a framework for recording the forest right so vested and the nature of evidence required for such recognition and vesting in respect of forest land.


    As per the provisions of Act and Rules framed there under, the State Government,/UTs are responsible for its implementation. As per information received from State Governments/UTs up to 31.03.2019, under the FRA, 42,37,853 claims (40,89,035 individual and 1,48,818 community claims) have been filed and 19,64,048 titles (18,87,894 individual and 76,154 community claims) have been distributed to the extent of 1,29,38,762.14 acres of forest land.


    As per information received from Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, there is no economic policy of forests per se. However National Forest Policy (NFP) 1988 provides a broad framework related to economic aspects of forests. Meeting basic requirements of fuelwood, fodder, minor forest produce and small timber of the rural and tribal population is one of the basic objectives of the policy. This is incorporated in essential of forest management.


    For achieving this, NFP envisages a massive needs-based and time bound programme of afforestation and tree planting, with particular emphasis on fuelwood and fodder development, on all degraded and denuded lands in the country, whether forest or non-forest land. Village and community lands, including those on foreshores and environs of tanks, not required for other productive uses, should be taken up for the development of tree crops and fodder resources: Village and community lands, including those on foreshores and environs of tanks, not required for other productive uses, should be taken up for the development of tree crops and fodder resources. Technical assistance and other inputs necessary for initiating such programmes should be provided by the Government. The revenues generated through such programmes should belong to the panchayats where the lands are vested in them; in all other cases, such revenues should be shared with the local communities in order to provide an incentive to them.


    The rights and concessions enjoyed by them should be fully protected. Their domestic requirements of fuelwood, fodder, minor forest produce and construction timber should be first made available through conveniently located depots at reasonable prices. NFP provides broad governing principles for forest based industries also.


    The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change constituted an expert committee for restructuring the Course Curriculum for training of Indian Forest Service (IFS) officers in Indira Gandhi National Forest Academy (IGNFA), Dehradun vide OM dated 19.02.2019. The committee in its recommendations submitted to the Ministry, has suggested to give more emphasis on the welfare of Tribal Communities by incorporating a module titled “Tribals and Forest Dependent Communities” in the IFS probationers professional training curriculum.


    This information was given by Union Minister of Tribal Affairs Shri Arjun Munda in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/Tribal Affairs-LS-3/24-06-2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575525) Visitor Counter : 392