      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Skill Development Programmes for Socially and Economically Backward Categories
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2019 4:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship implements the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (2016 - 2020) to encourage and promote skill development for the youth throughout the country. The scheme aims to benefit 10 million youth over the period of four years (2016- 2020). The benefits under the scheme can be availed by any anyone fulfilling the criteria specified in guidelines including Scheduled Castes (SCs), Scheduled Tribes (STs) and Other Backward Classes (OBCs) .


    In addition, a Special Project is being implemented at 40 locations in 13 states namely Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal by Muthoot Fincorp Pvt Ltd. 80% of the trained candidates will be placed with Muthoot itself (Captive Placement). As per the details available so far 1679 candidates have been trained and 569 placed under project.


    The three Corporations under Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment namely National Scheduled Castes Finance and Development Corporation (NSFDC), National Backward Classes Finance and Development Corporations (NBCFDC) and National Safai Karamcharis Finance and Development Corporation (NSKFDC) also implement Skill Development Training Programmes for the socio-economic development of persons belonging to target groups i.e. Scheduled Castes (SCs), Other Backward Caste (OBCs) /Economically Backward Class (EBC) /De-notified Nomadic Tribe (DNT)/Senior citizens including women, Safai Karamcharis/Manual Scavengers/Waste Pickers. These corporations sponsor skill development training programmes for providing employment opportunities under which 100% course fee and stipend @ Rs.1,500/- per month for non-residential programmes is provided to SC candidates, Rs.1000 to OBC/EBCs/DNTs and Rs.1500 to Safai Karamcharis and Rs.3000 to Manual Scavengers for developing their skills and make them employable either in self-employment or wage-employment.


    This Information was given by Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri Raj Kumar Singh in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    ******


    YKB/SNC/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1575199) Visitor Counter : 801