      Department of Atomic Energy

      ‘The Festival of Yoga and Wellbeing’ celebrated by Department of Atomic Energy
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2019 1:26PM by PIB Delhi


    ‘YOGA BY GATEWAY’ themed 5th International Yoga Day (IDY), 2019 was celebrated at OYC lawns in the picturesque background of Gateway of India at Department of Atomic Energy with a tagline of ‘ Festival of Yoga and Wellbeing.’ Function was attended by more than two hundred senior officers and staffs of Department of Atomic Energy led by Shri Sanjay Kumar, Joint Secretary (Admn. & Accounts), Department of Atomic Energy.


    The programme was organised by Atomic Energy Recreation Club and led by President Shri Abhay Kumar. ‘ The Festival of Yoga and Wellbeing’ is being celebrated at Department of Atomic Energy.


    With great enthusiasm and huge participation from officials and staffs of the Department on the auspicious occasion of International Yoga Day was successful event. Several activities were organised as a part of festival of Yoga and Wellbeing in addition to Common Yoga Protocol. The activities include:- Various competitions with focus on highlighting the potential health benefits of adopting yoga in day-to-day lifestyle viz.: Slogan Competition, Article Writing Competition, Poster making Competition, Quiz Competition, Music and group dance Competitions on Yoga theme. Various cultural events were organised. Lectures, workshops and various other education programmes on the health benefits of Yoga delivered.


    The real aim of the celebration of International Yoga Day is to make Yoga integral part of citizen’s life style and thereby secure a healthy life for all. The ‘Festival of Yoga and Wellbeing’ is an important step in this direction. The positive effects of Yoga and promotion of healthy provision of certain diseases is a proven fact. Various states have already shown positive effects of Yoga in managing stress-related disorders, respiratory allergies, anxiety neurosis, diabetes, coronary heart disease and rehabilitation of disables.


    The highlights of this year Yoga celebration is to celebrate it in an environmentally sustainably and eco-friendly manner and of the Yoga articles were PVC free mat/ products.


    ******


    BB/NK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1575123) Visitor Counter : 427
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi