      Election Commission

      IIIDEM (ECI) orgnises Capacity Building Program on ‘Electoral Technology’ for Election Officials of Myanmar.
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2019 10:59AM by PIB Delhi


    The India International Institute of Democracy and Election Management (IIIDEM) (ECI) organized five day training programme on Use of Technology in Elections for Election Officials of Union Election Commission of Myanmar.


    On the occasion the Election Commissioner Sh. Sushil Chandra emphasised on the need of sharing best practices of Elections among Election Management Bodies to strengthen the democracy around the world and create transparency, trust and fairness in electoral process through the use of technology.


    He further spoke about the successful implementation of technology in recently held elections to Lok Sabha 2019 in India where besides the EVM and VVPAT the introduction of IT applications like Voter Helpline Application, Application for persons with disabilities, Electronically Transmitted Postal Ballot System, C-vigil made lot of difference. He motivated the participants to participate enthusiastically and identify various areas where technology can be implemented in the electoral process of Myanmar.


    The ongoing Capacity Building Programs on Electoral technology is the 7 th program in the series of the 09 programs scheduled across 2018-2019. The program is being attended by the mid and senior level officers of Election Commission of Myanmar and the program is being conducted by the experienced resource persons from Election Commission of India. This programme is part of series of Capacity Building Programmes, which have been designed on the request of Election Commission of Myanmar through Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India.


    The IIIDEM already conducted Training Need Analysis in 2017 to create an objective oriented training program for the officials of Election Commission of Myanmar for the forthcoming General Elections in 2020.


    At the function the Director General ECI Shri Dhirendra Ojha, spoke about increasing use of social media by various stakeholders in the electoral process.


    The Director, IIIDEM Shri Vivek Khare, informed about the training programs conducted for the Officials of Election Commission of Myanmar on various attributes of elections. The Senior Consultant IIIDEM, Dr. Noor Mohammad, also spoke on the occasion and highlighted the importance of Electoral Technology in electoral process. The Secretary, ECI Shri S. B. Joshi, presented the vote of thanks.


    *****


    MR/AC


    (Already issued vide Election Commission of India Press Note No.ECI/PN/66/2019 dated 20/06/19)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575102) Visitor Counter : 668
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi