      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Human Trafficking
      Posted On: 25 JUN 2019 3:52PM by PIB Delhi


    National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) compiles and publishes information on crime in its publication “Crime in India”. Published reports are available till the year 2016. Data collection process in respect of cases of trafficking from Anti Human Trafficking Units was initiated by NCRB in the year 2014. The cases of trafficking of minor girls reported in the State of Maharashtra during the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 do not indicate any trend of rise in trafficking of minor girls. The details are given below: -

                                                                                                                              
Year  Number of girl victims of trafficking (below 18 years) reported by the Anti Human Trafficking Unit of Maharashtra Police
                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                              
2014  81                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                              
2015  201                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                              
2016  94                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                              

    The Government is making use of technology to address various aspects of crime including human trafficking. Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS), a Mission Mode IT Project being implemented by the Ministry of Home Affairs, aims at creating a nationwide networking infrastructure for automating the functioning of Police Stations. This provides the Investigating Officers with tools, technology and information to facilitate investigation of crime and detection of criminals. Besides this, the TrackChild portal of the Government of India provides an integrated virtual space for all stakeholders across the country. The portal provides a networking system to facilitate tracking of children in distress. Further, to address the issue of human trafficking in a comprehensive manner, the Ministry of Home Affairs has an inter-ministerial coordination mechanism whereby it engages with the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Ministry of Labour and Employment, Protector of Emigrants, Ministry of External Affairs and other stakeholders.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, ShriG. Kishan Reddy in a written reply to question in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/NK/SS/JSR/425

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575575) Visitor Counter : 914
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Bengali