      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      LPG Portability Options
      Posted On: 24 JUN 2019 3:22PM by PIB Delhi


    Portability option for transfer of LPG connection was launched across the country in 2013. Subsequently, the process of online transfer of connection within same market was made fully automatic for the transfers within the same Oil Marketing Company (OMC).


    Through this initiative, the consumer is empowered to choose his/her destination distributor online from his registered login without the intervention of his parent distributor. In this process event the Transfer Subscription Voucher (TSV) is delivered at customer premises by the destination distributor and it does away for the consumer to physically approach both the distributors with a transfer request. The process of transfer of connection also entails email information to customer on each stage of transfer of connection.


    In case of Inter Company Connection Transfer, both parent and destination distributor get advance intimation about consumer’s transfer request with tracking options for customers. However, the Customer needs to visit the parent distributorship for surrendering of LPG equipments as accounting of equipment and security deposit is involved.


    OMCs have reported that since the launch of Scheme till 18.6.2019, more than 4.2 lakh consumers have used this option for getting their connection transferred to their preferred/required distributor online under the portability scheme. OMCs have reported that the complaints pertaining to portability scheme are resolved immediately and there are Nil established cases of complaints on portability. OMCs have reported that they have received suggestions on Portability scheme and in March, 2016, the process of online transfer of connection within same market was made fully automatic for the transfers within the OMC thereby doing away with the physical requirement of approaching the distributor with a transfer request. The portability scheme is now available across the country.


    This information was given by the Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas Shri Dharmendra Pradhan in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575402) Visitor Counter : 998
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali