      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      APEDA Organizes Buyers - Sellers Meet in Manipur
      Posted On: 25 JUN 2019 4:42PM by PIB Delhi


    Agricultural & Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA)in association with North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation (NERAMAC) organised the second Conference cum International Buyers-Sellers Meet in Imphal, Manipur on 19 th June 2019.


    The Conference cum International Buyers Sellers Meet was inaugurated by Anup Wadhawan, Commerce Secretary, Government of India. Paban Kumar Borthakur, Chairman APEDA, J.C. Ramthanga, Principal Secretary, Horticulture and Soil Conservation, Government of Manipur and other senior officers and delegates from India and abroad were present on this occasion.


    Chairman APEDA in his welcome address said that India’s total agricultural product exports is valued at 38 billion USD for the financial year 2017-18, out of which 50% is contributed through APEDA’s products. He also informed that APEDA has been organising international buyers-sellers meet for different products in different parts of the country.


    Commerce Secretary in his inaugural speech congratulated the organisers for arranging a programme of this scale. He further said that the North East Region (NER) is diverse and has huge potential that can be capitalised considering its agricultural and horticultural produce, strategic location, neighbouring the South East Asian countries, and can offer big opportunities for trade and economic activity to the farmers of the region and help double their income.


    This conference in Imphal provided a platform for B2B and B2G meetings with international buyers, exporters and progressive farmers / growers to explore opportunities and prospects from the North East Region particularly from Manipur.


    20 international buyers from South East Asia, Gulf countries and neighbouring countries participated in this event and interacted with Indian exporters. Apart from the importers and exporters, progressive farmers / growers groups from NER also participated in the event and interacted with the exporters to find out prospects and requirements of buyer countries. Exporters and growers showcased products of the North East like pineapple, black rice, organic products, fresh fruits, vegetables, flowers and spices.


    APEDA, under the Ministry of Commerce and Industries, promotes export of agricultural and processed food products from India. In its endeavour to promote export of agricultural products from NER, APEDA has been organising various buyers- sellers meets to facilitate market linkages of the exporters with international buyers. The first international buyers – sellers meet for NER was organized by APEDA in Guwahati in March this year.


    APEDA is conducting regular promotional activities in the area of agriculture exports. It provides support to exporters to set up infrastructure like pack houses and cold storages. APEDA also helps exporters to exhibit their products in several national and international expos and exhibitions. The Imphal event of international buyers - sellers meet is part of the initiative of APEDA to bring the North-Eastern states of India on the export map of the country.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575603) Visitor Counter : 549
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi