      Finance Commission

      The Fifteenth Finance Commission meets representatives of Trade and Industry in Karnataka
      Posted On: 25 JUN 2019 4:39PM by PIB Delhi


    The 15 th Finance Commission headed by Chairman, Shri N.K. Singh alongwith its Members and senior officials met today with the representatives of the Trade and Industry in Karnataka.


    The Commission observed that:


    i) Growth rate of GSDP (constant prices, 2011-12 series) of Karnataka has fluctuated widely from 2012-13 to 2018-19, compared to GDP (constant prices, 2011-12 series) of India.


    ii) Share of tertiary sector in GSVA (current prices) of Karnataka is highest amongst all southern states.


    iii) Main drivers of tertiary sector in the State are IT and ITeS. Karnataka is home to the 4th largest technology cluster in the world.


    iv) Bengaluru is known as the start-up capital of India and it is reported that nearly 30% of the start-ups in the country are from Bengaluru (as per state’s memorandum).


    v) In the Ease of Doing Business Rankings, Karnataka was ranked 8 th , amongst all states, in 2017.


    vi) Manufacturing sector in the state majorly comprises automobile, aerospace, textile & garment, biotech, heavy engineering and agro industries.


    Further, as informed by the Pr. AG Karnataka, in 2018-19, there was GST revenue shortfall of Rs. 12,407.75 crore as compared to the protected revenue, which is more than 23% shortfall.


    As per State’s Memorandum to the 15 th Finance Commission, the initiatives undertaken by State Government to promote Investment include:


      * Karnataka is first State in the country to roll out multi sector start up policy for 2015-2020 aiming towards a globally competitive start up eco system. The objective is to set-up 20,000 technology start-ups by 2020.


      * Karnataka Udyog Mitra (KUM) is a single contact point for all investors who are looking at setting up enterprises/business in state. Its role is to facilitate investments to enable a smooth transition from the stage of receiving investment proposals to the eventual implementation of the project.


    The 15 th Finance Commission observed:

      * State needs to provide enhanced impetus to development of manufacturing sector, which, in turn, would calibrate its overdependence on IT / ITeS sector, thereby, reducing concentration risk to growth.
      * In general, districts of north Karnataka are relatively backward compared to south Karnataka.

    The Commission further noted all the concerns highlighted by the representatives of the Karnataka Trade and Industry and promised to address them in its recommendations to the Central Government.


    ******


    MC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575599) Visitor Counter : 272
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

*