      Ministry of Railways

      Summer Special Trains
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2019 6:10PM by PIB Delhi


    To clear extra rush of passengers during peak season, special events and festivals, Indian Railways, keeping in view the pattern of traffic, operational feasibility and availability of resources, operates special trains including those from Delhi area. This is an ongoing process. During the period April & May, 2019 Indian Railways have operated 6544 trips of special trains.


    Except restriction in certain trains, elderly women above the age of 58 years are entitled for 50 % concession on basic fare in regular trains. Further, students are also entitled for concession ranging between 25 % to 100 %, on basic fare, in regular trains depending on the type of journey, category of students etc.


    Cleanliness is a continuous process and every endeavor is made to keep the coaches in clean condition and to provide hygienic bed roll to the travelling passengers. Cleaning of coaches of trains is done at both ends including mechanized cleaning through professional agencies. Watering is done at originating station and nominated stations enroute. Limited mechanized cleaning attention is given to identified trains including cleaning of toilets during their scheduled stoppages enroute at nominated Clean Train Stations. Mechanised laundries have been set up at 61 locations on Indian Railways for improving the quality of washing of bed linen. Regular and random checks are carried out by railway officials for ensuring cleanliness of coaches and bed rolls.


    Provision of catering service (food & drinking water) in trains running as Summer Special is made through static catering units at stations en-route. These include Catering Stalls, Food Plazas, Fast Food Units etc. In addition, Water Vending Machines are also opened certain stations. Passengers can also avail of e-catering services offered by Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC). Regular and surprise inspections are conducted by railway officials to check quality of food over Indian Railways.


    This information was given by the Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    SVS/MKV/RM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1575253) Visitor Counter : 326