      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot Flags off “17th Run against Drug Abuse”on International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking
      Posted On: 26 JUN 2019 12:43PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Union Minister of Social Justice & Empowerment flagged off “17 th Run Against Drug Abuse” on the occasion of “International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking” at Jawahar Lal Nehru Stadium, New Delhi today. Ministers of State for Social Justice & Empowerment Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar, Shri Ramdas Athawale, Shri Rattan Lal Kataria, Secretary, M/o SJ&E Smt. Nilam Sawhney and other dignitaries were present. The dignitaries led the ‘Symbolic Walk’ with Band display. A demo cultural show was organised and certificates prizes and awards of appreciation were distributed to the participants on the occasion.


    This annual event “Run Against Drug Abuse” to observe the “International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking” is being held successfully for past 16 years. It is coordinated by Dr. Sunita Godara (1992 Asian Marathon Champion) under the aegis of M/o Social Justice & Empowerment Govt of India. The Nodal Agencies NISD, Narcotics Control Bureau, Directorate of Prohibition, Govt of Delhi, with the other Stake holders UN agencies and corporate partners like ONGC, GAIL, Indian Oil, IGL, Petronet, NDMC, ITS, LPU have been supporting the event all these years.


    The event proved to be of great value for awareness on drug abuse. Marking the World Drug Day on 26 th June, 2019 to raise awareness about drugs; ‘Listen First’ is chosen as an initiative theme now to increase support for prevention of drug use that is based on science and is thus an effective investment in the well being of children and youth, their families and their communities . Listening to children and youth is the first step to help them to grow healthy and safe. The event has great support from all Para Military Forces, Police, Running Clubs, Team Leaders, Schools, Colleges & NGOs with the maximum no of participation.


    ****


    NB/SK/jk-26-06-2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575719) Visitor Counter : 416
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi