      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President advises Finance Minister to take steps to protect the interests of the farming community.
      
      Continue with ‘Special Assistance’, ‘Special Attention’ and ‘Special Dispensation’ to Andhra Pradesh: VP tells FM
      
      VP appreciates government’s efforts to make Yoga a people’s movement in his interaction with MoS for AYUSH
      
      Vice President enquires about the status of the Proposed Steel Plant in Andhra Pradesh’s Kadapa District
      
      Three Ministers- Finance Minister, MoS(IC) for AYUSH and MoS for Steel call on the Vice President
      Posted On: 26 JUN 2019 1:44PM by PIB Delhi


    The Finance Minister, Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman called on the Vice President, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu at his residence here today.


    During the interaction, the Vice President made some suggestions to the minister with regard to the upcoming Budget. Among others, he stressed the need to take steps to protect agriculture and introduce structural changes.


    Shri Naidu also suggested to the minister to undertake a review of the Import-Export Policy and protect the interests of the farming community.


    The Vice President wanted the minister to continue with “Special Assistance, Special Attention and Special Dispensation’ to Andhra Pradesh. The Former Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley had earlier announced a special financial package to the successor State.


    While appreciating that many assurances were fulfilled regarding the setting up of national institutions and sanctioning of new projects to Andhra Pradesh, Shri Naidu stressed the need to provide a helping hand to the State.


    The Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH Shri Shripad Yesso Naik also called on the Vice President. Expressing his happiness at the overwhelming response for International Day of Yoga all over the country and the world, Shri Naidu advised the minister to continue with efforts to make Yoga a people’s movement.


    He also reminded the minister about the assurance to set up a Central Research Institute of Yoga & Naturopathy (CRIYN) with 100-bedded IPD Hospital at Kondapavuluru in Krishna District of Andhra Pradesh. He told the minister that the Department of AYUSH, government of Andhra Pradesh had allotted free of cost 25 acres and the land was also registered under Central Council of Research in Yoga and Naturopathy in 2018 itself.


    The Vice President also reminded the Minister that he had suggested in the past for laying the foundation at the earliest after Former Health Minister of Andhra Pradesh Shri Kamineni Srinivas represented the matter. Later, the announcement was made by the Union Minister.


    The Minister of State for Steel, Shri Faggan Singh Kulaste also called on the Vice President. Shri Naidu enquired with him about the status of the proposal to setup a steel plant in Kadapa District of Andhra Pradesh.


    The Minister assured the Vice President that he would take up the issue with the Union Minister for Steel Shri Dharmendra Pradhan and also discuss with senior officials.


    **********


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575725) Visitor Counter : 961
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Hindi , Marathi , Punjabi , Tamil