      Ministry of Education

      Union Minister of HRD Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ visits National Bal Bhavan
      
      HRD Minister asks Department of School Education to set up a ‘Centre for talented children’ at National Bal Bhawan as per Prime Minister’s Innovative Learning Programme

      Posted On: 20 JUN 2019 8:34PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of Human Resource Development Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ visited National Bal Bhavan (NBB), an autonomous organisation under the Department of School Education and Literacy, MHRD today in New Delhi.


    During his visit, Union Minister interacted with children and their trainers participating in various activities such as singing, dancing, drawing, craft, stitching, music, judo, etc. He motivated children and emphasized that every child has some inbuilt creativity in them and proper guidance from the teacher coaxes and cultivates it to help them grow up as creative individuals. He also stated that it is important to have a right mix of creativity along with curriculum to help students to be innovative and also encourages them to learn new things.


    The Minister asked Department of School Education and Literacy to set up a ‘Centre for talented children’ at National Bal Bhawan as per Prime Minister’s Innovative Learning Programme. The purpose of this centre will be to enhance the creative potential of children by providing them various opportunities and a common platform to interact, with various National level Renowned Artists in the field of Art, Singing, Music, Dancing, etc. This centre will help in nurturing the artistic talents of children by providing them mentoring from experts in various fields.


    The HRD Minister also discussed the plan for developing ‘Indian Air Force Publicity Pavillion’, with the help of the Indian Air Force. He also directed to prepare database of all the Alumni of NBB who have excelled in their field at National and International level. These alumni will be involved in interacting and motivating children in NBB. He emphasised to have a plan for upgrading the infrastructure and facilities at National Bal Bhawan and utilise it optimally, and make aproposal for ‘Children with Special needs’.


    National Bal Bhawan has been conducting the recreational activities to develop the skills of children, expand their creative abilities in the field of Art & Craft, Music, Dance, Science, Museum Techniques, Physical Education.NBB provides opportunities to students after school hours to ignite curiosity and celebrate possibilities through immersive, dynamic experiences in visual arts, scientific activities and physical activities.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575092) Visitor Counter : 363
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu