      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Rs. 423.23 crores released to the States/UTs under e-NAM scheme during 2015-16 to 2018-19: Shri Narender Singh Tomar
      Posted On: 25 JUN 2019 4:59PM by PIB Delhi


    The fund released by the Government of India to States/UTs under e-NAM Scheme based on need during 2015-16 to 2018-19 is Rs. 423.23 crore. The fund released to Madhya Pradesh during 2015-16 to 2018-19 under e-NAM is Rs. 50.42 crore. Many facilities are available to farmers at e-mandis for using e-NAM platform among which the major facilities are as under:


    (i) Farmers can access the prevailing commodity prices information on e-NAM mobile app even without going to the mandi.


    (ii) Facility of pre-registration of lot by farmers for their produce available through mobile app to facilitate quick gate entry of the lot during peak season.


    (iii) Facility of quality testing of the produce of the farmers before bidding.


    (iv) Farmers may view progress of online bid value of their produce through mobile.


    (v) The details of final bid rate of commodity of farmer are received through SMS by farmers.


    (vi) Online payment gateway is available for transfer of bid value directly to bank accounts of farmers.


    The facilities provided to farmers in e-NAM mandis are continuously reviewed by the Government. The feedback on the various facilities, such as, quality assaying, e-trading, e-payment etc. is provided to States to improve their functioning. As an outcome of the continuous review, the facilities such as inter-mandi trade, inter-state trade, quality assaying, number of commodities on e-NAM, e-trading, e-payment etc. have improved. The number of farmers and buyers registered on e-NAM platform have been continuously increasing.


    Three reforms are mandatory for States/Union Territories (UTs) in their respective State Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Acts for integrating their mandis with National Agriculture Market (e-NAM) platform i.e. (i) Provision for e-trading, (ii) Single point levy of market fee, (iii) Unified Single trading license for the State. States without APMC Act like Bihar need to provide legally enforceable guidelines and institutional mechanism for implementing e-NAM. Based on the proposals received from the compliant States/Union Territories (UTs), mandis are considered for integration by Government of India with e-NAM platform. However, Government of Bihar has not proposed any of their market for integration with e-NAM platform. Number of farmers who have sold their produce on e-NAM platform in Madhya Pradesh is 10,80,704.


    This Information was given by the Union Minister for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Shri Narendra Singh Tomar in Lok Sabha today.


    ********


    APS/JP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575605) Visitor Counter : 872