      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh participates in Yoga Day activities on the occasion of 5th IDY
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2019 1:49PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh participated in the Yoga Day activities on the occasion of the 5th International Day of Yoga 2019, here today.


    The Minister led the Yoga Day activities at Satya Park, Loha Mandi at Narayana, New Delhi. Emphasising on the importance of Yoga in daily life, the Minister said that it helps in maintaining a good health specially keeping in mind the increasing incidences of life style and non-communicable diseases these days.


    Dr Jitendra Singh also performed yoga at an event organized by Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) in North Block. The Secretary (DoPT) Dr C. Chandramouli and officials of DoPT also participated in the Yoga Day activities at North Block.


    The Department of Pension and Pensioners’ Welfare organized a festival of Yoga at the Central Lawn, CSOI, Chanakya Puri, Vinay Marg, New Delhi. The event was held under the auspices of MoS(PP) Dr. Jitendra Singh along with Secretary (ARPG & Pensions) Shri K.V. Eapen, Secretary (DoPT) Dr. C. Chandramouli, Joint Secretary(P&PW) Shri S.N. Mathur and other senior officers. Around 120 people including pensioners participated in the programme which was conducted by the renowned Yoga exponent Ms. Ira Trivedi who shared tips on how one can adopt Yoga practices in one’s daily life. Apart from conducting the COMMON YOGA PROTOCOL as prescribed by Government of India, she also demonstrated an Application which can be used by the officials for exercises in workplace.


    Other departments of the Ministry including Central Information Commission (CIC) also celebrated International Day of Yoga today.


    ****


    BB/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575132) Visitor Counter : 183
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi