      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr. Jitendra Singh reviews new initiatives of Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances
      Posted On: 26 JUN 2019 6:27PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions Dr. Jitendra Singh held his 2 nd meeting on the new initiatives of the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) here today.


    The Minister said that he was happy to note that the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances has launched the dashboard on its website, drawn up the India@75 Good Governance initiatives and the Vision 2024 document aimed at timely implementation of the manifesto of Government.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh said that DARPG will implement 3 impactful decisions:


    (a) National e-Governance Conference will be held at Shillong on August 8-9, 2019


    (b) Publication of the National e-Services Delivery Assessment (NeSDA) and


    (c) Publication of the Central Secretariat Manual of Office Procedures (CSMOP) 2019.


    The National e-Governance Conference will provide a platform to deliberate and improve the standard of services rendered to the common man. It will be attended by 450 delegates including officials of Central Government, State Governments, industry captains and start-up companies.


    The National e-Services Delivery Assessment (NeSDA) will be an assessment of 78 e-Services with the participation of 27 States and 8 Ministries/Departments with the objective to assess the States, Union Territories and Central Ministries in their efficiency in e-Governance service delivery. The CSMOP 2019 formulated after consultations with 84 Ministries/Departments will transform the Central Secretariat to 21 st century digital governance best practices. He added that the Vision 2024 document of the Department of Administrative Reforms will be considered by the Sectoral Group of Secretaries on Governance to finalize the initiatives that would be pursued over the next 5 years.


    Secretary, DARPG, Shri K.V. Eapen, Additional Secretary Shri V. Srinivas and other senior officials attended the meeting.


    *****


    BB/NK/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575865) Visitor Counter : 485
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi