      Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry & Dairying

      Effect of Heat on Animals
      Posted On: 25 JUN 2019 5:06PM by PIB Delhi


    Agriculture and its allied subjects namely Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries are state subjects. The Ministry of Fisheries and Animal husbandry, Dairying has been supplementing the efforts of the State Government in this regard. All the States/ UTs have to set up Disaster Management Authorities and have definite Disaster Management plans to meet their specific requirements in view of their susceptibility to different types of disaster including deaths and diseases caused by scorching heat due to rapidly rising temperature due to rapidly rising temperature.


    As far as, the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying has prepared the ‘Disaster Management Plan’ for protecting animals, preventing and mitigation loss of livestock resources during disasters like drought, flood, Heat wave, etc in 2016. This Department has also issued a “Pashupalak Calendar” which is a month wise animal husbandry advisory for the farmers, which also include advisories for the months of April, May, June and July for reducing the impact of high temperature on livestock. In addition, awareness of the farmers to manage their animals during the hot summer months is also being sent by Short Messaging Service (SMS) through the mKisan portal.


    The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), Government of India has issued guidelines for ‘Preparation of Action Plan- Prevention and Management of Heat-Wave’ in April, 2016 which includes development of a mitigation plan for reducing the impact of high temperature on livestock. NDMA issues advisories on heat wave to all the heat wave prone states/ UTs which also contain provision for safeguarding of animals. The NDMA also focuses on community sensitization and awareness generation through Social Media, print/ electronic media, advertisements and short TV commercial films on heat waves protection.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Dr. Sanjeev Kumar Balyan in Lok Sabha today.


    ******


    APS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575612) Visitor Counter : 716
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu