      Ministry of Education

      National Yoga Olympiad- 2019 for school children concludes in New Delhi
      
      Increase in participation by number states and UTs in the Yoga Olympiad this year

      Posted On: 20 JUN 2019 8:04PM by PIB Delhi

    The 4th National Yoga Olympiad concluded at All India Council for Technical Education, New Delhi today. Secretary, School Education & Literacy, MHRD, Ms. Rina Ray was the Chief Guest in the function. Ms. Rina Ray distributed Prizes to the children of winner states and UTs .


    Speaking on the occasion, Ms Rina Ray appreciated the efforts of the Director, NCERT and his team for arranging a splendid programme on yoga. She emphasized that Yoga reduces stress and makes us strong. If we are strong then our family will be strong, our society will become stronger and ultimately our country will be strong. Children should teach yoga to their parents so that they can also lead a peaceful and stress-free life. Teachers and principals must also do yoga to live a tension-free life. Ms. Ray further said that if we all perform yoga, I am sure it will reduce tension in society. Now, the whole world is looking towards yoga. It is need of the hour that all teachers to principals, directorate to education officers everybody should practise yoga to lead a healthy and good life.


    Mentioning that Mizoram team has not come this year, she said we may strive to make all 36 States and UTs participate in the Yoga Olympiad from the next year.


    The awards were given in four categories –


    State/UT

     1. Upper Primary (Girls) – The Gold medal was bagged by the Himachal Pradesh team, the Silver medal by the Assam team and Bronze medal by the Kerala team.
     2. Upper Primary (Boys) – The Gold medal was bagged by the Gujarat team, the Silver medal by the West Bengal team and Bronze medal by the Maharashtra team.
     3. Secondary (Girls) – The Gold medal was bagged by the Tamil Nadu team, the Silver medal by the West Bengal team and the Bronze medal by the Manipur team.
     4. Secondary (Boys) – The Gold medal was bagged by the Tamil Nadu team, the Silver medal by the Maharashtra team and the Bronze medal by the West Bengal team.

    CBSE/DMS/KVS/NVS

     1. Upper Primary (Girls) – The Gold medal was bagged by the NVS team, the Silver medal by the DMS,RIE, Mysore team and Bronze medal by the DMS,RIE, Bhopal team.
     2. Upper Primary (Boys) – The Gold medal was bagged by the CBSE team, the Silver medal by the NVS team and Bronze medal by the DMS, RIE, Mysore team.
     3. Secondary (Girls) – The Gold medal was bagged by the NVS team, the Silver medal by the DMS,RIE, Mysore team and the Bronze medal by the DMS, RIE, Bhubaneswar team.
     4. Secondary (Boys) – The Gold medal was bagged by the CBSE team, the silver medal by the NVS team and the Bronze medal by the RIE Mysore team.

    In his welcome address, Professor Hrushikesh Senapaty, Director NCERT congratulated the teachers and students who have participated from District Level to State Level and finally to the National Level in the National Yoga Olympiad-2019. He pointed out that Yoga creates constructive thinking skill which helps in better concentration, which is necessary to get any kind of success in life. Yoga is a part of our culture and we should transmit our forefather’s culture to our next generation.


    He further stated that, it is only possible to stay healthy in mind and body, if the body is active and the mind is peaceful. To create a balance between these two is called Yoga.


    He congratulated the children who won the medals and suggested that this Olympiad should not be considered as a competition but should be adopted as a part of a daily routine.


    Professor Amarendra Behera, Joint Director Central Institute of Education Technology congratulating all the children, their teachers and officials present in this occasion said that with the efforts and initiative of the Ho’nble Prime Minister, the entire world has agreed to celebrate 21 st June in the form of International Yoga Day. This makes us proud and we need to promise ourselves spread this furthermore.


    The Dean, Academic, NCERT, Professor Saroj Yadav encouraged the children, saying that every participant is a winner as they participated at different levels in their Blocks, Regions and States – the very reason that they were at the National level. She said that Yoga is a journey of the self, for the self and to the self. She further informed that the awareness about yoga is increasing as 32 states and Union Territories have participated this year as against 28 in 2018. This time two states Lakshdweep and Mizoram could not participated due to some unavoidable reasons. Hopefully all the States/UTs will be able to participate in the coming year. She emphasised, that the objective of Yoga Olympiad is to achieve the holistic health - physical, emotional, mental, psychological and even environmental health. She extended her gratitude to all jury members for their great contribution.


    The valedictory function concluded with the vote of thanks extended by Major Harsh Kumar, Secretary of NCERT.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1575090) Visitor Counter : 305
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

4.