      Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

      ‘ Swachhta Pakhwada’ observed Successfully by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy
      Posted On: 27 JUN 2019 12:58PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) and institutions under it observed Swachhta Pakhwada (cleanliness fortnight) from 1st June to 15th June 2019. During this period, MNRE undertook various activities such as Shramdan (cleanliness drive) by staff, lectures and seminars with an objective of disseminating the message of Swachh Bharat widely.


    Secretary, MNRE Shri Aanand Kumar kick-started the campaign for Swachhta Pakhwada by delivering a lecture on the importance of Swachhata in life. He also participated in tree plantation drive in CGO Complex, New Delhi on 4th June 2019.


    Some of the major activities undertaken during Swachhta Pakhwada are: -

     1. All officials of MNRE took “Swachhata Pledge”. T-Shirts reflecting Swachhata logo and Cleaning Kits were distributed among the Ministry staff.
     2. Various innovative ways were used for promotion of Swachhata message through posters, banners, hoardings, pamphlets etc.
     3. Tree plantation drive was undertaken by the Ministry officials for Swachh Paryavaran (clean environment) in the Central Government Organisations (CGO) Complex on 4th June 2019.
     4. MNRE cleaned and repaired two public toilets near CGO Complex and these two toilets will be regularly cleaned and maintained throughout the year by the Ministry.
     5. Ministry Organised a Seminar on Biogas/Biomass- Waste to Energy to sensitize the officers and employees about the importance of maintaining personal & environmental hygiene. The seminar was attended by officials from several institutions.
     6. Special drive was launched for cleaning and upkeep of offices including common area premises, toilets, stairs, lifts etc and weeding out of old files/records.

    *****


    RCJ/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575943) Visitor Counter : 878
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali
    
    
    

6.