      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Measures taken to Ensure Correct Weight of LPG Cylinder
      Posted On: 24 JUN 2019 3:20PM by PIB Delhi


    Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) have reported that cylinders at bottling plants are filled on automatic mechanism and 100% filled cylinders are checked and sealed with Tamper Evident Seal before dispatching the same. Government has also instructed OMCs to direct their LPG distributors to check the weight of LPG cylinders at their godowns. OMCs have issued instructions to the distributors to provide portable weighing scales to all their delivery boys so that weight of the cylinder can be checked before delivery to the customers. In case any underweight cylinder is detected during delivery, the same is required to be replaced by the distributor.


    Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited ( BPCL) has informed one established case of supply of partially used cylinders/pilfered cylinders in the State of Maharashtra during the last three years i.e. 2016-17, 2017-18 and 2018-19. Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited(HPCL) have reported no established case of supply of partially used cylinders/pilfered cylinders.


    Measures are taken by the OMCs to ensure correct weight of cylinder at bottling plant, distributor’s end, en-route and at customer’s end. The important measures include visual checking for defective cylinder, segregation before filling, automatic filling, quality checks, pre-delivery checks, random checks at delivery points as well as en-route, inspection/raids by authorities, checking for weight and leakage before installation, investigation of complaints and timely action in case of malpractices etc.


    This information was given by the Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas Shri Dharmendra Pradhan in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575397) Visitor Counter : 785
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Bengali