      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah praises Yoga’s contribution in enhancing India’s stature internationally
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2019 4:20PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah has praised Yoga’s Ambassadorial role and its contribution in enhancing India’s stature on the world stage. He said, “Yoga is acting like an Ambassador of India, attracting the whole world towards Yoga and the country’s old age culture. As a result of the efforts made by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi Yoga got recognition at international level and today it is being performed simultaneously in about 200 countries.”


    Shri Shah was the Chief Guest at the Haryana State level function of 5th International Yoga Day celebrations in Rohtak today. Addressing the gathering, Shri Shah also lauded Chief Minister Shri Manohar Lal Khattar for setting up Yog Parishad to promote Yoga in Haryana. Shri Shah and Shri Khattar performed Yoga along with others at the Mela ground in Rohtak.


    Highlighting the importance of Yoga in day to day life, Shri Shah said that Yoga is a practice which not only ensures physical and mental health of an individual but also provides energy to perform work with ease. He said though several progammes were organized from time to time in the country for the promotion of Yoga, it got recognition at international level in the year 2014, when Shri Narendra Modi became the Prime Minister. Referring to Shri Modi’s address at the UN General Assembly five years ago, the Home Minister said due to the persistent efforts made by Shri Modi, 177 countries accepted the proposal and UN declared June 21 as International Yoga Day with in a period of 70 days.


    Shri Shah said that today crores of people are performing Yoga in about 200 countries and children are inspired to adopt Yoga in their lives. He expressed gratitude to the saints and gurus for promoting Yoga and also to those who are bringing perfection in it through scientific research.


    Earlier, speaking on this occasion, Chief Minister Shri Khattar described Yoga as an ancient practice and said that the State Government has taken several steps for the promotion of Yoga. He said that yesterday only, the State Government constituted YogParishad so that the people of all walks of life adopt Yoga in their life and ensure their physical, mental and spiritual development. He said that a decision has also been taken to construct Yogor Vyamshalas in villages. Apart from this, recruitment of Yoga trainers is also being made in the State.


    He said that International Yoga Day functions have been organized simultaneously at 80 places in the State in which about 5 lakh people participated. The Chief Minister also used this opportunity to thank Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for getting recognition to Yoga at international level. He also thanked Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah for taking part in the State Level Function of 5th International Yoga Day celebrations and said that this is Shri Shah’s first visit to Haryana after taking charge as Home Minister of the country.


    Among those present on this occasion included Sports and Youth Affairs MinisterShri Anil Vij,MP Rohtak Shri Arvind Sharma, MP Rajya Sabha Dr Anil Jain, Minister of State for Cooperation Shri Manish Grover, Chief Secretary Shri D.S Dhesi and other senior officers of the district administration.


    ******


    BB/NK/SH


    

    
    (Release ID: 1575190) Visitor Counter : 218
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi