      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Wastage of Foodgrains
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2019 5:20PM by PIB Delhi


    Food Corporation of India handled (offtake) a quantity of 473.31 Lakh tonnes of foodgrains during the year 2016-17 excluding Decentralized Procurement (DCP) stocks. During such handling of huge quantity of stocks, a very minimal quantity of 0.09 Lakh tonnes (0.02%) got damaged due to rain, flood, cyclone, transit, negligence etc.


    The quantum of foodgrains which got damaged in godowns of Food Corporation in India (FCI) during 2017-18 and 2018-19 is as under:

                                       
Year     Quantity of damaged foodgrains
                                       
                                       
         (In LakhTonnes)               
                                       
                                       
                                       
2017-18  0.027                         
                                       
                                       
                                       
2018-19  0.05                          
                                       
                                       

    Measures/steps taken by the Government to avoid wastage/damage of foodgrains are at Annexure.


    This information was given in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    ******


    ANNEXURE


    MEASURES TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO AVOID WASTAGE/DAMAGE OF FOODGRAINS


    The following steps are taken to prevent damage of foodgrains:

     1. All godowns are constructed as per specifications.

     1. Foodgrains are stored by adopting proper scientific code of storage practices.


     1. Dunnage materials such as wooden crates, bamboo mats, polythene sheets are used to check migration of moisture from the floor to the foodgrains.


     1. Fumigation covers, nylon ropes, nets and insecticides for control of stored grain insect pests are provided in all the godowns.


     1. Prophylactic (spraying of insecticides) and curative treatments (fumigation) are carried out regularly and timely in godowns for the control of stored grain insect pests.


     1. Effective rat control measures, both in covered godowns as well as in CAP storage are taken.


     1. Foodgrains in ‘Cover and Plinth’ (CAP) storage are stored on elevated plinths and wooden crates are used as dunnage material. Stacks are properly covered with specifically fabricated low-density black polythene water -proof covers and tied with nylon ropes/nets.


     1. Regular periodic inspections of the stocks/godowns are undertaken by qualified and trained staff and all senior officers. The health of the foodgrains is monitored at regular intervals by a system of checks and super checks at different levels. Following Checks and Super checks are conducted in the godowns by FCI to ensure proper preservation of foodgrains in the storage.


         1. Fortnightly inspection of stocks on 100% basis by Technical Assistant.

         2. Monthly inspection by Manager(QC)
         3. Quarterly inspection by AGM(QC)
         4. Super Checks by Regional, Zonal and FCI Hqrs. Squads.

     1. The principle of “First in First Out” (FIFO) is followed to the extent possible so as to avoid longer storage of foodgrains in godowns.


     1. Damage Monitoring Cells have been set up at District, Regional and Zonal levels to regularly monitor quality of stocks and reduce damages.


     1. Leakage point in the roof of godowns are regularly identified and repaired.


     1. Regular cleaning of drainages in the godown premises ensured.


     1. Efforts are made to ensure that there are no seepages inside the godowns.


     1. Efforts are also made to ensure that there is no clogging up of water in the premises of the godowns.


     1. Immediate actions are taken to segregate & recondition of the stocks whenever it gets affected.


    *******


    APS/AS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1575228) Visitor Counter : 760
    
    
    
    
    

   
   
   
   
   
   
1.