      Ministry of Tourism

      Two projects are being implemented under Ramayana circuit in the State of Uttar Pradesh: Shri Prahlad Singh Patel
      Posted On: 25 JUN 2019 6:57PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Tourism under its Swadesh Darshan Scheme- Integrated Development of Theme Based Tourist Circuits is developing tourism infrastructure in the circuits, across the country, having tourist potential in a planned and prioritized manner. Under the scheme fifteen thematic circuits have been identified including themes covering religious sites for development, namely: Spiritual Circuit, Ramayana Circuit, Krishna Circuit, Tirthankar Circuit, Buddhist Circuit and Sufi Circuit.


    The projects under the scheme are identified for development in consultation with the State Governments/Union Territory Administrations and are sanctioned subject to availability of funds, submission of suitable Detailed Project Reports, adherence to scheme guidelines and utilization of funds released earlier. Submission of project proposals by the State Governments/Union Territory Administrations under the scheme is a continuous process.


    Ramayana Circuit is one of the fifteen thematic circuits identified for development under the Scheme. The details of projects sanctioned under the theme are as follows:


    (Rs. in crore)

                                                                                         
S. No.  State/ Sanction Year  Project                                     Amt. Sanctioned
                                                                                         
                                                                                         
                                                                                         
1.      Uttar Pradesh         Development of Chitrakoot and Shringverpur  69.45          
                                                                                         
                                                                                         
        (2016-17)                                                                        
                                                                                         
                                                                                         
                                                                                         
2.      Uttar Pradesh         Development of Ayodhya                      133.31         
                                                                                         
                                                                                         
        (2017-18)                                                                        
                                                                                         
                                                                                         

    The projects have timeline of 36 months and work is in progress under both the projects.


    This information was given by Minister of State (I/C) for Culture & Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel in reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    *******


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575664) Visitor Counter : 357