      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Study on Nipah Virus
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2019 3:03PM by PIB Delhi


    In the first week of June, 2019 outbreak of Nipah virus disease has been reported from Kerala. Immediately, the Union Health & Family Welfare Minister took a review meeting and a Multi-disciplinary Central teams consisting of experts from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) was deployed in the affected district to assist and guide the State health authorities. The team is supporting the State in investigations, contact tracing, sample testing and management of the Nipah Virus Disease (NiVD). Point of Care Test facility has been established by the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune at Medical College Ernakulum. Experts from National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal were also involved with the local Animal Husbandry Department in investigation. Government of India is closely monitoring and assessing the situation at the highest level including by the Union Health & Family Welfare Minister.


    One case of Nipah virus disease has been reported from Ernakulam District of Kerala. NIV, Pune deputed special teams to collect samples from Pteropus or fruit bats, which are the main reservoir of Nipah virus disease. Out of 36 Pteropus species bats tested for Nipah, 12 (33%) were found to be positive for “anti Nipah bat IgG antibodies”. Strategic Health Operation Centre (SHOC) at NCDC has been activated since 4th June, 2019 and is coordinating with field teams on surveillance and response activities for Nipah containment. A dedicated phone-line has been established at SHOC to answer queries of general public. Further, specific case definition, contact tracing and treatment & clinical management protocol have been provided to State authorities of Kerala.


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Sh Ashwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply in the Lok Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1575159) Visitor Counter : 708
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Bengali