      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Strategic interventions of Health Ministry showing positive results as AES mortality rate has come down: Dr. Harsh Vardhan
      
      “A round the clock point-of-care testing facility set up”

      Posted On: 25 JUN 2019 6:12PM by PIB Delhi

    “The strategic interventions made by the Health Ministry have started paying off and are showing positive results as the mortality rate has come down significantly,” Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare stated this as he continues toreview the status of AES cases of Bihar with senior officers of the Health Ministry.In the past forty eight hours there have been only five Acute Encephalopathy Syndrome (AES) related admissions at SKMCH.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan further said that a round the clock point-of-care testing facility has been set up in SKMCH to monitor vital parameters such as blood gases, electrolytes, lactate etc,. of the children. “This facility is being further strengthened by deployment of biochemist and technicians from the Central Government Hospitals in Delhi,” Dr Harsh Vardhan added.


    Dr Harsh Vardhan further elaborated that the diagnostics have been strengthened in the PICU. It will have a portable X - ray with CR digital to access the report immediately within the ICU. The CSF reports in PICU has also been operationalised . Portable USG and ECHO set up for PICU is also fully functional round the clock.


    The Union Health Minister further said that the fifteen member Central Team of doctors and para-medics providing medical care will be replaced by a team with similar strength for further ten days ensuring continuity of care of admitted cases. It will oversee and support the State government efforts for management of AES cases at SKMCH.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan said that the multi-disciplinary team deployed by Department of Health Research will continue to work on varied aspects of research concerning Acute Encephalopathy Syndrome (AES).


    ***


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575631) Visitor Counter : 393
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi