      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      70 Saal Azaadi, Yaad Karo Kurbani - Patriotic Film Festival Organized
      
      Steps taken by I&B Ministry to promote Regional Language Films

      Posted On: 21 JUN 2019 1:05PM by PIB Delhi

    In a written reply to Lok Sabha, Union Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar informed about the steps taken by the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting to promote regional language films at national and international level.


    I&B Ministry started patriotic film festival to mark 70 years of Indian Independence under the banner “70 Saal Azaadi, Yaad Karo Kurbani” as part of the Ministry of Defence programme related to Independence Day celebrations from August 12-18, 2016 at Sirifort Auditorium Complex, New Delhi.


    Every year, films are selected for Indian Panorama section of the International Film Festival of India (IFFI). From these entries, 47 Films, including 26 Feature Films and 21 Non-Feature Films are selected in various Indian Languages for screening in IFFI as well as in various Indian & International Film Festivals and Indian Film Weeks / Festivals abroad.


    The Ministry organizes National Film Awards annually wherein films from across the country in Hindi/Regional Languages are awarded under different categories. In addition to the Indian Panorama films at IFFI, films selected in the National Film Awards are also sent for participation as well as special screenings in the various Indian and International Film Festivals organized by I&B Ministry through Directorate of Film Festival.


    Under BRICS Film Festival world-class film productions from the BRICS nations i.e. Brazil, Russia, India, China & South Africa are being screened to inspire more collaboration.


    I&B Ministry also provides financial assistance to Indian Films which are selected in various International Film Festivals namely Oscars, Toronto, Bussan, Berlin etc. During recent years, financial assistance has been provided to ‘Newton’ and ‘Loktak Lairembee’ which were selected in the Berlin International Film Festival.


    ***


    AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575113) Visitor Counter : 538
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Urdu , Gujarati , Bengali