      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Creation of workforce for handling artificial Intelligence Skills
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2019 4:28PM by PIB Delhi


    Technology advances with transformative changes such as globalization and disruptive business models shall have important implications in the world of work and associated skills in near future. Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) has taken keen interest in aligning the learning methodologies as per new emerging skills and job requirement. The National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) established its Future of Work initiative after a preliminary study to identify the potential and risks of automation within the STT ecosystem that NSDC has enabled. NSDC is continually facilitating the development of cross-functional Qualification Packs and National Occupational Standards in association with IT-ITeS Sector Skill Council (NASSCOM) across nine emerging technologies influencing the Future of Work in India, namely Cyber Security, Artificial Intelligence, Big Data Analytics, Cloud Computing, Block Chain, Robotic Process Automation, Internet of Things, Virtual Reality , and Social and Mobile Applications.


    The following new trades were introduced in the year 2018 to keep pace with Technological innovations under the Craftsmen Training Scheme being implemented through Industrial Training Institutes:-

     1. Geo Informatics Assistant
     2. Aeronautical Structure and Equipment Fitter
     3. Additive Manufacturing Technician (3D Printing)
     4. Remotely Piloted Aircraft / Drone Pilot
     5. Electrician Power Distribution
     6. Technician Mechatronics
     7. Solar Technician (Electrical)
     8. Internet of Things (Smart Agriculture)
     9. Internet of Things (Smart Healthcare)
    10. Internet of Things (Smart City)
    11. Smartphone Technician cum App Tester

    . This Information was given by Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri Raj Kumar Singh in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    YKB/SNC/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575196) Visitor Counter : 602
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam
    
    
    

11.