      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Shri Nitin Gadkari to Inaugurate International Convention in New Delhi to Mark International Msme Day Tomorrow
      
      International SME Convention 2019 to be Held Here From 28th - 29th June

      Posted On: 26 JUN 2019 7:22PM by PIB Delhi

    The Ministry of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises is organizing an international conventionon the theme “Indian MSMEs, Global Aspirations” in New Delhi to observe the International MSME Day tomorrow. Further, as part of continued celebrations, the second edition of the International SME Convention 2019 will be held from 28th - 29th June .


    The convention will be inaugurated by Shri Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for MSME and Road Transport & Highways at Hotel Eros. Shri Pratap Sarangi, MoS for MSME and Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries will also be present on the occasion.


    The Convention has been shaped as a platform for finding business and trade partners and enabling intensive business discussion, with a specific focus on interaction between international entrepreneurs and selected small and medium entrepreneurs from India. The Ministry had organized the first International SME Conventionin April last year, where 160 SMEs from 39 countries participated in the three-day event and issues of international best practices on SME development and cooperation, global business opportunities for SMEs, problems faced by women entrepreneurs were discussed.


    The objectives of the International SME Conventionare

      * To boost the international competitiveness of the Indian MSMEs by making them aware of global trends and practices and standards in export financing, along with experience sharing by successful exporters.
      * Provide the MSMEs a platform to understand the opportunities in the international market and encourage them to evaluate options and opportunities of international trade.
      * Disseminate information on global market demand, ease of export financing for exports; anddeveloping strategies to penetrate new markets.

    1200 selected entrepreneurs from India will participate in the convention. UNIDO and UNDP are the Institutional Partners. The interest of Indian Entrepreneurs can be judged by the fact the over 33000 entrepreneurs registered on the platform, while over 10,700 completed their B2B profiles. 1200 entrepreneurshave been selected for this round of B2B meetings and attending the convention.


    100 SMEs selected by a jury from among 34011 nominations from across India are also being felicitated under the aegis of the 6th Annual India SME 100 Awards.


    Focus Sectors for B2B Meetings are Agribusiness, Agricultural Implements, Machinery and Food Processing , Industrial, Mechanical & Electrical Engineering, Machinery, Tools & Equipment , Transportation & Automotive, Clean Tech including waste, water, renewable energy, Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology , Wellness & Healthcare, Fast Moving Consumer Goods , Apparel, Garments, Textiles, Furnishing & Leather , Consumer & Industrial Electronics, Design and Manufacturing , Infrastructure & Construction , Tourism & Hospitality , Logistics, Aviation & Shipping , Information & Communication Technology & Business Process Management , Creative Services Industry including Media, Publishing, Entertainment and other Services


    One hundred and seventy five participants from 44 countries and ambassadors from 15 European, African and Latin American countries will attend the convention. Countries participating include Bahrain, Maldives, Italy , Hungary , Austria, San Marino , Srilanka , USA , Portugal , Tunisia , El Salvador,| Sudan,| UAE, Zimbabwe , Gabon , Peru, Panama, Guatemala ,Iran, Argentina , Canada , Bhutan , Malawi , New Zealand , Fiji , Spain , Colombia , Uzbekistan , Ukraine,| Senegal , Saudi Arabia , Rwanda .


    *****


    NP/


    

    
    (Release ID: 1575877) Visitor Counter : 556
    
    
    
    
    

*