      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Expansion of Piped Gas coverage
      Posted On: 26 JUN 2019 3:47PM by PIB Delhi


    The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) authorizes entities to develop Natural Gas Distribution Network as per PNGRB Act, 2006 and the Regulations notified thereunder. PNGRB identifies the Geographical Areas (GAs) for the development of City Gas Distribution (CGD) network depending on the natural gas pipeline connectivity/natural gas availability and techno-commercial viability. Providing Piped Natural Gas (PNG) connection to the households in the GA is the part of development of CGD Network. With the completion of 10 th CGD Bidding Round, CGD would be accessible in 228 GAs covering more than 400 districts spread over 27 States and Union Territories covering approximately 70 percent of India’s population and 53 percent of its geographical area.


    In order to promote the expansion of City gas networks and enhance the usage of natural gas in cities, the Government has taken following steps:

     1. Domestic gas, which is cheaper than imported gas, has been allocated to meet the entire requirement of Piped Natural Gas (Domestic) and Compressed Natural Gas (Transport) segments of CGD sector and it has been kept under no cut category.
     2. Public Utility Status granted to CGD Projects by Ministry of Labour and Employment.
     3. Ministry of Defence has issued guidelines for use of PNG in its residential areas/unit lines
     4. Department of Public Enterprises has issued guidelines to Public Sector Enterprises (PSEs) to have the provisions of PNG in their respective residential complexes.
     5. Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has issued advisory to State Governments on following aspects:
     1. To standardize the Road Restoration/permission charges along with time bound permission in accordance with the local conditions.
     2. Earmarking of land plot for development of CNG Stations at the planning stage of town/city and same should be specified in the revised Master Plan.
     3. Relevant modification in building by-laws for providing gas pipeline infrastructure in residential & commercial buildings at architectural design stage.
     1. Further, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has directed to Central Public Works Department & National Building Construction Corporation to have the provisions of PNG in all Government Residential complexes.

    This Information was given by the Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas Shri Dharmendra Pradhan in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    YB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575761) Visitor Counter : 658
    
    
    
    
    

1.