      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Exploitation of Domestic Workers
      Posted On: 26 JUN 2019 4:07PM by PIB Delhi


    The discussions are underway regarding a National Policy for Domestic Workers as per information obtained from Ministry of Labour and Employment. The salient features of which are as under:

     1. Inclusion of Domestic Workers in the existing legislations;
     2. Registration of Domestic workers;
     3. Right to form their own associations / unions;
     4. Right to have minimum wages, access to social security, protection from abuse, harassment, violence;
     5. Right to enhance their skills;
     6. Protection of Domestic Workers from abuse and exploitation;
     7. Domestic Workers to have access to courts, tribunals, etc. for Grievance Redressal.
     8. Establishment of a mechanism for regulation of placement agencies.

    The Government has enacted the Unorganized Workers Social Security Act, 2008 to provide for the welfare of unorganized workers on matters relating to life and disability cover, health and maternity benefits, old age protection and any other benefit as may be determined. In addition, the Central Government has recently converged the social security schemes of Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana (AABY) with Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) to provide life and disability coverage to the unorganized workers for the age group of 18 to 50 years depending upon their eligibility.


    Converged PMJJBY gives coverage of Rs.2.0 lakh on death at a premium of Rs.330/- per annum. Further converged PMSBY gives coverage of Rs.2.0 lakh on accidental death and disability at a premium of Rs.12/- per annum. These converged schemes are being implemented by Life Insurance Corporation of India. The annual premium is shared on 50:50 basis by the Central and State Governments.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Rattan Lal Kataria in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    NB/SK/jk-SJ&E-1/26-06-2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575916) Visitor Counter : 251
    
    
    
    
    

8.