      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Establishment of National Council for
      
      Vocational Education and Training

      Posted On: 28 JUN 2019 3:43PM by PIB Delhi

    The Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship (MSDE) has notified a non-statutory regulatory body, the National Council for Vocational Education and Training (NCVET), through a Government Notification dated 05.12.2018. The NCVET will merge the functions of National Council for Vocational Training (NCVT) and National Skill Development Agency (NSDA) and will regulate the functioning of entities engaged in vocational education and training, both long-term and short-term, and establish minimum standards for the functioning of such entities.


    The primary functions of NCVET will include – recognition and regulation of awarding bodies, assessment bodies and skill related information providers; approval of qualifications developed by awarding bodies and Sector Skill Councils (SSCs); indirect regulation of vocational training institutes through awarding bodies and assessment agencies; research and information dissemination; grievance redressal.


    This institutional reform will lead to improvement in quality and market relevance of skill development programs lending credibility to vocational education and training encouraging greater private investment and employer participation in the skills space.


    Being a regulator of India’s skill ecosystem, NCVET will have a positive impact on each individual who is a part of vocational education and training in the country. The idea of skill-based education will be seen in a more inspirational manner which would further encourage students to apply for skill-based educational courses. This is also expected to facilitate the ease of doing business by providing a steady supply of skilled workforce to the industry and services.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri. R. K. Singh in the Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576157) Visitor Counter : 754
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Malayalam