      AYUSH

      Government taken steps to encourage people to use AYUSH System
      Posted On: 28 JUN 2019 3:48PM by PIB Delhi


    The requisite information on National Statistics of AYUSH is regularly disseminated by the Ministry of AYUSH through the medium of an annual publication “AYUSH in India”, that is being published every year, the soft copy of the publication are available on the Ministry’s website: ayush.gov.in/tenders-vacancies-and-annoucements/ayush-india


    Under the component of quality control of Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani & Homoeopathy drugs, grant in aid is provided to the States for the strengthening of pharmacies, Drug Testing Laboratories as well as for improvement of the Drug Control Framework. During the implementation period of the National AYUSH Mission from September, 2014 to 2018, 23 State Drug Testing Laboratories, 15 ASU&H Pharmacies & 30 Drug Control Frameworks have been supported for engagement of contractual manpower. 58 more private Drug Testing Laboratories have been approved under the Drugs and Cosmetic Rules, 1945 for testing of ASU drugs.


    Under Central Sector Scheme for Promotion of Information, Education and Communication(IEC) in AYUSH, the Ministry takes up initiatives for propagation, promotion and awareness of AYUSH systems of medicine by organizing Arogya Fairs, Yoga Fests, Conferences, Exhibitions, Seminars, Workshops, Symposium, celebration of important days viz. International Day of Yoga, Ayurveda Day, Unani Day, Siddha Day, Naturopathy Day and Homoeopathy Day and also undertaking publicity activities through electronic media, print media and social media amongst the citizens all over the country.


    Under Centrally Sponsored Scheme of National AYUSH Mission (NAM) financial assistance is being provided to the States/UTs for promotion of AYUSH system as per the State Annual Action Plan (SAAP) received from the States/UTs.


    The National AYUSH Mission (NAM) inter-alia makes provision for the following: -


     1. Co-location of AYUSH facilities at Primary Health Centers (PHCs), Community Health Centers (CHCs) and District Hospitals (DHs).


     2. Up gradation of exclusive State Government AYUSH Hospitals and Dispensaries.


     3. Setting up of up to 50 bedded integrated AYUSH Hospital.


     4. Up-gradation of State Government Educational Institutions.


     5. Setting up of new State Government AYUSH Educational Institutions in the State where it is not available.


     6. Strengthening of State Government/ Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathy (ASU&H) Pharmacies and Drug Testing Laboratories (DTL).


     7. Cultivation and Promotion of Medicinal Plants.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ******************


    RJ/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1576161) Visitor Counter : 875
    
    
    
    
    

7.