      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Smt. Renuka Singh Launches ‘Go Tribal Campaign’ of Tribes India
      
      ‘Tribes India’ Launched Globally to step up Exports of Tribal Products

      Posted On: 29 JUN 2019 6:23PM by PIB Delhi

    The Minister of State for Tribal Affairs, Smt. Renuka Singh launched the “Go Tribal Campaign” of Tribes India at a glittering event in New Delhi last night. The campaign has been launched to widely promote the use of tribal products. The Minister also launched ‘Tribes India’ globally through Amazon Global Selling at today’s event. Ms MC Mary Kom, Member of Parliament and Brand Ambassador of Tribes India graced the occasion. Chairman TRIFED, Shri R.C. Meena; Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Shri Deepak Khandekar and MD TRIFED, Shri Pravir Krishna were also present at the function.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said that we have to economically strengthen the tribals of our country as they are capable of producing many creative products including handicrafts. The tribal products are very pure and trustworthy and one can trust their quality and standard. She applauded the initiative of Tribes India to promote tribal products globally through Amazon Global Selling and hoped that it will prove to be a milestone.


    Chairman TRIFED said that with the joint collaboration between TRIFED and Amazon, the tribal products will be available in about 190 countries and will help in establishing export market of tribal products worldwide.


    Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs said that the range of tribal products for sale has been increased many a fold in recent years and it provides them ample employment opportunities also. He opined that with the collaboration with Amazon, the market for tribal products will definitely get a boost.


    TRIFED has organized this event to institutionalize collaborations and partnerships with different organizations to promote tribal products. The following important activities were highlights of event:

     1. Launch of “Go Tribals Campaign by Tribes India”under which a number of innovative activities have been planned to be undertaken to promote use of tribal handicrafts, handicrafts and natural products.
     2. Global Launch of “Tribes India” through Amazon Global Selling, under which Tribes India and Amazon Global Marketing launched TRIBES India products globally through Amazon.com. With this collaboration, tribal products shall be available in the US and will help establish export market of tribal products.
     3. Collaboration of Tribes India with Central Silk Board for development, promotion, marketing of tribal silk products and empowerment of tribal reelers and weavers.
     4. TRIFED joins the 150 th birth anniversary celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi by introducing Khadi Kurtas and Jackets to its products range in association with “I Am Khadi” foundation.

    As part of this initiative showcased a new range of ethnic fashion wear.Besides, the heritage range of traditional tribal handloom, handicrafts and naturals collection of the country like Madua, Jowaer, Bazra, Red Rice, Honey, Lac products, Spices, Coffee, Tea, Handmade Soaps etc produced by Tribals in various parts of the country have also been showcased.


    TRIFED is an organization under Ministry of Tribal Affairs and is engaged in marketing development of tribal products including tribal art and craft under the brand name “TRIBES INDIA”.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/MoTA/29.06.2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576323) Visitor Counter : 1283
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

4.