      Ministry of Defence

      INS Tarkash At Alexandria, Egypt (28 JUNE - 01 JULY 2019)
      Posted On: 28 JUN 2019 5:25PM by PIB Delhi


    In a demonstration of India's commitment to its ties with Egypt and of Indian Navy's increasing footprint and operational reach, Indian Naval Ship Tarkash arrived at Alexandria on 28 June 2019 for a three day visit, as a part of Western Fleet Overseas Deployment programme.


    During the visit of Tarkash, professional interactions are planned with the Egyptian Navy towards further enhancing co-operation between the two forces. In addition, calls on senior Government and military authorities, sporting, cultural interactions, exchange visit of ships personnel and sharing of best practices, aimed at strengthening ties and mutual understanding between the two Navies, are also planned.


    India and Egypt are two of the world's oldest civilizations. Building upon the rich and longstanding relations that have existed between India and Egypt, both nations have developed warm relations in several spheres. A number of bilateral agreements for cooperation and cultural exchange exist between the two nations. The geostrategic location of Egypt provides it the unique advantage of being at the crossroads of Africa, Asia and Europe. Crucial Sea Lines of Communication pass through Red Sea into the Mediterranean through Suez Canal in Egypt.


    The current visit seeks to underscore India's peaceful presence and solidarity with friendly countries and, in particular, to strengthen the existing bonds of friendship between India and Egypt.


    Tarkash, commanded by Captain Sathish Vasudev, is a state of the art warship of the Indian Navy equipped with a versatile range of weapons and sensors capable of addressing threats in all the three dimensions. The ship is part of the Indian Navy's Western Fleet and is under the operational Command of Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Naval Command, based at Mumbai.


    *******************


    DKS/MS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1576218) Visitor Counter : 483
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi