      Ministry of Education

      Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ congratulates O.P. Jindal Global University for being the youngest University globally to break into QS World University Rankings 2020
      Posted On: 28 JUN 2019 7:04PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Human Resource Development, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' congratulated O.P. Jindal Global University for breaking into QS World University Rankings 2020 for the first time ever, during a meeting with the founding Vice Chancellor of O.P. Jindal Global University (JGU), Prof. (Dr.) C. Raj Kumar and the Dean of Jindal School of Banking & Finance, Prof. (Dr.) Ashish Bharadwaj.


    (Vice Chancellor Prof. C. Raj Kumar presenting the QS Certificate of Achievement (for Entry into QS World University Rankings 2020) to the Union Minister of Human Resource Development, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank'


    Vice Chancellor Professor Raj Kumar presented the QS Certificate of Achievement awarded to JGU for being ranked between 751-800 globally and being the youngest university in the world to enter the world rankings.This is a huge achievement for O.P. Jindal Global University as they celebrate their tenth anniversary this year.


    Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal said that historically India has always given primacy to knowledge creation and learning, which has shaped our Indian society in profound ways. Leading centres of excellence and learning have flourished in ancient India and now the Government of India, under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi, has placed importance on Indian universities to excel globally. We encourage JGU to take the lead in mentoring other institutions and universities in aiming for global excellence in teaching, learning and research.


    The Minister praised O.P. Jindal Global University for being the only new entrant from India and the youngest university globally to enter the QS World University Rankings. The Minister was delighted that JGU is now amongst the top 2.67% of all 28000 universities globally. The fact that JGU is the only university in India dedicated to the study and research of the social sciences, arts & humanities to break into the QS World University Rankings is remarkable and I congratulate the JGU leadership and faculty for showing a path to academic excellence to all universities in India that have global ambitions.


    Out of roughly 28,000+ universities and higher education institutions in the world, only 1,001 were ranked by QS in terms of their performance criteria. 50 universities are new entrants in the world university rankings. While in the last ten years, several older colleges and institutes, particularly in France, Finland and elsewhere in Europe have recently merged to form new universities, JGU or any of its constituent schools did not exist in any form prior to 2009, making JGU the youngest university in the world to break into the latest edition of QS World University Rankings.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576267) Visitor Counter : 457
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi