      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Innovation and Collaboration Key for Growth of MSME Sector
      Posted On: 28 JUN 2019 4:09PM by PIB Delhi


    Secretary, Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Dr. Arun Panda expressed hope that the second International SME Convention will result in joint ventures, MoUs, fruitful collaborations in various sectors and technology transfer among entrepreneurs participating from our country and abroad. He said that innovations and collaborations are the key for growth of MSME sector and growth in this sector will definitely result in employment generation and will be helpful in increasing the country’s GDP. Shri Panda further said that we will soon launch a portal which will include all the relevant information about entrepreneurs which will boost collaboration and joint ventures in a big way. An MoU was also signed on the occasion between a Spanish and Indian company for corrosion protection coatings, a new technology for moisture curing in buildings, bridges etc. This technology reduces the cost of corrosion protection and enhances the life span of the structure.


    Welcoming all delegates, Joint Secretary of the Ministry Smt. Alka Arora said that MSME sector has contributed significantly in poverty alleviation, employment generation and in improving the ranking of the country in ‘Ease of doing Business’.


    Representative from United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) said that apprentice programmes for better skilled work force along with access to finance and markets to the entrepreneurs can give a big boost to MSME sector in India which will definitely reduce poverty and unemployment in the country. Shri Prahlad Kakkar, Chairman India SME forum, HE Milan Hovorka, Ambassador of the Czech Republic to India and Shri Norbert Knoll, Secretary General, WUSME also addressed the delegates on the occasion. Sessions on SME D evelopment Strategies, ‘Transforming the MSME Landscape in India’, Destination India for International SME’s were organized in which many panellists expressed their views.


    International SME convention is being organized by Ministry of MSME, co-organized by India SME Forum, UNIDO and Economic Diplomacy and states division, Ministry of External Affairs.


    ****


    NP/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576185) Visitor Counter : 430
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi