      Ministry of Railways

      Checking Activities of Brokers in E-Rail Ticketing
      Posted On: 28 JUN 2019 4:14PM by PIB Delhi


    During rush period like festivals, summer vacations, holidays etc. when demand exceeds availability, some instances of attempt to misuse reservation system do come to notice. However, in order to prevent the activities of unscrupulous elements including touts, several checks have been deployed by Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) including the following:

     1. Creation of only one IRCTC User ID on a given mobile number and email ID.
     2. Setting a limit of booking 6 Railway tickets by an individual user in a month. This limit has been revised to 12 Railway tickets in a month for those individual users who have linked their IRCTC user ID with their respective Aadhaar number and ensured that at least one of the passengers in the passenger list is verifiable through Aadhaar.
     3. Checking of User IDs on daily basis and deactivation of those IDs found using malpractices like fast booking of tickets. Around 1.26 lakh user IDs have been deactivated from 1 st April 2018 to 31 st May 2019.
     4. Checking of Tatkal tickets booked in first minute for frivolous users on daily basis and cancellation/release of such tickets on suspicion.
     5. Only one booking in one user login session except for return/ onward journey between 0800 and 1200 hours.
     6. Checks applied on minimum time required to enter the passenger details and displayed CAPTCHA at the time of e-ticket booking by users.
     7. Restriction on authorized agents of IRCTC for booking tickets during first fifteen minutes of opening of Advance Reservation Period (ARP) booking and Tatkal booking.

    Regular checks are conducted in mass contact areas such as Passenger Reservation System (PRS) centres, booking offices, platforms, trains etc. to prevent unauthorized ticketing activities including the use of scripting software. Such checks are also intensified during peak period like festivals, holidays etc. The number of touts/brokers arrested by Railway Protection Force along with number of e-tickets seized from them is as under:-

                                                                    
Year              Number of touts/brokers arrested  Number of       
                                                    e-tickets seized
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
2018              2391                              78001           
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
2019 ( upto May)  613                               18784           
                                                                    
                                                                    

    This information was given by the Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    SVS/MKV/RM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576174) Visitor Counter : 207
    
    
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
7.