      Ministry of Railways

      Steps to Prevent Deaths Due to Trespassing
      Posted On: 28 JUN 2019 4:17PM by PIB Delhi


    Railways have constituted an interdepartmental ‘Joint Committee’ comprising officers of Safety, Security, Signal & Engineering departments across all Zonal Railways to study the causes and suggest specific measures to minimise deaths due to untoward incidents including trespassing. Accordingly, preventive and corrective measures are taken to improve and create infrastructure to minimise casualties.


    Besides, the following corrective measures are also being taken by the Railways to prevent deaths in untoward incidents on Railway track:-


     1. Railways has been constructing FOBs at places where passengers are required to cross tracks.

     2. Regular announcements are made through Passenger Address System at Railway stations urging passengers to use foot over bridges (FOBs) and to avoid crossing of railway tracks.
     3. Various awareness campaigns are organized by Railways to sensitize passengers about the fatalities of crossing railway tracks, foot-board/ roof-top travelling, boarding/de-boarding running trains etc.
     4. Regular drives are conducted against trespassing, travelling on foot-board, steps, roof top of trains, boarding/de-boarding running trains and the persons apprehended are prosecuted under the relevant provisions of the Railways Act, 1989.
     5. Railway Protection Force personnel are deployed on locations vulnerable for trespassing.
     6. Erection of boundary wall/fencing at identified locations, vulnerable to trespass.
     7. Warning sign boards are provided at conspicuous places for the awareness of passengers.
     8. Unauthorized trespassing on Railway premises including the Railway track is a punishable offence under section 147 of the Railways Act, 1989. During the current year upto May, 2019, total 60740 persons have been prosecuted for trespassing.

    Ministry of Railways has planned to construct boundary wall/fencing at vulnerable locations and approaches of major railway stations to guard tracks from cattle crossing and to prevent unauthorized trespassing. During the financial year 2018-19, Ministry of Railways has sanctioned works worth ` 3150 cr. for provision of boundary wall at identified vulnerable locations and their approaches to safeguard track, prevent encroachment and to improve safety of track over Indian Railways.


    This information was given by the Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    SVS/MKV/RM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1576179) Visitor Counter : 252
    
    
    
    
    

8.