      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Smt. Renuka Singh to Launch ‘Go Tribal Campaign’ by Tribes India Tomorrow
      Posted On: 27 JUN 2019 5:57PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of State for Tribal Affairs, Smt. Renuka Singh will launch the “Go Tribal Campaign” by Tribes India at an event here tomorrow. Shri R.C. Meena, Chairman, TRIFED and Shri Deepak Khandekar, Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs and Shri Pravir Krishna, MD, TRIFED will be present on the occasion.


    TRIFED has organized this event to institutionalize collaborations and partnerships with different organizations to promote tribal products. The event will cover the following :

     1. “Go Tribals Campaign by Tribes India” will be launched under which a number of innovative activities have been planned to be undertaken to promote use of tribal handicrafts, handicrafts and natural products.

     1. Global Launch of “Tribes India” through Amazon Global Selling, under which Tribes India and Amazon Global Marketing will launch TRIBES India products globally through Amazon.com. With this collaboration, tribal products shall be available in the US and will help establish export market with tribal products.


     1. Collaboration of Tribes India with Central Silk Board for development, promotion, marketing of tribal silk products and empowerment of tribal weavers.


     1. TRIFED joins the 150 th birth anniversary celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi by introducing Khadi Kurtas and Jackets to its products range in association with “I Am Khadi” foundation.


    As part of this initiative, TRIFED in association with Ms. Ruma Devi, the Star Supplier from Grameen Vikas Chetna Sanstha, Barmer, Rajasthan will showcase a new range of ethnic fashion wear, She is also the recipient of Nari Shakti Puraskar from the President of India and cover page face of Anniversary edition of India Today magazine.Besides, the heritage range of traditional tribal handloom, handicrafts and naturals collection of the country like Madua, Jowaer, Bazra, Red Rice, Honey, Lac products, Spices, Coffee, Tea, Handmade Soaps etc produced by Tribals in various parts of the country will also be showcased.


    TRIFED is an organization under Ministry of Tribal Affairs and is engaged in marketing development of tribal products including tribal art and craft under the brand name “TRIBES INDIA”.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/MoTA/27.06.2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576059) Visitor Counter : 836
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

1.