      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Ministry of Statistics and Program Implementation and Ministry of Planning inaugurated Statistics Day 2019
      
      Theme: Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
      
      Revamped portal of Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS), and SDG Dashboard were launched
      
      Baseline Report on SDGs was released
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2019 12:03PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Ministry of Statistics and Program Implementation and Ministry of Planning, Rao Inderjit Singh inaugurated the Statistics Day, 2019 on 29 th June, 2019 at VigyanBhawan, New Delhi. Dr. Bibek Debroy, Chairman, Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council and President, Indian Statistical Institute, Shri Pravin Srivastava, Chief Statistician of India-cum-Secretary, Ministry of Statistics and Program Implementation along with senior officers of Central/ State Governments and other stakeholders werealso present on the occasion.


    The winner of Prof. C.R. Rao Award 2019, Dr. SubhraSankarDhar, Associate Professor, IIT, Kanpurwas felicitated during the programforhis notable contribution in the field of Statistics. The winners of ‘On the Spot Essay Writing Competition’ for Post Graduate Students on the subject relevant to Statistics organized at All India level were also felicitated. During the event, a short documentary film on SDGs was also exhibited reflecting country’s commitment towards integrating social,economic and environmental dimensions for holistic development.


    The revamped portal of Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS)and SDG Dashboard were launched on the occasion in addition to release of Baseline Report on SDGs and Study report on Revamping Project Management Practices conducted by Project Management Institute (PMI).


    Minister for Statistics and Programme Implementation @Rao_InderjitS launching the revamped portal of MPLADS and the SDG Dashboard. Baseline Report on SDGs and Study report on Revamping Project Management Practices were also released. #StatisticsDay2019 #StatisticsDay pic.twitter.com/2ecCo6tuqn

    — PIB India (@PIB_India) June 29, 2019

    In his address, Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Ministry of Statistics and Program Implementation and Ministry of Planning, Rao Inderjit Singh underlined the importance and need for holistic data for informed policy discourse and decision. He mentioned that the Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation is fully committed to continuously improving the data quality of Official Statistics in a transparent manner. He further underscored that in order to monitor the progress of SDGs, the creation of a robust database is essential. While complimenting the contribution of statisticians and researchersin improving the National StatisticalSystem,the Hon’ble Minister announced that MoSPI would be instituting the Prof. P.C. Mahalanobis National Award in Official Statistics to recognise and honour the outstanding contribution and meritorious work of Official Statisticians working in the Central Government, State Governments and their Institutions.


    Minister for Statistics and Programme Implementation @Rao_InderjitS addressing the gathering on the occasion of #StatisticsDay2019. He underlined the importance and need for holistic data for informed policy discourse and decision. pic.twitter.com/c3aXUNKKZn

    — PIB India (@PIB_India) June 29, 2019

    The Government has been celebrating the Statistics Day, to popularize the use of Statistics in everyday life and sensitize the public as to how Statistics helps in shaping and framing policies. It is celebrated on the birth anniversary of Prof. P C Mahalanobis, on 29 th June, in recognition of his invaluable contribution in establishing the National Statistical System. This year’s theme of StatisticsDayis Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) keeping in view India’s commitment towards achieving these goals.


    Field offices of National Statistical Office, State Governments and Universities/Departments also organized seminars, Conferences, Debates, Quiz Programs, Lectures, Essay Competitions, etc.to mark the Statistics Day2019.


    ***


    AKT/ VJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576300) Visitor Counter : 847
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Gujarati