      PIB Headquarters

      KVK launches farm service centre to support farmers
      Posted On: 11 JUN 2019 4:56PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    In an effort to combat shortage of skilled labour for farming activities in the district, the Ernakulam Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) of the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) has launched a farm service centre equipped with a wide range of farm machineries and equipments to offer paid services in all kinds of farm initiatives. Aqua, animal and agri farmers of Ernakulam district can avail the facility.


    The centre will offer all kinds of farm supports to the farmers using the machineries such as tractors, power tiller, power weeder, different types of ploughs, rotavators, earth augers, motorized and hand operated sprayers, paddy transplanter, agro waste shredder, slurry pump, water pump etc. In addition, scientific advisories will be provided during the farm visits.


    Dr A Gopalakrishnan, Director of CMFRI who inaugurated the functioning of the farm service centre, said the new initiative from the KVK will be beneficial to hundreds of farmers in the district who are struggling owing to the shortage of technically trained labourers. The farm service centre has been set up with a cost of Rs. 40 lakhs under a project of the Union government to popularise the mechanised farming, he said. “Presently, trained staff of the KVK provides thse technical services such as land preparation, pond preparation, fish cage fabrication, ploughing and so on. Self-help groups will be formed in the future to make available the farm services to large-scale farmers in future. More equipments and machinery will be added soon”, he added.


    “Now, the farm service centre is focusing on the seasonal works of paddy land preparation as the monsoon has arrived”, said Dr Shinoj Subramannian, Senior Scientist and Head of KVK. Those who are in need of farm services may register their names with the KVK at 8089434479 to avail the service of the centre. Those who are trained in agro machinery operation and interested to take part in this mission can also register their names in the above number.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573909) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam