      PIB Headquarters

      Yoga Day Celebrated with Full Gusto By Navy at Kochi
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2019 4:10PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    The International Yoga Day 2019 was celebrated by the naval personnel of Southern Naval Command (SNC) with traditional military élan on 21 Jun 19 at Kochi, Lakshadweep & Minicoy Islands as well as in all the seven states of India in which it is geographically spread. A mass yoga camp for naval personnel, including personnel of friendly foreign nations undergoing training, as well as families and children, was conducted at the hangar of the oldest naval squadron INAS 550 inside the naval base, Kochi which was attended by a large gathering led by Vice Admiral AK Chawla, AVSM, NM, VSM, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief (FOC-in-C), SNC. The session was conducted by renowned Yoga Trainer Ms. Nuthan Manohar from “ Me Met Me ” Institute. The camp was aimed at creating awareness amongst the naval personnel and families about the benefits of yoga in our daily routine, to enjoy a healthy and stress-free life. Similar sessions were held at other places such as INS Dronacharya at Fort Kochi where yoga sessions were conducted for more than 200 naval personnel and families.


    The ships of SNC, INS Sujata, Magar and Sagardhawani deployed on maritime surveillance mission, also conducted yoga at sea. Mass Yoga session was also conducted for personnel of other SNC ships in the harbour. Approximately 450 personnel from all ships participated in these yoga sessions.


    The International Yoga day celebrations of SNC included a week long commemorative activities such as , a workshop cum lecture on the virtues of yoga/ meditation and its healing benefits on 18 and 19 Jun 19 the Heartfulness Institute, a high altitude yoga session by Diving School staff and trainees at Idukki, Kerala on 19 Jun 19 which included 22 international students from friendly foreign countries, namely Sri Lanka, Mauritius, Myanmar, Philippines, Bangladesh and Maldives and ‘ Integrated Amrita Meditation Technique Programme ’ on 20 Jun 19 in collaboration with Amrita Meditation Institute. A quiz competition to increase awareness about yoga and its benefits was also conducted at Sagarika Auditorium, Naval Base, Kochi on 21 Jun 19

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575186) Visitor Counter : 2