      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund (AHIDF) to incentivize investments in MSMEs and Private companies in animal husbandry sector.
      Posted On: 25 JUN 2020 7:03PM by PIB Chandigarh


    Chandigarh, June 25, 2020


    To incentivize investments in MSMEs and private companies in dairy & meat processing, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs on Wednesday approved setting up of Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund (AHIDF) worth Rs. 15,000 crore. This will also encourage value addition infrastructure and establishment of animal feed plant in the private sector. The eligible beneficiaries under the Scheme would be Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs), MSMEs, Section 8 Companies, private companies and individual entrepreneur with minimum 10% margin money contribution by them. The balance 90% would be the loan component to be made available by scheduled banks.


    Government of India will provide 3% interest subvention to eligible beneficiaries. There will be 2 years moratorium period for principal loan amount and 6 years repayment period thereafter. A Rs.750 crore Credit Guarantee Fund would be set up and managed by NABARD. Credit guarantee would be provided to those sanctioned projects which are covered under MSME defined ceilings. Guarantee Coverage would be upto 25% of Credit facility of borrower.


    Since almost 50-60% of the final value of dairy output in India flows back to farmers, the growth in this sector can have significant direct impact on farmer’s income. Farmers’ realization from milk sales is closely linked with development of organized off-take by cooperative and private dairies. Thus, investment incentivization in AHIDF would not only leverage 7 times private investment but would also motivate farmers to invest more on inputs thereby driving higher productivity leading to increase in farmers income.


    Government had earlier approved the Dairy Infrastructure Development Fund (DIDF) worth Rs. 10,000 crores for incentivizing investment by cooperative sector for development of dairy infrastructure.


    *****


    DS/PS/HR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1634341) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi