      PIB Headquarters

      Revised traffic flow to be effective in Chennai Airport from 27.12.2018
      Posted On: 26 DEC 2018 6:10PM by PIB Chennai


    To provide convenience and confirming quick entry and exit to Domestic (T1) and International terminal (T4) at Chennai International Airport, Airports Authority of India(AAI) has planned to put in place a revised traffic pattern at Chennai Airport w.e.f.1100 hrs on 27.12. 2018.This will reduce the time taken to enter and exit the airport and ease the congestion in front of terminals.


    With the introduction of new routing, there will be separate access to departure and arrival levels in both Domestic and International terminals. The vehicle in the departure level have to drop passenger and exit the airport and will not have access to parking facility both in domestic and international terminals.


    Similarly, for vehicles arriving to pickup passengers, there will be separate lane only for pick up andseparate for parking. Pickup lane vehicle cannot access parking and after pick up the vehicle has to leave the Airport. The vehicles in parking has to pickup passengers from the designated pickup area in the parking lot and exit the airport.


    In order to avoid congestion in front of terminal, the time allowed for vehicles in front of terminal will be minimum required time. However, 10 minutes free time from entry to exit of toll booths will continue. There will be fine imposed to vehicles parking (pickup /drop) in front of terminal more than reasonable time.


    The pickup will be permitted in front of terminal building only for private vehicles and commercial vehicles are not allowed except authorised cab aggregator Ola. Other pickup (s) will happen only in the parking area. The vehicle parking charges will remain the same as of now; however, the charges will be revised shortly after the new traffic flow is established satisfactorily.


    Hence, all travelling public are requested to strictly follow the traffic signs of respective departure/ arrival terminals while coming to airport. We also sincerely request all the stake holders and passengers to co-operate for smooth operation of the revised traffic flow.


    *****


    

    
    (Release ID: 1557393) Visitor Counter : 32
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil