      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Five day Exhibition commemorating 150thBirth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhiji Inaugurated by Shri V.P. Singh Badnore
      Exhibition showcases life, travels &philosophy of Mahatma Gandhiji through Multi- Media mode

      Posted On: 02 OCT 2019 4:52PM by PIB Chandigarh

    Hon’ble Governor of Punjab and Administrator, U.T. Chandigarh Shri V.P. Singh Badnore inaugurated a Five-day Mega Multi-Media Exhibition here today. The Adviser to the Administrator, Shri Manoj Kumar Parida also attended the function. This Exhibition has been organised by Regional Outreach Bureau Chandigarh, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India. The Governor appreciated the efforts of the Government of India in bringing this exhibition in Chandigarh for its citizens .


    Hon’ble Governor of Punjab and Administrator, U.T. Chandigarh Shri V.P. Singh Badnore lighting the lamp at the inauguration of the Five-day Mega Multi-Media Exhibition to commemorate 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhiji in Chandigarh on October 2, 2019. The Adviser to the Administrator, Shri Manoj Kumar Parida and Additional Director General (Region,) Ministry of Information & Broadcasting Smt Devpreet Singh are also seen in the picture.


    The five-day Exhibition will be held from 2 October 2019 to 6 October 2019 at Plaza, Sector 17, Chandigarh. The exhibition showcases various phases of life of Mahatma Gandhiji, his travels & philosophy through multi-media mode. Interactive kiosks and Flip Books to engage visitors and children are put up in the exhibition. Cultural events and nukkad nataks on the theme of Swachhta by folk artists are also being organized during the exhibition. A Book Stall showcasing different books on Mahatma Gandhi ji published by Publications Division has also been put up at the exhibition venue for display and sale. The exhibition would also showcase Swachh Bharat Mission focussing on theme of ‘Satyagraha se Swachhagraha’ and ‘Say No to Single use Plastic’.


    The entry to the exhibition is free of cost to all the visitors and would be open for visit anytime between 10 AM to 9 PM during October 2-6, 2019. As part of these celebrations, theme based events on ‘Swachhta hi Sewa’ & ‘Fit India’ are also being organized by Regional Outreach Bureau Chandigarh in the region covering states of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and UT Chandigarh. Regional Outreach Bureau Chandigarh is also organizing an Integrated Communication & Outreach Programme including three-day photo exhibitions on Mahatma Gandhiji at Shimla & Jalandhar.


    A National Para-athelete, Virender Singh , who ran from Shimla to Chandigarh along with his team to promote Plastic free India and Himachal Pradesh , was also felicitated by the Governor on the occasion.


    Hon’ble Governor of Punjab and Administrator, U.T. Chandigarh Shri V.P. Singh Badnore felicitating the National Para-athelete, Virender Singh on the occasion.


    The Additional Director General (Region) , Ministry of Information & Broadcasting , Smt Devpreet Singh, Director ( Regional Outreach Bureau) Shri Ashish Goyal and Deputy Director ( Regional Outreach Bureau) Shri Anuj Chandak were also present at the occasion.


    DS/PS/VC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586973) Visitor Counter : 10
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi