      Ministry of Urban Development

      Shri Prabhakar Singh, Director General, Central Public Works Department laid the Foundation stone of Touring Officers’ Accommodation & General Pool Residential Accommodation at Sector-38 B, Chandigarh
      Posted On: 04 OCT 2019 4:50PM by PIB Chandigarh


    Shri Prabhakar Singh, Director General, Central Public Works Department (CPWD), Chandigarh laid the foundation stone of Touring Officers’ Accommodation & General Pool Residential Accommodation, Sector-38 B, Chandigarh today. CPWD shall be constructing Touring Officers’ Accommodation at a cost of Rs. 19.64 Crore and General Pool Residential Accommodation consisting of T-IV/28 Nos. and T-VI/14 Nos. quarters at a cost of Rs. 34.61 Crore.


    Addressing the officers on the occasion, Shri Prabhakar Singh urged them to be focused on Public Works, and be more proactive, creative, innovative to convert waste into resources and be an example of inspiration for others to be followed. Stressing the need for behavioral change, he said that works manual has been simplified to provide and insure authority & responsibility at the site of the works itself. He said that CPWD has been fully computerized and automated and Enterprises Resource Planning (ERP) has been focused to ensure environment – friendly, all-round development and accessibility for differently-abled persons.


    Touring Officers’ Accommodation shall comprise of 02 VIP Suites, 10 double bed guest rooms & 2 dormitories (6 bed each) for officers, 1 dormitory (6 bed) for drivers & other staff, Lounge, Kitchen and dining at ground floor, Multipurpose Hall with Pre-function area at 1 st floor, Parking facilities for 53 vehicles at basement and 5 vehicles at surface. The building shall be fully accessible and having CCTV cameras and EPBAX system. Provision for adding one more storey has been kept.


    General Pool Residential Accommodation shall comprise of T-IV/28 Nos. and T-VI/14 Nos. quarters divided into Two Blocks (One Blocks of G+3 and One Block of G+2) each. The building shall have common basement for parking of vehicles. 4 Nos. lifts of 13 passengers each Block.


    Both the buildings shall be constructed with Green Building norms. The buildings shall be constructed with new technology using AAC blocks made of fly ash/ recycled materials made from C&D waste. Fire alarm, firefighting system, LED lighting, Solar PV Power Generation System & Solar water heating system shall be provided in the buildings and the buildings shall be energy efficient. Both the buildings shall be designed in-house for earthquake resistance for Seismic Zone –IV.


    CPWD is committed to development which is environmental friendly. Most of the existing trees in the premises shall be retained through a smart lay out design. The underlying philosophy is to cut minimum trees. In addition to transplantation of trees, many more trees of native species will be planted.


    For Solid Waste Management, Organic Waste Composters will be installed to treat solid waste. Rainwater Harvesting system will be provided to recharge the ground water. Construction materials made of fly ash/ recycled materials made from C&D waste shall be used in the works. Appropriate dust calming down measures shall be adopted during the construction.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587235) Visitor Counter : 6