      Ministry of Defence

      EIGHTH INDO SEYCHELLES JOINT ARMY EXERCISE
      Posted On: 23 FEB 2018 5:28PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    23 Feb 2018, Ahmedabad


    The 8th joint military exercise between the Indian Army and Seychelles People’s Defence Forces is scheduled from 24 February 2018 to 04 March 2018 at Mahe Island, Seychelles. The exercise is named “LAMITYE” which in the local dialect ‘Creole’, means friendship. This exercise is the 8th in the series of bilateral exercises being conducted in the beautiful island nation.


    India and Seychelles have been conducting this joint exercise since 2001 with the aim of enhancing military cooperation and interoperability between the Armies of the two countries. The focus of the ongoing exercise is to conduct counter-insurgency and counter-terrorist operations in semi urban environment under the United Nations (UN) charter. The nine day long event will see the contingents hone their tactical and technical skills in countering insurgency and terrorism in UN Peacekeeping scenario involving the activation of the joint operations centre of the Seychelles People’s Defence Force. The Seychelles People’s Defence Force will be represented by a total of 52 personnel from their Special Forces Unit, Coast Guard and the Air Force, whereas an Infantry Platoon from the Southern Command will represent the Indian Army.


    Use of State-of-the-art equipment for surveillance and tracking, specialist weapons for close quarter battle with terrorists, use and detection of improvised explosive devices as well as the latest communication equipment will be fielded during the exercise.


    The contingents will train, plan and execute a series of well-developed combined tactical drills for neutralisation of likely threats that may be encountered in UN peacekeeping operations keeping in view the prevalent insurgency and piracy environment. The exercise will focus on achieving optimum cohesion and interoperability in accomplishing common military objectives.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521540) Visitor Counter : 1018
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati