      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      8th STATE LEVEL PAINTING COMPETITION ON WATER CONSERVATION & POLLUTION, 2017-18
      Posted On: 22 FEB 2018 5:08PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    The Central Ground Water Board, Ministry of Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation, Government of India organizes three stages painting competition at school, State and National level to spread the message of water conservation and pollution for students of 6th, 7th and 8th standards across the Country.


    On 22nd February 2018, 8th State level painting competition was organized by Central Ground Water Board, West Central Region, Ahmedabad at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Memorial, Shahibaug, Ahmedabad on the theme “Save water – secure life”. 50 selected students from across the Gujarat State & U. T. of Daman and Diu participated in the State level painting competition.


    Winners of this competition are selected by the eminent jury comprising Sh. Mahendra Kadia, Eminent Artist, Sh. Pravin Bhai Suthar, Eminent Artist, Sh. Jetendra oghani, Lecturer and Sh. P. K. Jain, Supt. Hydrogeologist and declared first, second, third and 10 consolation prizes among 50 participants. Ku Dodiya Devanshi Umesh Kumar, Sh Pruthviraj Singh and Ku Hetvi Rajiv Shah, stood First, Second and Third respectively. The First, Second and Third prize winners of the State Level Competition shall be eligible for the National Level Painting Competition to be held at New Delhi during March 2018.


    Prize distribution function was organized at 3 PM in the Auditorium of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Memorial, Shahibaug, Ahmedabad. Stage live show Bhawai on the theme “Water conservation and Pollution” was performed by Shri Raj Nayak and his team during prize distribution function.


    Dr. Narotam Sahu, Advisor & Member Secretary of Gujarat council of Science and technology, Ahmedabad, was graced the prize distribution function as Chief Guest, Sh. Mahendra Kadia, Eminent Artist National Lalit Kala Academy award winner was the Guest of Honor, Sh. P. K. Jain, Supt. Hydrogeologist, CGWB, WCR, Ahmedabad delivered welcome address. At the end of the function the vote of thank is delivered by Sh. H.N. Tiwar, Scientist-D, CGWB, WCR, Ahmedabad.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521419) Visitor Counter : 147
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati