      Ministry of Finance

      PFRDA pledges to contribute to PM-CARES Fund to help fight COVID-19 outbreak
      Posted On: 01 APR 2020 6:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The pension sector regulator Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) has pledged to contribute a part of the employee’s salary to the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund, instituted recently under the guidance of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi to assist and provide relief measures to the citizens of the country following the global outbreak of novel Coronavirus (COVID-19).


    Alike other Government institutions, industry leaders, celebrities, individuals, PFRDA employees have decided to contribute part of their salary and PFRDA is committed to assist the government in its fight against the pandemic in India.


    Shri Supratim Bandyopadhyay, Chairman PFRDA said “This is one of the most challenging period that our country is facing today. At this moment what matters most is sharing the responsibility of fight against coronavirus (COVID-19) in every way possible. The PFRDA is perceptive of the implications of this pandemic situation and would like to contribute towards the fight of this crisis”.

    About PFRDA


    Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) is the statutory Authority established by an enactment of the Parliament, to regulate, promote and ensure orderly growth of the National Pension System (NPS) and pension schemes to which this Act applies. NPS was initially notified for central government employees joining service on or after 1st Jan 2004 and subsequently adopted by almost all State Governments for its employees. NPS was extended to all Indian citizens (resident/non-resident/overseas) on a voluntary basis and to corporates for its employees.


    As on 31st March 2020, the total number of subscribers under NPS and Atal Pension Yojana has crossed 3.45 crores and the Asset under Management (AUM) has grown to Rs 4,17,478 crores. More than 68 lakhs government employees have been enrolled under NPS and 22 lakhs subscribers have subscribed to NPS in the private sector with 7,568 entities registered as corporates. More than 2.11 crores subscribers are presently covered under the GoI guaranteed pension scheme - Atal Pension Yojana.


    ****


    RM/KMN


    

    
    (Release ID: 1609982) Visitor Counter : 670
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati , Hindi , Assamese , Bengali , Tamil , Telugu