      Office of Principal Scientific Advisor to GoI

      Homemade masks to overcome shortage
      
      Designs are Ease of Access to Materials, Easy of Making at Home, Ease of Use and Reuse
      Posted On: 02 APR 2020 12:40PM by PIB Delhi


    Are you an apprehensive citizen wondering where to get your hand on a face mask? Office of the Principal Scientific Advisor to the Government of India has come up with an innovative solution for you: homemade face mask. “This is primarily mend for the people who want to wear mask but do not have access to it. They can make these washable and reusable masks home” says Dr Shailja Vaidya Gupta, Senior Adviser, Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government.


    Shortage of face mask and hand sanitizers is a stark reality. With the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, as anxious public frantically shopped hygiene products, in particular mask and hand sanitizers, the sudden increased supply could not be met by the burgeoning demand.


    The Office of the Principal Scientific Advisor to the Government of India issued the manual on homemade masks: “Masks for Curbing the Spread of SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus” for home fabrication. The key criteria for proposed designs are Ease of Access to Materials, Easy of Making at Home, Ease of Use and Reuse.


    Shops and services are demanding that the customers use face mask. In some shops the patrons are denied services for not using the face mask. The homemade mask would help people. Many health experts are also suggesting use of face mask in public spaces could reduce the spread of infection. The proposed guide is meant to provide a simple outline to make, use and reuse masks. This manual could be used by NGOs and individuals to self-create such masks and accelerate widespread adoption of use of masks across India.


    Protective masks lower the chances of coronavirus entering our respiratory system through droplets that are present in the air.


    The Science and Technology Empowered Committee was constituted on 19th March 2020. The committee is jointly chaired by Prof. Vinod Paul, Member, NITI Aayog and Prof. K Vijay Raghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India, and is responsible for coordination amongst science agencies, scientists, industries and regulatory bodies, and to take speedy decisions on research and development to implementation related to the Sars-Cov-2 virus and the COVID-19 disease.


    Download the detailed manual on using and making homemade masks http://bit.ly/DIYMasksCorona


    *****


    KGS/(DST- India Science Wire )

    
    
    (Release ID: 1610191) Visitor Counter : 1036
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada