      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister interacts through Video Conference with heads, teachers and students of several universities, colleges and schools across the country on COVID- 19
      
      Shri Nishank expresses gratitude to all the teachers and students for playing an active role in the war against COVID-19
      
      Ministry of Human Resource Development stands with its students and teachers in difficult times - Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank

      Posted On: 03 APR 2020 8:40PM by PIB Delhi

    Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' today interacted with heads, students and teachers of several universities, colleges andschools, across the country through video conferencing about the corona virus spread across the country and the world.


    The Union Minister not only listened to their problems but also thanked them for their active role in making people aware of the measures taken by the Government to fight this epidemic. More than 800 people across the country joined the meeting through Video Conferencing.


    Shri Nishank appreciated the efforts of 1000 universities, 45000 colleges, 1.5 million students, more than one crore teachers and more than 33 crore students across the country who have contributed significantly in fighting the spread of the virus. He said that all the people have not only shown unprecedented patience in the time of this crisis but also made people aware to take necessary precautions and stay healthy to combat COVID-19.


    Union Minister said that it isa result of commitment of all the teachers that online education system has been started in such a short time in the country, through which millions of students are taking advantage. Shri Pokhriyal congratulated all Higher Educational institutions including IITs across the country for their research in preparing the medical equipment for use in the fight against Coronavirus.


    Shri Pokhriyal also heard patiently to the problems of all the teachers and students. The Minister assured everyone that the Ministry will take all possible steps to ensure holistic developmentof students. He also assured all the teachers that they should contact their Principal or Vice Chancellor if they themselves or any member of their family has unfortunately become ill. The Union Minister assured that all the medical assistance will be provided by the Ministry.


    The Minister also urged that all teachers and students to follow the advisory issued by the Ministry of AYUSH and motivate others to follow it. He said that the students of today are the future of tomorrow and if the students keep themselves healthy at this time then our future will also be healthy and secure.


    Shri Pokhriyal asked everybody to show solidarity by lighting candles, mobile torches, etc. at 9 pm on April 5 as per the call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to get new energy to fight the epidemic.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1610814) Visitor Counter : 281
    
    
      Read this release in: Kannada , Hindi , Assamese , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu