      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Updates on COVID-19
      Posted On: 02 APR 2020 5:39PM by PIB Delhi


    Various actions have been initiated by Government of India along with the States/UTs for the prevention, containment and management of COVID-19 in the country. These are being regularly monitored at the highest level.


    Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi chaired a high level meeting with the Chief Ministers of States/UTs through video conference today. States were urged to manage the crisis at the district level and to focus on testing, isolation and quarantine facilities. States were also requested to upgrade the healthcare human resource, conduct online training of frontline workers along with increasing the strength of existing capacity through involvement of retired health workers from Government and private hospitals, NGOs, NSS & NSOs.


    Hon’ble Prime Minister was apprised by the States that lockdown was being implemented with social distancing measures and enhanced surveillance, and they have been conducting rigorous contact tracing especially of migrant workers and international passengers. States also informed that they were ensuring that adequate welfare measures for psycho-social support and essential supplies are being ensured in the relief camps. States also reported on their progress regarding dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, ICU beds, quarantine facilities, ventilators & PPEs.


    Under the orders of Hon’ble Supreme Court, States have been directed to take effective measures to fight fake news in order to prevent panic among people.


    In addition, Guidelines for Dialysis of #COVID19 patients was issued by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. It is available on the website- www.mohfw.gov.in.


    The Ministry of Health & Family Welfare with the help of National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Science (NIMHANS) has recommended general public measures to be taken on mental health for the elderly and children to deal with anxiety and stress due to the outbreak of COVID-19, which are available at www.mohfw.gov.in/. A psycho-social toll-free helpline number 08046110007 is also functional for any behavioral health related query.


    As of now, 1965 confirmed cases and 50 deaths have been reported. During the last 24 hours, 328 new confirmed cases and 12 new deaths have been reported. 151 persons have been cured/discharged from the hospitals after recovery.


    For all authentic & updated information on COVID-19 related technical issues, guidelines & advisories please regularly visit: https://www.mohfw.gov.in/ .


    Technical queries related to COVID-19 may be emailed at technicalquery.covid19@gov.in and other queries on ncov2019@gov.in .


    In case of any queries on COVID-19, please call at Ministry of Health & Family Welfare helpline no. : +91-11-23978046 or 1075 (Toll-free). List of helpline numbers of States/UTs on COVID-19 is also available at https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/coronvavirushelplinenumber.pdf .


    *****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1610353) Visitor Counter : 5230
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Marathi , Hindi , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada