      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister launches MHRD AICTE COVID-19 Student Helpline Portal developed by AICTE in New Delhi
      Posted On: 03 APR 2020 7:45PM by PIB Delhi


    In view of the outbreak of COVID19 and National lockdown since March 25th, some students have been facing difficulties due to closure of colleges and hostels. Hence in order to provide help and support to such students, AICTE (All India Council for Technical Education) has come out with a uniqueMHRD AICTE COVID-19 Student Helpline Portaltoaddress the issues.


    The website with an URL https://helpline.aicte-india.org was launched by the Honorable Minister for Human Resource development Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank” today in the presence of Prof. Anil Sahasrabudhe, Chairman, AICTE, Shri MP Poonia, Vice Chairman AICTE, Shri Buddha Chandrashekhar, Chief Coordinating Officer, AICTE and student interns Shivanshu and Akash of Graphic Era University who developed this portal in record time of one day.


    Speaking on the occasion the Minister said that this portal is essentially to connect those who are willing to provide help with those who need help. The nature of support includes Accommodation, Food, on line Classes, Attendance, Examinations, Scholarships, Health, Transport, Harassment etc.


    The Minister informed that more than 6500 colleges have already come forward to provide support at such a crucial juncture. Students in difficulty are encouraged to directly get connected with them through this portal. Shri Nishank also appreciated the efforts of the students who have created this unique platform.


    He was delighted to know that many higher educational institutions are also coming forward to support the government by empowering healthcare services through their research. Prof. Anil Sahasrabudhe, Chairman AICTE also appealed to voluntary organizations, NGOs. Social organizations, philanthropists to come forward and render their support similar to the 6500 colleges.


    Interested social organizations, NGOs, philanthropists please contactmay contact AICTE at: cconeat@aicte-india.org


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1610781) Visitor Counter : 948
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada