      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Regular Air Cargo supplies, including essential commodities and medical equipment are reaching Northeast: Dr. Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 05 APR 2020 5:45PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances,Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh disclosed here today that regular Air Cargo supplies, including essential commodities and medical equipment, are reaching Northeast, and there is no dearth of any item nor any possibility of any dearth in the days to come.


    In a brief to the media, Dr Jitendra Singh said, soon after the declaration of the Lockdown, decision was taken on the intervention of Prime Minister Sh Narendra Modi that Air Cargo flights carrying essential supplies will be operated on priority in the North Eastern Region as well as other distant regions including the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, and the Island territories. Soon thereafter, Air Cargo flights, through Air India as well as Indian Air Force, started operating, he said.


    Giving details, Dr Jitendra Singh said, the first air consignment through Air India landed at Guwahati Airport late night on 30th March and the very next morning on 31st March, an Indian Air Force Cargo Flight landed at Dimapur. Ever since then, there has been a regular inflow of Air Cargo consignments, as a result of which, for example, the State of Nagaland has so far already received three big air consignments and so has Manipur already received three Air Cargo consignments.


    As for the demand for face masks is concerned, Dr Jitendra Singh disclosed that a consignment of 30,000 N-95 Masks has already landed in Guwahati for further distribution. Meanwhile, he appreciated the efforts of Self Help Groups, which have come forward to prepare Masks and Sanitisers through their own efforts, he said.


    Dr Jitendra Singh assured that in future also, arrangement is in place to arrange for an Air Cargo flight at a short notice, whenever a demand or requirement is raised. Depending upon the nature and the quantum of the consignment, the Air India and the Indian Air Force will work in coordination with each other, he said. There is also a mechanism in place for real-time monitoring and we are in constant touch with all the State Governments, he said.


    At the same time, Dr Jitendra Singh informed that the International border measuring about 5,500 Kms along North East India stands fully sealed. This has, in turn, helped in containing the spread of Corona Virus, he added.


    <><><><><>


    VG/SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1611384) Visitor Counter : 388
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada