      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Dr. Harsh Vardhan visits LNJP Hospital to take stock of preparedness to overcome COVID-19
      
      LNJP to function as dedicated COVID-19 hospital

      Posted On: 04 APR 2020 4:36PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister for Health & Family Welfare, Dr. Harsh Vardhan today visited Lok Nayak Jaiprakash Narayan Hospital to take stock of preparedness to overcome COVID-19.


    The Union Minister visited the fever ward, new surgical ward block, Dietary Department, Special Ward, Corona Screening Center, Corona Care Unit and I.C.U. After a detailed review and inspection of the various wards and premises of the Hospoital, the Health Minister expressed satisfaction & commended working of the departments and appreciated the dedication and hard work of the frontline health workers deployed there. ‘The country is grateful to you for your services in such times”, he stated. He further exhorted them for following proper infection control protocol in the hospital. Keeping in view the emerging requirement of isolation beds, Dr Harsh Vardhan stated that the LNJP Hospital will function as dedicated COVID-19 hospital consisting of adequate isolation wards and beds.


    Dr Harsh Vardhan stated that the Government has identified 1500 beds in LNJP and 500 in G.B. Pant hospital for COVID-19 patients. The doctors and health staff manning these wards are provided special facility for boarding and lodging in the nurses’ hostel in the campus itself and a hotel nearby to avoid the issues of transportation and prevent the exposure to their families. He also suggested to install a system of Tele-Medicine / Tele consultation for those patients who were availing of services in the hospital. The similar setup has already been commissioned at AIIMS, New Delhi, he added. He informed that the Government has already notified to facilitate digital prescription and medicine home delivery system.


    On the availability of the PPEs, N95 Masks and ventilators the Health Minister stated, “We have already placed order for sufficient quantity in order to meet the increasing requirement of the country in future times if needed.” Various state governments already have enough numbers of PPEs – 4,66,057 & N95 – 25,28,996 masks – they are being supplied more PPEs (in nos)– 1,54,250 & N95 – 1,53,300 (in nos) in the next few days itself.


    On the issue of stigma against doctors and the frontline health personnel, he stated that the Home Ministry has taken cognizance of such incidents and advised the authorities to take stringent action under National Security Act . He also appealed to the general public and family members of the patients not to assault those doctors and healthcare workers who have been devoting their precious life and time to protect the lives of corona affected persons.


    He urged people to follow the social distancing guidelines and other Dos and Don’ts necessary for prevention and containment of spread of COVID-19 in the country.


    *****


    MV/MR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1611039) Visitor Counter : 829
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada