      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      MSME Technology Centres Contributing in A Big Way in Fight Against COVID19
      Posted On: 05 APR 2020 2:15PM by PIB Delhi


    The country right now is fighting with novel corona virus at many levels. Eighteen operational Technology centres, autonomous bodies under Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), are also playing their role and contributing in the fight with COVID19.


    Central Footwear Training Institute (CFTI) Chennai procured and installed hot sealing machine for job work of sealing masks and Medical gowns. After job work on this machine, Shri Health Care, Chennai became approved supplier of Ministry of Health. CFTI CHENNAI will bring two more machines from industry to escalate the production of Masks and Medical gowns which has already started on 4th April 2020.


    MSME Technology Centre, Hyderabad is developing a prototype of VENTILATOR. It is electro mechanical ventilator based on sensors. First prototype will be ready soon. SME TC, Aurangabad has developed 3D prototype of Face mask. It is in touch with local hospital for validation.


    Central Tool Room and Training Centre (CTTC) Kolkata is developing a simple and low cost ventilator system in consultation with Sagar Datta Super speciality hospital, who have agreed to test it and also handhold during application trials. Some pneumatic components are ordered on line, awaiting arrival for final assembly of prototype. It also developed Face shield prototype. It will start production (20000 per month), at Rs. 15 to 20 per piece.


    MSME Technology Centre, Kannauj started manufacturing Alcohol based sanitizers and supplied to DM, Farrukhabad. It will also supply to Railways and other organisations.


    Institute for Design of Electrical Measuring Instruments (IDEMI) is developing ion based sanitizer. This is also on research paper of BARC. If this is successful it will have multiple applications.


    MSME Technology Centre, Hyderabad, Bhubaneswar and Jamshedpur will manufacture components for 650 Corona Testing Kits. Each Kit consists of 20 hardware components. 1st set of parts will be ready soon at Bhubaneswar. Once okayed, the production will start at various TCs.


    AMTZ needs 10000 components for ventilators. The drawings have been circulated to prepare press tools. GM, TC Bhubaneswar has allocated work of making tools and components to various TCs viz. CTR, Ludhiana, IDEMI, Indo German Tool Room (IGTR), Aurangabad, Kolkotta and IDTR, Jamshedpur. TCs have been requested to expedite the work.


    ESTC Ramnagar designed IV Stand. Motivated 70 mfrs for COVID-19 products to register on GeM. ESTC hostel is converted as Shelter home for 80 migrant labours. MSME Technology Center, Bhiwadi and TC, Jamshedpur offered vacant rooms for establishing isolation centres.


    Process and Product Development Center (PPDC) AGRA and IGTR INDORE jointly plan for hospital furniture. The preparation of design details are in the process. PPDC, Meerut fabricated Face masks and distributed free of cost. CFTI Agra fabricated Medical Gowns for M/s Ramsons, Agra. It will also fabricate triple layered Face masks.


    ******


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1611318) Visitor Counter : 1063
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam