      Ministry of Science & Technology

      DST invites short-term proposals for developing antiviral Nano-coating and Nano based material for scale up by industry and start ups to combat COVID-19
      Posted On: 06 APR 2020 3:23PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Science and Technology (DST) using the Science and Engineering Board (SERB) portal invites ideas in the form of short-term proposals for developing antiviral Nano-coating and new nano based material for use in Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), which can be transferred to a partnering industry or start-up for scale up. Such Nano coatings could contribute immensely in the emerging health care requirements in India’s fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. This call is for bringing the Academic groups and relevant Industrial Groups together for submitting proposals to DST’s Nano Mission.It encourages multidisciplinary efforts and collaboration with industrial partners for scaling up production within a year.


    The invitation calls for development of Antiviral Nano-coatings for producing anti-COVID-19 Triple Layer Medical masks and N-95 respirator or better masks in large quantities and PPEs for safeguarding health care workers against COVID-19.


    The industry contribution could include either manpower support, or support partly for testing of nano-coating to meet the EU or US standards.


    The proposals will be screened for suitability and scope followed by a peer-review on a first come first evaluation basis. The items developed and transferred to industry will need to meet the International standards and may facilitate development of appropriate Indian Standards too for ensuring quality of the nano-coating based product. The last date for submission of proposals is April 30, 2020.


    { The details of the call for proposal is available at www.serbonline.in .


    Contact details of coordinating scientists-

     1. Dr. T. Thangaradjou, Scientist E, SERB, Email: ttradjou@serb.gov.in
     2. Dr Nagaboopathy Mohan, Scientist C, DST Email: boopathy.m@gov.in
     3. Sh Rajiv Khanna, Scientist C, DST Email: Khanna.rk@nic.in

 4. For further details please contact -


    Dr Milind Kulkarni, Scientist- G & Head, Nano Mission, DST


    Email: milind@nic.in, Mob.: +91-9650152599, 9868899962 }


    *****


    KGS/(DST)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1611605) Visitor Counter : 655
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Gujarati , Marathi , Hindi , Assamese , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada
    
    
    

4.