      Ministry of Education

      As advised by Union HRD Minister to ensure academic welfare of students, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan has taken various steps for Online Teaching-Learning Process
      Posted On: 05 APR 2020 7:36PM by PIB Delhi


    In view of the present scenario of closure of schools due to lockdown amidst threat of COVID-19, Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' directed the heads of autonomous institutions coming under the Ministry to take necessary steps to ensure academic welfare of students. Accordingly, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan has adopted various Online and Digital modes to impart education to the students. It has directed all of its Regional Offices to explore various available resources that can be utilized and which would keep students in touch with their studies.


    Initiatives of KVS Teachers


    A large number of KVS Teachers, as responsible educators and mentors, have risen to the occasion in the face of the global pandemic of COVID-19 and are connecting with their students through digital platforms to compensate for the loss of quality instruction time.


    KVS has shared some action points with all the Principals, for implementation to the extent possible, to encourage all teachers in the system to engage their students in learning through digital modes. An essential protocol has also been designed for the online classes to be conducted by our Teachers.


    Using NIOS Platform


    KVS has shared the schedule of lessons of the recorded and live programmes of NIOS for secondary and senior secondary classes from their SWAYAM PRABHA PORTAL commencing from the 7th April 2020.


    The information has been disseminated to all the Vidyalayas to ensure wide publicity amongst teachers, students, and their parents. Teachers have been advised to get in touch with students through various media, such as e-mail, Whatsapp, SMS, etc. to ensure that maximum number of students are benefitted by the programme.


    Nomination of Teachers for Live Interactions


    KVS has nominated some selected teachers for Live Session conducted by NIOS at SwayamPrabha Portal to address the queries and clear the doubts of the learners through Skype and Live Web Chat. The details of the nominated teachers have been shared with all the ROs.


    These nominated teachers will prepare additional material/notes on the content broadcasted in morning session of the same day so that the doubts of the learner could be clarified during live session and if doubts are not coming in during live session then the faculty will recapitulate the content or transact the content through PPT/suitable teaching aids.


    Using various available Resources


    NIOS and NCERT are providing online lessons as well as telecasting lessons on TV. The details are as follows:


    1. Massive Open On-line Course (MOOCS): NIOS course is available on MOOCS in all major subjects at Secondary & Sr. Secondary level on https://swayam.gov.in/nc_details/NIOS


    2. Free to air DTH Channels:


    DTH Channel no. 27 (Panini)


    https://www.swayamprabha.gov.in/index.php/program/current/27 (Secondary)


    DTH Channel no. 28 (Sharda)


    https://www.swayamprabha.gov.in/index.php/channel_profile/profile/28 (Sr. Secondary)


    3. Youtube Channels:


    https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC1we0IrHSKyC7f30wE50_hQ (Secondary) https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC6R9rI-1iEsPCPmvzlunKDg (Senior Secondary)


    4. Kishore Manch: 24 X 7 DTH TV channel of NCERT under Swayamprabha Ch no. 31 for classes IX - XII students


    Besides this, there are free e-resources already available on various platforms like NROER, DIKSHA, SWAYAM PRABHA, NPTEL , e-pathshaala, etc.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1611436) Visitor Counter : 1336
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada