      Ministry of Defence

      NCC cadets start serving people during COVID-19 pandemic under Exercise NCC Yogdan
      Posted On: 06 APR 2020 3:58PM by PIB Delhi


    Civil and police administration have started requisitioning for services of senior division National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets in fight against Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Some of them have started giving service from today. Ministry of Defence (MoD) had allowed temporary employment of NCC cadets last week under ‘Exercise NCC Yogdan’ and guidelines were also issued in this regard. These cadets will give a helping hand to state and municipal authorities to augment relief efforts.


    Union Territory of Ladakh has requisitioned for employment of eight cadets in supply chain management. Neemuch Superintendent of Police has requested Madhya Pradesh & Chhattisgarh Directorate for services of 245 cadets in supply chain and traffic management. Sixty four senior division cadets including seven women have already been employed. Collector of Bilaspur has requested for service of NCC volunteer cadets for training in COVID-19 preventive measures. These cadets are being imparted training for the job ahead.


    Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh (PHHPC) Directorate has received requisition by Deputy Commissioner of Kangra district in HP for services of 86 cadets till April 14, 2020 to assist Police in ensuring social distancing in the city localities.


    District Police of Kancheepuram in Tamil Nadu (TN) has approached district nodal officer on COVID-19 for services of NCC cadets. Fifty seven cadets including two women have assembled and are being employed. In all, TN, Puducherry & Andaman Nicobar Directorate has provided services of 75 cadets in Tamil Nadu and 57 in Puducherry.


    Balrampur district administration in Uttar Pradesh has also asked for services of volunteer cadets from NCC Group Headquarters Gorakhpur. Some cadets are being employed for the purpose.


    Eighty cadets in East Khasi Hills district are assisting the Meghalaya Police in monitoring of ration distribution and sensitisation between April 06-08, 2020.


    The types of tasks envisaged for cadets include manning of helpline/call centres; distribution of relief materials, medicines, food/essential commodities; community assistance; data management and queue & traffic management and manning of CCTV control rooms.


    According to the employment guidelines, state governments/district administration has to send the requisition of employment of volunteer cadets through State NCC Directorates. Details will be coordinated at Directorate/Group Headquarters/Unit level with state government/local civil authority. It should be ensured that ground conditions and laid down requirements are met before the cadets are deployed for the duty.


    ABB/SS/Nampi/KA/DK/Savvy/ADA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1611630) Visitor Counter : 3287
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Assamese , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada