      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 05 APR 2020 7:09PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on COVID-19 from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare


    As of now, 3374 confirmed COVID-19 cases and 79 deaths have been reported in the country. 267 persons have been cured/discharged from the hospitals after recovery.274 districts have been affected by COVID-19 virus in the country. Cabinet secretary directs all DMs to ensure that the Pharma units for manufacturing medicines & medical equipment are smoothly run.


    Read more:-


    Telephone Conversation between PM and the President of USA


    Stressing the special relationship between the two countries, the Prime Minister reiterated India’s solidarity with the USA in overcoming this global crisis together. The two leaders agreed to deploy the full strength of the India – US partnership to resolutely and effectively combat COVID-19.


    Read more:-


    Telephone conversation between PM and President of Brazil


    Prime Minister ShriNarendraModi had a telephonic conversation today with H.E. JairMessiasBolsonaro, President of Brazil. The two leaders discussed the global situation in the wake of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic.


    Read more:-


    Telephone Conversation between PM and Prime Minister of Spain


    Prime Minister ShriNarendraModi had a telephonic conversation today with H.E. Pedro Sanchez Perez-Castejon, President of the Government (equivalent to Prime Minister) of Spain. The two leaders discussed the global challenge posed by the COVID-19pandemic.


    Read more:-


    Lifeline UDAN flights transport 161 tons of cargo across the country


    Under Lifeline UDAN, 116 flights have been operated and Cargo transported till date is around 161 tons . On the international front, the Ministry of Civil Aviation and Air India have worked closely with China to establish a cargo air-bridge between the two countries for transfer of critical medical supplies.


    Read more:-


    Officers & staff of Ministry of Finance, Financial Institutions and Public Sector Banks/Enterprises Contributes Rs 430 crore towards PM CARES Fund


    Rs228.84Crore is the estimated salary contribution and Rs201.79Crore came from CSR and others


    Read more:-.


    FAQs on Power Grid operations during light out


    For details, visit :


    Read more:-


    Institutions/ Autonomous Organisations/Departments of HRD Ministry contribute more than 38.91 Crore Rupees to PM CARE Fund to fight against COVID-19


    28 different Institutions/ Autonomous Organisations/departments of Ministry of HRD have contributed more than 38.91 Crore Rupees to PM CARES Fund to fight against COVID-19.


    Read more:-


    Southern Naval Command Designs Training Capsule for Non-Medical Personnel


    The COVID core working group of Southern Naval Command has prepared a Training Capsule for Battle Field Nursing Assistant (BFNA) to train non- medical personnel who will work as force multipliers in times of emergencies.


    Read more:-


    HRD Minister interacts with VCs of Central Universities


    HRD Minister has directed all the Vice Chancellors to motivate their faculty and students to use SWAYAM and SWAYAM PRABHA in mission mode and also through other online digital mediums to continue the academic program. To promote online education and give suggestions regarding online examination a committee under the chairmanship of Prof. NageshwarRao, VC, IGNOU has been constituted.


    Read more:-


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan visits AIIMS Jhajjar, takes stock of preparedness to overcome COVID-19


    Health Minister stated that the AIIMS Jhajjar will function as dedicated COVID-19 hospital consisting of 300 bed isolation wards which would ensure prompt care for patients in isolation requiring advanced medical support.


    Read more:-


    Regular Air Cargo supplies, including essential commodities and medical equipment are reaching Northeast: Dr. Jitendra Singh


    DrJitendra Singh has said that soon after the declaration of the Lockdown, decision was taken that Air Cargo flights carrying essential supplies will be operated on priority in the North Eastern Region as well as other distant regions including the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, and the Island territories.


    Read more:-


    CSOI contributes Rs 25 lakh to the Prime Minister Cares Relief Fund


    For details,


    Read more: -


    Empowered Group # 6 on Coordinating with Private Sector, NGOs, and International Organisations for COVID-19-related Response Activities


    Six meetings were conducted between 30 March and 3 April with industry associations, IOs, and CSOs about their contribution to the response, their plans for the coming weeks, and the issues they are facing, and their expectations from the government.


    Read more:-


    Defence PSUs, OFB pitch in to fight against COVID-19


    Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs) and Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) of Ministry of Defence (MoD) have pitched in to shore up the national fight against COVID-19.


    Read more:-


    Food Processing Industry Minister holds 2nd Video Conference with Industry representatives during Covid-19 lockdown


    Grievance Cell formed to resolve the micro issues being faced by the industry, to facilitate supply chain and logistics management for availability of food and medicines, had resolved 50% of queries received while rest were in the pipeline.


    Read more:-


    MSME Technology Centres Contributing in a Big Way in Fight Against COVID19


    Eighteen operational Technology centres, autonomous bodies under Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), are also playing their role and contributing in the fight with COVID19.


    Read more:-


    Indian Railways ensures that supply of sugar, salt and edible oil are fully maintained for consumption of the common man during the COVID-19 lockdown


    From 23rd March to 4th April 2020, Railways has transported 1342 wagons of sugar, 958 wagons of salt and 378 wagons/tanks of edible oil.


    Read more:-


    EPFO Issues Revised Instructions to Facilitate PF Members to Rectify their Birth Records


    EPFO has instructed field offices to expedite disposal of online requests, enabling PF members in financial distress, to apply online for availing non- refundable advance from their PF accumulations to tide over the COVID-19 pandemic.


    Read more:-


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES


    NORTH-EAST REGION


    1. Special 50 bedded COVID-19 hospital designated at Pasighat, Arunachal Pradesh.


    2. 105 swabs collected of people who came in contact with Guwahati COVID positive patient.


    3. In Manipur, all non- emergency procedures suspended at major hospitals designated for Covid emergency.


    4. Meghalaya Electric Corporation assured that adequate arrangement has been made to handle the variation during the 9 minute period from 9pm today.


    5. In Mizoram, Deptt of Disaster Management and Rehabilitation has spent Rs. 4.28crore to fight against Covid-19.


    6. Nagaland to set up COVID-19 hospitals in all districts; till now only at Kohima, Mokokchung and Dimapur.


    7. Weekly haat in Border Town Rangpo, Sikkim was shutdown today for a few hours as people were not following norms.


    8. Tripura CM appealed to the people of the state to light a diya, torch or candle today at 9 PM from the balcony or near doors.


    SOUTH ZONE


    Kerala


    Cab Secy praises Pathanamthitta Dist. Admn& Health Dept for effective tackling of Covid.


    A patient died in Kasargod because of closure of Kerala-Karnataka border.


    State to set up Covid 19 facility at Kasargod Medical College.


    Tamilnadu


    2 more deaths in the state, toll rises to five.


    6,000 workers to screen Chennai residents from today.


    Karnataka


    Total cases gone up to 146. Today 2 new cases added, in Bangalore city. So far 4 dead & 11 discharged.


    Andhra Pradesh


    34 new cases today, total +ve cases now 226.


    Max cases reported in Kurnool(23) today .


    Fact Check on # Covid19


    ******


    YKB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1611429) Visitor Counter : 1833
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Telugu , Kannada