      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      DoPT to empower Front Line COVID-19 Warriors with first of its kind iGOT e-learning Platform
      
      The Department of Personnel and Training, under the Government of India, launches digital platform to train all healthcare and COVID-19 warriors of India
      Posted On: 08 APR 2020 7:06PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Personnel and Training has announced the launch of a learning platform ( https://igot.gov.in ) to combat COVID 19 for all front-line workers to equip them with the training and updates in coping with Pandemic. Appropriate training will also prepare them for the subsequent stages of the pandemic. By giving COVID 19 training to other potential second line workforce, India will be better prepared for the emergent situations.


    The target group is Doctors, Nurses, Paramedics, Hygiene Workers, Technicians, Auxiliary Nursing Midwives (ANMs), Central & State Govt. Officers, Civil Defence Officials, various Police Organisations, National Cadet Corps (NCC), Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS), National Service Scheme (NSS), Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS), Bharat Scouts & Guides (BSG) and other volunteers.


    The platform delivers curated, role-specific content, to each learner at his place of work or home and to any device of his choice. iGOT platform is designed to population scale, and will provide training to around 1.50 crore workers and volunteers in the coming weeks. To begin with nine (9) courses on iGOT have been launched on topics like Basics of COVID, ICU Care and Ventilation Management, Clinical Management, Infection Prevention through PPE, Infection Control and Prevention, Quarantine and Isolation, Laboratory Sample Collection and Testing, Management of COVID 19 Cases, COVID 19 Training.


    Through its customized approach COVID-WARRIORS can learn about critical areas from this one-stop source and respond to the prevailing and emergent situations, by keeping themselves updated in a real-time manner. The platform is well equipped to cater the demands of unlimited requests of learning at any time anywhere. The platform can be accessed by following an easy to use manual for desktop and mobile versions, thereby making it accessible for all.


    The platform reflects the vision of Honorable Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi to ‘care for those who serve the nation’ and boost their morale. As a critical weapon in the arsenal of all front line COVID-19 healthcare warriors, their updated knowledge and capacity, will help them and our nation win the battle against COVID-19 Pandemic.


    A version of iGOT fitted to these needs has been launched with the following URL link ( https://igot.gov.in ). The first version of the platform is available to use with Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox, and subsequent versions will support other browsers.


    ********


    VG/SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1612312) Visitor Counter : 896
    
    
      Read this release in: Kannada , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu