      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      TRIFED in Collaboration with UNICEF & WHO organized a Webinar for Promotion of Digital Campaign for SHGs to ensure Tribal gatherers carry on their Work Safely
      
      50 Lakh Tribal gatherers are proposed to be reached through this campaign

      Posted On: 09 APR 2020 8:05PM by PIB Delhi

    TRIFED organized a Webinar for Virtual training to its Trainers and Self Help Groups (SHGs) on basic orientation on Covid-19 response and key preventive measures to ensure tribal gatherers carry on their work safely. It was aimed to reach more than 18,000 participants and would cover tribal regions across all the 27 States. To ensure tribal gatherers carry on their work safely, TRIFED has collaborated with UNICEF and WHO for developing a digital communication strategy for promoting a digital campaign for Self Help Groups (SHGs) involved in this work, highlighting the importance of Social Distancing.


    Addressing the participants, Shri Pravir Krishna, MD, TRIFED said that the safety of tribal gatherers during Pandemic Covid-19 is our top priority and we have to ensure that the tribal gatherers carry on the their work of procurement of tribal products safely. The target of this Digital Campaign is to reach up to 50 lakh tribal gatherers to ensure their safety. It is the peak season for collection and harvest of Minor Forest Produce (MFP)/Non Timber Forest Produce (NTFP) in many regions. Certain proactive measures need to be initiated to ensure the wellbeing of the tribals and their economy by providing them safety and ensuring their livelihoods.


    The Webinar received a very good participation response with 806 total registrations, and with 502 unique viewers. All in all, total users stood at 2388 during the Webinar. The Facebook views during the Webinar were 26000 and currently stand at 40,000.


    UNICEF is providing the necessary support to the SHG Centers in the form of Digital Multimedia content, Webinars for Virtual trainings (basic orientation on COVID response, key preventive behaviours), Social Media campaigns (on social distancing, home quarantine, etc.) and Vanya Radio. Additionally, TRIFED has reached out to the Art of Living Foundation’s #iStandWithHumanity Initiative with a Stand With Tribal Families component in providing much needed food and ration for survival of the tribal community.


    A total of 1205 Van Dhan Vikas Kendras (VDVKs) have been sanctioned in 27 States and 1 Union territory involving around 18,075 Van Dhan Self Help Groups. This involves over 3.6 Lakhs tribal gatherers in the Scheme. To start with, 15,000 of these SHGs will be promoted as Van Dhan Social Distancing Awareness cum Livelihood Centers’ through a digital training program. The SHGs will create awareness among the community about social distancing and steps to be followed. Do’s and Don’ts Advisories relating to NTFP to be kept in mind during Covid-19, providing suggestive practices for maintaining personal hygiene, adopting cashless practices, among others will be shared.


    *****


    NB/SK/MoTA/09.04.2020

    
    
    (Release ID: 1612686) Visitor Counter : 619
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada