      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Updates on COVID-19
      Posted On: 08 APR 2020 6:27PM by PIB Delhi


    Government of India is taking several steps along with the States/UTs for the prevention, containment and management of COVID-19 in the country. These are being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level.


    Government is focussing on ensuring the uniform implementation of effective lockdown measures by the States/UTs & good adherence in practicing social distancing by citizens which will help in successfully battling COVID-19 contagion.


    A series of measures have been taken by both Central and the State government to break the chain of transmission. Responses have been escalated as per the ongoing increased cases noted across the country. States have been asked to ensure adequate COVID-19 Care Centres are in place across the country.


    Several districts have taken measures which have emerged as best practices. Some of these are as follows:

      * Pune district sealed the central region of Pune and Kondhwa area effectively and carried out door-to-door survey of homes located across 35 sq. km area. The team is also checking persons with co-morbidity like Diabetes and Hypertension apart from travel history and contact tracing.
      * Pathanamthitta district ensured surveillance, gathering travel history, contact tracing, ensuring quarantine facilities and providing essential & psychological support.

    The Government of India has launched a training module for management of COVID-19 named ‘Integrated Govt. Online training’ (iGOT) portal on DIKSHA platform for the capacity building of frontline workers to handle the pandemic efficiently. This includes doctors, nurses, paramedics, technicians, ANMs, State Govt Officers, Civil Defence officials, National Cadet Corps (NCC), National Service Scheme (NSS), Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) and other volunteers. The portal website link is https://igot.gov.in/igot/ .


    AIIMS, New Delhi has been conducting several Webinars to build the capacity of different categories of healthcare professionals for COVID-19 management. Online training of Physicians for Antenatal care and labour management of pregnant women with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 infection has been scheduled by AIIMS during this week. The detailed schedule is available on MoHFW website- www.mohfw.gov.in.


    As of now, 5194 confirmed cases and 149 deaths have been reported. 402 persons have been cured/discharged after recovery.


    For all authentic & updated information on COVID-19 related technical issues, guidelines & advisories please regularly visit: https://www.mohfw.gov.in/ .


    Technical queries related to COVID-19 may be emailed at technicalquery.covid19@gov.in and other queries on ncov2019@gov.in .


    In case of any queries on COVID-19, please call at Ministry of Health & Family Welfare helpline no. : +91-11-23978046 or 1075 (Toll-free). List of helpline numbers of States/UTs on COVID-19 is also available at https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/coronvavirushelplinenumber.pdf .


    *****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1612300) Visitor Counter : 3428
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

*