      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Updates on COVID-19
      Posted On: 09 APR 2020 7:16PM by PIB Delhi


    Government of India is taking several steps along with the States/UTs for the prevention, containment and management of COVID-19 in the country. These are being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level.


    A high level meeting of the Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19 was held at Nirman Bhawan, here today under the chairpersonship of Dr. Harsh Vardhan. The Group of Ministers (GoM) had detailed deliberation on containment and management of COVID-19. GoM also deliberated on the adequacy on PPEs, N-95 masks and ventilators. GoM was apprised that 30 indigenous manufacturers for PPEs have been developed, 1.7 Cr order for PPEs have been placed and the supply has already started, and 49,000 orders for ventilators have been placed. GoM also reviewed the testing strategy and availability of testing kits across the country along with the strategy for hotspots and cluster management.


    GoM also directed that Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) should be utilised as per prescription and is not advised for patients with cardiac irregularities or those suffering from cardiac disease which can be harmful. GoM was also informed that sufficient stock of Hydroxychloroquine is being maintained in the country.


    Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has deputed high level multi-disciplinary Central teams to assist the States and State Health Department in activities pertaining to cluster containment plan and hospital preparedness (ICU & Ventilator management for COVID-19 patients). The teams have been deputed to Bihar, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka, M.P, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana & Uttar Pradesh.


    Additionally, the Centre for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR labs) and Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB labs), Hyderabad and Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), New Delhi have started working together on the whole genome sequencing of Novel Coronavirus to understand the evolution of virus.


    Several districts are adopting various innovative measures for management of COVID-19. Some of these best practices are as follows:

          + Karnal District:
              o Adopt a Family program: The people of Karnal with families, industry, and those living abroad, etc., have contributed generously to adopt needy families in Karnal contributing donations approx. Rs 64 lakhs which will take care of 13,000 poorest families throughout the district.
              o Efforts are also being made to distribute 90,000 meals per day to vulnerable groups.
              o Technology such as dedicated ‘Karnal Live Tracker’ to track the home quarantines & also an online local delivery app- Need on Wheels (NOW) have been facilitated by the local District Administration to procure vegetable/fruit wholesalers & dairies.
          + Lucknow district:
              o Efforts have been made to use hotels to serve as the quarantine centres.

    As of now, 5734 confirmed cases and 166 deaths have been reported. 473 persons have been cured/discharged after recovery.


    For all authentic & updated information on COVID-19 related technical issues, guidelines & advisories please regularly visit: https://www.mohfw.gov.in/ .


    Technical queries related to COVID-19 may be emailed at technicalquery.covid19@gov.in and other queries on ncov2019@gov.in .


    In case of any queries on COVID-19, please call at Ministry of Health & Family Welfare helpline no. : +91-11-23978046 or 1075 (Toll-free). List of helpline numbers of States/UTs on COVID-19 is also available at https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/coronvavirushelplinenumber.pdf .


    *****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1612639) Visitor Counter : 4426
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

o