      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 07 APR 2020 6:39PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on COVID-19 from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare


    As of now, 4421 confirmed Covid-19 cases and 117 deaths have been reported in the country. 326 persons have been cured/discharged after recovery.Three types of facilities shall be set up for various categories of COVID-19 cases as a mechanism for triaging and decisions making for identification of the appropriate COVID-19 dedicated facility for providing care to COVID-19 patients


    For more details,


    Telephone Conversation between PM and Prime Minister of Sweden


    Prime Minister ShriNarendraModi had a telephone conversation today with H.E. Stefan Lofven, Prime Minister of Sweden.The two leaders discussed the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and the steps being taken in their respective countries for controlling its health and economic impacts.


    For more details,


    PM's message on World Health Day


    For more details,


    Telephone Conversation between PM and Sultan of Oman


    Prime Minister ShriNarendraModi spoke on telephone today with His Majesty Haitham bin Tarik, Sultan of Oman. The two leaders discussed the health and economic challenges posed by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and the steps being taken by their respective countries to respond to them.


    For more details,


    Telephone Conversation between PM and King of the Kingdom of Bahrain


    Prime Minister ShriNarendraModi had a telephone conversation with His Majesty Hamad Bin Isa Al Khalifa, King of the Kingdom of Bahrain. The two leaders discussed the ongoing COVID-19 health crisis and its consequences, including on logistics chains and financial markets.


    For more details,


    Advisory regarding containing and management of COVID-19 in National Parks/Sanctuaries/Tiger Reserves


    In view of the spread of COVID 19 in the country and a recent news report on a Tiger being infected with the COVID 19 in New York, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has issued an advisoryregarding containing and management of COVID-19 in National Parks/Sanctuaries/Tiger Reserves as it is felt that there are possibilities of spread of the virus amongst animals in National Parks/Sanctuaries/Tiger Reserves and also transmission of the virus from humans to animals and vice-versa.


    For more details,


    Central Zoo Authority advises zoos in India to remain on high alert in view of a Tiger found COVID 19 positive in New York.


    Central Zoo Authority has advised Zoos in the country to remain on highest alertness, watch animals on 24X7 basis, using CCTV for any abnormal behavior/symptoms, keepers/handlers not to be allowed in the vicinity without safety gear preferably PPE, isolate & quarantine sick animals, and have least contact while providing feed to animals.


    For more details,


    Ministry of Shipping plays a pro-active role towards ensuring smooth shipping operations in COVID-19 situation and lockdown in the country


    Total traffic handled at Major Ports from April to March 2020 shows 0.82% growth in tonnage. Over 46,000 crew/passenger thermal- scanned at ports. Penalties, demurrage, charges, fee, rentals levied by the Major ports waived off on any port user.Hospitals across the Major Port Trusts are prepared for Covid-19.
    DG, Shipping provides reliefs concerning Seafarers, Waivers, Shipping Lines, Sanitization, Safety certificates.


    For more details,


    Lifeline UDAN flights carry medical supplies to Jorhat, Lengpui, Dimapur, Imphal and other NE regions


    152 cargo flights have been operated till date across the country to transport medical cargo to various parts of India including remote and hilly areas.


    For more details,


    COVID-19: City governments collaborate with medical practitioners in Smart Cities


    Smart Cities are ensuring collaborated efforts of District Administration, District Police and City Administration to monitor the suspected cases of COVID-19.


    For more details,


    Indian Railways in a race against time to make In-house PPE overall


    Indian Railways has taken up the in-house production of PPE type overall on a mission mode. An overall produced by Jagadhari workshop was recently cleared by a DRDO lab, authorised for the purpose. Approved design and material will now be used for making this protective overall by other workshops under different zones.


    For more details,


    Amidst the COVID-19 lockdown, FCI moves 662 rakes carrying about 18.54 Lakh MT food grains across the country in 14 days since 24th March


    FCI has sent enough stocks to states throughout the country to implement PM GaribKalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY) wherein 5 kg foodgrain per person per month for next three months has to be distributed free to all National Food Security Act (NFSA) beneficiaries.


    For more details,


    HRD Ministry launches "Samadhan", a challenge to fight against covid19 and future challenges


    The Innovation Cell of the Ministry of Human Resources Development and All India Council for Technical Education in collaboration with Forge and InnovatioCuris launched a mega online challenge - SAMADHAN - to test the ability of students to innovate.


    For more details,


    Ex-Servicemen play their part in providing succor to people in their fight against COVID-19


    As the nation continues to battle Coronavirus (COVID-19), the Ex-Servicemen (ESM) belonging to Army, Navy and Air Force are assisting the civil administration and providing their services voluntarily and selflessly.


    For more details,


    Health concerns shall precede over that of economy for post lockdown roadmap, says Vice President


    While the country’s leadership is seized of the way forward after April 14 when the 3 week national lock down in the wake of Corona virus crisis comes to an end and the basis of such decision is being debated, Vice President of India Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu urged that concerns about the health of the people shall take precedence over that of stabilization of economy.


    For more details,


    Pharmacists delivering essential services & medicines at doorstep under PMBJP


    Pharmacists, popularly known as "SwaasthkeSipahi", of PradhanMantri Jan Aushadhi Kendra, are delivering essential services and medicines at doorstep of patients and elderly


    For more details:


    MoS (PP) chairs review meeting of Actions for COVID-19 for the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions


    Minister of State (I/C) Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances,Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, DrJitendra Singh


    took a comprehensive review of DoPT, DARPG and DoPPW through Interactive Video Conferencing today.


    For more details,


    PM's call to switch off lights gets a “ Huge Response”, says Union Power Minister


    There was a huge response to Prime Minister ShriNarendraModi's call to switch off lights and light a lamp as a show of national solidarity in the fight against COVID-19 on Sunday.


    For more details,


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES


    NORTH-EAST REGION

      * In Arunachal Pradesh, several SHGs including Livelihood Mission Project are actively engaged in providing essential need items including Mask to fight COVID-19.
      * In Assam, AIUDF MLA from Dhing, Aminul Islam arrested for controversial remarks on COVID19.
      * Manipur CM tweeted that state will transfer Rs.2000 from the CM's COVID-19 RELIEF FUND to Bank accounts of each person who are stranded outside the State during the lockdown.
      * In Meghalaya, Private hospitals ready to take non-COVID patients. Govt to foot medical bills.
      * Mizoram Health Department instructs all doctors to be accessible any time to any person having medical problems.
      * Nagaland govt says efforts still on to identify NizamuddinMarkaj suspects. Asks those attended to contact State Control Room.
      * In Sikkim, there are 12 facility quarantine centres with 107 people and 4 isolation centres.
      * Different organizations came together in distributing relief to needy people in Tripura.

    WEST REGION

      * 24 new Covid-19 positive cases reported from Rajasthan on Tuesday. Jodhpur reported the maximum number of cases with nine people testing positive. The total number of positive cases in the state has risen to 325, (Rajasthan Public Health Department.)
      * The number of Covid-19 cases in Gujarat jumped to 165 on Tuesday, with 19 more people testing positive for the viral infection in the state. Of the new cases, 13 were reported from Ahmedabad. (Source : Principal Secretary -Health)
      * 12 more Covid-19 cases have been found in Bhopal, taking the number of such cases in Madhya Pradesh to 268. Among the new patients, 7 are police personnel and their family members, and 5 are health department employees. (Source : Chief Medical Officer. Bhopal)
      * The Goa government has announced a community door-to-door survey to be completed in three days. Around 7,000 enumerators will be involved in surveying people across the state for flu-like symptoms and travel histories.
      * Maharashtra Police have raided Wada police in Palghar district have raided a chemical factory in Wada, District Palgharand seized raw material and manufactured hand sanitizer being made without FDA approval.

    SOUTH REGION

      * Kerala: Health Minister says restrictions will continue in the state even after April 14. Mumbai Police identifies Keralites who had stayed with 1st Covid patient from Dharavi; all of them attended Delhi TJ meet. One Keralite died of Covid in US today.
      * Tamilnadu: State announces several measures for farmers: toll free nos, free cold storage, mobile veg-fruit shops, credit facility for Farmer Producer Companies etc.
      * Andhra Pradesh: Total Covid deaths 4, with 1 in Kurnool today. 900 ventilators available. State decides to start random sampling in hot spots. State directs pvt hospitals to treat Covid cases under Aarogyasri Health care pgm; treatment fee fixed :Rs 16,000-Rs 2.16 lakh.
      * Telangana: 11 +ve cases till now, total rise to 375; active cases 317. Telangana HC full court meets through video conference, decides to extend lockdown till April 30. Police using crowd analytics software and drone cameras along with Automatic Number Plate Recognition System (ANPR) to enforce lockdown.

    Fact Check on # Covid19


    *****


    YKB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1612029) Visitor Counter : 2297
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

  
  
*