      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      
      Posted On: 08 APR 2020 6:51PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours and

    Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on COVID-19 from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare


    As of now, 5194 confirmed cases of Covid-19 and 149 deaths have been reported in the country. 402 persons have been cured/discharged after recovery.Government is focussing on ensuring the uniform implementation of effective lockdown measures by the States/UTs & good adherence in practicing social distancing by citizens which will help in successfully battling COVID-19 contagion.


    For more details,


    PM interacts with leaders of political parties


    Prime Minister ShriNarendraModi, in his interaction with floor leaders of political parties in Parliament,said that Priority of the government is saving each and every life. He said that the present situation is an epoch changing event in mankind's history and we must evolve to counter its impact. He praised the efforts of state governments working together with the Centre in this fight against the pandemic. He noted that the country has witnessed constructive and positive politics through the coming together of all sections of polity to present a united front in this battle.Leaders provided feedback, suggest policy measures, discuss Lockdown and the way forward.


    For more details


    MHA writes to States to ensure availability of Essential Goods, by invoking provisions of the Essential Commodities Act 1955


    As part of maintaining smooth supply of essential items in the country, Union Home Secretary has written to all State Chief Secretaries to take urgent steps to ensure availability of essential goods, by invoking provisions of the Essential Commodities (EC) Act 1955. These measures include fixing of stock limits, capping of prices, enhancing production, inspection of accounts of dealers and other such actions.


    For more details,


    IT Department to release all pending income tax refunds up to Rs 5 lakhs immediately; All GST & CUSTOM refunds also to be released; to provide benefit to around 1 lakh business entities including MSMEs


    Around 14 lakh taxpayers to benefit from IT refund; Rs 18,000 crore of total refund granted immediately


    For more details,


    Indian Railways to deploy more than 2500 Doctors and 35000 paramedic staff to meet the COVID 19 challenge


    Indian Railways is making an all-out effort to supplement the health care efforts of Government of India. The spectrum of steps include equipping the existing Railway Hospitals to meet the needs for COVID-19, earmarking of hospital beds to meet the contingencies, recruitment of additional doctors & paramedics, modification of passenger coaches as isolation coaches, availability of medical equipment, in-house production of PPEs and Ventilators, etc.


    For more details,


    IAF Continues its Support towards Fight Against Corona virus (COVID-19)


    During the last few days, IAF airlifted essential medical supplies and commodities from nodal points to Manipur, Nagaland and Gangtok; and the Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh. In addition, An-32 aircraft, on 06 Apr 2020, airlifted personnel and 3500 kg of medical equipment of ICMR from Chennai to Bhubaneshwar for setting up of testing labs and facilities in Odisha.


    For more details ,


    Over 39 tons of medical supplies delivered across the country on 7th April 2020 by Lifeline UDAN flights


    Lifeline UDAN flights transported 39.3 tons of medical supplies across the country on 7th April 2020. Total cargo transported by these flights is around 240 tons during Covid-19 lockdown. 161 flights have been operated under Lifeline UDAN till date covering 1,41,080Kms.


    For more details,


    Textiles Ministry extends limit for HDPE/PP bags to tide over crisis of packaging of foodgrains due to closure of jute mills during lockdown


    Ministry of Textiles has given dilution to the maximum permissible limit i.e. 1.80 lakh bales on 26th March, 2020 and further for 0.82 lakh bales on 6th April, 2020, for HDPE/PP bags to tide over the emergent crisis of packaging of foodgrains due to closure of jute mills during lockdown and with a view to protect the produce of wheat farmers by providing them alternate packaging bags.


    For more details,


    ShriArjunMunda writes to Chief Ministers to advise State Nodal Agencies for undertaking procurement of minor forest produce at MSP in right earnest


    Tribal Affairs Minister has written a letter to the Chief Ministers of 15 States to advise the State Nodal Agencies for undertaking procurement of Minor Forest Produce (MFP) at Minimum Support Price (MSP) in right earnest. These States include Uttar Pradesh; Gujarat; Madhya Pradesh; Karnataka; Maharashtra; Assam; Andhra Pradesh; Kerala; Manipur; Nagaland; West Bengal; Rajasthan; Odisha; Chhatisgarh; and Jharkhand.


    For more details,


    Amidst the COVID-19 lockdown FCI moves 721 rakes carrying about 20.19 Lakh MT food grains across the country in 14 days since 24th March


    In last 14 days since 24.03.2020 when the lockdown was announced to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, FCI moved an average of 1.44 Lakh MT food grain per day as against the pre-lockdown daily average of about 0.8 Lakh MT. A total of 658 rakes carrying about 18.42 Lakh MT food grains have been transported across the country till 06.04.2020.


    For more details,


    Agriculture Minister holds video conference with officials to review steps for facilitating farming activities during lockdown


    Shri NS Tomar directs setting up of control rooms for regular monitoring; says transport of farm produce and farming related products should not be hampered.


    For more details,


    Dr. Jitendra Singh hands over 2200 Essential kits prepared by KendriyaBhandar for distribution to needy families in Delhi


    DrJitendra Singh today handed over a consignment of 2200 Essential Kits for distribution to needy families in the wake of COVID-19. Each such Kit consisting of 9 items is meant to assist one needy family for some time.


    For more details,


    SCTIMST scientists develop disinfected barrier-examination booth for examining COVID-19 patients


    The innovative disinfected examination booth is closed like a telephone booth for examining the patient without direct contact with the doctor to prevent transmission of infection. It is equipped with a lamp, table fan, rack, and Ultraviolet (UV) light.


    For more details,


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES


    NORTH-EAST REGION

      * Govt. of Arunachal Pradesh has launched COVIDcare app for people under quarantine.
      * Amid COVID19 crisis, several Islamic organisations in Assam urged the entire muslim community in the State to observe Shab-e-Barat from home.
      * Manipur CM requested the Prime Minister for an extension of the lockdown to tackle COVID-19.
      * Isolation Cells set up in jails to keep inmates safe from pandemic in Meghalaya.
      * Anganwadi workers at Kolasib, Mizoram are contributing by stitching protective masks for health and police functionaries.
      * Churches in Christian-majority Nagaland have decided to forego Easter celebration, that falls on April 12.
      * Schools in Sikkim directed to register with the State Government online portals to initiate e-education for the students.

    WEST REGION

      * A 14-month-old baby boy, who had tested positive for Covid-19 in Gujarat’s Jamnagar district on April 5, died of multiple organ failure to become the youngest Corona victim in India. The toddler, was a son of a migrant labourer couple. 179 people have tested positive in Gujarat so far.
      * Madhya Pradesh government has invoked the Essential Services Management Act (ESMA) beginning today. The ESMA helps state governments maintain uniformity by providing minimum conditions of essential services across the state in the backdrop of disruption caused by the Covid-19 outbreak.
      * 40 new coronavirus cases were reported in Rajasthan, according to data released by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. This brings the total reported cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan to 328.Jaipur is the worst affected with 54 positive cases.
      * Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray has urges retired Army personnel who worked as part of the medical corps, retired nurses and wards to join the fight against Covid-19 as Corona Yoddhas. He also announced opening of fever clinics across Mumbai, in a bid to reduce pressure on hospitals treating Covid-19 patients.

    SOUTH REGION

      * Kerala: Slight Relaxation in lockdown in State. Govt issues order for opening Vehicle workshops on Thursday, Sunday. Cabinet approves creation of 273 new posts at the Kasaragod MC.
      * Tamilnadu : Govt. announces concessions & subsidies for MSMEs which manufacture medical needs like Invasive Ventilators, N95 Masks, Anti-Viral & Anti- Malarial drugs, RT-PCR Test Kits, PPEs, etc.
      * Andhra Pradesh : 15 new cases today. Total cases rise to 329; deaths State identifies 63 hot spots.
      * Telangana : State marks 100 hotspots to check virus spread; more restrictions to be imposed in these areas. New Covid hospital to come at the Gachibowli Sports Village in Hyderabad with about 1,500 beds.
      * Karnataka : Today 6 new positive cases till now. Total confirmed cases 181;death 4;recovered 28.

    Fact Check on # Covid19


    ******


    YKB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1612310) Visitor Counter : 3413
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

  
  
*