      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Updates on COVID-19
      Posted On: 11 APR 2020 6:22PM by PIB Delhi


    Various measures have been taken by Government of India along with the States/UTs for the prevention, containment and management of COVID-19 in the country. These are being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level.


    Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today interacted with the Chief Ministers of States and UTs through Video Conference and reviewed the current status and conveyed their collective resolve for the fight of COVID-19.


    Government of India in its continual efforts, following a graded response approach, is ensuring that there is no shortage of supplies of critical items which includes PPEs, N95 masks, testing kits, medicines and ventilators with each State across the country. Government has been ensuring ramping up of Dedicated COVID-19 hospitals at both Centre and State level to take care of COVID patients.


    As of now, cumulative number for both Centre and States is:

      * Number of dedicated COVID facilities: 586
      * Isolation beds: 1,04, 613
      * ICU beds: 11, 836

    For capacity building of the frontline health workers, AIIMS, New Delhi is organizing a series of Webinars for the care of COVID-19 patients. The schedule of these Webinars is regularly updated on https://www.mohfw.gov.in .


    Also, Ministry of AYUSH has issued guidelines on boosting immunity for respiratory health and also proposed that AYUSH solutions should be included in the District Contingency Plan in containing the virus across the country. These Guidelines are also available on MoHFW website.


    Several Districts have been adopting innovative models for combating COVID-19.


    Agra, where the fist cluster was detected, focused on cluster containment strategy as part of its COVID-19 management approach. The State, District administration and frontline workers coordinated their efforts by utilizing their existing Smart City Integrated with Command and Control Centre (ICCC) as War Rooms. Under the cluster containment and outbreak containment plans, the District administration identified epicenters, delineated impact of positive confirmed cases on the map and deployed special task force as per the micro plan made by the district administration. The hotspots were managed through an active survey and containment plan. Area was identified within radius of 3 Km from the epicenter while 5 Km buffer zone was identified as the containment zone. In these containment zones, Urban Primary Health centers were roped in and 1248 teams were deployed; each team had 2 workers including ANMs/ASHA/AWW reaching out to 9.3 lakh of people through household screening. Additionally, effective and early tracking of first contact tracing was thoroughly mapped. Apart from this, the focus was also on setting up isolation, testing and treatment facilities through an active Public-Private Partnership. . Along with this, it was ensured that food and supplies were provided to the needy people and an essential supply chain was maintained. Doorstep distribution for citizens was ensured and e-pass facility facilitated movement of essential goods & services during the lockdown. While doing so, a constant focus by the District administration was on citizen awareness and engagement. For reaching out to people, central helplines were established and a multifunctional team was setup for coordinating responses.


    The cluster containment strategy adopted by Agra is being shared with other States as a best practice.


    An increase of 1035 cases has been noted in COVID-19 confirmed cases in India since yesterday and an increase of 855 has been reported in Active Cases. Total deaths that have occurred as of today is 239. As many as 642 persons have been cured/discharged after recovery. As of now total 7447 confirmed cases have been reported.


    For all authentic & updated information on COVID-19 related technical issues, guidelines & advisories please regularly visit: https://www.mohfw.gov.in/ .


    Technical queries related to COVID-19 may be emailed at technicalquery.covid19@gov.in and other queries on ncov2019@gov.in .


    In case of any queries on COVID-19, please call at Ministry of Health & Family Welfare helpline no. : +91-11-23978046 or 1075 (Toll-free). List of helpline numbers of States/UTs on COVID-19 is also available at https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/coronvavirushelplinenumber.pdf .


    *****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1613367) Visitor Counter : 3304
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

*