      Ministry of Defence

      OFB comes up with two-bed tents for screening, isolation & quarantine;
      
      Delivers 50 tents to Arunachal Pradesh
      
      Posted On: 11 APR 2020 9:28AM by PIB Delhi


    Ordnance Factory Boar d (OFB) is playing an important role in the fight against Coronavirus (COVID-19). These are the updates regarding OFB’s relentless fight against the pandemic during the week:


    Two-Bed Tents


    OFB came up with a cost effective solution for isolation wards with the manufacture of two-bed tents with medical equipment for screening, isolation and quarantine. These special tents can be used for medical emergency, medical screening, hospital triage and quarantine purposes. These tents with floor area of 9.55 square metre are made up of waterproof fabric, mild steel and aluminium alloy.


    These tents can be set up in any place & terrain and help in creating additional facilities other than those in conventional hospitals within a short period of time. Ordnance Equipment Factory, Kanpur has manufactured these tents. Fifty such tents have been sent to Government of Arunachal Pradesh.


    Hand sanitisers and face masks


    Opto Electronics Factory D ehradun, a unit of Ordnance Factory Board has donated 2,500 bottles (100 ml each) of hand sanitisers and 1,000 face masks to the Governor, Uttarakhand, on April 6, 2020.


    Cordite Factory Aruvankadu, a unit of OFB handed over 100 litres of sanitiser s to the Nilgiris District Police authorities in Tamil Nadu on April 08, 2020.


    High Explosives Factory (HEF) in Pune despatched the first batch of 2,500 litres sanitisers to M/s HLL, Belgavi on April 9, 2020.


    Fumigation Chamber


    Ordnance Factory Ambajhari (OFAJ) Nagpur has developed fumigation chamber for the purpose of sanitisation. It is fully portable and can be s hifted with ea s e. It i s installed at the main entrance of OFAJ Hospital.


    Handwa shing S y stem


    Ordnance Factory Dehradun handed over indigenously made pedal operated handwashing system fitted with s oap di spenser to the police authorities on April 7, 2020.


    Ordnance Factory Dehu Road, Pune distributed food kits amongst labourers at Dehugaon village on April 6, 2020.


    ABB/SS/Nampi/KA/DK/Savvy

    
    
    (Release ID: 1613182) Visitor Counter : 929
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada