      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Updates on COVID-19
      Posted On: 12 APR 2020 6:38PM by PIB Delhi


    Through a collective effort to combat COVID-19 in the country, Government of India is taking several steps along with the States/UTs for its prevention, containment and management of COVID-19. These are being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level.


    To augment capacity for COVID-19 testing in all Government and Private Medical Colleges of the country on urgent basis, it has been directed to distribute the responsibility evenly across various institutions of eminence all across the country. These institutions are expected to serve as mentors of the Medical Colleges in their allotted area and facilitate the establishment of COVID-19 testing facilities in the respective States. All these institutions have been directed to work in close coordination with the respective State Governments.


    An increase of 909 cases has been noted in COVID-19 confirmed cases in the country since yesterday. As many as 716 persons have been cured/discharged after recovery and total 273 deaths have been reported, as of today.


    Government is also focussing on increasing the capacity of primary medical infrastructure which includes dedicated hospitals, isolation beds, ICU beds, and quarantine facilities. As on 12.04.2020, while the requirement of beds for 8356 cases is estimated to be 1671 (20% of confirmed cases with moderate and severe/critical clinical symptoms), the present availability of beds is 1,05,980 in 601 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals across the country. The number of isolation beds in dedicated hospitals across the country is being further augmented.


    Dedicated hospitals for management of COVID-19 patients have increasingly been set up across the country. Along with Government hospitals, various private sector hospitals, Public Sector Units, Military hospitals, Indian Railways are contributing in these efforts. Ordnance Factory Board has manufactured specialized tents to augment medical infrastructure in remote areas.


    As part of the preparedness efforts, training of health staff is also an area of focus through the institutes of national importance like AIIMS, NIMHANS. Online training modules and webinars for ventilator management, clinical management, infection prevention control, bio-medical waste management, and epidemiology have been organized by these institutions. To prepare the frontline medical workers, mock drills too have been organized.


    For all authentic & updated information on COVID-19 related technical issues, guidelines & advisories please regularly visit: https://www.mohfw.gov.in/ .


    Technical queries related to COVID-19 may be emailed at technicalquery.covid19@gov.in and other queries on ncov2019@gov.in .


    In case of any queries on COVID-19, please call at Ministry of Health & Family Welfare helpline no. : +91-11-23978046 or 1075 (Toll-free). List of helpline numbers of States/UTs on COVID-19 is also available at https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/coronvavirushelplinenumber.pdf .


    *****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1613669) Visitor Counter : 2390
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam