      Ministry of Education

      As Advised by HRD Ministry, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan- Delhi Region has taken several initiatives for taking learning to thestudents in Covid-19 situation
      
      We are committed to ensure safety and academic welfare of students across the country- Union HRD Minister
      
      KVS Delhi Region is all set to begin online live classes from classes VI to VIII from Monday, online live classes for classes IX to XII already in progress
      Posted On: 11 APR 2020 6:35PM by PIB Delhi


    The world is fighting the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown period is a testing time for all the parents, students and their teachers. Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' has advised the heads of all academic institutions of the country to make optimum use of digital platforms with the objective of making fruitful usage of children’s time and keeping abreast with the academic calendar. He said that HRD Ministry is committed to ensure safety and academic welfare of students of the country. Keeping in view the suggestion of the HRD Ministry,Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, Regional Office Delhi Region took the initiative of creating IDs on Facebook and YouTube to begin online classes in all subjects for the students of class VI to XII.


    While online live classes for classes VI to VIII will start from Monday, KVS Delhi Region has already started the online live classes for IX to XII on Facebook and YouTube. Huge response has been received from the students and parents as there are approximately 90,000 views and 40,000 comments in two days of running the classes. There are 13343 subscribers on YouTube channel of Delhi Region. A team of teachers across all streams and classes was chosen to begin these live interactive classes. A timetable was framed for all subjects and shared with the students through the WhatsApp school groups and YouTube. Specific instructions regarding these live classes were given to the principals of KVS Delhi Region, who then shared the same with the teachers and students. A playlist has also been created on the YouTube for the students to view these lessons, class and subject-wise.


    At present, the Teachers are preparing lessons using different software like power point windows, movie makers and screen recorder etc to create educational videos. These Power point presentations are created with audio narrations and converted to video formats. Then these lectures are uploaded on a dedicated YouTube channel.Teachers are also providing questions for homework, assignments and send to the students using different apps/software like Google Form, Kahoot.com (For MCQ), Hot potatoes and Quizzes.com. Students are liking this type of assignments as they are different from the regular Homework and are less time consuming and challenging.


    For the tiny tots of the primary sections, teachers have recorded the videos which will subsequently be shared through WhatsApp and uploaded on the YouTube in order to facilitate students and their parents. The queries of the parents are addressed by the teachers in the comment section or through WhatsApp chats. All the students have been instructed to keep a separate notebook for each subject.


    As part of social distancing and staying in confines of our homes or hostels theMHRD/ NCERT/CBSE has provided a list of open access resources like Swayam, Diksha, e-pathshala portal which are accessed by the students for broadening the horizon of learning using some of the best ICT initiatives being followed in India and Abroad with their access links.


    Assignments given as part of the teaching learning process are monitored by the concerned subject teachers. Each subject teacher is required to call a minimum of five students every day to keep a tab of their works.


    It is hoped that the combined efforts and initiatives of the educators, will help students achieve a self -paced learning and charting their own learning path, as they stay safe and secure within the confines of their home but connected with their Alma mater.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1613382) Visitor Counter : 904
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada