      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 12 APR 2020 7:00PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours and


    Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on COVID-19 from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare


    An increase of 909 cases has been noted in COVID-19 confirmed cases in the country since yesterday. As many as 716 persons have been cured/discharged after recovery and total 273 deaths have been reported, as of today.Government is also focussing on increasing the capacity of primary medical infrastructure which includes dedicated hospitals, isolation beds, ICU beds, and quarantine facilities.Dedicated hospitals for management of COVID-19 patients have increasingly been set up across the country. Along with Government hospitals, various private sector hospitals, Public Sector Units, Military hospitals, Indian Railways are contributing in these efforts.


    For details:


    MHA writes to all States/ UTs to ensure compliance of Supreme Court directions on Welfare of Migrant Labourers housed at Relief Shelters/Camps


    In view of the Supreme Court of India directions regarding welfare of migrant labourers housed at relief shelters/camps in different parts of country, Union Ministry of Home Affairs has written to all States/UTs to take necessary action in compliance of the directions of the Court, while implementing lockdown measures to fight COVID-19 effectively.


    For details:


    MHA directs all States/UTs to provide necessary Police Security to Doctors and Medical Staff fighting COVID-19


    In view of reported incidents of harassment of Doctors and Medical Staff, Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has directed all States/UTs and respective Police authorities to provide necessary Police Security to them in hospitals and at places where patients who have been diagnosed COVID-19 positive or where suspected cases are quarantined.


    For details:


    About 85 lakh PMUY beneficiaries have got the LPG cylinder this month;


    Personnel in supply chain of delivery of cylinders working tirelessly to support the nation’s fight against covid-19


    Governmentof India has announced pro-poor initiatives under PradhanMantriGaribKalyanYojana, as part of economic response to Covid-19. As per this Yojana, free LPG Refills are to be provided to Ujjwala beneficiaries over the period of 3 months, from April to June 2020. As on date, booking of 1.26 Crore cylinders has been done by the beneficiaries, out of which about 85 lakh cylinders have been delivered to PMUY beneficiaries.


    For details:


    Initiatives of Department of Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare to promote farming and allied sectors during lockdown


    Department of Agriculture Cooperation and Farmers Welfare is taking several measures to facilitate the farmers and farming activities at field level during the lockdown period.


    For details:


    MCA’s Frequently Asked Questions on eligibility of CSR expenditure related to COVID-19 activities


    For details:


    IAF’s Support Towards Fight Against Coronavirus


    All efforts are being made to ensure timely delivery of the essential medical supplies and ration to the nodal points of various States, thereby equipping the State governments and supporting agencies to combat the contagion effectively and efficiently.


    For details:


    Indian Navy Supports Fight against Covid19 In Port Blair


    Reaching out to those in need during the Covid-19 crisis, Naval Air Station (NAS) Utkrosh and Material Organisation (Port Blair) carried out food distribution in Port Blair.


    For details:


    PM Janaushadhi Kendra people are working as Corona Warriors: ShMandaviya


    Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers ShriMansukhMandaviya has said that even in the current difficult circumstances the PradhanMantriJanaushadhi Kendra (PMJK) people are working as CoronaWarriors and serving the nation.


    For details:


    Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank” launches a web-portal YUKTI (Young India Combating COVID with Knowledge, Technology and Innovation)


    The portal aims to monitor and record the efforts and initiatives of MHRD which have been taken in the wake of COVID-19. T he portal will also establish a two-way communication channel between the Ministry of HRD and the institutions so that the Ministry can provide the necessary support system to the institutions.


    For details:


    KendriyaVidyalayaSangathan- Delhi Region takes several initiatives for taking learning to thestudents in Covid-19 situation


    While online live classes for classes VI to VIII will start from Monday, KVS Delhi Region has already started the online live classes for IX to XII on Facebook and YouTube.


    For details:


    KVIC Develops Double Layered Khadi Masks


    Khadi and Village Industries Commission has successfully developed a double layered Khadi mask and has procured orders for supplying it in large quantities. To add to its success, KVIC has recently bagged an order to supply 7.5 lakh pieces of Khadi Masks to Jammu & Kashmir Government alone.


    For details:


    NRLM Self Help Group women emerge as community warriors to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the country


    About 2 crore masks have been produced by around 78,000 SHG members of 27 State Rural Livelihood Missions (SRLMs). More than 5000 PPE kits manufactured by SHGs in various states; Around 900 SHG enterprises in 9 States have produced more than 1 lakh litres of hand sanitizer. Some SHGs have also produced liquid soaps to guarantee hand hygiene


    For details:


    NRLM Self Help Group network rises to the challenge of COVID-19 situation in the country


    During the on-going crisis also, SHG members have emerged as community warriors by contributing in every possible way to contain the spread of COVID-19. Approximately 690 lakh women members of around 63 lakh Self Help Groups (SHGs) across the country formed under the DeendayalAntyodayaYojana-National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM), Ministry of Rural Development are working in committed manner.


    For details:


    CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad engaged in the Fight Against COVID-19 on Multiple Fronts


    CSIR’s constituent leading biology lab CCMB based in Hyderabad is employing several tools and approaches in the countries fight against COVID-19.


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Kerala: In Kasargod- a hotspot in the State- 26 Covid patients have been cured & will be discharged today; 60 already recovered & 105 active cases in the district. State Finance Minister criticizes Centre for not giving due financial assistance to the state. Police seals all by-routes, bordering Tamil Nadu following movement of illegal vehicles.
      * Tamilnadu: State reports 12th death; 45/F was admitted to Govt MC in Chennai. 8 doctors in the State test +ve. Total confirmed cases till now is 969. Nationwide alert issued on a Covid +ve Delhi native who went missing from Villupuram. State facing shortfall of Rs 10,000 crore in revenue due to lockdown.
      * Karnataka: State records 11 new cases till afternoon today taking the tally to 226. Four cases confirmed in Belagavi. Vijayapura now 19th district in the State affected by Covid; 60/F tests +ve. Door-to-door Covid survey in Bengaluru Urban district being done from today.
      * Andhra Pradesh: 12 new cases reported today; total +ve cases rise to 417. State makes spitting -of paan, tobacco or non-tobacco products and sputum- in public places a punishable offence. CM orders distribution of 3 masks to every individual. State completes 3rd phase of survey of 1.43 crore families out of 1.47 crore families.
      * Telangana: 2 more positive cases reported from Nirmal of Telangana. Total positive cases rise to 505. Drones deployed for spraying disinfectants in public areas across State to contain Covid19 spread.
      * Arunachal Pradesh: In Arunachal Pradesh, NSS volunteers from JN College, Pasighat distribute masks to frontline warriors against COVID-19, like police and healthcare staff.
      * Assam: Health Minister HimantaBiswaSarma tweeted that no COVID19 patient has died in Gauhati Medical College &Hospitals (GMCH) as reported in a local daily newspaper.
      * Manipur: Chief Secretary directs health deptt to check availability of (piped or bedside cylinder) oxygen supply in the State.
      * Mizoram: Expressing concern over safety of drivers and other workers involved in the supply of essential commodities in Mizoram, Transport Minister instructs officials to give them utmost care.
      * Meghalaya: DCs of East and West Jaintia Hills districts, Meghalaya have directed all NGOs, agencies and individuals from outside the state and district intending to help the people of the district to register their names with the concerned authorities.
      * Nagaland: State Government says that 3 relief camps sheltering 363 persons re functioning in Dimapur, another 2000 persons are being provided food grains and dry ration by district administration & NGOs.
      * Sikkim: CM informed that a cabinet meeting will be held on 15th April 2020 for taking further decision on the challenges being faced because of the COVID19.
      * Tripura:Govt has decided to give Rs.3.58 Cr relief to 21,899 brick kiln migrant. Every migrant worker will get Rs. 1000 each & 20 days ration.
      * Maharashtra Police has registered over 35,000 offences across the state against those violating prohibitory orders and quarantine guidelines during the lockdown. Meanwhile, 134 more have tested positive, taking the State's tally to 1,895.
      * Madhya Pradesh: After Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh has recorded the second highest number of Covid-19 deaths in India so far. According to latest figures released by the union health ministry, Maharashtra reported 127 deaths while 36 coronavirus patients have died so far in Madhya Pradesh.
      * Rajasthan: 151 new coronavirus cases were reported in Rajasthan bringing the total Covid 19 cases to 751. Among the total people infected as on date, 21 have recovered and 3 have passed away.
      * Gujarat: 67 new coronavirus cases were reported in Gujarat bringing the total reported cases of Covid 19 in Gujarat to 308. Among the total people infected as on date, 31 have recovered and 19 have passed away.
      * Jammu and Kashmir: 21 new cases of Covid-19 reported in J&K today. 17 from Kashmir Division and 4 from Jammu Division. Total number of positive cases now 245.

    Fact Check on # Covid19


    ******


    YKB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1613688) Visitor Counter : 1539
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

*