      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Despite National level COVID -19 lockdown National Fertilizers limited- NFL is ensuring adequate supply of fertilizers to farmer community working at over 100 per cent capacity
      
      NFL making available urea fertilisers to farmers unhindered

      Posted On: 14 APR 2020 3:31PM by PIB Delhi

    A leading Fertilizer company, National Fertilizers Ltd. under department of fertilizers ,Chemical and Fertilizers ministry,Govt of India, is ensuring adequate supply of fertilizers to farmer community during National level lockdown due to COVID-19 in the country.


    Shri Manoj Mishra, Chairman & Managing Director ,NFL has said that production work in Nangal, Bathinda, Panipat and two units of Vijaipur plants are going on in full swing. These five plants are producing more than 11 thousand MT of fertilizers on daily basis and they are being regularly dispatched to the market.


    NFL Maintaining optimum operations of these plants in difficult times is a big success story especially towards fulfilling Government’s commitment to the farming community of the country.


    Government of India , Under Essential Commodities Act has allowed operation of Fertilizers plant in the country so that agriculture sector may not feel the heat of lockdown and can get adequate fertilizers for the upcoming Kharif season.


    As loading and unloading, dispatch and distribution activities are in full swing in these plants no compromise is made with precautions to avoid COVID2019. A Special Task Force has been constituted at all Units to ensure adequate preventive measures against spread of COVID-19. Masks are provided to labourers and all other staff working in the premises of these plants. Frequent washing of hands is also ensured.


    NFL and its employees are also helping Government in its effort to prevent the spread of corona virus by taking active part in distributing essential items like food and medicines to the needy people. They have also contributed their one month salary to PM CARES fund.


    RCJ/RKM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1614318) Visitor Counter : 612
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada