      Ministry of Education

      Tata Sky and Airtel DTH accede to the request of HRD and I&B ministers,to air three SWAYAM PRABHA channels free on their DTH platform
      SWAYAM PRABHA channels earlier available on DD-DTH, Dish TV and Jio TV App only
      
      Learners can continue their education and learning sitting at home in this difficult situation due to unfortunate outbreak of COVID-19- Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’

      Posted On: 09 APR 2020 5:05PM by PIB Delhi

    To provide quality education at students’ doorstep and to reach out more school students’ Union Minister for Human Resource Development Shri Ramesh Pokhriya ‘Nishank and Union Minister for Information & Broadcasting Shri Prakash Javadekar requested Tata Sky and Airtel DTH operators to air some SWAYAM PRABHA channels on their DTH platform. On the request of both the Union Ministers Tata Sky and Airtel DTH operators have agreed to air three Swayam Prabha DTH channels on their DTH platform. These channels were earlier available only on DD-DTH, Dish TV and Jio TV App. Now a student anywhere in India can request, DTH 'Service Provider' for these channels without any extra cost as these are free to air channels.


    Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal said that the learners can continue their education and learning even sitting at home in this difficult situation arisen due to unfortunate outbreak of COVID-19. SWAYAM PRABHA is a group of 32 DTH channels providing high quality educational curriculum based course contents covering diverse disciplines such as arts, science, commerce, performing arts, social sciences and humanities subjects, engineering, technology, law, medicine, agriculture etc to all teachers, students and citizens across the country interested in lifelong learning.


    The channel number in different DTH service providers are as follows:


    In Airtel TV: Channel # 437, Channel # 438 & Channel #439


    In vmVideocon: Channel # 475, Channel # 476, Channel # 477


    In Tata sky: Channel # 756 which pops up window for Swayamprabha DTH channels.


    In Dish TV: Channel # 946, Channel # 947, Channel #949, Channel # 950


    The learners can watch the lesson based educational programs on these DTH Channels and NIOS YouTube channel 6 hours of recorded broadcast from 7.00AM to 1.00PM followed by 6 hours of Live session from 1.00PM to 7.00PM with four different subject experts for one and half hour session each. Learners can ask questions directly to the subject experts from their home through phone call on the number displayed during Live session and through 'Student Portal' of NIOS web site directly in live telecast.


    Also to facilitate student studies during COVID-19pandemic, NIOS has made excellent innovations in telecast of Live session through Skype in joint association with KVS, NVS and CBSE & NCERT through Swayam Prabha DTH Channel Panini (#27), Channel Sharda (#28)of NIOS and Channel Kishore Manch (#31) of NCERT. Now, the subject experts are able to connect for the Live telecast of SWAYAMPRABHA through the SKYPE from their home.


    *****


    NB /AKJ /AK /OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1614239) Visitor Counter : 144