      Ministry of Tourism

      Know about Kolkata’s great history and culture in the second webinar series of "DekhoApnaDesh" tomorrow
      
      During lockdown Ministry of Tourism has started webinar seriestoshowcase the diverse and remarkable history and culture of India

      Posted On: 15 APR 2020 4:58PM by PIB Delhi

    Ministry of Tourism‘s "DekhoApnaDesh" webinar series isgetting a good response during lockdown. This webinar series provide information on the many destinations and the sheer depth and expanse of the culture and heritage of our Incredible India. The first webinar held yesterday , which was part of a series that was unfolded, touched upon the long history of Delhi. The webinar was titled " City of Cities- Delhi's Personal Diary'had 5700 registrations and it was very well received. The core of the session based itself on tourism awareness and social history. The complete webinar may be watched by clicking the link below.


    https://youtu.be/LWlBc8F_Us4


    After Delhi's success, the second"DekhoApnaDesh" webinar serieswill be held tomorrow (16th April) between 11:00 AM to 12:00 Noon.The webinar will provide people to get a chance to know about ’Calcutta - A Confluences of Culture’. Kolkata is steeped in history and culture; it is a city that has been imprinted with various foreign and national influences, the richness of which still runs strong in its veins. The webinar will discuss how this melting pot of diversity is being kept alive and how it can be further highlighted through a touristic approach to create more awareness. In this webinar Iftekhar Ahsan, Ramanuj Ghosh, Ritwick Ghosh and Anirban Dutta will be main speakers, who will take the participants to amazing City of Kolkata.


    To register click: https://bit.ly/WebinarCalcutta


    COVID-19 has had a major impact on all human life and not just in India but globally. Tourism as a sector is naturally hugely impacted with no movement happening either domestically or from across the border. Ministry of Tourism believes in these unprecedented times technology is coming handy to maintain human contact and also keep faith that times will be good to be able to travel again soon. Keeping this in view the the Ministry has started "DekhoApnaDesh" webinar series.


    *******


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1614724) Visitor Counter : 626
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Assamese , Tamil , Telugu , Hindi , Gujarati , Urdu , Bengali , Kannada