      Ministry of Power

      POWERGRID carrying out CSR activities to combat COVID-19 pandemic
      Posted On: 14 APR 2020 5:10PM by PIB Delhi


    The COVID-19 pandemic is a cause of great concern. While the whole nation is under lock down, POWERGRID, a central PSU under Ministry of Power, has not just been ensuring uninterrupted 24x7 transmission of power but also acting proactively by taking up humanitarian relief activities to aid those impacted by the pandemic in India.


    POWERGRID as a Responsible Corporate Citizen was among the first to take up CSR activities related to COVID-19 pandemic. It has contributed Rs. 200 Crore to PM CARES Fund. Additionally, all employees of POWERGRID contributed one day salary to PM CARES Fund.


    Along with financial contributiontoPM CARES fund, the PSU is also distributing food packets/groceries to its contractual workers, laborers and needy people near its sub-station sites and transmission line offices. Besides, these essential items, distribution of masks, sanitizers and soaps is also being carried out. So far around 81,000 beneficiaries have been provided Ration/food items worth Rs. 4.27 Crore at more than 200 locations across the country.


    POWERGRID has also provided assistance to hospitals for purchase of ventilators, strengthening medical facilities as well as creation of infrastructure for managing this pandemic.PPE kits, ventilators and other hospital equipment have also been distributed to various hospitals all over the country in its support for the fight against COVID-19.


    Further, POWERGRID teams posted in the offices at various locations across the country are sensitizing people about the importance of social distancing during this pandemic and how the implementation of social distancing can curtail the spread of this life threatening disease.


    Click here to see the details:


    ***


    RCJ/M

    
    
    (Release ID: 1614369) Visitor Counter : 508
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada