      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      “There is always a silver lining to each dark cloud” Dr. Harsh Vardhan
      
      Dr. Harsh Vardhan interacts with the bigwigs of Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)

      Posted On: 14 APR 2020 9:31PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of Health & Family Welfare Dr. Harsh Vardhan held an interactive session through Video Conferencing today with over 50 Indian Industry leaders, organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). During the conference he interacted with Shri Vikram Kirloskar, President CII, Uday Kotak, President Designate, CII, Shri Chandrajit Banerjee, Director General, CII, Dr. Naresh Trehan, Chairman, CII National Healthcare Council & CMD, Medanta, Shri Sunil Kant Munjal, Chairman, Hero Enterprise, Ms. Vinita Bali, Former Chair, Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN), Dr. Pawan Goenka, Managing Director, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., Shri R. C. Bhargava, Chairman, RCB Consulting and Dr Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, Member, CII National Committee on Biotechnology & Founder.


    Dr Harsh Vardhan briefed Industry on the various relief measures being undertaken by the Government in response to COVID-19. While speaking to them the Minister responded to many of the critical issues related to possible supply chain disruptions as well as the problems being experienced by the Healthcare Sector. He allayed their concerns with respect to measures being taken for revival of economy, availability of testing facilities, quarantine facilities, raw materials for Pharmaceutical industry, disease surveillance, use of telemedicine facilities, preventive healthcare etc. during the fight against COVID-19. He said “there is always a silver lining to each dark cloud and in the present situation it is necessary to keep the spirits high, so that we can come out of it, victorious like a phoenix.” He added, “it is one of the darkest episodes in modern history of the world and mankind has to come out of it and salvage good things from it.”


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan exhorted them to keep their spirits high and make best use of the Make in India opportunities in Healthcare posed by COVID so that country comes out more resilient and self-reliant in providing critical health care equipment while dealing potently with the pandemic. He informed them that the government is deliberating as to “how to resume industrial activities in a phased and safe manner at the earliest.”


    Further, Dr. Harsh Vardhan thanked all the participants for standing by the Government in testing times and contributing liberally and graciously into the PM CARES fund. He said “the Industry sector in the country has taken a big jolt due to COVID breakout and the Government is already brainstorming on how to ensure that in coming time it can bounce back to its earlier levels.”


    He said that India is a vast country and Industry sector plays a pivotal role in its growth story. He added that healthcare is providing many opportunities for Make in India and urged the industry leaders to participate in it and make it happen for India in the intense testing time of COVID pandemic.


    *****


    MV/MR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1614544) Visitor Counter : 871
    
    
      Read this release in: Kannada , Bengali , Urdu , Hindi , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu