      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Key amendment to Environment Impact Assessment(EIA) Notification 2006,to ramp up availability/production of bulk drugs within short span of time.
      
      Within a period of about two weeks, more than 100 such proposals received

      Posted On: 15 APR 2020 7:34PM by PIB Delhi

    To address unprecedented situation arising from global outbreak of Novel Corona Virus (COVID-19), and to ramp up availability or production of various drugs, Ministry of Environment,Forest and Climate Change on 27 th March 2020, has made an amendment to EIA Notification 2006. All projects or activities in respect of bulk drugs and intermediates, manufactured for addressing various ailments, have been re-categorized from the existing Category ‘A’ to ‘B2’ category.


    Projects falling under Category B2 are exempted from requirement of collection of Base line data, EIA Studies and public consultation. The re-categorization of such proposals has been done to facilitate decentralization of appraisal to State Level so as to fast track the process. This step of the Govt is with a view to help in increasing the availability of the important medicines/ drugs in the country within short span of time. This amendment is applicable to all proposals received up to 30 th September 2020. The states have also been issued advisories to expeditiously process such proposals.


    Further, to ensure expeditious disposal of the proposals within given time-line, Ministry has also advised states to use information technology e.g. video conference, considering the fact that in view of the prevailing situation on ground, appraisal of proposals may not be possible through physical meetings.


    Within a period of about two weeks, more than 100 proposals have been received under this category, which are at different levels of decision making by the concerned regulatory authorities in the states.


    ***


    GK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1614813) Visitor Counter : 1682
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada