      Ministry of Defence

      DRDO develops kiosk for COVID-19 sample collection
      Posted On: 14 APR 2020 5:26PM by PIB Delhi


      Defence Research & Development Laboratory (DRDL), Hyderabad has added another product to the portfolio of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to combat Coronavirus (COVID-19) by developing COVID Sample Collection Kiosk (COVSACK).


      The unit has been developed by DRDL in consultation with the doctors of Employees' State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), Hyderabad. The COVSACK is a kiosk for use by healthcare workers for taking COVID-19 samples from suspected infected patients. Patient under test walks into the Kiosk and a nasal or oral swab is taken by health care professional from outside through the built in gloves.


      The Kiosk is automatically disinfected without the need for human involvement, making the process free of infection spread. The shielding screen of kiosk cabin protects the health care worker from the aerosols/droplet transmission while taking the sample.This reduces the requirements of PPE change by health care workers.


      After the patient leaves the Kiosk, four nozzle sprayers mounted in the kiosk cabin disinfect the empty chamber by spraying disinfectant mist for a period of 70 seconds. It is further flushed with water & UV light disinfection. The system is ready for next use in less than two minutes. Voice command can be given through two-way communication system integrated with the COVSACK. It is possible to configure COVSACK to be used either from inside or outside as required by the medical professionals.


      The COVSACK costs nearly Rsone lakh and the identified industry based at Belgaum, Karnataka can support 10 units per day. The DRDO has designed and developed two units and handed over these to ESIC Hospital, Hyderabad after successful testing.


    ABB/SS/Nampi/KA/DK/Savvy

    
    
    (Release ID: 1614372) Visitor Counter : 4214
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada