      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Over 1.51 Crore free LPG cylinders distributed so far to the PMUY beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana(PMGKY);
      
      Shri Dharmendra Pradhan appreciates the sincerity and hard work of LPG delivery boys, calls them frontline soldiers
      
      Some LPG Delivery boys infom that they have also contributed towrads PM-CARES Fund
      Posted On: 16 APR 2020 7:29PM by PIB Delhi


    More than 1.51 Crore free LPG cylinders have been distributed so far to the PMUY beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana(PMGKY) in this month. Under the PMKGY, several relief measures have been announced by the central Government for the welfare of poor, and one of the important component of the Yojana is to provide 3 LPG cylinders (14.2 kg) free to over 8 crore beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjawala Yojana(PMUY) over the period of April to June 2020. For the seamless implementation of the scheme,the Oil Marketing Companies have been transferring an advance equal to the RSP of one 14.2 kg refill or one 5 kg refill depending upon the type of package to the linked bank account of PMUY customer. The customer can use this advance money to take LPG refill. The Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) are distributing 50 to 60 lakh cylinders per day, which includes about 18 lakh free cylinders to PMUY beneficiaries.


    Petroleum and Natural Gas & Steel minister ShriDharmendraPradhan today took part in a webinar with over 800 LPG cylinder delivery boys, in which the Secretary, M/PNG, Officials of the M/PNG and OMCs took part. Describing the LPG delivery boys as the frontline soldiers and Corona fighters in the time of unprecedented crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic, ShriPradhan said that the whole nation acknowledges their contributions. Appreciating their sincerity, hardwork and dedication to the duty, he said that in such times, they are delivering upto 60 lakhs cylinders daily, sometimes even endangering their own lives.ShriPradhan called upon them to take due precautions while discharging their duties. He said that by rising to the occasion, they have gained special respect from the society, and are getting blessing from the poor.


    Many LPG delivery boys shared their experiences during these difficult times. They said that the Companies have provided them with the protection kit which includes soap, sanitizer, mask and gloves. They also sanitize their cylinders before delivery, and also maintain social distancing while delivering the cylinder. Many of them said that they are making the customers aware about social distancing, benefit of installing AarogyaSetu in their phones, and paying through the digital modes. Most of them thanked the Government and OMCs for providing insurance for them, and also making provisions of ex-gratia payment. Some delivery boys also stated that they have contributed to the PM-CARES fund, and are helping the poor and elderly while discharging their duties.


    *****


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1615103) Visitor Counter : 849
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Kannada