      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      247 Lifeline Udan flights operated during lockdown to transport 418 tons of medical supplies across the country
      Posted On: 16 APR 2020 7:26PM by PIB Delhi


    MoCA core group was formed with important Stakeholders for undertaking Lifeline UDN initiative to transport essential medical cargo to remote parts of the country to support India’s war against COVID-19 and Hub & spoke lifeline services were started from 26 th March 2020, said Sh. Rajeev Jain, ADG (Media) for MoCA. During a press briefing today, Sh. Rajeev Jain provided an overview of Lifeline Udan initiative by MoCA during lockdown period and informed that 247 flights have been operated under Lifeline Udan by ir India, Alliance Air, IAF and private carriers. 154 of these flights have been operated by ir India and Alliance Air. Cargo transported till date is more than 418 tons . erial distance covered by Lifeline Udan flights till date is more than 2.45 lakh kms .


    Air India, Alliance Air, IAF and private carriers are operating flights to deliver essential items including medical supplies with special focus on the North East Region, island territories and the hill states . Air India and IAF collaborated primarily for J&K, Ladakh, North-East and other island regions. Helicopter services including Pawan Hans Ltd have been operating in J&K, Ladakh and North East region transporting critical medical cargo and patients.


    In the International Sector, an air-bridge has been established with China with effect from 4 April 2020 for transportation of pharmaceuticals, medical equipment and Covid-19 relief material. Within South Asia, Air India transported medical supplies to Colombo .


    Air India operated first flight under Krishi Udan program between Mumbai and London on 13 April 2020 carrying 29 tons of fruits and vegetables to London and returned with 15.6 Tons of general cargo material. Air India operated its second flight between Mumbai and Frankfurt on 15 April 2020 under the Krishi Udan program, carrying 27 tons of seasonal fruits and vegetables to Frankfurt and returned with 10 tons of general cargo.


    ****


    RJ/NG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1615089) Visitor Counter : 359
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu , Bengali , Assamese , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada