      Ministry of Defence

      Webinar on manufacturing PPEs and other products for Combating COVID-19
      Posted On: 17 APR 2020 7:13PM by PIB Delhi


    Domestic industry needs to gear up their manufacturing capabilities to meet the rising demand of COVID-19 combat products for both Government and non-Government sectors. In this regard a webinar was organised by Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM) in collaboration with the DRDO led by Secretary Department of Defence Research (DD R&D) and Chairman Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) Dr G Satheesh Reddy and other stakeholders today.


    Dr Reddy addressed the plenary session and lauded the efforts of industry in coming forward to produce COVID-19 related medical equipment for supporting the national cause of combating the pandemic. He briefed on the new DRDO design for PPEs and assured that complete know-how will be shared with industries seeking it. He further mentioned that R&D efforts are being undertaken on reusability of the PPE fabrics. A serious effort is being put for indigenisation of critical components for ventilators, oxygen cylinders, goggles, test kits, swabs and Viral Transport Mediums (VTMs).


    Secretary DD R&D said that DRDO is developing about 15-20 products currently. He informed about the newly developed products like UV sanitisation box, handheld UV device, COVSACK (Covid Sample Collection Kiosk), foot operated fumigation device, touch free sanitisers and face shield for prevention against COVID-19.


    During the interactive session several queries were raised by industries regarding material, sourcing, testing, sealants and DRDO developed new products. The queries were addressed by the panellists from DRDO, South India Textile Research Association (SITRA) and other organisations. All technical details of these equipment are available to industries for production at free of cost from DRDO.


    He wished all success to all participants of the webinar and assured that technological partnership between DRDO and industries will be strengthened in this time of crisis. .


    ***


    ABB/SS/Nampi/KA/DK/Savvy/ADA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1615437) Visitor Counter : 504
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada