      Ministry of Rural Development

      Minister for Rural Development, Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare Shri Narendra Singh Tomar conducts detailed review meeting of all flagship schemes of Ministry of Rural Development
      
      Rs.7300 crores released to States and UTs under MGNREGS to liquidate pending dues of FY 2019-2020 and wage dues for the first fortnight of 2020-2021
      
      Shri Tomar advised that around 40 lakh beneficiaries of PMAY(G) who have received second and third instalment of funds must be assisted for quick completion of their housing units
      Posted On: 16 APR 2020 6:58PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister for Rural Development, Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare Shri Narendra Singh Tomar today conducted a detailed review of all flagship schemes of Ministry of Rural Development. The Minister of State for Rural Development, Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti, Secretary (Rural Development) Shri Rajesh Bhushan and all senior officers of the Ministry attended the review meeting.


    Shri Narendra Singh Tomar appreciated the fact that Rs.7300 crores have been released to the States and UTs under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) to liquidate not only the pending wage and material dues of FY 2019-2020 but also the wage dues for the first fortnight of the current financial year. The Minister desired that MGNREGS works in Non-Containment Areas with adequate focus on social distancing and use of protective face cover, must be resumed in an efficient manner. Focus should be on creating durable assets relating to irrigation, water conservation and arresting surface run-offs.


    The Minister noted with satisfaction that more than 93,000 SHG members are engaged in manufacturing of cotton protective face covers as well as sanitizers and are also running community kitchens across the country for the vulnerable sections of rural population. He desired that to strengthen rural livelihoods and to inject liquidity in the rural economy, Deendayal Antyoday Yojana – National Rural Livelihood Mission (DAY-NRLM) must focus on expanding the number of Bank Sakhis and Pashu Sakhis. Such an endeavour would bring bank credit and animal husbandry services to the doorstep of rural women.


    The Minister emphasised the need to develop e-content for Deendayal Upadhyaya Gramin Kaushal Yojana (DDUGKY).


    Shri Tomar noted that under Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana (Gramin), against a total budget of Rs.19,500 crore, Rs.800.63 crore has been released to the States. He advised that around 40 lakh beneficiaries of PMAY(G) who have received second and third instalment of funds must be assisted in a proactive manner to quickly complete their housing units.


    The Minister advised the officials that lockdown period be used effectively to streamline the meeting management of both District and State level DISHA Committees. He impressed upon the need for effective monitoring of implementation of decisions taken in DISHA meeting to make the DISHA platform more meaningful.


    ****


    APS/SG/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1615079) Visitor Counter : 544
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Assamese , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada