      Ministry of Railways

      To ensure enough availability of foodgrains for Public Distribution system ( PDS), Railways loads food grains double the amount what was done last year
      
      More than 1500 rakes and more than 4.2 Million Tonnes of foodgrains loaded during the lockdown period from 25th March to 17th April 2020 compared to 2.31 million tonnes last year in same period
      
      Indian Railways making all efforts to ensure that farm products like foodgrains are picked up on time and also to ensure uninterrupted supply chain

      Posted On: 18 APR 2020 4:37PM by PIB Delhi

    Indian Railways continues in its endeavour to ensure availability of essential commodities like foodgrain through its freight services during the nationwide lock down due to COVID-19.


    In order to ensure that Kitchens of all Indian homes continue to run normally, on 17th of April 2020, 83 rakes/3601 wagons of foodgrains were loaded (One wagon contains 58-60 ton consignment). During the lockdown period from 25th March to 17th April 2020, more than 1500 rakes and more than 4.2 million tonnes of foodgrains were loaded.


    These efforts have been made to ensure that farm products like foodgrains are picked up on time and also to ensure timely supply during the nationwide lock down due to COVID-19. The loading, transportation and unloading of these essential commodities has been in progress in full swing during the lockdown period. Close association is being maintained with Ministry of Agriculture for foodgrains loading. It may be noted that CONCOR is also working with NAFED to ensure transpiration of pulses in a big way.


    Indian Railways has also identified 65 routes for Parcel Special Trains since the start of the lockdown for perishable commodities including fruits, vegetables, milk and dairy products and seeds for agriculture purpose. Till 17th April, 66 routes have been notified and time tabled trains are being run on these routes. Trains are being run even on those routes where demand is less, so that no part of the country remains unconnected. Trains have been given en-route stoppages at all feasible locations, so that maximum possible clearance of parcels may be done.


    ****


    SG/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1615740) Visitor Counter : 645
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam