      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      National Fertilizers ltd is taking active part in distributing essential items like food and medicines to support government's efforts to fight COVID-19
      Posted On: 18 APR 2020 4:43PM by PIB Delhi


    A leading Fertilizer company, National Fertilizers Ltd.(NFL) under the Union Department of Fertilizers , Chemicals and Fertilizers Ministry, Govt of India, is taking active part in distributing essential items like food, medicines and masks to support Government in its effort to combat COVID-19.


    Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers Shri DV Sadanada Gowda has appreciated the initiatives taken by the company.


    NFL units across the country are engaged in different ways to carry out these activities for a national cause.


    NFL Bathinda unit has provided 3,000 Masks to Distt Administration, Bathinda to fight Corona Pandemic. Sh A K Jain, CGM, NFL Bathinda along with other officials handed over the masks to DC, Bathinda, Sh B Srinivasan in the presenc of SSP, Bathinda Sh Nanak Singh.


    NFL Panipat unit has contributed One Lakh rupees to District Relief Fund, Panipat. This is in addition to the one day salary of Rs. 88 Lakhs already contributed by employees of the company.


    The Ladies Club of NFL, Nangal unit has sent grocery items worth 50,000 rupees to needy people, in and around Nangal, who were struck in #lockdown. Mrs Sunita Markan, President and other executive members of the club sought help of local SDM to distribute these items amid curfew in Punjab.


    NFL State Office, Karnataka distributed N95masks and sanitizers for Public Service Officials in Bangalore.


    CMD, NFL, Shri Manoj Mishra complimented the doctors, nurses & all health workers of NFL hospitals ,who are working day and night by putting their own lives at risk, and said that this is a great service to humanity.


    RCJ/RKM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1615747) Visitor Counter : 479
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada