      Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

      MNRE Grants Extension for RE Projects considering disruption on account of lockdown due to COVID-19 for a period of 30 Days beyond lockdown;
      
      Lockdown due to COVID-19 to be treated as Force Majeure

      Posted On: 21 APR 2020 3:11PM by PIB Delhi

    Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) has said that the Renewable Energy implementing agencies may grant extension of time for RE projects, on account of lockdown due to COVID-19, equivalent to the period of lockdown and additional 30 (thirty) days for normalisation after end of such lockdown. In an order issued on 17-4-2020, the Ministry noted that, thus, the extension will be for the period of lockdown plus 30 (thirty) days. This will be a blanket extension - there will be no requirement of case to case examination. There will be no need to ask for any evidence for extension due to lockdown.


    The Ministry has also said that all Renewable Energy implementing agencies of the Ministry of New & Renewable Energy (MNRE) will treat lockdown due to COVID-19, as Force Majeure .


    Referring to the Renewable Energy Departments (including agencies under Power/ Energy Departments of States, but dealing in renewable energy), the Ministry has asked them that they may also treat lockdown due to COVID-19, as Force Majeure and may consider granting appropriate time extension on account of such lockdown.


    The decision was taken after, RE developers represented to the Ministry that they may be granted a general time extension on account of lock down (due to COVID-19) and additional time required for normalization after such lockdown.


    MNRE had, earlier on 20.03.2020, issued directions to SECI, NTPC and Addl. Chief Secretaries / Pr. Secretaries / Secretaries of Power / Energy / Renewable Energy (RE) Departments of State Governments/ UT Govts./ Administrations, to treat delay on account of disruption of the supply chains due to spread of coronavirus in China or any other country, as Force Majeure and that they may grant suitable extension of time for projects, on account of coronavirus, based on evidences / documents produced by developers in support of their respective claims of such disruption of the supply chains due to spread of coronavirus in China or any other country.


    RCJ/Monika

    
    
    (Release ID: 1616670) Visitor Counter : 676
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Gujarati , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada