      Ministry of Railways

      Standing by Delhi Police, Railways make arrangements to provide 10000 water bottles per day to Delhi Police personnel on COVID duty
      
      As the summer heat increases, Indian Railways with the help of its PSU IRCTC starts providing Rail Neer water bottles to Policemen stationed at Road Naakas and other places in war against COVID
      
      Till now more than 50000 bottles have been distributed; Arrangements to continue till May 3

      Posted On: 21 APR 2020 3:31PM by PIB Delhi

    Indian Railways with the help of Railway organizations like IRCTC, RPF, Zonal Railways and others have worked tirelessly to keep alive the Railways’ commitment of fight against the COVID in an integrated manner.


    Recently it has started to provide 10000 water bottles per day to the Delhi Police personnel who have been out on the streets on the war against COVID 19. Till now 50000 water bottles have been distributed.


    Braving hot summers and trying conditions on ground, these police men have worked round the clock to not only ensure that lock down is implemented as required but also accompany the doctors and paramedics in various locations in challenging circumstances.


    Supporting these frontline warriors like policemen is not only a mark of tribute to these tireless officials but is also a natural extension of on going efforts of Indian Railways to supplement the national efforts in combating COVID 19.


    Under this initiative Indian Railway with the help of its PSU IRCTC has started free distribution of 10000 Rail Neer water bottles per day in New Delhi from 16.04.2020. These 10000 Railneer water bottles are of one litre each. They are picked up from Railneer plant at Nangloi. Till now more than 50000 bottles have been distributed.


    It may be noted that Indian Railways is selflessly and voluntarily providing hot cooked meals to needy people after the lockdown due to COVID-19. Railways has been providing bulk cooked food with paper plates for lunch and food packets for dinner through IRCTC base kitchens, RPF resources and contribution of NGOs. Distribution of free hot cooked meals by Indian Railways during the national lockdown due to COVID-19 crossed the two million mark yesterday.


    ****


    SG/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1616676) Visitor Counter : 626
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada