      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 20 APR 2020 6:25PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from field offices, and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on COVID-19 from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare


    .A total of 17,265 confirmed cases are reported for COVID-19 in the country. As many as 2547 persons i.e. 14.75 % of total cases have been cured/discharged after recovery. A total of 543 deaths have been reported so far due to COVID-19.The doubling rate of COVID-19 cases calculated using growth over the past seven days indicates that India’s doubling rate for the week before lockdown was 3.4 and has improved to 7.5 as on 19th April, 2020 (for the last seven days).


    For details:


    Life in the era of COVID-19


    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has shared a few thoughts on Linkedin, which would interest youngsters and professionals.He said “ Today, the world is in pursuit of new business models.India, a youthful nation known for its innovative zeal can take the lead in providing a new work culture.” Prime Minister further added that he envisions this new business and work culture being redefined on the following vowels- Adaptability,Efficiency, Inclusivity, Opportunity, and Universalism.


    For details:


    Central Government constitutes 6 Inter-Ministerial Teams to make assessment of situation & augment State efforts to fight & contain spread of COVID-19 effectively


    The Centre has constituted 6 Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs), two each for West Bengal and Maharashtra and one each for Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, to make on-spot assessment of situation and issue necessary directions to State Authorities for its redressal and submit their report to Central Government in larger interest of general public.


    For details:


    States must ensure Smooth Movement of the entire Supply Chain of Essential Goods, including by e-Commerce


    MHA has communicated to all States/UTs and requested them to clarify to all the field agencies and also adequately disseminate directions amongst the general public so as to ensure smooth movement of the entire supply chain of essential goods, including by e-commerce. It has also been communicated that the guidelines/ Orders issued by the State Governments/ UT Administration in pursuance to MHA Orders may be suitably modified to reflect the correct position.


    For details,


    Government launches online data pool of critical human resource for combating and containing Covid-19


    Union Government has created an online data pool on https://covidwarriors.gov.in of doctors including AYUSH doctors, nurses and other health care professionals, volunteers from NYKs, NCC NSS, PMGKVY, ex Servicemen etc for use by the ground level administration at state, district or municipal levels. The information has been uploaded on a dashboard which is regularly updated. Informing about this very critical human resource for combating and containing Covid-19.


    For details,


    G20 Health Ministers Meeting deliberates on steps to control COVID-19


    Forge cooperation and mutually respectful and useful collaborations to deal with COVID-19 disease, stressed Dr. Harsh Vardhan during the Video Conference of the Health Ministers of G20 countries, an international forum for the governments of 19 countries and the European Union (EU). Dr. Harsh Vardhan reiterated India’s support to the global health agenda, and said, “India looks forward towards working with G20 member countries to pursue unified efforts towards mitigation of COVID-19.”


    For details,


    Despite COVID -19 lockdown, Production and Movement of Fertilizers going on to meet the demand of farmers


    On 17th April, 41 highest number of Fertilizer Rakes moved from plants & ports, the highest movement during lockdown period in a day


    For details,


    North East operations of FCI during lockdown


    FCI moved 158 train loads carrying about 4,42,000 MT food grains during 25 days of lockdown to North Eastern states at double its average of about 80 Train loads per month. Rail movement was supplemented by large scale road movement to reach remote NER areas


    For details,


    Telephone Conversation between PM and President of the Maldives
    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi had a telephone conversation today with H.E. Mr. Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, President of the Maldives. The leaders updated each other about the current state of COVID-19 infections in their countries. They expressed satisfaction that the coordination modalities agreed between SAARC countries were being implemented actively.


    For details,


    Army Extends Support to Narela Quarantine Centre


    Narela Quarantine Centre in Delhi is amongst the largest centres in the country for managing the COVID suspects at Delhi. The centre was established by the Delhi Government in mid of March 2020.A team of Army Doctors and Nursing staff have been assisting the Civil administration at Narela Quarantine Centre since 01 April 20. From 16 April 20, the Army has taken the initiative to manage the facility from morning 8:00 am to evening 8:00 pm relieving the Delhi Government Doctors and medical staff to manage the facility only during the night.


    For details


    Road Ministry launched dashboard containing list of Dhabas and Truck Repair Shops on its website


    Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has created a dashboard link on its website for providing list and details of Dhabas and Truck repair shops available across the country by various organisations like NHAI, States, Oil Marketing companies. This is intended to facilitate the truck / cargo drivers and cleaners in their movement while traveling between different places of the country for delivering required goods in the present challenging times of lockdown announced to curb Covid-19 pandemic.


    For details:


    KendriyaVidyalayaSangathan has taken various steps to contribute in the on-going fight against COVID-19


    As on date, 80 KendriyaVidyalayas have been assigned to various competent authorities for using them as Quarantine Centres. 32,247 teachers are taking online classes of 7,07,312 students through various online platforms


    For details:


    District administrations and Gram Panchayats all across the country responding with various activities to check the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic


    Various actions being taken include formation of advisory committees; wall paintings to create awareness about the disease; local stitching and distribution of masks; free distribution of cooked meals/ rations to the needy; and sanitization of public spaces


    For details:


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan visits Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital to review status of COVID-19 management


    Keeping in view the emerging requirements for hospital preparedness, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital is functioning as dedicated 450-bedded COVID-19 hospital, consisting of adequate isolation wards and beds. Dr. Harsh Vardhan also stated that the prevention, containment and management of COVID-19 in the country is being monitored regularlyat highest levels in collaboration with the States.


    For details,


    Indian Railways provides over 20 lakh free meals to needy people


    Distribution of free hot cooked meals by Indian Railways during the national lockdown due to COVID-19 crossed the two million mark today, with a total of more than 20.5 lacs.Indian Railways staff from a number of Railway organizations have worked tirelessly since 28th March 2020 to provide hot cooked meals to needy people after the lockdown due to COVID-19. Railways has been providing bulk cooked food with paper plates for lunch and food packets for dinner through IRCTC base kitchens, RPF resources and contribution of NGOs. While delivering the food to needy persons, social distancing and hygiene is being observed.


    For details:


    Coal and Mines PSUs extending best possible support in fighting Covid-19: ShriPralhad Joshi


    National Aluminum Company (NALCO) and Coal India subsidiary Mahanadi Coalfields Limited (MCL) will fully fund two dedicated COVID-19 hospitals in Odisha inaugurated by Shri Naveen Patnaik, Chief Minister, Odisha along with Union Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas Shri Dharmendra Pradhan and Union Minister of Coal & Mines ShriPralhad Joshi through Video Conferencing today. The hospitals started by Government of Odisha will be run with the help of different medical hospitals of the state.


    For details:


    Chandigarh city uses Vehicle tracking applications and GPS enabled smart watches for waste collection drivers in its fight against Covid-19


    As soon as the first COVID positive case was reported in Chandigarh, the City started quarantine of all the persons who came in contact with the positive case. The quarantined persons are also being tacked through CVD Tracker App. Special provisions were made for serving Essential items to quarantined families.


    For details:


    Lifeline Udan flights cover over 3 lakh km to deliver essential medical cargo to various part of India


    Lifeline Udan flights have covered over 3 lakh km of aerial distance to transport around 507.85 tons of essential medical cargo. 301 flights have been operated under Lifeline Udan by Air India, Alliance Air, IAF and private carriers.


    For details:


    CSIR supports efforts to develop a drug to save lives of critically ill patients suffering from Gram-negative sepsis


    CSIR, is now initiating a randomized, blinded, two arms, active comparator-controlled clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of the drug for reducing mortality (deaths) in critically ill COVID-19 patients
    For details:


    India Post delivers medicines urgently to child suffering from cancer in Una


    India Post delivered medicines to an 8 year old girl Shalini(name changed) from Una in Himachal Pradesh who was suffering from Cancer.


    For details,


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Punjab : The Punjab Mandi Board has made elaborate arrangements to strictly observe health protocol by providing 1.50 lakh masks and 15,000 bottles of sanitizers to its 5,600 officers/officials so as to ensure smooth and hassle-free procurement of wheat in wake of difficult phase due to COVID19 pandemic. The Rural Development and Panchayat Department, Punjab has provided three lac masks to the Government departments which were made by the women self-help groups under the National Rural Livelihood Mission.
      * Himachal Pradesh: The Himachal Pradesh government has urged the citizens to follow the advisory issued by Ministry of AYUSH which recommends some self-care guidelines for preventive health measures and boosting immunity with special reference to respiratory health.
      * Arunachal Pradesh: In the state lockdown, 1669 violators booked, 492 people arrested, 750 vehicles seized, total 161 FIRs registered &Rs 6.5 lakhs collected as fine.
      * Assam: Health Minister, HimantaBiswaSarma tweeted that the state government has released Rs.2000 each for 86,000 people stranded outside the state.
      * Manipur: CM hands over 12 newly acquired patrol cars to newly created Special Patrol Units of Imphal East and West Districts.
      * Mizoram: State Board of School Education has postponed the class 12th examination which was scheduled to take place from 22 April due to nationwide lockdown.
      * Nagaland:Undertrials’ Review Committee meetings conducted in different districts. So far 109 undertrials and 8 juveniles released on parole to reduce congestion in jails amidst COVID-19 pandemic.
      * Nagaland:Kohima&Dimapur observe Sabbath Day amid lockdown. As Church Deacons read out the scriptures through loudspeakers, residents came out on terraces, balconies, doors & windows of their homes and prayed.
      * Sikkim: In Sikkim, Powergrid has provided a monetary contribution of Rs 7.85 Lakhs for 10 ventilators to DC WEST, Rs 7 Lakhs each to DC East and DC North for rations and PPE kits and Rs 3 Lakhs to DC South for the same to fight against NCOVID-19.
      * Tripura: StateGovt has brought out a memorandum today permitting 16 different Industries & Industrial Establishments (Govt& Private) which will be allowed to operate, subject to compliance of the Government guidelines.
      * Kerala: Following directive from the Centre, Govt corrects lockdown relaxations in the State. An Italian citizen after being cured of Corona virus, bids good bye to the state after expressing gratitude. 13 recoveries & 2 new cases yesterday. 129 are undergoing treatment.
      * Tamil Nadu: State to maintain lockdown till May 3rd. Locals at Kilpauk deny burial of doctor who died of Covid19; later buried in another place. Total cases till now 1477; deaths 16; discharged 411. Chennai (290), Coimbatore(133) &Tirupur(108) report maximum cases.
      * Karnataka : 5 new cases confirmed today, all from Kalburgi district. Total cases till now 395; Deaths:16,Discharged:112. Attack on Asha workers & Police in Bengaluru city prompts State to bring ordinance to protect corona warriors, on the lines of Kerala & UP.
      * Andhra Pradesh: 75 new cases in the last 24 hours; total cases reach 722. Death toll rises to 20. 92 patients so far. State’s initiative to distribute 3 free masks to every individual by making 16 crore masks through SHGs is providing employment to around 40K women who are earning Rs 500 per day. Districts leading in +ve cases: Kurnool (174), Guntur (149), Krishna (80), Nellore (67), Chittoor (53).
      * Telangana : Hyderabad-based T-Works in collaboration with multiple startups develops bag-valve-mask (BVM) based ventilator for emergency use under the guidance of NIMS. Lockdown extended till May 7 in the State. Total number of cases reach 858. Active cases: 651, Deaths: 21, Discharged: 186.
      * Maharashtra: The number of Covid 19 positive cases in Maharashtra has crossed 4,000 to reach 4,203. The state has witnessed 223 deaths, while 507 people have been cured so far. Nearly two-thirds of the people who have tested positive in Maharashtra were asymptomatic and showed no signs of infection at the time of the test.
      * Goa: 265 British nationals took off for the UK in a special flight from the Goa International Airport today. This was the 27th special flight flying foreign tourists out of the Goa International Airport. In all, more than 5,000 foreign tourists, including those from Russia, France, US, Canada, have been repatriated since the announcement of Covid 19 lockdown on 24th March.
      * Gujarat: 139 new coronavirus cases were reported from Gujarat taking the state tally to 1,743. Among the total people infected as on date, 105 have recovered and 63 have passed away. Meanwhile, in view of surge in demand for the anti-malarial Hydroxyl Chloroquine (HCQ), pharmaceutical companies based in Gujarat have ramped up production to meet domestic as well as global demand. The Food & Drug Control Administration, Gujarat has granted 20 product licenses to 13 pharma companies in the state.
      * Rajasthan: In Rajasthan, the number of Covid 19 positive cases has increased to 1,478 with 14 fatalities till date. In a bid to control the cases of Coronovirus, the Rajasthan Government has partnered with healthcare start-up MedCords to provide 24 x 7 online consultation and medicine delivery to the people through its integrated solution – Aayu and SehatSathi App.
      * Madhya Pradesh: In the state, the number of corona infected people has increased to 1,407. 131 people have completely recovered from this disease while 72 have died so far. Indore has the highest number of 890 patients and Bhopal has 214 patients.

    Fact Check on # Covid19


    ******


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1616442) Visitor Counter : 1692
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

  
  
  
  
*