      Ministry of Education

      Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan has taken various steps to contribute in the on-going fight against COVID-19
      
      As on date, 80 Kendriya Vidyalays have been assigned to various competent authorities for using them as Quarantine Centres
      
      32,247 teachers are taking online classes of 7, 07, 312 students through various online platforms

      Posted On: 20 APR 2020 1:18PM by PIB Delhi

    In wake of COVID-19 threat the Ministry of Human Resource Development is promptly active in this challenging time and has taken several steps to jointly combat COVID-19 by taking preventive and precautionary measures in all academic institutions across the country. In this regard KVS has taken various steps to contribute in the on-going fight against COVID-19.


    Quarantine Centres in KVs


    Keeping in view the alarming situation created by Covid-19 in the country, it was decided that on a formal request from any defence authority or district administration, the schools shall allow the use of classrooms of KV school buildings for temporary housing of suspected Covid-19 cases. As on date 80 KVS across the country have been taken over by various competent authorities for using them as Quarantine Centres.


    Contribution in PM-CARES Fund


    KVS Staff-Teachers and Non-Teaching Staff contributed an amount of Rs. 10,40,60,536/- towards the #PMCARES Fund as a contribution from our employees to support the Nation during these critical moments arising due to outbreak of #COVID19. The amount of individual contribution ranges from one day's salary to Rs. 1 Lakh.


    Initiatives of KVS Teachers


    A large number of KVS Teachers, as responsible educators and mentors, have risen to the occasion in the face of the global pandemic of COVID-19 and are connecting with their students through digital platforms to compensate for the loss of quality instruction time.


    KVS has shared some action points with all the Principals, for implementation to the extent possible, to encourage all teachers in the system to engage their students in learning through digital modes. An essential protocol has also been designed for the online classes to be conducted by our Teachers.


    Using NIOS Platform


    KVS has shared the schedule of lessons of the recorded and live programmes of NIOS for secondary and senior secondary classes from their SWAYAM PRABHA PORTAL commencing from the 7th April 2020.


    The information has been disseminated to all the Vidyalayas to ensure wide publicity amongst teachers, students, and their parents. Teachers have been advised to get in touch with students through various media, such as e-mail, Whatsapp, SMS, etc. to ensure that maximum number of students are benefitted by the programme.


    Nomination of Teachers for Live Interactions


    KVS has nominated some selected teachers for Live Session conducted by NIOS at SwayamPrabha Portal to address the queries and clear the doubts of the learners through Skype and Live Web Chat. The details of the nominated teachers have been shared with all the ROs.


    These nominated teachers will prepare additional material/notes on the content broadcasted in morning session of the same day so that the doubts of the learner could be clarified during live session and if doubts are not coming in during live session then the faculty will recapitulate the content or transact the content through PPT/suitable teaching aids.


    Data of Online Teaching in KVS during Lock Down


    Data regarding usage of Open/Online Resources for Teaching in KVS during Lockdown

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Region Name  No. of teachers who have started taking classes using online resources  Which platforms being used                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Classes and subject for which online instructions has being undertaken  Number of Students Participating (approx)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
ALL REGIONS  32247                                                                   WhatsApp, Google Classroom, Khan Academy, E-blog of the Region and others, Skype, ePathshala, Zoom, Diksha, worksheet, self made videos, Blogs (RO/KV) Tutorial links, Swayam Prabha Vhannel, Microsoft Team, YouTube, NIOS online Classes, NCERTAPP, NCERTe-learning  Class II to XII (All Subject)                                           707312                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             

    Mental Well-Being of Students


    Due to the sudden closure of the Vidyalayas in view of the global pandemic of COVID-19, the Principals and teachers are not only focusing on continuing education through suitable interventions viz -online resources and collaborative portals for transaction of content, but are also reaching out to their students to ensure their mental well-being as well. Hence, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan has given directions to all Vidyalayas throughout the country to undertake measures in this regard.


    Information regarding implementation of the above directions is being taken from all the Kendriya Vidyalayas on weekly basis to ensure proper monitoring of the activities. According to the latest report received:


     1. A dedicated e-mail for Guiding and counseling has been established in all Vidyalayas across the country.

     2. Teachers have been identified for attending and addressing the problems of students.
     3. 331 trained Counselors have been engaged on Part time contract basis. In Vidyalayas where services of trained counselors are not available help from Counselors of neighboring Vidyalaya is being taken.
     4. 268 Kendriya Vidyalaya teachers trained in Guidance &Counselling from NCERT have also been involved.
     5. Till last Friday queries from 2393 students and 1648 parents have been received which have been attended promptly.

    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1616312) Visitor Counter : 961
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada
    
    
    

        
        
        
        
5.