      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 19 APR 2020 6:40PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from field offices, and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on COVID-19 from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare


    A total of 15,712 confirmed cases are reported for COVID-19 in the country. As many as 2231 persons i.e. 14.19% of total cases have been cured/discharged after recovery.2144 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals have been identified at both Centre and State levels. From tomorrow, restrictions will be eased in non-containment areas, but containment areas in HOTSPOT districts will not be given any relaxation. States / UTs may impose further additional measures according to local requirements.A high-level Task Force has been formed to work on the frontiers of science related to drug testing and vaccines.


    For details:


    Government prohibits supply of Non-Essential Items through e-Commerce under Lockdown Restrictions to fight COVID-19


    Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued an order to exempt certain activities under the consolidated revised guidelines to all Ministries/Departments, regarding the Nationwide lockdown to fight COVID-19.Under the above consolidated revised guidelines, it is clarified that, e-commerce companies supplying essential goods have been exempted from lockdown restrictions. Further, vehicles used by e-commerce companies, engaged in supply of only essential goods, would be allowed to ply with necessary permissions.


    For details:


    SOPs issued for Movement of stranded Migrant Labourers, within States/UTs where they are currently located, in wake of COVID-19 epidemic


    Due to the spread of COVID-19 virus, workers employed in industry, agriculture, construction and other sectors have moved from their respective places of work, and are housed in relief/ shelter camps being run by State/ UT Governments. Since additional new activities, outside the containment zones, have been permitted in the consolidated revised guidelines with effect from 20 th April 2020, these workers could be engaged in industrial, manufacturing, construction, farming and MNREGA works. In order to facilitate their movement within the State/UT, MHA has issued guidelines


    For details:


    Union Home Minister directs to discuss with States, the Relaxations in Lockdown Restrictions to be applicable from 20th April and control COVID-19


    Union Minister for Home Affairs, ShriAmit Shah, yesterday reviewed the situation of the COVID-19 epidemic in the country, with senior officers of the Ministry. The Home Minister directed to discuss with States, the relaxations in lockdown restrictions to be applicable from 20 th April and control COVID-19 epidemic.While reviewing the situation, HM said that while certain activities are being permitted in those areas which do not fall within hot-spots/clusters/containment zones, due caution has to be exercised to ensure that only genuine exemptions/relaxations are given.


    For details,


    No decision on domestic passenger flights


    The Central Government has clarified that there is no decision as yet on resumption of domestic passenger flights.


    No proposal for reduction of pension, says the Government


    It has come to the notice of the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pension that in the wake of the current pandemic, Covid-19 and the ensuing economic scenario, many rumours are afloat that the Government is contemplating a reduction/stoppage of Pension which has become a source of worry for the Pensioners. It is reiterated that there is no such proposal for reduction of pension and no action is contemplated by the Government in this respect. Instead, the Government is committed for the welfare and well-being of the pensioners.


    ShriAmit Shah reviews MHA Control Room operations, set up to fight the COVID-19 epidemic


    Union Minister for Home Affairs, ShriAmit Shah chaired a review meeting on MHA Control Room operations set up to fight the COVID-19 epidemic. The MHA control room is working 24*7 and not only coordinating with States but also with various ministries of the central government, to fight the epidemic.


    For details,


    Indian Navy Continues to be Mission Deployed and Combat Ready


    The twenty six sailors who were placed in isolation after testing positive for Covid-19 at Mumbai, belong to INS Angre, a shore establishment. There has so far not been a single case of Covid-19 onboard any ship, submarine or air station of the Indian Navy. Our naval assets continue to be mission-deployed in three dimensions, with all the networks and space assets functioning optimally. The Navy remains combat-ready, mission-capable and is in full readiness to partake in the national mission to fight the pandemic as well as to provide support to our friendly neighbours in the IOR.


    For details,


    More than Rs 36,659 crore transferred by using DBT through PFMSin the Bank accounts of 16.01 crore beneficiaries during COVID 2019 lockdown


    Cash Benefits announced under Prime Minister GaribKalyan Package also being transferred by using DBT Digital Payment Infrastructure. PFMS usage for DBT Payments increased over last 3 FYs. Total DBT amount disbursed increased from 22% in FY 2018-19 to 45%in FY 2019-20. DBT ensures Cash benefit directly credited into the account of the beneficiary, eliminates leakage and improves efficiency.


    For details,


    CBDT revising return forms to enable taxpayers avail benefits of timeline extension due to Covid-19


    In order to enable income taxpayers to avail full benefits of various timeline extensions granted by the Government of India due to Covid-19 pandemic situations, the CBDT is revising the return forms for FY 2019-20 (Assessment Year 2020-21) which shall be notified by the end of this month.


    For details,


    Minimal or no disruption to harvesting of Rabi crop and sowing of summer crops during lockdown


    Amidst the uncertainty prevailing today, the one activity giving hope is agricultural activity, which is also providing the reassurance of food security. All throughout India numerous farmers and agriculture labour are sweating and toiling against all adversities. Their silent efforts, coupled with timely intervention by the Central and State Governments, have ensured that there is minimal or no disruption to harvesting activities and the continued sowing of summer crops.


    For details,


    Strengthening the fight against Covid-19, Lifeline Udan flights cover 2,87,061 km


    288 flights have been operated under Lifeline Udan by Air India, Alliance Air, IAF and private carriers. Cargo transported till date is around 479.55 tons . Aerial distance covered by Lifeline Udan flights till date is over 2,87,061km . ‘Lifeline Udan’ flights are being operated by MoCA to transport essential medical cargo to remote parts of the country to support India’s war against COVID-19.


    For details,


    Railways transports 1150 Tonnes of medical items during lockdown across the country


    Indian Railways is ensuring seamless transportation of medical items on priority during the nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19. Indian Railways continues to deliver medicines, masks, hospital items and other medical commodities through its timetabled parcel services to strengthen Government’s efforts in managing the challenges and adverse impact of corona virus in the country.As on 18.04.2020, Indian Railways has transported 1150 Tonnes medical items in various parts of the country.


    For details,


    ShriNitinGadkari Assures All Possible Support to Representatives of Footwear Industry


    Union Minister for MSME and RT&H, ShriNitinGadkari has assured the Footwear Industry all possible support from the government to tide over the challenges created by the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of COVID-19.


    For details,


    Minister for Rural Development, Panchayati Raj and Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare holds Video Conference with State Rural Development Ministers in the light of the relaxation in Non-Containment Areas from 20th April 2020
    ShriNarendra Singh Tomar stressed on the observance of all safety precautions while carrying out works under PMAY(G), PMGSY, NRLM and MGNREGS. The Minister appreciated that women SHGs under NRLM are making protective face covers, sanitisers, soaps and are running community kitchens in large numbers


    For details,


    Red Fort, QutubMinar and Humayun’s Tomb get illuminated in a special way in respect of Corona Warriors


    Archaeological Survey of India‘s Delhi circle expressed gratitude for Corona Warriors by illuminating historical sites like Red Fort, QutbMinar&Humayun’s Tomb in a special way on the occasion of World Heritage Day in New Delhi. Along with this ASI Delhi circle also administered oath to school students through video conferencing to safeguard and respect the monuments and their heritage.


    For details,


    Indian Naval Hospital Ship Patanjali at the Forefront of Fight Against Covid-19 at Karwar


    For details,


    CeNS develops TriboE masks that can hold electric charges to restrict the entry of infections but interestingly, without any external power


    For details,


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Arunachal Pradesh: Itanagar admin says relief camps providing all facilities like bedding, food and medical help to stranded labourers.
      * Assam: In Assam, electricians, plumbers, motor mechanics, carpenter, computer/mobile phone repair mechanic can deliver their service at the customer's doorstep maintaining strict protocols from 21st April, 2020.. In Assam, Commissioner, Guwahati Municipal Corporation has issued a public notice that there should not be any spitting/urinating in public places in order to contain the spread of COVID19. Violators will be charged with a fine of Rs 1000.
      * Manipur: To strengthen the home delivery service for essential items, Manipur govt starts Home Delivery Supplies Management Control Room in Imphal today.
      * Manipur: State reports zero positive case of COVID-19 on date as the two cases have tested negative.
      * Mizoram:. 9 Boxes of medical consignment from ICMR-NIMR flown in by the IAF arrives at Aizawl, Mizoram today.
      * Nagaland: StateGovt says its ready with 15,340 PPEs, 23,115 N95 masks, 49 ventilators and 432 beds.
      * Tripura: 8666 street vendors getting financial assistance of Rs 1000 each from Tripura CMRF apart from free rationing.
      * Kerala: Law minister says that there was no lapse from the part of the IT department in handing over Covid health data to a US firm Sprinklr. CM says the Opposition is trying to defame the government’s repute in managing Covid19 in the State. 4 new cases & 2 recoveries yesterday. Total active cases 140; cured & discharged 257; under observation 67190.
      * Tamil Nadu: All fresh cases in State are contacts of +ve patients, says State Health Minister. State to monitor asymptomatic, high risk patients in high dependency units. 21-member expert committee to submit its report to the CM on Monday. Total cases till now 1372; deaths 15; discharged 365.
      * Karnataka: 4 new cases till now today; all cases are in Mysore. Total cases confirmed till now 388; deaths 14; 104 discharged. CM holds meeting with opposition parties regarding steps taken to contain covid; announces that another 10 testing facilitate will begin by month end.
      * Andhra Pradesh: 44 new cases reported in the last 24 hours; total +ve cases reach 647. Total deaths 17; discharged 65. State to test 17,500 samples a day. State to adopt Centre’s relaxation procedure of lockdown to come out from economic crisis. Districts leading in +ve cases: Kurnool (158), Guntur (129), Krishna (75), Nellore (67).
      * Telangana: Bumper paddy harvest in Telangana amid Covid19 pandemic. Total positive cases reported till now 809; deaths 18.
      * Chandigarh: Outsiders entering the city will be quarantined for 14 days either in homes or in Government Facilities to prevent spread of infection from outside. The Chandigarh administration appealed to the residents to download AarogyaSetu Application. The administration also requested the citizens to wear masks in public places and to follow hand hygiene and stay indoors to restrict spread of COVID-19 in the city.
      * Punjab: The Punjab Government has ordered strict enforcement with regard to the compulsory wearing of masks in public, and asked the police to take stringent action, including imposition of challans, against violators. To ensure uninterrupted supply of food articles to citizens of country during the #Covid19 lockdown, Punjab has dispatched 1lakh Metric Tonnes (MTs) of wheat and rice to different states through record 40 special trains.

    In the state,Gram Panchayats have encouraged the village youth to come forward and provide free service regarding fumigating the villages.Circles have been marked with white/red color at the distance of 2 meters at all the public places to avoid the close contact of the people thereby encouraging Social Distancing.The WhatsApp Group with all Sarpanches has been created and various videos and instructions regarding the role of Gram Panchayats in preventing Corona Virus and managing migrant workers reaching villages are being shared on regular basis.Self Help Groups (SHGs) are being encouraged to manufacture masks.


      * Haryana: Chief Minister Mr. ManoharLal today urged the students to follow the 3S Mantras, ‘Stay at Home, School at Home and Study at Home. On the directions of Haryana Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister, special duties have been assigned to the officers working under National Horticulture Mission, Haryana to ensure availability of fruits, flowers, vegetables, mushrooms, strawberries etc. in the market for consumers during the lockdown implemented due to COVID-19.

      * Himachal Pradesh: The Himachal Pradesh government has urged the citizens to contribute generously towards the PM CARES fund and requested the citizens of Himachal Pradesh to download the AarogyaSetu app.
      * Maharashtra: The State government is allowing the industries from green and orange zones to start production and processing activities in a restricted manner. The industries will have to arrange the accommodation for their workers to prevent long distance travel for work.Maharashtra has reported 3,648 cases and 211 deaths. However, at 66,896, the state has also conducted the highest number of tests in the country.
      * Goa: As on Sunday, Goa has no active Covid case in the state. 7 people who had tested positive have since recovered and discharged from the hospital. Goa has not reported any Covid positive case since April 3.
      * Gujarat: 104 new cases were reported in Gujarat, taking the state tally to 1,376. Among the total people infected as on date, 93 have recovered and 53 have passed away.
      * Rajasthan: In Rajasthan, 122 new cases were reported taking the total number of Covid positive cases in the state to 1,351. Among the total people infected as on date, 183 have recovered and 11 have passed away.
      * MP: In Madhya Pradesh, 26 districts have reported Covid positive cases with the state tally increasing to 1,407. Indore continues to be the hotspot with 707 reported cases.
      * Chattisgarh: With 23 out of the 28 districts falling in the Green Zone as mapped by the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Chhattisgarh tops the list of Covid-19 free clusters. Selective economic activity will resume in green zone districts from Monday.

    Fact Check on # Covid19


    *****


    YB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1616106) Visitor Counter : 1436
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

  
  
*