      President's Secretariat

      Information Regarding Detection of a COVID-19 Positive Case in The President’s Estate
      Posted On: 21 APR 2020 4:26PM by PIB Delhi


    In view of the media reports and speculation about detection of a COVID-19 positive case in the President’s Estate, the following are the facts about the situation:


    a. A COVID 19 positive patient from Central Delhi, who was neither an employee of the President's Secretariat nor a resident of the President's Estate expired on 13.04.2020 with co-morbidities at B L Kapoor Hospital, New Delhi.


    b. After contact tracing of the deceased, it was found that a family member of an employee of the President's Secretariat had been in contact with the deceased.


    c. The employee along with the family is a resident of Pocket 1, Schedule A area of the President's Estate. As required under the guidelines, all the seven members of this family were moved to the quarantine facility at Mandir Marg on 16.04.2020.


    d. Subsequently, one of the family members who was in contact with the deceased, tested positive. All other family members including the employee of the President's Secretariat have tested negative.


    e. Following the instructions and guidelines of the authority designated under the Disaster Management Act 2005, read with Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, 115 houses in Pocket 1, Schedule A area of the President's Estate were identified for movement restriction and residents have been advised to remain indoors. The residents of these houses are being provided doorstep delivery of essential commodities.


    f. It may be clarified that till date no employee of President's Secretariat has tested positive for COVID-19 and the Secretariat alongwith the Local Administration is taking all the preventive measures required under the government guidelines.


    ********


    VRRK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1616940) Visitor Counter : 395
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Telugu