      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Shri Dharmendra Pradhan calls upon the OMC officials to speed up the delivery of free cylinders to PMUY beneficiaries
      Posted On: 23 APR 2020 7:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Petroleum and Natural Gas & Steel Minister Shri Dharmendra Pradhan has called upon all the stakeholders in the LPG cylinder supply chain to work diligently and in a systematic manner to speedily increase the delivery of free Refills to PMUY beneficiaries. Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib kalyan package, over 8 crore PMUY beneficiaries are eligible to get 3 free cylinders over the next 3 months.


    In a Video Conference with District Nodal Officers of Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) across the country today, Shri Pradhan said that during such an unprecedented crisis due to Covid-19 and lockdown, the Government has provided a package for the poor, and free gas cylinders for them is an important component of it. He said that in the initial three weeks of April, about 40% beneficiaries have got their cylinder, which shows that the speed of cylinder booking and distribution has to show massive jump, to achieve the target. He called upon the DNOs to adopt the best practices, work according to a target plan, and enhance their efforts. The Minister said that there should not be any compromise on providing the door delivery, and cautioned that there should not be any complaint of extra charges. He said that PMUY beneficiaries are the top priority, but supply to other regular customers should not be affected either. He also called upon the DNOs to take all health precautions, follow the instructions of MHA for the lockdown, and make people aware about the AarogyaSetu App.


    DNOs, in their interaction, said that they have resorted to many innovative ideas, to reach people, help the customers draw money from their accounts, and book the cylinders. They are using various means to make people aware about the scheme and the procedure for the same. Some of them are also resorting to flexible timings and taking the help of Kirana stores, district administration in their endeavor. Many of them informed that they have collectively contributed towards the PM CARES Fund, and are also propagating the AarogyaSetu App.


    Minister Pradhan expressed his grief at the unfortunate death of a LPG delivery boy in an incident of attack by robbers in Supaul, Bihar. One minute silence was observed before the start of the meeting to pray for the departed soul.He also instructed concerned officers to ensure his family is taken care and gets all relief due to them.


    *****


    YB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1617576) Visitor Counter : 366
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada