      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Faridabad District Administration takes various initiatives to fight COVID-19; uses technology to monitor and spread awareness
      Posted On: 22 APR 2020 6:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Faridabad District Administration has taken up following initiatives to fight COVID-19:


    Food Distribution Action Plan


    Due to ongoing National lockdown, many urban poor and low-income families deprived of sufficient money to buy food, are facing difficulties, and need an immediate help during lockdown. Most of these needy families were earning food on the basis of daily income. In the absence of daily earning they are unable to arrange meals for themselves. Keeping in view these facts, the local civic society has been engaged in all 40 wards of Municipal Corporation Faridabad. Besides these NGOs, the ward councilors and the volunteers would also be helping the District administration in distribution of food to these persons.


    The Administrator HSVP, Faridabad is the Nodal Officer for this action plan and is assisted by Estate officer HSVP and other supporting staff. The SDM Faridabad provides support in the form of issuance of car passes and identity cards etc. Funds and other resources are managed through contributions from civic society, semi-government and non- government organisations, CSR funds, Red Cross, Disaster Management funds, Municipal Corporation funds, food items available in mid-day meal scheme, anganwari ration, PDS and other government schemes.


    Cooked food and ration packets for a family, sufficient for a week, are prepared and distributed at a door step of the needy.


    Control Room : SDM, Faridabad being in-charge of COVID control room, trains the operators and ensure compilation of information also; DPRO, Faridabad arranges to document this food distribution activity through mobile phones of ward nodal officers or volunteers who distribute the material and the ward wise photo documentation is stored in digital form. Social Distancing is followed while distributing the Food.

  
  
  

    Planning storage and preparation of dry ration during COVID-19


    The Faridabad District Administration has planned the requirement of food for its all citizens of all ages in the District. In consultation with DFSC, DM-HAFED, Red Cross Society, SDM, Faridabad, a plan with a strategy was worked out under the guidance of Nodal Officer. Details of Migrant labour/unorganized sector labour/people in-distress were collected from all government agencies. With requirement for 14,000 families (each family consisting five members) and 50% as extra reserve, Government assistance during said period is estimated for 21,000 families.


    District Administration selected newly constructed indoor stadium in Sector-12, Faridabad for this purpose. One officer from the District Administration was appointed as its in-charge with a team of Government officials of all departments like MCF, HSVP, Red Cross Society, Zilla Sainik Board, Fire Brigade, Police, Haryana Roadways etc.

  
  
  

    Procurement of dry ration : The District Administration with Red Cross Society in leading role was requested to contribute and archive the target of 21000 complete dry ration packets. Officers identified two sources of supply in Ballabgarh (Faridabad), Hodal, District Palwal which had the capacity to supply 20000 packets of complete dry rations.


    Use of Technology for monitoring and Supervision

      * The Faridabad City is being monitored through Faridabad Smart City ICCC 24x7 by Police personnel to maintain Lockdown situations

    • At ICCC adaptive traffic lights are also being monitored by traffic police. In case of any medical need/emergency, Ambulances are allowed free passage across the traffic lights corridor through ICCC.


    Use of Technology for spreading awareness

      * From Smart City ICCC control centre Police personnel are using Public Address System (PA), to spread awareness of COVID19 protection guidelines to the citizen.
      * Variable Message Sign (VMS) Boards are used to spread awareness of COVID19 protection by showing government message and displays
      * Faridabad Smart City uses digital social media platforms like WhatsApp to spread awareness, district help desk information and positivity in the time of such crises.
      * The platform is also used to spread Home-made-Mask Advisory so that citizen of Faridabad get acquainted with home-made process and can prepare masks themselves and use them. Through this campaign Smart City reaches 5 lakh citizens of Faridabad.
      * Social media campaign through, Facebook, Twitter in spreading protection awareness, different Government advisory and help desk information to help out citizens.
  

    *****


    RJ/NG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617197) Visitor Counter : 749
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu
    
    
    

  
  
  
  
  
*