      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister launches national program VidyaDaan 2.0 for inviting e-learning Content contributions in New Delhi
      
      VidyaDaan is a common national programme to develop and contribute e-learning content and a chance to be recognized nationally - Union HRD Minister
      
      Content to be used on DIKSHA app to help millions of children across the country to continue their learning anytime and anywhere – Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’

      Posted On: 22 APR 2020 5:08PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal'Nishank' e-launched VidyaDaan 2.0 program for inviting e-learning content contributions in New Delhi today . MoS for HRD Shri Sanjay Dhotre also participated in e-Launching through video conferencing. The programme has been launched due to the increasing requirement for e-learning content for students(both school and higher education) especially in the backdrop of situation arising out of Covid- 19 and also due to the urgent need to integrate digital education with schooling to augment learning.


    The DIKSHA Platform of MHRD has been operating since September 2017 with 30+ States/UTs leveraging DIKSHA for augmenting teaching and learning processes. With the unprecedented crisis due to the spread of the Novel Coronavirus and Covid-19 impacting upon school and higher education in many different ways, it is the right time and opportunity for all user states/UTs to strengthen their e- learning content for school and higher education on DIKSHA and leverage its potential use by students and teachers of your states/UTs.


    Realizing the scale and potential of DIKSHA, multiple institutions, organizations and individuals over the years have expressed their interest in contributing digital resources on DIKSHA. During DIKSHA review meetings by Government of India also the use of crowdsourcing tools to obtain high quality content under VidyaDaan from expert teachers/individuals and organizations has been stressed upon.


    Speaking on the occasion the Minister said that VidyaDaan is conceptualised as a common national program for individuals & organizations across the country to donate/contribute e-learning resources for both school and higher education to ensure continuity of quality learning. He said that the content will be used on the DIKSHA app to help millions of children across the country to continue their learning anytime and anywhere.


    Shri Pokhriyal informed that VidyaDaan has a content contribution tool that provides a structured interface for the contributors to register and contribute different types of content (such as, explanation videos, presentations, competency-based items, quizzes etc.), for any grade (from grade 1 to 12), for any subject as specified by the states/UTs.


    He further informed that contributions can be made by educationists, subject experts, schools, colleges, Universities, Institutes, government and non-government organisations, individuals, etc. Shri Pokhriyal explained that it will be a matter of pride and national recognition for all those whose contributions will be approved and accepted to be included in the Diksha e-learning content. There is provision for approval of contributors, curation of content before uploading to the final and required taxonomy, and picking up content from any of the contributions made to different states/UTs for the use of any other state/UT.States/UTs can have their own unique taxonomy for inviting contributions. The Minister said that VidyaDaan program shall soon be inviting contributions for Teacher Training material. All those whose contribution gets accepted and included


    For more information on the process of nomination and contribution through VidyaDaan, you may visit https://vdn.diksha.gov.in/ or go to https://diksha.gov.in/ and click on VidyaDaan.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617143) Visitor Counter : 2933
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada