      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      FCI sets new benchmark in loading food grainrakes
      
      Wheat procurement picked pace after 15th April
      
      FCI hopes to replenish its granaries quickly, even after meeting additional requirements during the current crisis
      Posted On: 23 APR 2020 6:39PM by PIB Delhi


    Food Corporation of India (FCI) set a new benchmark on 22.04.20 when it moved 102 train loads carrying about 2.8 Lakh Metric Tonnes (2.8 LMT) food grains. Maximum movement was from Punjab which loaded 46 train loads followed by Telangana with 18. Wheat and Raw rice was moved from Punjab and Haryana to various parts of the country, Boiled rice was moved from Telangana to Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. With this movement, the total food grains stocks moved by FCI during the lockdown period crossed 5 MMT, at a daily average of 1.65 Lakh MT. During the same period FCI unloaded 4.6 MMT stocks and distributed 9.8 MMT to the state governments under various schemes including Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY), despite all challenges faced due to country wide lockdown and declaration of containment zones in many parts of the country. Under PMGKAY, FCI has already handed over 4.23 MMT food grains to state governments for distribution to about 80 crore beneficiaries @5 Kg/person free of cost. While all efforts are being focused on timely movement of stocks to consuming states and ensuring regular supplies to the Public Distribution System (PDS), wheat procurement has also picked up pace post 15.04.20 with all major producing states starting procurement operations. Till 22.04.20, a quantity of 3.38 MMT wheat has been procured for the central pool with Punjab alone contributing 2.15 MMT. The target set for procurement of wheat during this season is 40 MMT. With such robust inflows into the central pool, FCI will be able to replenish its granaries with fresh stocks quickly, even after meeting all additional requirements of food grains to fulfil the needs of people during the current crisis.


    ******


    APS/PK/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617535) Visitor Counter : 614
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada