      Ministry of Shipping

      Shri Mansukh Mandaviya interacts with Indian Maritime Sector representatives;
      
      Discusses Business Continuity Plan and Path to Recovery Post COVID-19
      
      Posted On: 24 APR 2020 8:37PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Shipping (I/C) Shri Mansukh Mandaviya interacted with the representative of Maritime industry of India through video conferencing today.


    The objective of the interaction was to discuss and prepare for meeting the post –COVID019 challenges with Business continuity strategies .


    Industry leaders appreciated the proactive and timely interventions of the Ministry of Shipping in this critical time and ensuring smooth running of the ports. They also lauded many reliefs and extensions granted to the industry which inter-alia included not charging any port charges, demurrages, penalties for the lockdown period as it has proven to be great relief for the industries at large.


    Interaction with industry leaders provided the quick overview for the covid-19 situation in the maritime sector. Stakeholders highlighted the challenges like supply chain issues- the movement of cargo and trucks, requested the policy interventions. They also made suggestions for increasing the Coastal Shipping and increasing the India's share in global shipbuilding..


    Shri Mansukh Mandaviya assured the Maritime sector industry stakeholders that the Indian Ports are ready in the full capacity to start the operation as usual but there are a few challenges due to COVID-19 which will be solved with policy decisions and their sincere implementation. Shri Mandaviya requested industry leaders to convert this COVID-19 into opportunity by charting out new strategies in the maritime sector. He told the stakeholders that the Ministry of Shipping is working continuously and tirelessly to ease out the problems. He requested for the suggestions so that the ports and industries in this COVID-19 situation could flourish.


    Stakeholders and representatives of the Shipping Lines, Ports and Terminal operators, Inland waterways, Supply chain logistics, Ship owners, Vessel manufacturers and owners, custom agents participated in the video conference organised by the FICCI.


    ***


    YB/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617965) Visitor Counter : 535
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu