      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Shri Sanjay Dhotre takes stock of the state of IT services in the country
      
      75 million people have already downloaded Arogya Setu App

      Posted On: 24 APR 2020 6:16PM by PIB Delhi

    The Minister of State for Electronics and IT, Communications, and HRD, Shri Sanjay Dhotre reviewed the initiatives taken by different departments and undertakings of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (Meity) during Covid-19 lockdown through a Video Conference today. The Minister expressed satisfaction at the various measures undertaken and exhorted the departments to exert themselves to the utmost in the service of the nation while observing all norms of social distancing.


    The Minister was informed that 75 million people have already downloaded Arogya Setu App on their mobile phones. He called this app one of the most important tools in fighting Covid-19 and one of the lifelines for common people during this global pandemic.He asked the officials to make all out efforts to popularise the app.


    The Minister has been keeping a keen eye on Information Technology (IT) and IT-enabled Services (ITES) sectors and he had detailed discussions with the key officials about the gradual opening of these sectors post-lockdown. He exhorted the officials and stakeholders to orient IT solution and services in such way that benefits the common people most during this unprecedented crisis. He emphasised the crucial role of IT as the backbone for every sector in the country. He expressed that in this time of crisis the Government of India is working ceaselessly under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. He added that the historic opportunity that we have got to serve humanity should be utilized to the fullest and every effort should be made to bring relief to the common people.


    Highlighting the role of very large network of CSCs across the country, the Minister said that their services may also be tapped for providing telemedicine services, especially in remote parts, during this moment of crisis. This will bring a much needed relief to people who are finding difficulty in accessing medical services during this lockdown.


    ****


    RJ/RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617885) Visitor Counter : 486
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu