      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister releases Alternative Academic Calendar for the upper primary stage today in New Delhi
      
      Alternative Academic Calendar for primary stage was released by Union HRD Minister on 16th April, 2020

      Posted On: 23 APR 2020 1:39PM by PIB Delhi

    In order to engage students meaningfully during their stay at home due to COVID-19 through educational activities at home with the help of their parents and teachers, the alternative academic calendars at primary and upper primary stage (Classes VI to VIII) have been developed by the NCERT under the guidance of the MHRD. This Alternative Academic Calendar for upper primary stage was released by Union Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in New Delhi today. The Alternative Academic Calendar for the primary stage has been released by Union HRD Minister on 16 th April, 2020.


    Speaking on the occasion Shri Pokhriyal said that this Calendar provides guidelines to teachers on the use of v arious technological tools and social media tools available for imparting education in fun-filled, interesting ways, which can be used by learner, parents and teachers even while at home. However, it has taken into account, the varying levels of access to such tools-Mobile, Radio, Television, SMS and various social media. He said that it is a fact that many of us may not have internet facility in the mobile, or may not be able to use different social media tools- such as whatsapp, facebook, twitter, google etc., the calendar guides teachers to further guide parents and students through SMS on mobile phones or through voice call. Parents are expected to help elementary stage students to implement this Calendar.


    The Minister said that very soon all the remaining classes i.e., IX to XII and subject areas will be covered under this calendar. This calendar will cater to the need of all children including Divyang children (Children with Special Need)- link for Audio books, Radio programmes, Video programme will be included.


    The calendar contains week-wise plan consisting of interesting and challenging activities, with reference to theme/chapter taken from syllabus or textbook. Most importantly, it maps the themes with the learning outcomes. The purpose of mapping of themes with learning outcomes is to facilitate teachers/parents to assess the progress in the learning of children and also to go beyond textbooks. The activities given in the calendar focus on learning outcomes and can thus be achieved through any resource including the textbooks children are using in their state or UT.


    It also covers experiential learning activities such as Arts Education, Physical Exercises, yoga, pre-vocational skills, etc. This Calendar contains class-wise and subject-wise activities in tabular forms. This Calendar includes activities related to four languages as subject areas, i.e., Hindi English, Urdu and Sanskrit. This calendar also gives space to the strategies of reducing stress and anxiety among teachers, students and parents. Calendar includes link for Chapter wise e-content available on the e-pathshala, NROER and DIKSHA portal of GoI.


    All the given activities are suggestive in nature, not prescriptive, nor is the sequence mandatory. Teachers and parents may opt to contexualise the activities and do those activities that the student shows interest in, irrespective of the sequence.


    NCERT has already started having live interactive sessions with students, parents and teachers through the TV channel Swayam Prabha (Kishore manch)( available through Free DTH channel 128, Dish TV Channel # 950, SunDirect #793, Jio TV, Tatasky #756, Airtel Channel #440, Videocon Channel # 477),


    Kishore Manch App (can be downloaded from play store) and Youtube live (NCERT Official Channel). Daily - Monday to Saturday these sessions are being telecast for primary classes from 11:00 am to 1;00 pm and for upper primary classes from 2:00 pm to 4:00 pm. In addition to interacting with the viewer, hands on activities along with teaching of topics are demonstrated in these live sessions . This calendar would also be disseminated by conducting video conferencing with SCERTs/SIEs, Directorates of Education, Kendriya Vidyalay Sangathan, Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti, CBSE, State School Education Boards, etc.


    This Calendar will empower our students, teachers, school principals and parents to find out positive ways to deal with Covid-19 using on-line teaching-learning resources and also improving their learning outcomes getting school education at home.


    Click here for Alternative Academic Calendar for upper primary stage in English


    Click here for Alternative Academic Calendar for upper primary stage in Hindi


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617408) Visitor Counter : 1163
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam