      Prime Minister's Office

      To become self-reliant and self-sufficient is the biggest lesson learnt from Corona pandemic: PM
      
      'Do gaj doori’ is the Rural India’s Mantra to fight COVID-19 says Prime Minister
      
      Prime Minister launches e-Gram Swarajya App and Swamitva Scheme

      Posted On: 24 APR 2020 2:57PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi interacted with Sarpanchs of Gram Panchayats throughout the country today through Video Conferencing, on the occasion of National Panchayati Raj Day 2020. During this event he launched a unified e-GramSwaraj Portal and mobile application and Swamitva Scheme.


    The e-GramSwaraj helps prepare and execute Gram Panchayat Development Plans. The portal will ensure real time monitoring and accountability. The portal is a major step towards digitization down to the Gram Panchayat level.


    The Swamitva scheme which is launched in pilot mode in 6 states helps to map rural inhabited lands using drones and latest survey methods. The scheme will ensure streamlined planning, revenue collection and provide clarity over property rights in rural areas. This will open up avenues for applying for loans from financial institutions by the owners. Disputes related to property would also be settled through the title deeds allotted through this scheme.


    Addressing the Sarpanches all over the country, the Prime Minister said the Corona pandemic has changed the way people worked and taught a good lesson. He said the pandemic taught us that one has to be self-reliant always.


    “This Pandemic has thrown at us new challenges and problems which we have never imagined, but it also taught us a very good lesson with a strong message. It has taught us that we have to be self-reliant and self-sufficient. It has taught us that we should not look for solutions outside the country. This is the biggest lesson we have learnt.”


    “Every Village has to be self-sufficient enough to provide for its basic needs. Similarly every district has to be self-sufficient at its level, every state has to be self-reliant at its level and the whole country has to be self-reliant at its level”, he said.


    Shri Narendra Modi said that the Government worked hard in trying to provide self-sufficiency to villages and making the Gram Panchayats stronger.


    “In the last five years nearly 1.25 Lakh Panchayats have been connected through broadband from a mere 100 before. Similarly, the number of Common Service Centres had crossed 3 Lakhs”, he said.


    He said since mobile phones are being manufactured in India, the cost of smartphones has become cheaper and the low cost smartphones have reached every village and this would further strengthen the digital infrastructure at village level.


    The Prime Minister said the “Progress of Panchayats will ensure the development of the nation and democracy”.


    The occasion today was an opportunity to establish direct dialogue between the Prime Minister and the Gram Panchayat representatives.


    During his interaction with the sarpanchs PM complimented the villages for giving the mantra - 'Do gaj doori' to define social distancing in simpler terms.


    He said that the slogan of "Do gaj Deh ki doori" given by rural India showed the wisdom of the people. He appreciated the slogan, saying that it motivates people to practice social distancing.


    Prime Minister said that notwithstanding the limited resources at its disposal, India has taken the challenge proactively and showed its resolve to move forward with new energy and new ways.


    He said, “the collective power of the villages is helping the country move forward”.


    He stressed that amidst these efforts, we have to remember that the negligence of any one can endanger the whole village and therefore, there is no scope for relaxation.


    The Prime Minister urged the Sarpanch’s to work towards the Swachhata Campaign in the villages, to take care of the old, divyang and other needy in the villages, while ensuring quarantine, social distancing and covering the faces with masks.


    He urged the Sarpanches to provide correct information to every family on various aspects of COVID-19.


    He also appealed to people in rural India to download the Aarogya Setu app and asked Panchayat representatives to ensure that every person in their Panchayat downloads the app.


    The Prime Minister said that serious efforts are made to ensure that poor people of the village get the best healthcare. He said that Ayushman Bharat Yojana has emerged as a big relief for the poor of the village and nearly 1 crore poor patients have received free treatment in the hospital under this scheme.


    He urged the use of digital platforms such as e-NAM and GEM portal to reach out to larger markets for better prices for village produce.


    The Prime Minister interacted with Sarpanch’s from Jammu-Kashmir, Karnataka, Bihar, UP, Maharashtra, Punjab & Assam.


    He remembered Mahatma Gandhi's conception of Swaraj as being based on Gram Swaraj. Quoting the Shastras, he reminded the people that the source of all strength is unity.


    The Prime Minister wished the Sarpanches on Panchayati Raj Day and for defeating Corona with their collective efforts, solidarity and determination.


    ***


    VRRK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617772) Visitor Counter : 4576
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam