      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Union Pharma Secretary has asked State Drug Controllers to help Pharmaceutical firms in augmenting production of medicines in the country
      
      VC meeting held with SDCs to review issues of production and distribution of medicines

      Posted On: 22 APR 2020 6:49PM by PIB Delhi

    A meeting through Video Conferencing was held under the Chairmanship of Secretary, Department of Pharmaceuticals (DoP) along with Chairperson NPPA, DCG(I) with the State Drug Controllers(SDCs) of 20 States/UTs to review working status of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturing units pre-covid and post covid.


    Secretary, DOP appreciated the efforts of all SDC’s and requested them to provide all support to manufacturing units with the help of local administration and concerned authorities by regular intraction so that there is no shortage of medicines and medical devices. The production level, percentage manufacturing (pre and post covid) and availability of Drugs and Medical Devices in the country.


    State Drugs Controllers (SDCs) were requested to ensure the availability of essential medicines and medical devices required in the management of COVID-19 treatment. They were also requested to ensure the utilization of manufacturing capacity to full extent so that sufficient stocks without any hindrance can be made available at all levels.


    State Drugs Controllers assured that they are working hard to increase the production level, attendance of work force, logistics support so as to ensure the smooth manufacturing, distribution and availability of medicine and medical devices in the country.


    Secretary, DoP instructed all SDCs to:


    Increase the percentage of manufacturing to ensure its working to full extent and increasing the availability of drugs.


    Solving all problems relating to logistics, work force movement, ancillary unit required for drugs and devices in co-ordination with all concerned local authorities.


    Hoarding and price escalation of drugs and medical devices to be monitored & action to be initiated in such case.


    Information of drugs and devices manufacturing unit to be provided urgently in soft copy by all States.


    Availability of the Hydroxychloroquine, Azythromycin and Paracetamol formulation be monitored by all the State Drugs Controllers.


    55+97 essential drugs circulated by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare to be monitored on regular basis and data to be provided.


    ********


    RCJ/RKM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617218) Visitor Counter : 757
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada