      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Updates on COVID-19
      Posted On: 24 APR 2020 5:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Through a graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach, Government of India is taking several steps along with the States/UTs for prevention, containment and management of COVID-19. These are being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level.


    Hon. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today interacted with Panchayat Sarpanches across the country through a video conference. The sarpanches shared their experiences and efforts to maintain lockdown measures. The Hon. Prime Minister said that true lessons can be learned during crises and the present times have taught us the biggest lesson of self-reliance. He appealed to the Panchayats to strengthen their infrastructure and promote awareness in downloading the Corona tracker app "Arogya Setu " for better vigilance.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare interacted today with all the State Health Minister and Health Secretaries through a video conference to review the preparedness and actions taken for management of COVID-19. He thanked the States for their efforts so far and requested them to focus on districts reporting a higher number of cases or faster doubling rate of their cases and districts where high case mortality is being noted.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan urged the States to focus on surveillance, house-to-house active case finding, early identification of cases and proper clinical management to ensure that the patients get timely treatment and mortality is reduced. He also urged the Health Ministers to personally review the measures being undertaken against stigma and discrimination of doctors and other frontline health workers, as also patients who have COVID-19 or those that have recovered.


    Earlier, Dr. Harsh Vardhan also interacted with the Health Ministers of all member countries of the World Health Organization (WHO) through a video conference and shared India’s journey so far in management of COVID-19 and also highlighted that India's management efforts are based on the twin principles of community engagement and containment efforts.


    As on today, 15 districts in the country which earlier had cases have not reported any fresh cases since the last 28 days. Besides districts already highlighted, three new districts which got added to this list include: Durg & Rajnandgaon from Chattisgarh; and Shivpuri from Madhya Pradesh.


    Further, a total of 80 districts from 23 States/UTs have not reported any new cases since the last 14 days.


    @CovidIndiaSeva twitter handle is also helping through real-time authentic health and public information provided by trained experts to swiftly answer the questions of citizens.


    As of now, 4,748 people have been cured with a recovery rate of 20.57%. Since yesterday, an increase of 1684 new cases has been reported. Also, a total of 23,077 people have been confirmed positive for COVID-19 with a total number of 718 deaths have been reported in India of now.


    For all authentic & updated information on COVID-19 related technical issues, guidelines & advisories please regularly visit: https://www.mohfw.gov.in/ .


    Technical queries related to COVID-19 may be emailed at technicalquery.covid19@gov.in and other queries on ncov2019@gov.in .


    In case of any queries on COVID-19, please call at Ministry of Health & Family Welfare helpline no. : +91-11-23978046 or 1075 (Toll-free). List of helpline numbers of States/UTs on COVID-19 is also available at https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/coronvavirushelplinenumber.pdf .


    *****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617851) Visitor Counter : 8893
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam