      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      "Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh launches country's First Mobile Testing Lab for COVID-19 detection; can process over 1000 samples per day"
      Posted On: 23 APR 2020 6:46PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Rajnath Singh, Raksha Mantri dedicated the first COVID-19 sample collection mobile Lab of the country namely “Mobile BSL-3 VRDL Lab” to the nation through video conference in the august presence of Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employmen, Shri G. Kishan Reddy, Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri K.T. Rama Rao, Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development, Industries & IT E&C, Govt. of Telangana and Shri Chamakura Malla Reddy, Minister of Labour and Employment, Factories, Govt. of Telangana from New Delhi today.


    This Lab has been developed by Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO), Ministry of Defence, Govt. of India in collaboration with ESIC Medical College & Hospital, Sanathnagar (Hyderabad) with due permission of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Govt. of Telangana.


    Speaking on the occasion, Raksha Mantri appreciated the efforts of DRDO and ESIC in setting up of this Bio-Safety Level 2 and Level 3 lab in a record time of 15 days which usually takes about six months time. He further said this testing facility can process more than 1,000 samples in a day and will enhance country’s capabilities in fighting COVID-19.


    While addressing on the occasion, Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Labour Minister, complemented DRDO and ESIC for developing the mobile testing lab in a very short time. He further said that it will be very important in our fight against CORONA Virus. Shri Gangwar commended the efforts being made by ESIC, an organization under his Ministry, to combat COVID-19.


    Addressing the function, Shri G. Kishan Reddy, Minister of State for Home Affairs, complemented the team scientists of DRDO and doctors of ESIC Medical College & Hospital, Sanathnagar, Hyderabad for developing the facility. The Lab has been developed within a record time of 2 weeks, whereas it would normally take about 6 months.


    About “Mobile BSL-3 VRDL Lab”


    COVID-19 testing centreat ESIC Medical & Hospital, Sanathnagar, Hyderabad will utilize this new innovative mobile diagnostic and research facility called “Mobile BSL-3 VRDL Lab”. It will be first of its kind facility in the country for Covid-19 and other related testing and research purposes.


    The design of Mobile BSL-3 VRDL Lab has been developed by DRDO scientists whereas specification of the lab has been given by ESIC Medical College & Hospital, Sanathnagar, Hyderabad. The project has been executed and constructed by three industry partners of DRDO.


    Other innovative technologies developed by DRDO and shared with ESIC Medical College & Hospital, Sanathnagar, Hyderabad comprise of COVSACK unit for sample collection, aerosol boxes and aerosolized sanitizer dispenser, snorkel face masks and face shields as reusable PPE N-95 equivalent, UV-C disinfection chamber in the fight against Covid-19 for use by the hospital.


    ESIC Medical College & Hospital, Sanathnagar, Hyderabad


    ESIC Medical Collage and hospital, Sanathnagar, Hyderabad is a 500 bedded hospital. In addition to that 150 beds are also available in the hospital for super-speciality treatment like oncology, nephrology, neuro surgery, cardiology, pediatric surgery etc. so that ESI beneficiaries get the best of treatment under one roof.


    Several other measures taken by ESIC to fight against Covid-19 pandemic


    In this crisis situation, 13 ESIC Hospitals with 1861 Isolation Beds across India have been converted into Dedicated Covid-19 Hospitals. In addition to above Hospitals, around 1011 Isolation Beds have been made available in most of the remaining ESIC Hospitals across the country. Further, a total of 555 ICU/HDU Beds with 197 Ventilators have also been made available in these Hospitals. Quarantine facility (total 1254 Beds) has been made functional in 04 ESIC Hospitals at Alwar (Rajasthan), Bihta, Patna (Bihar), Gulbarga (Karnataka) and Korba (Chhattisgarh). Besides, Covid-19 testing facility has been made available at ESIC Hospital, Faridabad (Haryana).


    *****


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1617544) Visitor Counter : 787
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu