      Ministry of Earth Science

      Likely formation of a Low Pressure area over south Andaman Sea & neighbourhood around 30th April 2020
      
      IMD-- The system is under continuous surveillance and the concerned state governments are being informed regularly

      Posted On: 26 APR 2020 6:26PM by PIB Delhi

    As per the forecast guidance from various numerical weather prediction models and the environmental and thermo-dynamical conditions prevailing over the region, a Low Pressure Area is very likely to form over south Andaman Sea and neighbourhood around 30th April 2020.


    It is very likely to intensify further during subsequent 48 hours and very likely to move north-northwestwards initially and then north-northeastwards along & off Andaman & Nicobar Islands during 30th April – 3rd May 2020.


    The Cyclone Warning Division of the India Meteorological Department says that the system is under continuous surveillance and the concerned state governments are being informed regularly.


    Under its influence, the following adverse weather is likely over & around Andaman & Nicobar Islands and surrounding Sea areas:


    Warnings:

       1. Rainfall: Light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy falls at isolated places is very likely over Nicobar Islands on 30th April. The intensity and spatial extent is likely to increase further during the subsequent days becoming light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places over Andaman & Nicobar Islands on 1st May, and heavy to very heavy falls at a few places over Andaman & Nicobar Islands on 2nd May.
       2. Wind warning: Squally winds, speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph are likely to prevail over north Sumatra coast, south Andaman Sea, Nicobar Islands and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal on 30th April & 1st May 2020, over north Andaman Sea, Andaman Islands and adjoining southeast & east central Bay of Bengal on 2nd & 3rd May.
       3. Sea condition: Sea conditions will be rough to very rough over north Sumatra coast, south Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal on 30th April & 1st May 2020 and over Andaman Sea and adjoining areas of southeast & east central Bay of Bengal on 2nd & 3rd May.
       4. Fishermen Warning: The fishermen are advised not to venture into the Sea along & off north Sumatra coast, Andaman Sea and adjoining areas of southeast & east central Bay of Bengal from 30th April to 3rd May 2020.

      For updates on the system, visit www.imd.gov.in , www.rsmcnewdelhi.imd.gov.in and


      www.mausam.imd.gov.in


    ****


    KGS/(IMD )

    
    
    (Release ID: 1618439) Visitor Counter : 882
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Gujarati , Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Tamil
    
    
    

4.