      Ministry of Railways

      Coach Building Getting Back on Track in Indian Railways
      
      
      RCF Kapurthala has reopened its production process on 23.04.2020
      
      Depending upon the lockdown orders in States, others to start production as soon as they get clearance from State Governments
      
      RCF produces 2 parcel coaches during last two days to increase freight transportation

      Posted On: 25 APR 2020 4:23PM by PIB Delhi

    Indian Railway’s Production unit Rail Coach Factory(RCF) Kapurthala has reopened its production process on 23.04.2020 after 28 days nationwide lockdown. In a relentless battle against COVID 19, factory has been opened adhering all safety precautions and issued guidelines by Ministry of Home Affairs orders and local administration. A total 3744 employees have been permitted to join the work who are residing inside the RCF premises township. As per the guidelines of Ministry of Home Affairs and advisory of State Governments, other production units of Indian Railways will resume production as and when advised.


    Despite limited availability of resources available for production, RCF Kapurthala has turned out two coaches in two working days. One LHB High capacity Parcel van and One Luggage cum Generator car has been turned out on 23.04.2020 and 24.04.2020 respectively.


    All employees who joined duty after lock down have been issued a safety kit having masks, sanitizer bottle and soap to individual. All permitted employees have been call on duty in factory for coach production. In administrative offices, all officers have joined offices and 33% staff is being call in rotation roster basis. COVID awareness posters and safety instructions to be followed have been displayed at prominent places in workshop, offices and residential premises. All workers are being regularly counseled by their supervisors and officers for safety guidelines to be followed at work place. Hands free liquid soap dispenser & wash basins have been provided in sufficient quantity and shop floor and offices for the employees.


    Workers are being called in three shifts having different timings. There is a gap between the entries, lunch time and exit timings for all three shifts. Every employee is being screened at the entrance gates by thermal scanners for their body temperatures. Each vehicle which is entering in RCF premises is being sanitized by mist sanitizer tunnel provided at entrance gates. All workers are maintaining the social distancing protocol and following all safety and hygiene guidelines at their work place. Lala Lajpat Rail Hospital situated in RCF campus has provided separate counters and OPD cell for the patients having any symptoms of COVID infection. 24 Bed Quarantine facility in RCF campus and 8 bed isolation ward in LLR Hospital is ready to handle any case related to COVID.


    Depending upon the lockdown orders in States, others to start production as soon as they get clearance from State Governments.


    ****


    DJN/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1618164) Visitor Counter : 753
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada