      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      No deduction in allowances of Central Government employees, PIB Fact Check busts fake news
      Posted On: 27 APR 2020 9:22PM by PIB Delhi


    Fact Check Unit of Press Information Bureau has today clarified in a tweet that Central Government is not going to deduct allowances of Central Government Employees. The tweet was a fact check on a media report speculating that Government was planning such a move in response to the coronavirus crisis.


    दावा : हिन्दुस्तान अखबार ने रिपोर्ट किया है कि #Covid_19 के मद्देनज़र केंद्र सरकार के कर्मचारियों को एलटीसी/लीव एनकैशमेंट/ ओटीए/ मेडिकल जैसी सुविधाओं में कटौती का सामना करना पड़ेगा#PIBFactCheck:सरकार द्वारा ऐसा कोई प्रस्ताव नहीं है। मीडिया रिपोर्ट गलत और निराधार है। (1/2) pic.twitter.com/cEhM59Javq

    — PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) April 27, 2020

    In another post, Fact Check has busted a rumour on Facebook that blamed ICMR for allegedly buying COVID19 testing kits and a significantly inflated price when cheaper options were available. ICMR has since clarified that it has fixed rate brackets for the kits and is open to any company that can provide the kits at a still cheaper rate.


    दावा: फेसबुक पोस्ट का दावा है #Coronavirus परीक्षण किट आईसीएमआर द्वारा बढ़े हुए मूल्य पर खरीदे गए#PIBFactcheck: परीक्षण किट के लिए (RT-PCR) 740-1150 रू और रैपिड टेस्ट किट (528-795 रू) का मूल्य निर्धारित किया है।
    आईसीएमआर ने इससे सस्ती किट वाली किसी भी कंपनी को आमंत्रित किया है। pic.twitter.com/RyPnly1bM0

    — PIB Fact Check (@PIBFactCheck) April 27, 2020

    Background


    In order to check the spread of fake news on social media and following observations of the Supreme Court, PIB set up a dedicated unit to bust rumours getting viral on the social media. ‘PIBFactCheck’ is a verified handle on Twitter that continuously monitors trending messages on social media platforms and conducts comprehensive review of its contents to bust fake news. Besides, PIB_India handle and various PIB regional unit handles on Twitter are posting official and authentic version of any item on Twitter using the hashtag #PIBFactCheck for the benefit of the Twitter community at large.


    Any person can submit to PIBFactCheck any social media message, including text, audio and video, to verification of its authenticity. These can be submitted online on the portal https://factcheck.pib.gov.in/ or on Whatsapp No. +918799711259 or email: pibfactcheck@gmail.com . The details are also available on PIB website: https://pib.gov.in


    ***


    SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1618805) Visitor Counter : 1358
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu