      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Herbal decongestant spray on mask can protect from suffocation
      
      This formulation helps in clearing the wind pipe and congestion by removing the mucus or cough leading to ease of breathing

      Posted On: 25 APR 2020 3:42PM by PIB Delhi

    Health authorities have been strongly advocating the use of face masks to prevent corona infection. At the same time, wearinga mask for a long time is reportedly causing difficulties in breathing and congestion in the respiratory system. To address this issue, scientists at CSIR-National Botanical Research Institute (NBRI), Lucknow, have developed a herbal decongestant spray.


    “The main reasons behind this problem include the accumulation of carbon dioxide and humidity in the inner cavity of the mask. When a person breathes in, this goes back to the lungs again. Repetition of this process over a period of time causes discomfort in breathing and congestion”, said Dr. Sharad Srivastava, Senior Principal Scientist, CSIR-NBRI, who led the team of researchers for this study.


    “Herbal decongestant spray is a fine blend of four plant-based oils, but the names of these plants cannot be disclosed right now because of issues related to intellectual property. This product is developed based on the principles of Ayurveda and contains ingredients reported in traditional scriptures”, explained Dr. Srivastava.


    This formulation helps in clearing the wind pipe and congestion by removing the mucus or cough leading to ease of breathing. It also reduces stress due to excessive use of mask and decongestion.This spray has been prepared as per guidelines of the Ministry of AYUSH.


    Lucknow-based NBRI is a constituent laboratory of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), which is mainly known for its botanical research work. The initial results of this NBRI's herbal spray have been extremely impressive. People wearing masks for a long time are getting a lot of relief from this, say researchers.


    The Institute plans to transfer the technology of this inhaler for commercial production so that it can be produced on a large scale and sent to the frontline worriers fighting against COVID-19 pandemic.


    [For More Details : Dr. Sharad Srivastava, CSIR-NBRI, Lucknow


    Email : sharad@nbri.res.in , sharad_ks2003@yahoo.com ]


    ****


    KGS/(DST- (India Science Wire) )

    
    
    (Release ID: 1618138) Visitor Counter : 853
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Punjabi , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu