      Ministry of Tourism

      Ministry of Tourism’s "Dekho Apna Desh" webinar series showcases the potential of culinary tourism through “Awadh ki sair- the pride of Lucknow”
      
      The next webinar titled ‘Exploring Pondicherry's French quarter - French Connections’and participants to be held on 27th April 2020

      Posted On: 26 APR 2020 12:15PM by PIB Delhi

    26th April, 2020 The Union Tourism Ministry’s Webinar Series under the banner “Dekho Apna Desh” on 25th April 2020 showcased the potential of ‘Culinary Tourism’ with an episode titled Awadh ki sair- the pride of Lucknow. The webinar presented amazing diverse culinary heritage of Lucknow and was laced with the food trail with some stories from history, textiles and other traditions of Lucknow .


    Cuisine forms an important experience of the destination and today we have a different kind of tourist who is either travelling just to taste the unique gastronomic delights of the destination or where cuisine forms an important experience of the destination. India’s culinary traditions go back to the ancient times and have had so many influences which have perfected the art of mixing and blending flavours. The unique contribution of Indian cuisine to the world is how we have managed to bring together all the great flavours that are available to us naturally in the form of spices and at the same time retaining their individual aspects.


    The webinar was presented by Mr.Prateek Hira, Pioneer of Heritage walks, Professor and Researcher and presently he is a visiting faculty at University of Wales, Chef Ms. Pankaj Bhadouria, winner of Indian Masterchef 2010 and Nawab Jafar Mir Abdullah


    The webinar showcased from the popular simple breakfast options to the exquisite Dum style cooking, melting kababs and kormas, Biryani and sheermal and the rich street food options.


    Khasta Kachori with spicy Aloo ki Sabji plus Dahi and Jalebi, Nihari Kulcha, Tunday Kebab, Galoti Kebab, Kakori Kebabs,the famous Ulte Tawa ka Paratha, Chaat Items , Salan , Makhan Malai and LucknowiPann were some of the items presented in detailed to the participants along with a mention of the most sought after bun kabab, Christmas cake baked in the canteen of La Martiniere College Lucknow.


    The Ministry of Tourism’s webinar series has been attracting an average of 3000 participants not only from India but also abroad. These episodes are now available on the https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCzIbBmMvtvH7d6Zo_ZEHDA/featured and also on all social media handles of Ministry of Tourism , Government of India.


    The next episode of the webinar scheduled Monday, 27th April 2020 at 11.00 am , is titled ‘Exploring Pondicherry's French quarter - French Connections’and participants can join the webinar be registering at https://bit.ly/WebinarPondicherry


    *******


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1618358) Visitor Counter : 707
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Telugu