      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Shri Nitin Gadkari reaches out to Overseas Indian Students calliing for playing a big role in converting COVID-19 Pandemic into an opportunity
      
      Says, new highway alignments provide excellent investment opportunity with a large number of roadside amenities and bus ports being planned all over the country
      
      Shri Gadkari has so far reached out to over 1.3 crore people including entrepreneurs and youth through Webinars, VCs and social media boosting morale and conveying Govt efforts to provide & contain Covid-19
      Posted On: 26 APR 2020 9:52PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Road Transport & Highways and MSME Shri Nitin Gadkari has undertaken a massive outreach exercise in last few days with various sections and sectors of the society by way of webinars, video conference, and other social media platforms. This has resulted in taking communication outreach with about 1.30 crore people.


    In the same series, he interacted with Indian overseas students in various countries like UK, Canada, Singapore, other European Countries and Australia under the theme Indian Response to Global Pandemic : Roadmap for India. Addressing the students, he said, the way ahead for India is clearly in us remaining positive and making concerted efforts to convert this adversity into an opportunity. At the same time, as we are moving ahead restarting various activities, all of us need to follow all the precautions regarding health protocols to prevent transmission of COVID-19 virus. Our industries – big, medium, small or micro will also have to effect a paradigm shift in the way they were doing their business operations wherein apart from ensuring use of masks, senitisers and social distancing and making food-shelters arrangements for labour in keeping with social distancing norms, they need to take up boosting import substitution, start business and industries in new areas away from major cities thus decongest the metro towns. Companies need to look for new partnerships with global firms attracting them to set up for JVs etc in India, he added. Shri Gadkari stated, that our efforts need to meet not only Indian demand but also cater to the global market as many companies and counties are looking to shift away from China. He called upon the young Indian students studying abroad to contribute in this goal in a big way as youth have stakes in India thriving and leading the world.


    Shri Gadkari mentioned that 22 Green Express Highways are being developed and work on anew alignment of Delhi -Mumbai Expressway has started. This has resulted an opportunity for industry to make future investments in industrial clusters, industrial parks, logistics parks, etc. He said, nearly 2000 roadside amenities will be developed alongside these Highways and also that he has plans for setting up 2000 Bus ports in the country.


    Shri Nitin Gadkari invited the young brilliant minds of the students and scientists of Indian origin abroad to participate in India's growth story and the new opportunities in various fields of research, innovation, management, medicine, higher education, etc.Interacting with Overseas Indian Students from 43 Universities of various countries through video conferencing today, he assured that Government is highly supportive of such ventures in in various modes, be it PPP or JV.


    Shri Gadkari has interacted with about 8000 business leaders, industrialists, entrepreneurs so far, listening to their issues, conveying their matters to relevant Ministries and Departments including, Finance, Commerce and Industry, Railways, Labour & employment etc.


    The Minister said that his Ministry will help in getting necessary clearances in 3 months for ventures. He said, a big push is being given to infrastructure development and to the growth of rural, tribal and agriculture sectors/areas. The Minister pointed out that all stake holders will have to work together, and expressed confidence that we will win war against Corona as well as the war on economic front.


    Shri Nitin Gadkari interacted with Overseas Indian Students from 43 Universities of various countries apart from Indian origin scientist from NASA. Organisations whose members and representatives have interacted with Shri Gadkari earlier include FICCI, SME, CREDAI Mumbai, SMEs, CEOs Club of India, AIPMA, BhartiyaShikshan Manal , Young Presidents Organisation, Maharashtra Economic Development Council, ASSOCHAM, PHD Chamber of Commerce, Bharat Chamber of Commerce, etc.


    ***


    RCJ/MS/SKP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1618537) Visitor Counter : 549
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Assamese , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Telugu , Kannada