      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Updates on COVID-19
      Posted On: 28 APR 2020 6:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Through a graded, pro-active and pre-emptive response strategy, Government of India is taking several steps along with the States/UTs for prevention, containment and management of COVID-19. These decisions and steps are being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare today reviewed the research work conducted by the Directors / Heads of Department of Bio-Technology and its 18 Autonomous Bodies and PSUs through Video Conference. He has directed to expedite the development of antibody detection kits, real-time PCR based detection kits and vaccines for COVID-19 under 'Make in India'.


    The Union Health Minister also reviewed the current status of COVID-19 surveillance in Delhi along with Shri Anil Baijal, LG of Delhi, Shri Satyendar Jain, Health Minister of Delhi, MCD Commissioners, DMs and DCPs of all districts of Delhi, Central / State and District surveillance officers and Heads of Government Hospitals via Video Conferencing. Shri Rajesh Bhushan, OSD (MoHFW), Dr Rajiv Garg, DGHS (MoHFW) and Dr S K Singh, Dir (NCDC) were also present during the review meeting.


    Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has issued guidelines on home isolation for very mild / pre-symptomatic patients. Patients who have a requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation will have the option for home isolation. These guidelines are in addition to guidelines on appropriate management of suspect/confirmed case of COVID-19 issued by MoHFW on 7th April 2020. These guidelines are available and may be accessed at https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/GuidelinesforHomeIsolationofverymildpresymptomaticCOVID19cases.pdf .


    Regarding plasma therapy for COVID-19, ICMR has already stated clearly that currently there are no approved therapies for COVID-19 including plasma therapy. It is one of the many therapies which are being experimented with. However, so far there is no evidence to support it as a treatment. ICMR has also started a National Study to evaluate the efficacy of the therapy. However, it needs to be clarified that until ICMR concludes its study and robust scientific proof is available, it should not be used except for research and trial purposes. In fact, use of plasma therapy may have life threatening complications. ICMR has already issued detailed guidelines in this regard for the use of plasma therapy outside the study purposes.


    As of today, there are 17 districts in the country where earlier cases had come, but now no new case has been reported for the last 28 days. The number of these districts has increased by 1 (two new districts have been added whereas one has been dropped from the previous list) since yesterday. The districts that got added to the list are Kalimpong (West Bengal) & Wayanad (Kerala). The district which was removed from this list is Lakhisarai (Bihar).


    As of now, 6,868 people have been cured with a recovery rate of 23.3%. A total of 29,435 people have been confirmed positive as of now for COVID-19 in India.


    For all authentic & updated information on COVID-19 related technical issues, guidelines & advisories please regularly visit: https://www.mohfw.gov.in/ .


    Technical queries related to COVID-19 may be emailed at technicalquery.covid19@gov.in and other queries on ncov2019@gov.in and can be sent as tweets to @CovidIndiaSeva .


    In case of any queries on COVID-19, please call at Ministry of Health & Family Welfare helpline no. : +91-11-23978046 or 1075 (Toll-free). List of helpline numbers of States/UTs on COVID-19 is also available at https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/coronvavirushelplinenumber.pdf .


    *****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1619009) Visitor Counter : 4147
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam