      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Updates on COVID-19
      Posted On: 29 APR 2020 6:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Through a graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach, Government of India is taking several steps along with the States/UTs for prevention, containment and management of COVID-19. These are being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level.


    The Union Minister for Health & Family Welfare, Dr. Harsh Vardhan interacted with the Lions Club International members across the country through Video Conferencing (VC), here today. He expressed his gratitude to the Lions Club members for contributing an amount of Rs. 9.1 Crores in the PM CARES fund and of Rs. 12.5 Crores to the various Chief Ministers Relief Funds. He also appreciated their contribution in the form of providing meals to millions, and much needed medical equipment and protective gear. The Union Health Minister stated that along with the States/UTs and the dedicated stakeholders and partners, India shall be able to emerge as a victorious in combating COVID-19.


    Ms. Preeti Sudan, Secretary (HFW) chaired a Video Conference (VC) with representatives from States and districts to discuss and deliberate on health infrastructure and other various aspects related to COVID-19 management, here today. The functioning of GIS Dashboard, COVID-19 portal and dedicated RT-PCR referral App was discussed during the VC. She urged the States to promote the Arogya Setu App which is a self assessment tool helpful in the prevention efforts of the Government.


    Secretary (HFW) emphasized that non-COVID essential medical care should not be neglected. It was reiterated that patients needing care like dialysis, cancer treatment, diabetics, pregnant women and those suffering from cardiac ailments must be given adequate care. States were urged to ensure that the services in proximity of people are functional and remain uninfected.


    Speaking on management of COVID-19 cases, Dr. Balram Bhargava, Secretary (DHR) and DG (ICMR) emphasized on the importance of the meticulousness in collection of samples and filling up of the accompanying forms. States were informed that the RT-PCR app has been made functional and needs to be put to use immediately.


    So far, a total of 7695 people have been cured. This takes our total recovery rate to 24.5%. The total number of confirmed cases is now 31,332.


    For all authentic & updated information on COVID-19 related technical issues, guidelines & advisories please regularly visit: https://www.mohfw.gov.in/ .


    Technical queries related to COVID-19 may be emailed at technicalquery.covid19@gov.in and other queries on ncov2019@gov.in and via tweets to @CovidIndiaSeva .


    In case of any queries on COVID-19, please call at Ministry of Health & Family Welfare helpline no. : +91-11-23978046 or 1075 (Toll-free). List of helpline numbers of States/UTs on COVID-19 is also available at https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/coronvavirushelplinenumber.pdf .


    *****


    MV/SG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1619317) Visitor Counter : 1979
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam