      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      G20 Digital Ministers Summit calls for coordinated global Digital response to fight the pandemic
      
      India emphasizes on responsibility of G20 nations to focus on making inclusive and sustainable economies and societies
      
      Posted On: 30 APR 2020 9:37PM by PIB Delhi


    G20 Digital Economy Task Force COVID-19 Ministerial Statement calls for a coordinated global Digital response to fight the pandemic, adopting measures to strengthen Communication infrastructure and network connectivity, Non-personal data exchange in a secured manner, use of Digital Solutions for Healthcare, cyber secured world and measures to strengthen resilience of businesses. An Extraordinary Virtual G20 Digital Economy Ministers meeting was convened today to discuss the challenges posed by the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and to forge a global coordinated response harnessing Digital Technologies. India was represented by Union Minister for Law & Justice, Communications and Electronics &IT Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad. The meeting was also attended by Digital Ministers of 19 other G20 Members, invited countries and International Organisations.


    At the meeting, G20 Digital Ministers agreed to leverage the potential of Digital medium to contain the pandemic and protect people. Union Minister Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad emphasized that G20 nations have a responsibility that everything we do during and after this crisis must be with a strong focus on building more equal, inclusive and sustainable economies and societies that are more resilient in the face of the ongoing pandemic. While highlighting the steps taken by Indian Government under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to contain the spread, he also offered the roadmap for the world to emulate. At the same time he emphasized the importance to revive the economy while continuing the fight against COVID-19.


    He said that next phase of Digitalization is about applications that will impact livelihoods, accelerate various sectors, strengthen the supply chain and build a cyber safe world. He impressed upon the G20 Ministers that the present situation demands greater collaboration among stakeholders for providing solutions that can address issues related to social distancing, distributed workforce and the changing nature of global supply chain. He called on the G20 to come out with a concrete Digital action plan to fight the global pandemic. He highlighted the critical role of Indian IT-ITeS Industry in maintaining the Global Business Continuity and offered India as a lucrative destination for displaced Global Supply chains.


    ****


    RJ/NG/RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1619788) Visitor Counter : 773
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada