      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 30 APR 2020 6:20PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from field offices, and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on COVID-19 from Ministry of Health and Family Welfare


    So far, a total of 8,324 people have been cured. This takes our total recovery rate to 25.19%. The total number of confirmed cases is now 33,050. Since yesterday, an increase of 1718 has been noted in the number of COVID-19 confirmed cases in India.Analysis of doubling rate across the country has revealed that the national average is 11 days presently vis-a-vis 3.4 days before lockdown. So far, it is observed that the case fatality rate is 3.2%, of which 65% are male and 35% are female.Dr. Harsh Vardhan has written to the Health Ministers of all the States/UTs to ensure assured and uninterrupted blood donation and transfusion services for people with blood disorders. States are also advised to ensure that all health facilities, especially in the private sector, remain functional and provide critical services


    For details,


    Prime Minister holds a comprehensive meeting to discuss strategies on boosting investment in India


    PM ShriNarendraModi today held a comprehensive meeting to discuss strategies to attract more foreign investments into India as well as to promote local investments in order to give a boost to the economy against the backdrop of the COVID-19 Pandemic. It was discussed that a scheme should be developed to promote more plug and play infrastructure in the existing industrial lands/plots/estates in the country and provide necessary financing support. During the meeting, the PM directed that the action should be taken for a more proactive approach to handhold the investors, to look into their problems and help them in getting all the necessary Central and State clearances in a time bound manner.


    For details,


    MHA holds a Comprehensive Review Meeting on the Lockdown situation in wake of spread of COVID-19


    Ministry of Home Affairsheld a comprehensive review meeting on the lockdown situation.It was noted that there have been tremendous gains and improvement in the situation because of the lockdown till now. To ensure that the gains of the lockdown are not squandered away, the lockdown guidelines must be observed strictly till 3 rd May.New guidelines to fight COVID-19 will come into effect from 4 th May, which would give considerable relaxations to many districts. Details regarding this would be communicated in the days to come.


    For details,


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan interacts with Civil Society Organizations/NGOs via Video Conferencing


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan expressed gratitude on behalf of the Prime Minister and Ministry of Health and Family welfare over the selfless work done by more than 92,000 NGOs in terms of providing food and other necessities to different sections of society. He appreciated the contribution of these organizations as vital in the management of COVID-19. He also highlighted that such work by these institutions also inspired other people to come forward and contribute.


    For details,


    UGC Guidelines on Examinations and Academic Calendar for the Universities in View of COVID-19 and Subsequent Lockdown


    Following are the main recommendations in the guidelines issued by UGC:


    1. Intermediate Semester Students: Will be graded based on internal assessment of the present and previous semester. In states where the COVID-19 situation has normalized, there will be exams in the month of July.


    2. Terminal Semester Students: exams will be held in the month of July.


    3. A COVID-19 cell will be constituted in every university which will be empowered to solve the issues of students related to academic calendar and examinations.


    4. A COVID-19 cell in the UGC to be created for faster decision making .


    For details,


    Phone call between Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and H.E. Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of Bangladesh


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi spoke on phone with H.E. Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of the People's Republic of Bangladesh.The two leaders discussed the regional situation in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, and briefed each other about the steps being taken to mitigate its effects in the respective country. Prime Minister Modi thanked Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina for contribution of USD 1.5 million towards SAARC COVID-19 Emergency Fund.Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina thanked Prime Minister Modi for taking lead in coordinating efforts to combat COVID 19 in the region and for supplying aid to Bangladesh, both in terms of medical supplies and capacity building.


    For details,


    Telephone conversation between Prime Minister and State Counsellor of Myanmar DawAung San SuuKyi


    Prime Minister ShriNarendraModi had a telephonic conversation with DawAung San SuuKyi, State Counsellor of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar.The leaders discussed the evolving COVID 19 scenario in the domestic and regional contexts and updated each other on the steps being taken to control the spread of the pandemic.Underlining the importance of Myanmar as a vital pillar of India's Neighbourhood First policy, Prime Minister Modi conveyed India's readiness to provide all possible support to Myanmar for mitigating the health and economic impact of COVID 19.


    For details,


    DPIIT Control Room playing a pivotal role in monitoring the issues of Industry and Trade, and solving the difficulties faced by various stakeholders during the lockdown period


    Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, had set-up a Control Room w.e.f 26.3.2020 to monitor the issues of Industry and Trade and take up such matters with the concerned State Government, District and Police Authorities and other concerned agencies. 89% of queries have been resolved/settled. Regular Monitoring and review by the Minister, Secretary and senior Officers has helped in expeditious resolution.
    Telephone number is 01123062487 and email is controlroom-dpiit@gov.in.


    For details,


    Union Agriculture Minister says the Government accords highest priority to agriculture sector even during the lockdown period


    Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Sh ri Narendra Singh Tomar has said the Government has accorded highest priority to the farming and agriculture sector even during the lockdown period. As a result, he said, there has been no shortage of food grains and pulses across the country while the Government has also ensured availability of vegetables and milksupplies.


    For details,


    411 Lifeline Udan flights operated to strengthen the fight against Covid-19 by delivering essential and medical supplies


    411 flights have been operated under Lifeline Udan by Air India, Alliance Air, IAF and private carriers. Cargo transported by Lifeline Udan flights till date is around 776.73 tons, covering over 4,04,224 km. ‘Lifeline Udan’ flights are being operated by MoCA in domestic Sector to transport essential medical cargo to remote parts of the country to support India’s war against COVID-19. Helicopter services including Pawan Hans Ltd have been operating in J&K, Ladakh, Islands and North East region transporting critical medical cargo and patients. Pawan Hans till 28 th April 2020 have carried 2.0 tons of cargo covering a distance of 7,257 kms.


    For details,


    AarogyaSetu app reaches around 8 crore mobile phones in the country


    Union Minister of Electronics and Information Technology Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad exhorted the Electronics Industry to explore the new opportunities that are arising out of the adversity and make the country the global hub of electronics manufacturing. During a meeting with Electronics Industry Associations, Chambers and prominent Industry players, he requested the electronics industry to take advantage of the opportunity and new Schemes notified by the Ministry, attract global investment and strengthen the sector. He emphasized the role of Medical Electronics Industry that is at a point of a complete turnaround.


    For details,


    ShriGadkari launches Bank of Schemes, Ideas, Innovation & Research Portal on MSMEs


    The Portal(http://ideas.msme.gov.in/) gives access to all Schemes of Union, State and UT Governments. It has the provision for uploading Ideas, Innovations & Researches in the sector. The portal has unique features of not only crowd sourcing of Ideas, but also evaluation and rating the ideas by crowd sourcing. It can also facilitate inflow of venture capital, foreign collaboration etc.


    For details,


    Indian Railways today crosses 3 million mark in distribution of free meals
    Meals distributed during lockdown due to COVID-19 at approximately 300 locations across the country. Indian Railway organizations team up to feed hot cooked meals and hope to thousands of people everyday


    For details,


    Top Barons of Automobile Industry praise Prime Minister’s leadership in dealing with COVID.


    Union Minister for heavy industries and public enterprises, ShriPrakashJavadekar today convened a meeting with a group of select CEOs of the Indian Automobile Industry, to understand the possible impact of COVID-19 on the Indian Automobile sector and listen to suggestions from the Industry on possible policy interventions to minimise the impact.


    For details,


    MOHUA to Soon Issue Advisory on Special Measures to Save Interest of Homebuyers & All Real Estate Industry Stakeholders


    An urgent meeting of Central Advisory Councilconstituted under the RERA was held through webinar under the chairmanship of Sh. Hardeep S. Puri, Minister of State (I/c), MoHUA to discuss the impact of the pandemic COVID-19 and consequent nationwide lockdown on the real estate sector and to treat it as an event of ‘Force Majeure’ under the provisions of RERA. fter detailed deliberations, the Housing Minister assured all the participants that the matter will be considered keeping in view the interests of all stakeholders. He further said that MoHUA will soon issue an advisory to all RERA/States about the special measures that need to be taken to safeguard the interest of homebuyers and all other real estate industry stakeholders.


    For details,


    Over 3,25,000 people are using “JanaushadhiSugam” Mobile App to access Janaushadhikendras


    Amid nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19 crisis JanaushadhiSugam Mobile App is helping people in a big way to locate their nearest PradhanMantriJanaushadhi Kendra (PMJAK) and availability of affordable generic medicine with its price. Over 325000 people are using JanaushadhiSugam Mobile App to avail the host of benefits provided by it.


    For details,


    Union Minister DrJitendra Singh holds a video conference meeting with former Army Generals and Air Marshals on COVID situation in J&K, Ladakh& NE Region


    For details,


    Minister for Rural Development & Panchayati Raj asks States to proactively implement Rural Development Schemes relating to employment generation, rural housing, infrastructure development and strengthening of rural livelihoods
    
    Addressing a Video Conference with State Rural Development Ministers, ShriNarendra Singh Tomaremphasised that under MGNREGS, the focus should be on water conservation, ground water recharge and irrigation work; Under PMGSY, the focus would be on quick award of works in sanctioned road projects and starting of pending road projects. Under PMAY(G), the Minister intimated that 2.21crore houses have been sanctioned, out of which 1 crore 86 thousand houses have already been completed


    For details,


    CSIR labs across India coming to aid of the needy by providing food, sanitizers, masks etc in their respective regions and beyond


    CSIR Labs such as CSIR-CFTRI, Mysore, CSIR-IHBT, Palampur, CSIR-IMMT, Bhubaneswar, CSIR-CIMFR, Dhanbad and CSIR-IIP, Dehradun have provided ready to eat food to migrant labourers, patients, health workers, police and many others during the Covid19 outbreak


    For details,


    Agra Smart city monitors COVID-19 hot-spots using GIS dashboard


    For details,


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Administrator has expressed serious concern about the continuously rising cases of corona infected persons. He directed that intensive screening and testing should be done in affected pockets like BapuDham Colony, Sector 30-B and Kachi Colony. The affected zones in BapuDham Colony will be expanded to include 2,500 more people, so that there is greater effectiveness in containing the corona.
      * Punjab: Chief Minister has announced extension of curfew in the state by two weeks after May 3, while unveiling steps for limited lifting of the lockdown restrictions in the non-containment and non-red zones, with strict adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols. Health and Family Welfare Department has issued fresh advisory on maintaining hygiene and sanitization of shops, shopkeepers and workers serving therein. The shopkeepers are, thus, advised to meticulously follow the guidelines issued by the Government with regard to the nature of the shops that have been allowed to operate and to comply with the Standard operating procedure laid down in these guidelines as far as operating the shop is concerned.
      * Haryana: Finance Department has not issued any circular for withholding the salaries of the employees for the month of April, Haryana Government clarified with respect to a fake news circulating on social media. Haryana Chief Minister said that even in this hour of COVID-19 Pandemic, State Government is committed to continue government recruitments against vacant posts in various departments wherever needed. He clarified that the recruitment process of 12,500 posts is already in the pipeline, after written examination, the result of which would be declared after the lockdown period.
      * Himachal Pradesh: Chief Minister said that the state government is committed to provide all possible assistance to the industrialists for smooth running of their units besides ensuring uninterrupted supply of raw material. Chief Minister urged the industrialists to effectively maintain social distancing in their factories. Central Government has provided Rs. 1899 crore to the State government in April 2020, including revenue deficit grant , GST deficit compensation, Himachal's share in central taxes, MGNREGA amount, NHM programme, disaster relief amount and EAP. In view of the epidemic of COVID-19, the Centre government has also increased the limit of Ways and Means of the states by 60 percent. This would help Himachal Pradesh to fight the coronavirus epidemic effectively.
      * Kerala: Stringent restrictions imposed & medical staff of three hospitals put under observation in two places in Thiruvananthapuram after a few positive cases were reported. 5 persons cured and discharged in Palakkad. 4 more Keralites die of Covid19 in the Gulf; 2 each in Kuwait & Abu Dhabi. Governor signs the Ordinance on deferment of salary of govt. employees. Salaries will be given at first for health workers and police force. Total cases till yesterday: 495, Active cases: 123, Discharged: 369, Total deaths: 4.
      * Tamil Nadu: 3 Fire & Rescue personnel, involved in disinfectant duty in various parts of Chennai, test positive. Govt. doctor travels from hotspot in Villupuram to green zone Krishnagiri, tests positive on return to duty; his places of stay in Villupuram&Krishnagiri contained. State forms special task force headed by Chief Secretary to attract foreign industries post Covid19. Total cases till yesterday : 2162, Active cases: 922, Deaths: 27, Discharged: 1210. Max cases from Chennai 768.
      * Karnataka: Today 22 new cases confirmed till now. Belagavi 14, Bangalore 3, Vijayapura 2 and 1 each in Davangere, Dakshin Kannada &Tumkur. Total cases 557. So far 21 dead and 223 people discharged. State cabinet decides to follow Centre's decision on relaxing certain norms after May 3 and decides to allow all industrial activities across State after May 3.
      * Andhra Pradesh:About 21.55 lakh families receive free ration. TTD to allow darshan to devotees as per decisions of Central & State governments post lockdown period. 71 new cases reported, 34 discharged and 6497 samples tested in the last 24 hours. Total cases rise to 1403. Active Cases: 1051, Recovered: 321, Deaths: 31. The rise in the number of cases is attributed to increase in number of testing. Districts leading in +ve cases: Kurnool (386), Guntur (287), Krishna (246), Nellore (84), Chittoor (80).
      * Telangana: The transport sector crisis on account of lockdown is likely to affect essential goods supply in Hyderabad and Telangana. Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Hyderabad and ESIC Hospital and Medical College, Hyderabad, sign MoU for developing rapid test kits. Puducherry seeks 2 lakh PPE kits from Telangana. Total cases till yesterday 1016, Active cases 582, Recovered 409, Deaths 25.
      * Arunachal Pradesh: 300 Arunachalese persons of other districts stranded in Itanagar permitted to go home. They leave by buses following all lockdown protocols.
      * Assam: Health MinisterShriHimantaBiswaSarma tweeted that 4 more COVID19 positive cases reported in Bongaigaon district in Asaam. Hence the number of COVID19 cases rise to 41.
      * Meghalaya: 2 more positive cases who are being treated at Civil Hospital, Shillong, have tested negative.They will be tested again after 24 hours as per protocol to declare them as recovered.
      * Manipur: CM holds video conference with all Deputy Commissioners of the State on preparedness of quarantine centres and other facilities in view of the possible return of stranded Manipuris from outside the state.
      * Mizoram: 92201 farmers have been approved to avail the PM Kisan Scheme. Out of these, over 66108 have been assisted with special monetary aid amid lockdown.
      * Nagaland: In Kohima the results of class 10 & 12 exams are being delayed due to coronavirs outbreak.Results likely to be announced by end of May.
      * Sikkim: Chief Secretary chaired the State Level Task Force Meeting to review the State Govt's plan of action in line with the new guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India.
      * Tripura: CM thanked Agartala Municipal Corporation for donating to Chief Minister's relief fund & for their service in maintaining hygiene in the city amid COVID19 pandemic.
      * Maharashtra: 597 new cases were reported taking the state tally of Covid 19 positive cases to 9,915. A total of 1,539 people have been cured, while the state’s death toll is 432. Mumbai has the highest number of reported cases at 3,096. Malegaon in Nashik district has emerged as the new Covid-19 hotspot.
      * Gujarat:With 308 new cases reported by. this morning, the number of positive cases in Gujarat has crossed the 4,000 mark to touch 4,082. While 527 people have recovered so far, the state registered 18 deaths to take the toll to 197. With the centre permitting movement of migrant workers, by adhering to strict medical protocol, lakhs of migrant workers in Gujarat are now gearing up to return to their home states.
      * Rajasthan: State recorded 86 new coronavirus cases, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 2,524 in the state. The state has so far witnessed 57 deaths due to the virus. 827 patients have recovered so far. Amidst the Corona crisis, an act of sheer generosity has come to light from Jodhpur district. Ram NiwasManda of Ummednagar Village has reportedly donated his life savings of Rs 50 lakhs to feed the poor and the hungry. He has provided ration kits over 8,500 families from 83 gram panchayats.
      * Madhya Pradesh:The number of Covid 19 positive cases reported in Madhya Pradesh has climbed to 2,561. Out of this 461 people have recovered while 129 have passed away.
      * Chhattisgarh: As on date, the state has only 4 active Covid 19 cases. Out of 38 cases reported so far, 34 have been cured.
      * Goa: Goa, which reported only 7 cases in all has no active Covid 19 patient at present.

    ********


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1619646) Visitor Counter : 1724
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
*