      Ministry of Tourism

      Ministry of Tourism organises 10th webinar of "DekhoApnaDesh" series on Puducherry’s French Connections
      Posted On: 28 APR 2020 2:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The ministry of Tourism organised 10 th session of “ DekhoApnaDesh” webinar series on 27 th April, 2020 which beautifully showcased the French Heritage of the South Indian coastal city Puducherry.


    This webinar titled “Pondicherry’s French Quarter – French Connections” highlighted specifically about the French quarter of Pondicherry, the erstwhile town of Pondicherry, it’squaint neighbourhood by the sea with many lovely heritage buildings. The participants of the webinar were introduced to the History of Pondicherry, the typical French architecture and land mark buildings, parks , memorials, promenades and stories relating to the French occupation of the province, its viceroys, wars with the British and the time spent by the revolutionary Tamil Poet SubramaniBharathi and his works during his stay in Pondicherry.


    Maintaining a balance between the rich past and vibrant present, Puducherry is one of the must go holiday destination today. With its rich reflection of the French culture amalgamated with the intrinsically South Indian features, Pondicherry is a wonderful place to visit to learn as well as unwind.


    The participants of the webinar was not only from India but also from across the world. One of the participants Mr. Ramkumar, GM- CIM Global from Singapore commented as follows “ Today'sDekhoApnaDesh webinar literally took you on a virtual journey of Puducherry with the presenters from StoryTrails literally weaving tales of the past and present to bring together a visual tapestry. Personally it was a homecoming to the city I spent two wonderful years in and triggered so many memories. Thank you Ministry of Tourism for this wonderful and innovative series. Looking forward to many more.”


    Ms Nagsri Prasad Sashidhar, Chief Happiness Officer, NAGSRI commented “it was absolutely mesmerizing to say the least. The ladies from storytrails were outstanding. Just hearing them today brought to light so many aspects of this quaint place that I had no clue about inspite of having visited the place. Well done and thanks for educating us about our gorgeous and rich Country.”


    The webinar was presented by team from Storytrails, an organisation that conducts unique walking tours in Puducherry.


    The sessions of webinars are now available on the https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCbzIbBmMvtvH7d6Zo_ZEHDA/featured


    and also on all social media handles of Ministry of Tourism , Government of India.


    The next episode of the webinar scheduled on, 28th April 2020 at 11.00 am, is titled An epic called INDIA- A land of myriad stories. Registration link: https://bit.ly/WebinarTowns


    *****


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1619289) Visitor Counter : 109