      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 29 APR 2020 6:49PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from field offices, and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on COVID-19 from Ministry of Health and Family Welfare


    So far, a total of 7695 people have been cured. This takes our total recovery rate to 24.5%. The total number of confirmed cases is now 31,332.Secretary (HFW) emphasized that non-COVID essential medical care should not be neglected. It was reiterated that patients needing care like dialysis, cancer treatment, diabetics, pregnant women and those suffering from cardiac ailments must be given adequate care.She has urged the States to promote the ArogyaSetu App which is a self-assessment tool helpful in the prevention efforts of the Government.


    For details,


    Union HRD Minister interacts with Education Ministers and Education Secretaries of all States


    While addressing the meeting Union Minister said that the current situation of COVID-19 is unfortunate, but it is time to act wisely and turn the situation into opportunity by doing new experiments to ensure safety and academic welfare of students. He announced that approval is being given for providing mid-day meal during summer holidays of schools, on which an additional expenditure of about 1600 crores will be made. The Minister appealed to all the States to start the process of evaluation of answer sheets of Board exams and facilitate CBSE to evaluate answer sheets of the students in their respective States.


    For details,


    Centre Facilitates the Inter - State Movement of Stranded People including Migrant Labourer in the country, in wake of COVID -19 Pandemic
    As a result of lockdown restrictions to fight COVID--19, migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons are stranded at different places in the country. Now, the Centre has permitted the movement of these stranded persons by road. They would be allowed to move between one State/ UT to another State/ UT, after the concerned states consult each other and mutually agree to.It has also been impressed upon that on arrival at their destination, such person(s) would be assessed by the local health authorities, and kept in home quarantine, unless the assessment requires keeping the person in institutional quarantine. They would be kept under watch with periodic health check-ups.


    For details,


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan exhorts scientists to speedily develop COVID-19
    mitigation solutions


    Dr Harsh Vardhanreviewed the various initiatives undertaken by the Department of Biotechnology and its Autonomous Institutes and Public Sector Undertakings – BIRAC and BIBCOL, to tackle the current COVID-19 crisis, especially with respect to progress made in indigenous development of vaccine, Rapid Test and RT-PCR diagnostic Kits. He said that at least half a dozen candidate vaccines are being supported of which four are in an advance stage.


    For details,


    ShriPiyushGoyal says that in post-Covid era, there is going to be perceptible change in the global supply-chains, and India should be looking to capture significant share in the world trade.


    Minister of Commerce and Industry ShriPiyushGoyal todaycalled upon the Exporters to identify their strengths, potentials and competitive advantages in specific sectors, and focus on harnessing them in the world markets. ShriGoyal said that in the post-Covid era, there is going to be perceptible change in the global supply-chains, and Indian industrialists and exporters should be looking to capture significant share in the world trade. He assured them that the Government will be a pro-active supporter and facilitator in their efforts, and the Indian Missions abroad can play an important role in that. The Minister said that Incentives can be given, but they have to be justified, reasonable, and WTO-compliant.


    For details,


    Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad appreciated the efforts of all States and UT in the fight against Covid19


    Minister of Electronics and Information Technology Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, held a meeting with State IT Ministers on 28 April 2020. He said that Central Government would extend the Dept. of Telecommunication’s deadline on relaxation of the norms for the ‘Work From Home’ from 30 April to 31 July 2020.He asked the States to support Bharat Net scheme and requested them examine right of way issues. He directed that data from AarogyaSetu app should be made available online to the States right up-to District officials. Minister also announced that a similar solution for the feature phone users is being developed and it will be launched very soon.


    For details,


    Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment writes to States/UTs to ensure basic physical accessibility features for divyangjan in centres for COVID-19 testing & quarantine facilities and treatment at hospitals


    In a letter to the Chief Secretaries of all States and UTs, Secretary, Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD), has said that to mitigate the effects of the pandemic, many COVID-19 centers have been identified as containment units, isolation treatment centres and testing labs for enhancing the holding capacity for medical purposes as required. The current crisis poses even greater threats to the Divyangjan not just due to their lesser/compromised immunity, ability to perceive or comprehend information but also due to non-availability of accessibility features in the physical environment and eco-system provided at such COVID related facilities.


    For details,


    Telephone conversation between PM and Prime Minister of Canada


    Prime Minister spoke on phone with H.E. Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister of Canada. The two leaders discussed the prevailing global situation regarding the COVID-19 pandemic. They agreed on the importance of global solidarity and coordination, the maintenance of supply chains, and collaborative research activities.Prime Minister thanked the Canadian Prime Minister for the assistance and support extended to the Indian citizens present in Canada, especially Indian students.


    For details,


    Private foodgrains (PFG) freight makes a big increase in lockdown period as compared to last year


    More than 7.75 lacstonnes (303 rakes) of PFG freight were loaded by Indian Railways during the lockdown period from 25th March to 28th April 2020 as compared to about 6.62 lacstonnes (243 rakes) last year in same period. Indian Railways is making all efforts to ensure that farm products like foodgrains are picked up on time and also to ensure uninterrupted supply chain


    For details,


    Smt. HarsimratKaurBadal holds video conference with FICCI and leading industry members


    Union FPI Minister has urged industry members to come forward to procure food grains and other perishables to benefit farmers. Union Minister assured industry members of necessary support from the ministry and advised all members to get in touch with the task force for any assistance.


    For details,


    India along with 30 countries deliberates on issues of Climate Changeinfirst ever virtual Petersberg Climate Dialogue


    The eleventh session of Petersberg Climate Dialogue witnessed India along with 30 other countries deliberating over ways and means to tackle the challenge of reinvigorating economies and societies after COVID-19, while enhancing collective resilience and catalysing climate action while also supporting in particular those most vulnerable.


    For details,


    Ministry of Labour requested all Chief Secretaries to advise Employers to not terminate or reduce wages due to COVID-19: PIB Fact Check confirms the News


    For details,


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan holds video conference with Lions Clubs International


    Highlighting India’s approach in combating COVID-19, he said, “This time the hallmark of our approach has been fivefold: (i) Maintaining a continuous situation awareness, (ii) Pre-emptive and proactive approach, (iii) Graded response as per continuously evolving scenario, (iv) Inter-sectoral coordination at all levels, and lastly, but most importantly (v) Creating a people’s movement to combat this disease.”


    For details,


    More than one crore face masks prepared by Self Help Groups across the country


    More than one crore face masks have been made by various Self-Help Groups across the country. It shows relentless effort, positive energy and united resolve of SHGs to fight Covid-19 under DAY-NULM flagship scheme of Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.


    For details,


    Jal Shakti Abhiyan gears up for monsoon


    ‘Jal Shakti Abhiyan’—is all set to combat the present health crisis and give a boost to the rural economy through its various components. This year owing to the COVID-19 emergency, and availability of large labour force in rural areas, the Abhiyan has started gearing up for the impending monsoon.


    For details,


    Smart city Kalyan-Dombivli’s COVID-19 dashboard now opens for public


    For details,


    Ministry of Tourism hosts the eleventh webinar “An epic called India- a land of myriad stories” on the overall theme of 'DekhoApnaDesh'


    For details,


    HCARD, a robot, to assist frontline COVID-19 healthcare warriors


    For details,


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Chandigarh: Following a spike in positive cases, Adviser, UT Chandigarh has stated that outbreak needs to be contained by focusing all our energy and resources in pockets like BapuDham Colony in Sector 26 and Sector 30-B. Apart from sealing the area, efforts will be made to ensure that the locals maintain social distancing by taking the help of local volunteers and leaders. He also stated that CCTV cameras will be installed and drone photography will be used to find persons, who are violating the social distancing norms in the area. The police will also patrol the area regularly so as to ensure that the curfew orders are strictly followed.
      * Punjab: Members of women self-help groups in villages have emerged as warriors in the fight against the Corona virus in big way. The SHGs through the department of Rural Development, Punjab are producing Masks, Aprons and Gloves for the civil administration, police and also for the Panchayats. The Punjab government ITI students have brought pride to the state by topping in producing masks during the lockdown.
      * Haryana: Chief Minister said that Information Technology initiatives undertaken by the state government, have played a pivotal role in enabling assistance and procurement services during the COVID-19 pandemic. He said that the state government has issued Distress Ration Tokens through e-PDS to the people in distress who would be provided free ration for three months.
      * Himachal Pradesh: The State Government has taken several measures to reach out to the Himachalis stranded in various parts of the country by assisting more than 5000 people who had appealed to the government through its helpline numbers and e-mails as well. Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister has also written to the Chief Ministers of all those States where large number of Himachalis are stranded, with a request to provide them necessary help.
      * Kerala: State approves ordinance that enables salary cut of government employees in the wake of Covid19 pandemic; earlier the Kerala HC had stayed the Govt's order on this. Govt makes face masks compulsory for all at public places. Health officials unable to find the source of infection of the person who tested positive in Kasargod.Various religious leaders in the state appeal to observe a joint-prayer day on May 3rd for all affected by the pandemic. Total confirmed cases till yesterday: 485, Active cases: 123, Cured: 359.
      * Tamil Nadu: Chennai food delivery staffer found positive for Covid19, father dies of infection. All rice cardholders in TN to get double their free rice quota for three months. TN plans portal for workers abroad intending to return. Chennai corporation orders all central, state and essential services institutions in city to disinfect their offices twice a day.Total cases till yesterday: 2048, Active cases: 902, Deaths: 25, Discharged: 1128. Max cases from Chennai 673.
      * Karnataka: Today 9 new cases confirmed till now; Eight from Kalburgi and One from Belagavi. Total cases reach 532. So far 20 dead and 215 discharged.
      * Andhra Pradesh:73 new cases reported in the last 24 hours; total cases reach 1332. Active Cases: 1014, Recovered: 287, Deaths: 31. State instructs employees of all government departments, Banks, contractual employees, media persons, traders and drivers of transport vehicles to download AarogyaSetu App to prevent spread of the virus. District Collectors advised to chalk out strategy to be implemented in containment zones after May 3 if the lockdown is lifted. Districts leading in +ve cases: Kurnool (343), Guntur (283), Krishna (236).
      * Telangana:Health Minister says that State had conducted much fewer tests than neighbouring AP, but insisted there was no need for large-scale testing given that the number of positive cases were dropping. Two policemen were injured and a police vehicle was damaged as restless migrant workers resorted to violence on Wednesday at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Hyderabad. Total cases: 1009, Active cases 610.
      * Maharashtra:The number of Covid 19 positive cases in Maharashtra has climbed to 9,318 with 728 new cases reported. Death toll in the state is 369, even as 1,388 persons have been cured and discharged. Meanwhile, Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation has dispatched 70 of its buses to Kota, Rajasthan to bring back over 1,600 students from the state stuck their following lockdown. These students were studying in the numerous IIT and other competitive examination coaching centres, for which Kota is famous for.
      * Gujarat: With 196 new Covid cases reported in Gujarat the total number of positive cases has climbed to 3,744. Out of this, 434 have recovered and 181 have passed away.
      * Rajasthan:Rajasthan recorded 29 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 2,393 in the state. The state has so far witnessed 52 deaths due to the virus, with Jaipur accounting for 27 deaths. 781 patients have recovered so far.
      * Madhya Pradesh:With 25 more positive cases reported the number of reported cases in Madhya Pradesh has climbed to 2,387. Out of this 377 people have recovered while 120 have passed away.
      * Chhatisgarh: Chhattisgarh as on date has only 4 active Covid 19 cases. Out of 38 cases reported so far, 34 have been cured.
      * Goa: Goa, which reported only 7 cases in all has no active Covid 19 patient at present.
      * Arunachal Pradesh: DC, Itanagar bans transport of pigs and sale of pork in the capital region due to fear of spread of Swine fever disease.
      * Assam: Health Minister HimantaBiswaSarma said it is critical to have a new strategy for higher education in wake of #COVID. To prepare a roadmap, he held a meeting with Assam College Principal Council & Assam College Teachers Association along with PrSecy& Education Commissioner today.
      * Manipur: A total of 784 people were detained yesterday for violating the curfew and the lockdown order and a collective fine amounting to Rs. 1 lakh was imposed.
      * Mizoram: CM said that about 693 people from Mizoram who are stranded in four North East states would be brought back to Mizoram between April 30 to May 2; Govt. will arrange vehicles for those who do not have vehicles.
      * Meghalaya: CM inaugurates telemedicine facility at NEIGRIHMS, Shillong for immediate consultation online; facility to provide remote access to general as well as COVID related cases.
      * Nagaland: State govt. decides to hike fuel prices. Govt order says COVID-19 cess will be imposed on all fuel products in addition to existing tax &cess.
      * Sikkim:Sikkimese woman undergoing dialysis at a hospital in New Delhi tests positive for COVID-19. Sikkim CM said it has still not been established where she contracted the virus from and assures that she is receiving proper treatment, calls on people not to panic.
      * Tripura: Govt. to give Jhumia families Rs. 202 per man day for 6 man days under MGNREGA work & Rs.1212 per family in Tripura due to COVID-19.

    PIB FACTCHECK


    *******


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1619323) Visitor Counter : 1935
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada
    
    
    

  
  
  
  
*