      Prime Minister's Office

      Phone call between Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and H.E. Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
      Posted On: 29 APR 2020 8:19PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi spoke on phone today with H.E. Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of the People's Republic of Bangladesh.


    Prime Minister Modi, on behalf of the people of India and on his own behalf, conveyedgreetings to Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and the people of Bangladesh on the occasion of the Holy month of Ramzaan.


    The two leaders discussed the regional situation in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, and briefed each other about the steps being taken to mitigate its effects in the respective country.


    Both leaders expressed happiness at the progress made in implementing the special arrangements agreed on 15 March between the leaders of the SAARC countries. Prime Minister Modi thanked Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina for contribution of USD 1.5 million towards SAARC COVID-19 Emergency Fund.


    Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina thanked Prime Minister Modi for taking lead in coordinating efforts to combat COVID 19 in the region and for supplying aid to Bangladesh, both in terms of medical supplies and capacity building.


    Both the leaders expressed satisfaction at continuation of supply of essential items across the border through road, rail, inland waterways and air. Prime Minister Modi, recalling the shared bonds of history, culture, language and fraternal ties, expressed satisfaction at the excellent state of bilateral relations, and ensured India’s readiness to help Bangladesh in containing the spread of COVID-19 and in mitigating the health and economic impact of the pandemic.


    Prime Minister conveyed his best wishes for the good health and well-being of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and all the friendly people of Bangladesh, in this historic Mujib Barsho.


    *****


    VRRK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1619371) Visitor Counter : 659
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam