      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Shri Nitin Gadkari Says Ayush Sector Has Immense Potential and Can Play an Important Role in India Becoming an Economic Super Power
      
      Ayush Entrepreneurship Development Programme of The Ministries of Ayush and MSME To Promote The Ayush Sector Launched

      Posted On: 30 APR 2020 6:01PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Power Minister of Road transport & Highways and MSME Shri Nitin Gadkari has said that AYUSH practices of India has a big potential to help India become a economic super power as the alternative methods of treatment and cure which has been prevalent in India for centuries is gaining increasing popularity. He called for greater research and innovation which will so help in further growth of the AYUSH sector. Shri Gadkari was speaking while launching AYUSH Entrepreneurship Development programme jointly organized by the Ministry of AYUSH and Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises for promoting the AYUSH sector in the country under different Schemes of the Ministry of MSME. He emphasized that Indian Ayurveda, Homeopathy, Yoga, Siddha are required to be promoted at a larger level.


    He stated that there is a great demand for Indian Ayurveda, Yoga, Homeopathy, Siddha in other countries, existing Entrepreneurs to take this opportunity & open their clinics/ outlets there & support export.


    He added that globally the Ayurvedic treatment and yoga are in huge demand which is growing. He said this demand can be met by increasing trained man power especially under the guidance of the renowned


    He also said that here is a need to launch a programme that can strengthen AYUSH Sector, create -more Enterprises, Job Creation to support Indian Economy. The Minister Highlighted that raw materials of Ayurveda usually found in Forest area, rural areas, tribal areas, aspiration districts & there is a need to for Processing units, clusters there for Job creation, enterprise development, self employment.


    Shri Gadkari also stressed that there is a great need to develop trained Yoga Experts/Trainers and for this, courses in Association of renowned training institutes can be launched. He also focused on bringing change in lifestyle by incorporating Yoga, Ayurveda and Balanced diet in our daily life. Innovative / Alternative treatments that are capable of providing relief are required to be affiliated & incorporated with proper skill development so that these treatments may get popularize among all, he added.


    Shri Shripad Yesso Naik, MoS (I/C) for Ministry of AYUSH, Shri Pratap Singh Sarangi, MoS for MSME along with Secretaries of the two Ministry, Development Commissioner, MSME were present on the occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik, appreciated the efforts made Ministry of MSME &AYUSH and said that he also looks for similar cooperation on a large scale to promote AYUSH across the globe. Shri naik informed about the efforts taken by AYUSH Ministry in COVID-19 Pandemic. Shri Pratap Chandra Sarangi, Minister of State, Ministry of MSME emphasized the need for promoting AYUSH Sector in the present scenario of COVID-19 pandemic and suggested for close and larger scale coordination between the two Ministries. Shri Ram Mohan Mishra, Special Secretary & Development Commissioner (MSME) in his opening remarks presented the background for the collaboration & Action Plan of MSME Ministry to promote AYUSH Sector with the support of existing Schemes of Ministry of MSME.


    AYUSH denotes Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha & Homeopathy System of medicines. The Major Cluster of AYUSH are: Ahmedabad, Hubli, Thrissur, Solan, Indore, Jaipur, Kanpur, Kannur, Karnal, Kolkata, Nagpur.


    The Sector faces different challenges include unorganized sector, lack of Good Manufacturing Practice, Quality Systems, Testing etc., traditional Marketing Methods, little Opportunities for Export, lack of promotional Programmes & Support.


    The Programme held today is part of the Action Plan to overcome the challenges faced by the AYUSH sector. About 1000 AYUSH based MSMEs are participated in the programme through various online/social media modes as the event was simultaneously broadcast live on social media platforms.


    The two Ministries have drawn up an ACTION PLAN for promoting AYUSH SECTOR. Accordingly an MoU was signed MoU between M/o AYUSH & M/o MSME few days back. The Roadmap ahead for promotion include need assessment &Identify AYUSH Clusters by field offices, roping them in Schemes of Mo MSME such as:


     Zero Defect Zero Effect / Lean – Good Manufacturing Practice.


     Procurement & Marketing Support Scheme – National/International Trade


    fair, Exhibition, GeM, Packaging, E-Marketing, Export.


     ATI – Capacity Building & Skill Development.


     ESDP, Incubation – Start-Up / Enterprise Development.


     Cluster Development (SFURTI / CDP) – Technology Upgradation.


     CLCS, PMEGP – Financial support


     CART (Centre for Agro Rural Technology) Division – AYUSH in rural areas.


     Technology Centres (Hub & Spoke) – AYUSH focused Technology support.


     Testing Centres – Quality Improvement / Standardization.


    *****


    RCJ/MS/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1619618) Visitor Counter : 1297
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada