      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 01 JUN 2020 6:23PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    UPDATES ON COVID-19 FROM THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY WELFARE- RECOVERY RATE INCREASES TO 48.19%


    During the last 24 hours 4,835 COVID-19 patients have been cured. Thus so far, a total of 91,818 patients have been cured of COVID-19. The recovery rate in the country is progressively increasing and has reached 48.19% amongst COVID-19 patients. The recovery rate on 18 th May was 38.29 %. On 3 rd May it was 26.59 %. On 15 th April it was 11.42 %.


    Presently there are 93,322 active cases in the country which are under active medical supervision. The case fatality rate is 2.83%. On 18th May, the case fatality rate was 3.15%. On 3rd May, it was 3.25 %. On 15th April it was 3.30 %. A steady decline can be seen in the case fatality rate in the country. The relatively low death rate is attributed to the continued focus on surveillance, timely case identification and clinical management of the cases.


    The testing capacity has increased in the country through 472 Government and 204 private laboratories (total 676 laboratories). Cumulatively, 38,37,207 samples have been tested so far for COVID-19, whereas, 1,00,180 samples were tested yesterday.


    ​ For details:


    Prime Minister Addresses the 25th Foundation Day of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences; Hails the role of Doctors and Health Care Workers as the invincible in the Fight against COVID-19


    Shri Modi said the World is facing one of the biggest crisis since the two World Wars. Like the world changed pre and post-World Wars, the same way the pre and post Covid world will be different, he said. Shri Modi said at the root of India's brave fight against Covid-19 is the hard-work of the medical community and our Corona warriors. He likened the doctors and medical workers as soldiers but without the soldiers’ uniform.


    Prime Minister said the virus may be invisible enemy but our corona warriors are invincible and in the battle against the invisible vs invincible our med workers are sure to win. He expressed concern at violent incidents, owing to mob mentality, against the front-line workers and said several steps have been taken by the Government to curb them. He said that the Government also provided an insurance cover of Rs. 50 Lakhs to those on the front-line.He said, a dvancements nations make in the health sector will matter more than ever before and that the Government had taken many initiativesin health-care and medical education, in the last 6 years.Prime Minister called for a four pillared strategy to improve the health care, its infrastructure and its access to one and all.


    For details:


    Text of Prime Minister’s Address on the 25th Foundation Day of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences


    For details:


    PM chairs first Cabinet Meeting of second year in office; Historic decisions for MSME sector, street vendors and farmers taken


    The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi met on Monday, 1st June 2020. This was the first meeting of the Union Cabinet after the Central Government entered into its second year in office.During the meeting, historic decisions were taken that will have a transformative impact on the lives of India’s hardworking farmers, MSME sector and those working as street vendors. These included: MSME definition revised for the first time after 14 years; Definition of medium units enhanced further to Rs 50 crore investment and Rs 250 crore turnover; Special Micro Credit Facility Scheme 'PM SVANidhi' for providing affordable loans to street vendors launched; For Kharif season 2020-21, government keeps its promise of fixing MSP at a level of at least 1.5 times of the cost of production; Repayment dates for short-term loans for agriculture and allied activities extended; farmers to also get benefit of interest subvention and prompt repayment incentive .


    For details:


    Cabinet approves extension of repayment date for short term loans for agriculture and allied activities by banks which have become due or shall become due between 1st March, 2020 and 31st August, 2020


    The Union Cabinet has given its approval to extend repayment date upto 31.08.2020 for Standard Short-Term loans upto Rs.3 lakh advanced for agriculture and allied activities by banks, which have become due or shall become due between 1st March, 2020 and 31st August, 2020 with continued benefit of 2% Interest Subvention (IS) to Banks and 3% Prompt Repayment Incentive (PRI) to farmers.


    For details:


    Cabinet approves Upward revision of MSME definition and modalities/ road map for implementing remaining two Packages for MSMEs (a)Rs 20000 crore package for Distressed MSMEs and (b) Rs 50,000 crore equity infusion through Fund of Funds


    In line with Government of India's top focus on energising MSMEs in the country, a special meeting of Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) convened under the Chairmanship of Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi today approved the upward revision of MSME definition and modalities/ road map for laying down effective implementation mechanism for the remaining two announcements under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Package. It fully paves way for Energising the MSME Sector through entire gamut of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat Package'


    For details:


    Minimum Support Prices (MSP) for Kharif Crops for marketing season 2020-21


    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has approved the increase in the Minimum Support Prices (MSPs) for all mandated Kharif crops for marketing season 2020-21.Government has increased the MSP of Kharif crops for marketing season 2020-21, to ensure remunerative prices to the growers for their produce. The highest increase in MSP is proposed for nigerseed (Rs 755 per quintal) followed by sesamum (Rs 370 per quintal), urad (Rs 300 per quintal) and cotton (long staple) (Rs 275 per quintal). The differential remuneration is aimed at encouraging crop diversification.


    For details:


    PM Modi Launches CHAMPIONS: Technology Platform to empower MSMEs


    Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi today launched the technology platform CHAMPIONS which stands for C reation and H armonious A pplication of M odern P rocesses for I ncreasing the O utput and N ational S trength. T he portal is basically for making the smaller units big by solving their grievances, encouraging, supporting, helping and handholding.It is a real one-stop-shop solution of MSME Ministry. This ICT based system is set up to help the MSMEs in present difficult situation and also to handhold them to become national and international champions.


    For details:


    MISSION SAGAR: INS KESARI AT PORT OF MORONI, COMOROS


    As part of Mission Sagar, Indian Naval Ship Kesari entered Port of Moroni in Comoros on 31 May 2020. The Government of India in these difficult times is providing assistance to Friendly Foreign Countries in dealing with the COVID-19 Pandemic and towards the same INS Kesari is carrying a consignment of COVID related essential medicines for the people of Comoros.


    For details:


    200 special trains to run across the country starting 1st June 2020


    Train services on Indian Railways have been further partially restored w.e.f. from 01st June 2020. More than 1.45 lac passengers will travel on Day 1 of 200 trains starting on June 1. Indian Railways starts operations of 200 passenger services.These trains are on the pattern of Regular Trains. These are fully reserved trains having both AC & Non AC classes. General (GS) coaches have reserved sitting accommodation.


    For details:


    PMBJKs achieves impressive sales of over Rs 100 crore in first two months of 2020-21 compared to about Rs 40 crore in same period of 2019-20


    Pradhan Mantri BhartiyaJanaushdhi Kendra's -PMBJKs has achieved an impressive sales of Rs 100.40 Crore in first two months of 2020-21 as compared to Rs 44.60 Crore in same period of 2019-20. Kendra's have sold approx. Rs 144 Crore worth of affordable & quality medicines in the month of March, April & May 2020 which saved around Rs 800 Crore of citizens during the period when COVID-19 pandemic has affected the country.


    For details:


    Three more States included in One Nation One Card scheme


    The Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution Shri Ram Vilas Paswan today announced the inclusion of three more states namely - Odisha, Sikkim and Mizoram in the scheme on ‘Integrated Management of Public Distribution System’ (IM-PDS).Under this system nation-wide portability of the benefits under NFSA through “One Nation One Ration Card” plan is implemented to enable the NFSA ration card holders to lift their entitled quota of subsidisedfoodgrains from any ePoS enabled FPS of their choice anywhere in the country, by using the existing/same ration card after Aadhaar authentication on ePoS device.The facility so far is enabled in 17 States/UTs.


    For details:


    DRDO develops Ultra Swachh for disinfection of PPEs and other materials


    Defence Research and Development Organisation has developed a disinfection unit named Ultra Swachh to disinfect a wide range of materials, including Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs), electronics items, fabrics, etc.The system developed by Institute of Nuclear Medicine & Allied Sciences (INMAS), uses an advanced oxidative process comprising of multiple barrier disruption approach using Ozonated Space Technology for disinfection.


    For details:


    NTPC accelerates Learning & Development Opportunities for 19000 Employees and their family members during the Lockdown period


    NTPC has offered learning opportunities to its 19,000-plus employees and their family members. To meet the requirements of the lockdown imposed due to COVID 19 pandemic, NTPC Learning and Development (L&D) strategy has been customised for enriching employees through intensive digitisation and online training, enabling them to avail these services from anywhere.


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Punjab: Chief Minister said that strict action will be taken against those who don't follow proper precautions. Between 17 May to 28 May, 36,820 people have been fined for not wearing masks, 4,032 for spitting on roads, and 503 FIRs have been filed.
      * Haryana: Chief Minister said that various steps are being taken by the State Government in its fight against on-going global Pandemic COVID-19. However, while fighting this battle, providing ration to every needy has remained the top most priority of the State Government so that no one remains hungry in this hour of crisis. The ration card cardholders as well as those who do not have any card, have been provided ration through ‘Distress Tokens’. This facility was provided to around 486000 people in the State. The Chief Minister said that as no vaccine is available for the treatment of this infection till now, therefore each one of us has to ensure that precautions like wearing masks, adhering to social distancing norms are incorporated in our lifestyle.
      * Himachal Pradesh: The State Government has decided to give relaxation in the curfew from 6 am to 8 pm, to facilitate the common people. Chief Minister said that since inter district buses would start plying from 1st June, it must be ensured that there was proper social distancing in the buses and also at the bus stands. He said that the District Magistrates and Superintendents of Police would provide adequate police force for crowd management and law and order maintenance at all the bus stands. He said that the buses would be allowed to ply with not more than 60 percentoccupancy and the drivers, conductors and passengers would follow all the safety protocols of the Health Department. Chief Minister said that inter-district movement of the people of the State would be allowed without any pass, but passes would be required for interstate movement. He said that the people coming from other parts of the country would be quarantined. He said that people coming from red zones would be kept in institutional quarantine and those from other areas would be kept in home quarantine. He said that the persons in institutional quarantine would be allowed to go home only after their test for COVID-19 was negative.
      * Maharashtra: With 2,487 new cases, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally has reached 67,655 confirmed cases. Of these, 29,329 have fully recovered, while 2,286 died. In the meantime, 93 more Maharashtra Police personnel, including 8 officers have tested positive for Covid-19. The total number of police personnel who have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State so far stands at 2,509. Out of this 27 police personnel have succumbed to coronavirus in Maharashtra so far.Inter-state travel by road, air and trains from Maharashtra will remain prohibited in the latest phase of the lockdown until June 30 with exceptions being made for migrant workers, stranded people and 'Shramik' special trains, as per the latest guidelines issued by the state government.
      * Gujarat: State has reported 438 new coronavirus cases and 31 deaths, including 20 in worst-hit Ahmedabad, taking the total case count to 16,794 and the number of fatalities to 1,038.
      * Rajasthan: The number ofnovel coronavirus cases in Rajasthan increased to 8,980 after 149 people tested positive for the infection. Of the fresh 149 positive cases, the highest of 44 cases are from Bharatpur, 32 from Jaipur, 27 from Baran and 21 from Pali. While all religious places, shopping malls and hotels will remain closed, Rajasthan Government has permitted all government and private offices to work with capacity.
      * MP: The COVID-19 positive cases count in Madhya Pradesh crossed the 8000-mark on Sunday with 198 new cases being reported during the past 24 hours. The state tally now stands at 8,089. But in a positive development, 398 patients were discharged after turning negative for the deadly viral infection. This is the maximum number of patients recovered/discharged from hospitals across the state in any single day.
      * Chhattisgarh: Five more COVID-19 cases have been reported in Chhattisgarh taking the total number of Covid Positive cases to 503. The number of active cases is 388, while the state has recorded a single death thus far.
      * Kerala: Inter-district bus services in Kerala will resume from tomorrow; no permission has been granted for inter-state travel as of now. Hotels and restaurants will be allowed to function with in-dine facilities from June 8. Decision on re-opening of places of worship, will be taken after consulting with religious leaders. A total of 41 lakh students, of Class I to XII, in about 12,000 schools in the state switched to virtual classes - via the state run Education channel Victers - as the new academic year began today. Four more persons have tested positive for Covid19 in Thiruvananthapuram; three of them are returnees from Kuwait and the other is a painter who returned from Tamil Nadu. A total of 12 Keralites succumbed to the virus yesterday and today in the Gulf taking the toll of those died in Gulf to 150. One death and 61 positive cases were reported in the state yesterday. 670 are still under treatment.
      * Tamil Nadu: One person at Puducherry legislative assembly complex contracts COVID-19, CM's office disinfected; three others also tested positive in the UT; at present, there are 49 active cases in Puducherry. Buses back on roads in Tamil Nadu after more than two months. All persons travelling from Chennai to be tested; those arriving in T.N. from hotspot States will also be screened. State’s daily count of Covid cases tops 1,000 for the first time yesterday; 1149 new cases yesterday, 804 cases from Chennai. Total cases till now: 22,333 Active cases: 9400, Deaths: 173, Discharged: 12,757. Active cases in Chennai are 6781.
      * Karnataka: Temples across Karnataka to open on June 8. Seven-day institutional quarantine must for those coming from Maharashtra only. RTO to start issuing driving licences in orange and red zones. In a relief to poultry industry chicken prices go up as consumption increases in Karnataka. 299 new cases reported in the State yesterday; of 299 new cases, 255 are interstate passengers & 7 from abroad. Total positive cases till now: 3221, Active cases: 1950, Deaths: 51, Recovered: 1218.
      * Andhra Pradesh: Travel by train within Andhra Pradesh is restricted “until further advice”. Passengers arriving from other states in railway stations to be tested and to undergo 14 days home quarantine. Passengers who arrive from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Chennai will have to spend seven days in institutional quarantine followed by seven days of being home quarantine. 76 new cases, two deaths reported with 34 discharged during last 24 hours after testing 10,567 samples. Total cases: 3118. Active: 885, Recovered: 2169, Deaths: 64. Total number of migrants to the state who tested +ve are 446, with 249 active cases. Tally of +ve cases came from abroad is 112.
      * Telangana: Long queues at Secunderabad railway station as Ministry of Railways resumes passenger train services from today. At least 10,000 to 12,000 passengers are set to travel to their destinations today in 7 trains of which 4 will depart from Secunderabad& 3 from Nampally. Fresh Covid-19 cases have been detected in areas of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, which did not have any case for the past month, after relaxation of lockdown norms. The total number of positive cases in Telangana as on 31st May is 2,698. As on date 434 migrants, foreign evacuees/ Deportees tested positive.
      * Arunachal Pradesh: Around 8000 returnees have arrived in the state so far. SOPs are being followed strictly for quarantine and health check ups. Arunachal Pradesh CM says that State is still in lockdown and any new relaxation will be decided after all people of the state staying outside will return.
      * Assam : CM said that a roadmap for implementation of the suggestions given by Advisory Committee on revitalisation State's economy due to COVID19 will be prepared by three member committee led by Health Minister, HimantaBiswaSarma, Industry & Commerce Minister, C M Patowary and Agriculture Minister, Atul Bora.6 new COVID19 positive cases in Assam. Total cases rise to 1390, active cases 1198, recovered 185 and death 4.
      * Manipur: With 7 new COVID19 positive cases in Manipur, total positive cases in the State is 78. Active cases 67, and recovered 11. All are mostly returnees from other States.
      * Mizoram: Stranded passengers who arrived in Bairabi, Mizoram from Goa pooled together their savings and contributed Rs.54140 to community organisations of Bairabi. These organisations have been working selflessly in providing all necessary help to stranded arrivals at the station.
      * Nagaland: Dimapur COVID19 Task Force in-charge visits quarantine center at Livingstone International Foundation managed by civil voluntary organizations.Volunteers of Naga Task Force, Bengaluru assist local authorities in Bengaluru in distributing rations to migrant workers and slum dwellers.

    PIB FACT CHECK


    *****


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1628374) Visitor Counter : 1106
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

*