      Ministry of Rural Development

      Union Minister of Rural Development, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare and Panchayati Raj, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar chairs the 21st meeting of Central Employment Guarantee Council
      
      Shri Narendra Singh Tomar emphasized that Government has accorded priority to creation of assets for water conservation/irrigation and individual assets which would help agriculture sector under MGNREGA
      
      All-time high amount of Rs. 61,500 crore allocated under MGNREGA for the FY 2020-21; Additional provision of Rs. 40,000 crore made for this programme under Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan to provide employment during the difficult period arising of COVID-19
      Posted On: 02 JUN 2020 8:34PM by PIB Delhi


    The 21 st Meeting of the Central Employment Guarantee Council, constituted under Section 10 of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (Mahatma Gandhi NREGA), 2005 was held on 02.06.2020 under the Chairmanship of Union Minister of Rural Development, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare and Panchayati Raj, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar through Video-Conferencing.


    Addressing the participants, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar stated that Mahatma Gandhi NREGA is one of the largest employment generating schemes which provides alternative employment to the people in rural areas. The Programme has 261 permissible works out of which 164 types of works are relating to agriculture and allied activities. The Government has accorded priority on creation of individual assets and assets on water conservation/irrigation which would help agriculture sector.


    With a view to achieving transparency and accountability, the Government has been taking all steps to achieve 100% payment of wages in the bank account of Mahatma Gandhi NREGA workers and accordingly emphasis on social audit of works. For the Financial Year 2020-21, Rs.61,500 crore has been allocated which is an all-time high. Additional provision of Rs.40,000 crore has been made for this programme under Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan to provide employment to the needy workers during this difficult period arising of COVID-19. Under the programme, a sum of Rs.28,000 core has already been released to the States/UTs.


    Minister of State for Rural Development, Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti, highlighted the good works done under Mahatma Gandhi NREGA by providing employment to rural people during these difficult days. She stressed on more irrigation and water conservation activities under the scheme so that the farmers get benefitted.


    During the meeting, all participating members gave their valuable suggestions for improving the scheme. Shri Narendra Singh Tomar assured to consider all the suggestions under the ambit of the Act.


    ****


    APS/SG/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1628782) Visitor Counter : 1120
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu