      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 02 JUN 2020 6:41PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    UPDATES ON COVID-19 FROM THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND FAMILY WELFARE-A total of 95,526 patients have been cured of COVID-19


    Presently, there are 97,581 active cases and all are under active medical supervision. A total of 3708 COVID-19 patients have been cured during the last 24 hours. So far, a total of 95,526 patients have been cured of COVID-19. The recovery rate is 48.07% amongst COVID-19 patients. India’s recovery rate continues to increase and the fatality rate is one amongst the lowest in the world. As on today, the fatality rate is 2.82%.


    The population of India & the total population of 14 most affected countries are almost the same. Despite a similar population, as on 1st June 2020, the total cases in those 14 most affected countries is 22.5 times that in India. The total deaths occurred due to COVID-19 in those 14 most affected countries is 55.2 times that of India.In these circumstances, the focus is to minimize the fatalities as much as possible through timely case identification and clinical management of the cases. The relatively low death figures can be attributed to the two pronged strategy - timely case identification and clinical management of the cases.


    ​ For details:


    PM delivers inaugural address at the Annual Session of CII;Intent, Inclusion, Investment, Infrastructure and Innovation important to build an Aatmanirbhar Bharat: PM


    Pime Minister said Corona may have slowed down the speed of the growth, but today the biggest fact is that India has overtaken the lockdown phase and entered in the Un-Lock Phase one. A large part of Economy has opened in Un-Lock Phase one.Prime Minister listed 5 things which are very important to build aAatmanirbhar Bharat and to bring India back on the path of rapid development, viz. Intent, Inclusion, Investment, Infrastructure and Innovation. These are reflected in the bold decisions taken by the Government recently, he added. He also said that many sectors have been made ready for the future.The Prime Minister urged the industry to take full advantage of opening up investment and partnership with farmers in the rural economy. Now necessary infrastructure is being prepared for clusters of local agro products near the village. He said that the government considers the private sector as a partner for the country's development journey.


    For details:


    Text of PM’s address at the inauguration of Annual Session of Confederation of Indian Industry


    For details:


    PM addresses SPIC MACAY’s International Convention


    Prime Minister appreciated the fact that even under these trying circumstances, the spirits of the musicians remained undeterred and that the theme of the convention is focusing on how to alleviate the stress amongst the youth owing to the COVID -19 pandemic.He recalled how historically music played an inspiring role and a cohesive role in times of war and crisis.He said poets, singers and artists always scripted songs and music to bring out the valour out of the people in such times.Prime Minister said that even now, in such trying times when the World is fighting an invisible enemy, the singers, lyricists, and artists are scripting lines and singing songs that would increase confidence of the people.


    For details:


    OP SAMUDRA SETU - INS JALASHWA DEPARTS COLOMBO TO BRING INDIAN NATIONALS TO TUTICORIN


    Indian Naval Ship Jalashwa departed Colombo, Sri Lanka today (01Jun 20) evening after having embarked 685 Indian nationals and set course for the port of Tuticorin in Tamilnadu. The ship, on her third trip as part of Indian Navy's Operation SamudraSetu under the aegis of Mission Vande Bharat launched by the Government of India; has been engaged in bringing Indian nationals home from foreign shores by the sea route.


    For details:


    Raksha Mantri speaks with French Minister of Armed Forces


    Shri Rajnath Singh had a telephonic conversation with French Minister of Armed Forces, Ms Florence Parly today. They discussed matters of mutual concern including COVID-19 situation, regional security and agreed to strengthen the Bilateral Defence Cooperation between India and France. Both Ministers appreciated the efforts made by Armed Forces of India and France in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. France reaffirmed its commitment to ensure timely delivery of Rafale Aircraft despite the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.


    For details:


    TRIFED Extends All Out Support to Tribal Artisans in Distress Due to Circumstances Arising Out of Covid-19


    TRIFED under Ministry of Tribal Affairs has launched all out efforts to support the tribal artisans in distress due to circumstances arising out of Covid-19. It has announced an aggressive plan through its TRIBES India retail and e-Com platforms ( www.tribesindia.com ) to help artisanskickstart their production and sales operations. Accordingly, TRIFED has re-opened all its outlets and e-Commerce portals to support tribal commerce.TRIFED has also decided to market these products through bulk sales via its extensive retail network across the country and through e-com portals, with attractive discounts. Keeping in mind the difficulties faced by tribal master craftsmen and women, it has been decided to transfer 100% of the sales proceeds to the tribal artisans.


    For details:


    Five tips on how to live with novel coronavirus


    After seventy days of lockdown, the unlock 1.0 is put into action. Officially designated lockdown 5.0, from June 1, 2020, the economy and ordinary life are returning to normalcy in a controlled and phased manner. This is the beginning of a new normal. It is going to be a long haul. Experts and officials are suggesting that ‘we must learn to live with the virus’. With vaccine still months away, we need to live in a new normal. Speaking to India Science Wire , Prof. K Vijay Raghavan, Principal Scientific Advisor to the Government of India, gave five tips to ‘living with the virus’.


    For details:


    COVID-19 testing laboratory inaugurated in CSIR-NEIST, Jorhat


    A COVID-19 testing laboratory has been established in the Jorhat campus of the North East Institute of Science and Technology (NEIST).


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Punjab: Taking the state’s battle against Covid to the grassroots, Punjab Chief Minister launched a month-long drive, as part of `Mission Fateh’, to spread mass awareness about the pandemic. The campaign, which will broaden the ambit of Mission Fateh beyond the frontline workers, will bring the people of Punjab into its fold to make the fight against Covid a battle of the people, by the people and for the people, said the Chief Minister. Emphasis would be on recognising the threat of the virus, which continues to pose serious dangers to the people. People would be encouraged to lead by example and advise others about the precautions to be taken and report violations that come to their notices.
      * Haryana: State Home Minister said that permission to open all the shops from 9 am to 7 pm in the state has been given while adhering to social distancing norms. He said the odd-even or left-right formula will not be followed; instead the administration will issue instructions to maintain social distancing norms in congested markets after assessing local conditions. He said that in accordance with the instructions of the Central Government, a curfew would be imposed from 9.00 pm to 5.00 am and no activity will be allowed during this time.
          + Himachal Pradesh: Chief Minister launched Skill Register developed by Information Technology Department to create a sound data base of migrants, who have entered Himachal Pradesh during the lockdown in the wake of Corona pandemic. He said that interested persons can register through skillregister.hp.gov.in. He said various companies and industrial houses can also register their requirements on this portal. He said that this would ensure the uploading of educational qualification, skills and job requirement of the people who have returned to the State. He said that this would also help in identifying skill available in the State and in analysis of skill upgradation requirements. He said that this would help the industries in getting information regarding skilled manpower at a click of the button.
          + Arunachal:Under PMKSY, about 68 thousand farmers have been given Rs. 2000 by Central govt and state government has also provided extra Rs. 1000 to them.
          + Assam: Defence Research and Development Organisation has approved Defence Research Laboratory,Tezpur in Assam as an authorized testing centre for COVID19. 28 new COVID19 positive cases in Assam. Total cases 1513, recovered 284, active cases 1222 and 4 deaths.
          + Manipur: Two more COVID19 positive cases in Manipur. Total positive case in the state is 85 with 74 active cases.
          + Mizoram: Governor Shri SreedharanPillai commits 30% of his gross salary to the CM's Relief Fund for a period of 6 months starting from May, 2020. CM donated 60% of his basic pay to the CM's Relief Fund to mitigate COVID19. This is in conjunction with a decision made at a meeting held with legislators under the chairmanship of Speaker.
          + Nagaland: Govt notifies that existing lockdown guidelines will remain in force, while Dimapur Task Force makes slight modifications in view of increasing number of returnees. Nagaland Govt decides to covert Govt run tourist lodge in Dimapur into COVID19 Hospital.
          + Sikkim: Centre for Computers and Communication Technology, Chisopani which is a Diploma College has been converted into a Free Institutional Quarantine Centre for the returnees belonging to South Sikkim.
          + Maharashtra: 2,361 new COVID-19 cases and 76 deaths have occurred in the last 24 hours, taking the overall case count to 70,013, and the number of fatalities to 2,362. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 37,543. Maharashtra has till date conducted 4,71,473 tests, highest for any state in India. Even as the Western metropolis is fighting the Coronavirus pandemic, it has to brace for Cyclone Nisarg, which is likely to cross Alibag in Maharashtra on June 3rd afternoon, with sustained wind speed of 100 -110 kmph. As a precautionary measure, state authorities have decided to shift nearly 150 asymptomatic Covid patients from the make-shift set up in BKC area to a facility in Worli, which has a covered rooftop.
          + Gujarat: The number of Covid 19 cases has risen to 17,217 after addition of 423 new infections in the last 24 hours. 25 fresh deaths were reported in the state taking the toll to 1,063. A record 861 COVID-19 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the state. With this, the number of recoveries in the state crossed the 10,000 mark. The State Administration has geared up to tackle the possible cyclonic storm Nisarga that is likely to hit the south Gujarat coast by tomorrow. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani today instructed all the concerned District Collectors to complete the shifting of people from low lying areas to safer places by tomorrow afternoon. To prevent the spread of COVID-19, the Collectors have been asked to ensure social distancing, use of masks and PPE suits during the evacuation process.
          + Madhya Pradesh: 194 new cases have been reported in last 24 hours. The state has reported 8,283 COVID-19 cases and 358 deaths due to the disease so far. Thus far, the virus has affected 51 out of the total 52 districts in the state. While, more than 5 thousand recovered from the infection.
          + Rajasthan: In all, 171 persons have been tested positive for COVID-19 today taking the total number of reported cases to 8,980. However, the active cases in the state are only 2,742 as 6,040 people have been cured and discharged.
          + Chhattisgarh: 45 new COVID-19 infections have been reported in the latest update, taking the number of reported cases to 547. The state government has notified 16 districts, including Raipur as red zone, while 17 districts are in orange zone.

    PIB FACT CHECK


    ******


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1628704) Visitor Counter : 701
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

+