      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 03 JUN 2020 6:57PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on Covid-19 from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare-Recovery rate improves to 48.31%; Fatality rate drops to 2.80%


    During the last 24 hours, a total of 4,776 COVID-19 patients have been cured. Thus, so far, a total of 1,00,303 patients have been cured of COVID-19. The recovery rate is 48.31% amongst COVID-19 patients. Presently, there are 1,01,497 active cases and all are under active medical supervision.The fatality rate is 2.80%. The testing capacity has increased in the country through 480 Government and 208 private laboratories (total 688 laboratories). Cumulatively, 41,03,233 samples have been tested so far for COVID-19, whereas, 1,37,158 samples were tested yesterday.


    As of now, 952 dedicated COVID hospitals with 1,66,332 Isolation beds, 21,393 ICU beds and 72,762 Oxygen supported beds are available. 2,391 dedicated COVID Health Centres with 1,34,945 Isolation beds; 11,027 ICU beds and 46,875 Oxygen supported beds have been operationalised. The Centre has also provided 125.28 lakh N95 masks and 101.54 lakh Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) to the States/ UTs / Central Institutions.


    ​ For details:


    PM chairs Cabinet Meeting to give historic boost to Rural India


    The Cabinet today approved historic amendment to the Essential Commodities Act. This is a visionary step towards transformation of agriculture and raising farmers’ income. With the amendment to Essential Commodities Act, commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes will be removed from list of essential commodities. This will remove fears of private investors of excessive regulatory interference. The freedom to produce, hold, move, distribute and supply will lead to harnessing of economies of scale and attract private sector/foreign direct investment into agriculture sector. It will help drive up investment in cold storages and modernization of food supply chain.Landmark decisions will benefit farmers and transform the agriculture sector. Ordinance to promote barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade in agriculture produce has been approved. Farmers empowered to engage with processors, aggregators, wholesalers, large retailers, exporters


    For details:


    Government approves setting up of an “Empowered Group of Secretaries and Project Development Cells” in Ministries/Departments for attracting investments


    The Cabinet has given its approval for setting up of an “Empowered Group of Secretaries and Project Development Cells in Ministries/Departments of Government of Indiafor attracting investments in India”. This new mechanism will reinforce India’s vision of becoming a US$ 5 trillion economy by 2024-25.In the midst of current ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, India is presented with an opportunity to attract FDI inflows into the country especially from large companies which seek to diversify their investments into new geographies and mitigate risks.In order to provide support and facilitation to investors for investing in India and to boost growth in key sectors of the economy, an Empowered Group of Secretaries (EGoS) is approved. A ‘Project Development Cell’ (PDC) is also approved for the development of investible projects in coordination between the Central Government and State Governments and thereby grow the pipeline of investible projects in India and in turn increase FDI inflows.


    For details:


    PRIME MINISTER GARIB KALYAN PACKAGE-PROGRESS SO FAR


    As part of the Rs 1.70 lakh crore Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package, the Government announced free food grains and cash payment to women and poor senior citizens and farmers. The swift implementation of the package is being continuously monitored by central and state governments. Around 42crore poor people received financial assistance of Rs53,248 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package(PMGKP). Rs16394 crore front loaded towards payment of the first instalment ofPM-KISAN to 8.19 crore beneficiaries. Rs 10029 crore credited to 20.05crore (98.33%) women Jan Dhan account holders as first installment.


    For details:


    Relaxation in Visa and Travel restrictions to permit certain categories of Foreign Nationals to come to India


    Government of India has considered the matter regarding relaxation of the visa & travel restrictions for certain categories of foreign nationals who need to come to India. It has been decided to permit certain categories of foreign nationals to come to India- Foreign businessmen; Foreign Healthcare professionals, health researchers, engineers and technicians; Foreign Engineering, Managerial, Design or other Specialists; Foreign Technical specialists and engineers.The above categories of foreign nationals would have to obtain a fresh Business visa or Employment visa, as applicable, from the Indian Missions/ Posts abroad.


    For details:


    Telephone conversation between PM and President of USA


    Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a telephone conversation on Tuesday with His Excellency Donald Trump, President of the United States of America.President Trump spoke about the US Presidency of the Group of Seven, and conveyed his desire to expand the ambit of the grouping beyond the existing membership, to include other important countries including India. In this context, he extended an invitation to Prime Minister Modi to attend the next G-7 Summit to be held in USA.Prime Minister Modi commended President Trump for his creative and far-sighted approach, acknowledging the fact that such an expanded forum would be in keeping with the emerging realities of the post-COVID world.


    For details:


    Government to conduct skill mapping of citizens returning from overseas


    With the aim of making the best of our skilled workforce returning to the country due to the ongoing pandemic, the Government of India has launched a new initiative SWADES (Skilled Workers Arrival Database for Employment Support) to conduct a skill mapping exercise of the returning citizens under the Vande Bharat Mission. This is a joint initiative of the Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Ministry of External Affairs which aims to create a database of qualified citizens based on their skillsets and experience to tap into and fulfil demand of Indian and foreign companies. The initiative aims at empowering the returning citizens with relevant employment opportunities. Envisioned to share collected information and enable discussions with key stakeholders including State Governments, Industry Associations and Employers


    For details:


    Union HRD Minister releases Alternative Academic calendar for higher secondary stage (Classes XI and XII)


    Union Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriya'Nishank' released the alternative academic calendar for higher secondary stage (Classes XI and XII) in New Delhi today. The calendar has been developed by the NCERT to engage students meaningfully during their stay at home due to COVID-19 through educational activities with the help of their parents and teachers.Speaking on the occasion, the HRD Minister said the calendar provides guidelines to teachers on the use of v arious technological tools and social media tools available for imparting education in fun-filled, interesting ways, which can be used by learner, parents and teachers even while at home. However, it has taken into account the varying levels of access of students to different tools and platforms-Mobile, Radio, Television, SMS and various social media.


    For details:


    Operation SamudraSetu - INS Jalashwa Arrives at Tuticorin with Indian Citizens Embarked from Sri Lanka


    INS Jalashwa, deployed by the Indian Navy for “Operation SamudraSetu", entered Tuticorin harbour on 02 June 2020 with 685 Indian nationals evacuated from Colombo, Sri Lanka.Embarkation of Indian nationals was facilitated by the Indian Mission in Sri Lanka. Personnel were embarked onboard after carrying out requisite medical screening. COVID related safety protocols were also strictly adhered to during the sea-passage.With this evacuation, Indian Navy has now repatriated 2173 Indian nationals from Maldives (1488) and Sri Lanka (685) during the ongoing pandemic.


    For details:


    Ministry of MSME gears up to implement the New Norms of classification of MSMEs


    Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterpriseshas issued Gazette notification to pave way for implementation of the upward revision in the definition and criteria of MSMEs in the country. The new definition and criterion will come into effect from 1st July, 2020. A revision in MSME definition was announced in the Aatmnirbhar Bharat package on 13th May, 2020. As per this announcement, the definition of Micro manufacturing and services units was increased to Rs. 1 Crore of investment and Rs. 5 Crore of turnover. The limit of small unit was increased to Rs. 10 Crore of investment and Rs 50 Crore of turnover. Similarly, the limit of medium unit was increased to Rs. 20 Crore of investment and Rs. 100 Crore of turnover. The Government of India on 01.06.2020 decided for further upward revision of the MSME Definition. For medium Enterprises, now it will be Rs. 50 Crore of investment and Rs. 250 Crore of turnover.


    For details:


    EPFO updates KYC for 52.62 lakh subscribers since 1st April, 2020


    To extend the availability and reach of online services, which have become crucial in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, EPFO updated Know your Customer (KYC) data for its 52.62 lakh subscribers in the month of April and May 2020. This includes Aadhaar seeding for 39.97 lakh subscribers, mobile seeding (UAN activation) for 9.87 lakh subscribers and bank account seeding for 11.11 lakh subscribers. KYC is a one-time process which helps in identity verification of subscribers through linking of Universal Account Number (UAN) with KYC details.


    For details:


    Union Minister holds meeting with Association of Film Producers, Cinema Exhibitioners and Film Industry representatives


    The Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Shri PrakashJavadekar held a meeting over video conference with the Association of Film Producers, Cinema Exhibitioners and Film Industry representatives. The meeting was convened by the Minister to discuss the problems being faced by the industry due to COVID19, representations on which had been sent to the Minister by these parties. On the issue of restarting production related activities, the Minister said that standard operating procedures are being issued by Government. With regard to the demand of opening of cinema halls the Minister informed the representatives that it will be examined after looking at the status of COVID-19 pandemic in the month of June.


    For details:


    Make in India gets a big boost; MoD places indent for supply of 156 upgraded BMP Infantry Combat Vehicles of value Rs 1,094 Cr on OFB


    In a major boost to ‘Make in India’ initiative of the Government, Acquisition Wing of Ministry of Defence (MoD) with the approval of Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh, has placed an Indent on Ordnance Factory Board for supply of 156 BMP 2/2k Infantry Combat Vehicles (ICV) with upgraded features for use of the Mechanised Forces of the Indian Army.


    For details:


    Indian Railways operationalizes 4197 “Shramik Special” trains till 3rd June, 2020 (0900hrs) and transports more than 58 lacs passengers to their home states


    As on 3rd June 2020, a total of 4197 “Shramik Special” trains have been operationalized from various states across the country. 81 trains were on the run till 09.00 am in the morning.Till now, more than 58 lacs migrants have been transported through Shramik Special Trains in 34 days.These 4197 trains were originated from various states. The top five States/UTs from where maximum trains originated are Gujarat(1026 Trains), Maharashtra(802 Trains), Punjab(416 Trains), Uttar Pradesh (294 Trains) and Bihar (294 Trains).In addition to Shramik specials, Railways are running 15 pairs of special Rajdhani type trains connecting New Delhi and started 200 more time tabled trains on 1st June.


    For details:


    Cabinet approves establishment of Pharmacopoeia Commission for Indian Medicine & Homoeopathy as Subordinate Office under Ministry of AYUSH
    Union Cabinet has given its approval to re-establish Pharmacopoeia Commission for Indian Medicine & Homoeopathy (PCIM&H) as Subordinate Office under Ministry of AYUSH by merging into it Pharmacopoeia Laboratory for Indian Medicineand Homoeopathic Pharmacopoeia Laboratory, the two central laboratories.Presently, PCIM&H is an autonomous body. The merger is aimed at optimizing the use of infrastructural facilities, technical manpower and financial resources of the three organizations for enhancing the standardization outcomes of Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathy drugs towards their effective regulation and quality control.


    For details:


    Shri Narendra Singh Tomar chairs the 21st meeting of Central Employment Guarantee Council


    The 21 st Meeting of the Central Employment Guarantee Council, was held on 02.06.2020 under the Chairmanship of Union Minister of Rural Development, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare and Panchayati Raj, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar through Video-Conferencing. With a view to achieving transparency and accountability, the Government has been taking all steps to achieve 100% payment of wages in the bank account of Mahatma Gandhi NREGA workers and accordingly emphasis on social audit of works. For the Financial Year 2020-21, Rs.61,500 crore has been allocated which is an all-time high. Additional provision of Rs.40,000 crore has been made for this programme under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan to provide employment to the needy workers during this difficult period arising of COVID-19. Under the programme, a sum of Rs.28,000 core has already been released to the States/UTs.


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES


      * Chandigarh: The UT Administrator directed Director General of Police to ensure that random screening at inter-state borders continues. All visitors should be advised to download AarogyaSetu Applications and do self-monitoring. The Administrator advised the Chiefs of three medical institutions to enhance OPD facilities, so that the patients, who have been waiting for last several weeks get their treatment on time.

      * Punjab: Chief Minister has welcomed the decision of the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission to reduce the domestic power tariff in spite of the revenue gap resulting from the Covid Lockdown, and expressed the hope that the rates would be further rationalised, going forward, in the interest of the people. Faced with a huge revenue losses resulting from the Coronavirus pandemic and the prolonged lockdown in the state, Punjab Chief Minister gave the go-ahead to the imposition of Covid Cess on liquor with effect from June 1. The move will help the state mop additional revenue of Rs 145 crore in the current fiscal.
      * Haryana: Haryana Government has issued guidelines regarding taxi, cab aggregators, maxi cab and auto rickshaw drivers for convenience of public transport. The Transport Department said that taxi and cab aggregator will be allowed to ply with a maximum of two passengers in addition to the driver. This means that there will be a maximum of three persons in the vehicle. The Maxi Cabs can ply with a maximum of half of their seating capacity. Auto Rickshaws and E-Richshaws are allowed to ply with two persons in addition to the driver. Likewise, the one pillion rider will be allowed on the Two Wheelers and it shall be mandatory for both the persons to wear helmets, masks and gloves. The manually driven rickshaws shall carry not more than two passengers. All drivers and passengers should cover their face with mask or cloth at all times. Motor vehicles should be regularly sanitized and the drivers & passengers should regularly use sanitizers. Social distancing shall be followed by all persons at all times.
      * Arunachal Pradesh: 67,998 farmers received extra Rs 1000 as topup from state government besides Rs 2000 under PMKSY.Total active cases of COVID-19 in the State are 28.
      * Assam: 51 new cases of COVID19 found in Assam. 28 from Dhubri, 13 from Darrang, 5 from Karimganj, 3 from Sonitpur and 2 from Lakhimpur taking total cases to 1672, said State Health Minister.
      * Manipur: Recovery rate in Manipur improves to 25 pecent with discharge of 13 patients. Total cases 102 in the state with 76 active cases.
      * Meghalaya: One returnee from Tamil Nadu who tested COVID19 positive from West Garo Hills district in Meghalaya on 19th May has recovered and tested negative. He is under quarantine. Active cases stand at 16 and recovered 13.
      * Mizoram: Chief Secretary said no changes in lockdown 5.0 guidelines issued on 31st May, 2020 as of now. 13 new cases of COVID19 have been detected in the State recently.
      * Nagaland: 27 doctors have been appointed to ease shortage of health care professionals in the fight against COVID19. Dimapur traders appeal to the Govt to lift sealing on normal business activities.
      * Sikkim: Chairman, Sikkim Economic Revival Committee claims that the State incurred Rs 500 cr loss because of COVID19 lockdown in tourism sector.
      * Tripura: Out of 821 samples tested today, 49 people found COVID-19 positive. Most of them have travel history and contacts.
      * Kerala: About 15 health personnel in the capital have been kept under observation following the death of a Christian priest whose sample tested positive. A complaint has been lodged in Kochi against a female pilot of Air India - who reached the Nedumbassery airport from Dubai- for violating quarantine rules. State Cabinet decides to extend the trial run of online classes for school students for a week. Bus service to neighbouring districts began today. Marriages to be permitted in Guruvayoor temple from tomorrow. Seven Keralites died of Covid in the Gulf taking the toll to cross 210. One Malayali nurse died in New Delhi today. 86 people were tested positive in the state yesterday. 774 patients are under treatment.
      * Tamil Nadu: Six healthcare workers in JIPMER, Puducherry tested positive for Covid19; total cases touch 90 in the UT. INS Jalashwa repatriates 686 stranded in Sri Lanka under 'Operation SamudraSetu'; the ship arrived at V O Chidambaranar Port, Thoothikudi today morning. The State government promulgates Ordinance allowing farmers to sell their produce across the State, to whoever offers a good price. Covid numbers stays high in Tamil Nadu with 1,091 fresh cases yesterday. 806 cases from Chennai. Total cases till now: 24586, Active cases: 10680, Deaths: 197, Discharged: 13,706. Active cases in Chennai are 7880.
      * Karnataka: Cyclone Nisarga makes landfall in Uttara Kannada coast; all coastal districts on high alert. No more paper files in CM's office; all files clearances to be on e-office software. State Government mulls reopening schools from July 1; admission process can begin by June 8. State PUC exam: Tentative list of revised exam centres and student details out. CM directs official to file FIRs against those violating home quarantine guidelines. 388 new cases reported of which 367 are inter-state cases. Total positive cases: 3796, Active cases: 2339, Deaths: 52, Recovered: 1403.
      * Andhra Pradesh: Striking down the petition filed by the state government, the Supreme Court has ordered for the removal of party colours on government buildings within four weeks of stipulated time and warned of filing contempt of court. State gives nod for resurvey of lands; to allocate Bhudhaar number. 79 new cases, 35 discharges and four deaths reported during last 24 hours after testing 8,066 samples. Total cases: 3279. Active: 967, Recovered: 2244, Deaths: 68. Total number of migrants who tested positive are 573, with 362 of them active. 118 of the 119 cases from abroad remain active.
      * Telangana: After ICMR issued instructions to the states that mild patients can be treated at home, the health department said if members of a single family are infected they would be treated in their home. Telangana High Court directs State government to evolve policy to deal with migrant workers issue. Five more PG doctors of Osmania Medical College tested positive for Covid19; total tally in the medical college now stands at 12. State recorded 99 new Covid-19 cases yesterday of 87 of which were local transmissions and 12 cases among migrant workers from other states. The total number of positive cases in Telangana as on 2nd June is 2,891 of which 446 are migrants and foreign returnees.
      * Maharashtra: 2287 new COVID-19 infections have been reported, taking the state tally of positive cases to 72,300, out of which 38,493 are active cases. Hotspot Mumbai reported 1109 new COVID-19 infections on Tuesday.
      * Gujarat: With 415 new COVID-19 infections reported on Tuesday, the state tally of coronavirus positive patients stand at 17,632. The death toll in the state has climbed to 1092 with 29 more patients succumbing to the virus on Tuesday. State Health Department said as many as 1,014 patients were discharged from hospital after full recovery.
      * Rajasthan: With 102 new COVID-19 infections reported till today morning, the state tally of coronavirus positive cases now stand at 9475, out of which 6506 patients have recovered and 5977 patients have been discharged from various hospitals in the state till date. Most of the new infections have been reported at Jaipur today.
      * Madhya Pradesh: 137 new cases of COVID-19 infections have been reported, taking the state tally of coronavirus positive cases to 8420, out of which 2835 are active cases. Most of these new infections have been reported from Indore, followed byNeemuch district. Today 23 recoveries have been reported from Neemuch, 35 from Bhopal and 6 from Jabalpur.
      * Chhattisgarh: 9 new COVID-19 cases have been reported, as per the latest update. This takes the state tally of coronavirus positive cases to 564, out of which 433 are active cases. The new cases have been reported from Balodabaazar, Korba and Balod. Presently, 51,588 persons have been kept under home quarantine in the state.
      * Goa: 6 new cases of COVID-19 infection have been reported, taking the state tally of coronavirus positive patients to 79, out of which 22 are active cases. 13 patients have been reported to have recovered on Tuesday.

    PIB FACT CHECK


    ******


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1629100) Visitor Counter : 999
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

  
  
*