      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 05 JUN 2020 6:41PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on Covid-19 from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare


    As India is easing its lockdown requirements through a graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has uploaded standard operating procedures for operation of public and semi-public environments where COVID has a higher chance to spread. The new guidelines aim to instill COVID appropriate behaviour to contain the chain of transmission while allowing social and economic activity to resume.


    During the last 24 hours, a total of 5,355 COVID-19 patients have been cured. Thus, so far, a total of 1,09,462 patients have been cured of COVID-19. The recovery rate is 48.27% amongst COVID-19 patients. Presently, there are 1,10,960 active cases and all are under active medical supervision.


    The number of government labs now stands increased to 507 and that of private labs stands increased to 217 (a total of 727 labs). 1,43,661 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The total number of cumulative samples tested thus far is 43,86,379. As of 5th June 2020, the COVID related health infrastructure has been strengthened with the availability of 957 dedicated COVID hospitals with 1,66,460 Isolation beds, 21,473 ICU beds and 72,497 Oxygen supported beds. 2,362 dedicated COVID Health Centres with 1,32,593 Isolation beds; 10,903 ICU beds and 45,562 Oxygen supported beds have also been operationalised. 11,210 quarantine centres and 7,529 COVID Care Centres with 7,03,786 beds are now available to combat COVID-19 in the country.


    For details :


    Prime Minister Addresses the virtual Global Vaccine Summit 2020;
    India pledges 15 Million US Dollars to Gavi, the international vaccine alliance


    Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi addressed the virtual Global Vaccine Summit hosted by UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson yesterday, in which over 50 ​countries - business leaders, UN agencies, civil society, government ministers, Heads of State and country leaders participated.In his address the Prime Minister said India stands in solidarity with the World in these challenging times. India has pledged 15 Million US Dollars to Gavi, the international vaccine alliance.Prime Minister said the COVID19 pandemic, in someways, has exposed the limitations of global cooperation and that for the first time in recent history, the human kind faces a clear common enemy. Prime Minister reiterated that India stands in solidarity with the world along with its proven capacity to produce quality medicines and vaccines at low cost, its own domestic experience in rapidly expanding immunization and its considerable scientific research talent.


    For details :


    Centre Releases Rs.36,400 Crore as GST Compensation to States


    The Central Government has released the GST Compensation of Rs36,400 crore to the States/UTs with Legislature for the period from December, 2019 to February, 2020, yesterday. Government released the compensation after taking stock of the current situation due to COVID-19 where State Governments need to undertake expenditure while their resources are adversely hit.


    For details :


    Global celebration of IYD2020 through digital platforms


    In the light of the prevailing health emergency in the country due to COVID-19, this year’s International Yoga Day is set to go digital internationally. This was stated by Dr. VinaySahasrabuddhe, President, Indian Council for Cultural Relation in the joint press conference held today along with M/o AYUSH. This year, the event will highlight the utility of Yoga for individuals, to develop immunity to combat the global pandemic and strengthen the community in managing some of the significant aspects of this crisis, Dr. Sahasrabuddhe added . Also present at the joint press conference were Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, Secretary AYUSH. In view of the highly infectious nature of the virus causing COVID-19, there shall be no mass gatherings.


    For details :


    Minister for HRD Shri Ramesh PokhriyalNishank launches information booklet “Safe online learning in the times of COVID-19” to raise awareness


    The National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) and UNESCO New Delhi Office developed this booklet. The booklet will be instrumental in keeping children, young people safe online through basic do’s, and don’ts that will help parents and educators teach their children how to use the internet safely.


    For details :


    176 Indian Citizens from Bahrain & Oman Complete Quarantine at Naval Base, Kochi
    176 Indians from Bahrain and Oman completed their mandated Quarantine period at Naval Base Kochi yesterday. The residents of the Southern Naval Command Covid Care Centre (CCC) would now travel back to various parts of the country. All residents underwent the RT-PCR tests during their stay and have tested negative prior to discharge.49 Indians from Oman were the last to depart the CCC yesterday, whilst 127 from Bahrain left the Indian Navy Facility between 1 st &2 nd June.


    For details :


    Van DhanVikas Kendras in Maharashtra lead in innovative initiatives to help tribal gatherers during ongoing Covid crisis


    Van Dhan Kendras, established under the scheme initiated by TRIFED, Ministry of Tribal Affairs are leading the way in helping tribals generate their livelihood in these distressed times. One segment that has been impacted during the ongoing crisis has been the tribal population as most of their income comes from Minor Forest Produce activities such as gathering, which usually is at the peak between the months of April – June.The success story of Van Dhan scheme in Maharashtra inspite of the state facing the brunt of Covid 19 is worth enumerating


    For details :


    Personality tests for the remaining candidates of Civil Services Examination 2019 to be held from 20th July, 2020


    The Union Public Service Commission held a special meeting today to review the prevailing situation due to COVID-19. Taking notice of the opening of lockdown and progressive relaxations being announced by the Central Government and various States, the Commission decided to issue a revised schedule of Examinations/ Recruitment Tests (RTs). Details of the revised calendar of Examinations/ RTs have been published on the UPSC website.The Commission also decided to resume personality tests for the remaining candidates of Civil Services Examination 2019 from 20 th July, 2020. Candidates will be informed individually.


    For details :


    North East to Emerge as New Business Destination of India: DrJitendra Singh


    Union Minister of State (I/C) for Development of North Eastern Region and Minister of State in Prime Minister’s office, Dr.Jitendra Singh said here today that North Eastern Region of the country is slowly but firmly coming up as new business destination of India. New paradigms will emerge post-COVID, with a potential for new breakthroughs in economy, trade, scientific research and several other diverse areas, catapulting North East as the economic hub of the country and a preferred destination for Startups.


    For details :


    Dr. Jitendra Singh launches e-Booklet on one year achievements of DoPPW under Modi Government 2.0


    Union Minister DrJitendra Singh launched an e-Booklet on one year achievements of the Department of Pension and Pensioners’ Welfare (DoPPW)” through Video Conferencing yesterday. Addressing all the officers of the department, Dr..Jitendra Singh stated that the department went outside its call of duty to organize a webinar on Covid-19 by bringing in leading doctors to address the anxiety and fears of the Pensioners. He stated that the Department is blessed with the unique opportunity of being able to serve the elderly and retired which no other department has.


    For details :


    CSIR lab to organize nationwide summer research training programme


    The North East Institute of Science and Technology (NEIST) is working towards ameliorating the stagnancy created in the academic scenario of the nation due to COVID-19 pandemic. Jorhat-based CSIR-NEIST will organize and coordinate a country-wide CSIR-Summer Research Training Program (CSIR-SRTP-2020).An online program (CSIR-SRTP-2020) is going to be discharged through the faculties and mentors from 38 CSIR laboratories spread across the length and breadth of the country.


    For details :


    DST building resilience of SC & STs against COVID 19 through S&T interventions


    Science for Equity Empowerment and Development (SEED) division of the Department of Science and Technology (DST) is providing grant-in-aid support to several Knowledge Institutions (KIs), and Science and Technology (S&T) based Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) for the holistic development of SC and ST communities to help them tide over the nationwide lockdown that affected livelihood and economic condition of the communities.


    For details :


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Punjab: In order to strengthen the screening of the population for timely detection of COVID-19 patients to contain the spread of pandemic, the Punjab Government has decided to conduct free of cost RT-PCR testing for COVID-19 samples sent by empanelled private hospitals/clinics and private Labs. The private hospital shall arrange the required logistics and collect samples, pack them and send to the nearest Government Health facility as per protocol.
      * Haryana: To support various organizations in minimizing the adverse impacts on business amid challenging period of COVID-19 crisis, Haryana Government has come up with Virtual Mentorship Workshop Series in collaboration with Startup India. The Virtual Mentorship Workshop Series is an effort aimed at broadening the perspectives of the Startups and help them in building their confidence especially in the wake of the global crisis. It is a three-month immersive program that provides early stage startups with the opportunity to interact with industry experts, learn from their knowledge and expertise to develop strategies to get started/ accelerate their businesses. The program consists of a combination of group sessions and one-to-one sessions.
      * Kerala: IMA has warned the State government against opening of religious places of worship and malls in the state as part of Unlock1.0, pointing out that this may increase the number of cases with unknown sources and may even lead to community transmission. The state govt. is to come up today with its guidelines for Unlock 1.0 on the basis of the new SOPs issued by the Centre. In Kozhikode after a pregnant woman was tested Covid positive, several staff including doctors have been put under quarantine. The Kozhikode Collector has issued an order declaring Mavoorpanchayat as containment zone after many persons in the panchayat were confirmed with Covid-19. 94 new cases of Covid-19 were confirmed in the state yesterday. The total number of confirmed cases is 1,588 and 884 patients are under treatment in different hospitals.
      * Tamil Nadu: Five Tamil Nadu Ministers to oversee 15 zones in Chennai to contain Covid-19. State brings treatment for Covid-19 at private hospitals under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme and caps rates for treatment. Tamil Nadu reported 1,384 cases and 12 deaths yesterday; Chennai accounted for 1,072 of the positive cases. Total cases till yesterday: 27256, Active cases: 12132, Deaths: 220, Discharged: 14901. Active cases in Chennai were 9066.
      * Karnataka: Rural Development Minister says State ready to provide jobs for migrant labourers who returned from Maharashtra under MGNREGA. Health Minister said second Covid-19 patient treated with plasma therapy has 'recovered' and shifted out of ICU. 257 new cases, 106 discharges & four deaths were reported yesterday. Total positive cases till yesterday: 4320, Active cases: 2651, Deaths: 57, Recovered: 1610.
      * Andhra Pradesh:State issues SOP to be followed by hotels and restaurants, including APTDC hotels, when they resume operations on June 8. Tirumaladarshan to resume from June 11, only 6000 devotees allowed per day. CM launches an online platform for transfer of waste to the state government under the aegis of AP Environmental Management Agency on the occasion of World Environment Day. 50 new cases, 21 discharged and two deaths reported during last 24 hours after testing 9831 samples. Total cases: 3427. Active: 1060, Recovered: 2294, Deaths: 73. Total number of migrants who tested positive is 700, with 442 of them active. 119 of the 123 cases from abroad remain active. Total number of samples tested so far: 4,23,564.
      * Telangana: As the government prepares to launch phase 3 of the ongoing Vande Bharat Mission, hundreds of people, waiting to return to the city, have reached out to the authorities for help. Taking a serious view of 37 doctors working in state-run hospitals testing Covid-19 positive, the Telangana High Court wondered how they could contract the coronavirus when the government was claiming to be supplying personal protecting equipment (PPE) and other safety material for the benefit of its doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and other health workers. Total cases as on 3rd June are 3147. As on date 448 migrants, foreign returnees tested positive.

    *******


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1629672) Visitor Counter : 819
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

  
  
  
  
*