      Ministry of Science & Technology

      3 DST institutes among top 30 Indian Institutions in Nature Index 2020
      
      Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science (IACS), Kolkata is at 7th position, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR), Bangalore at 14th position and S. N. Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences, Kolkata at 30th position

      Posted On: 11 JUN 2020 3:59PM by PIB Delhi

    Three of the autonomous institutions of the Department of Science & Technology, Government of India have found their place among top 30 Indian Institutions including universities, IITs, IISERs, and Research Institutions and Labs as per Nature Index 2020 ratings based on the research published in the top journals, a measure of research quality.


    These are the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science (IACS), Kolkata at 7 th position, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR) , Bangalore at 14 th position and S. N. Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences, Kolkata at 30 th position.


    Keeping out CSIR, which is a cluster of institutions, IACS is among the top three institutions in quality Chemistry Research in India. JNCASR ranks 4 th among academic institutions in life sciences, 10 th in Chemistry and Physical Sciences, 10 th among Indian academic institutions, and 469 th in global ranking.


    “It is extremely heartening that the DST's hot spots of knowledge are consistently rated in the top institutions of the country in the quality of research as judged by the papers published in the selected top-quality journals. While the research carried out in the academia and research labs has shown good quantitative enhancement, the need for a greater emphasis on quality, relevance, and translational aspects is now being understood as acted upon,” said Prof Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, DST.


    Globally the top-rated Indian institutions in this list are Council of Scientific and Industrial Research ( CSIR), a group of 39 institutions at the 160th position and Indian Institute of Science ( IISc ) Bangalore at the 184 th position.


    The Global rankings and subject-wise rankings may be seen in the link below.


    https://www.natureindex.com/annual-tables/2020/institution/all/all/countries-India


    Source: Nature Index, 2020.


    *****


    NB/KGS/(DST)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1630874) Visitor Counter : 1371
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil