      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 08 JUN 2020 6:18PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on Covid-19 from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare; Health Secretary interacts with DMs, Municipal Commissioners, Chief Medical Officers of select districts that are seeing a surge in COVID-19 cases


    Ms Preeti Sudan, Union Health Secretary held a review meeting with the District Collectors, Municipal Commissioners, Chief Medical Officers, Superintendent of District Hospitals and Principles of Medical Colleges from 45 municipalities/municipal corporations across 38 districts in ten states, that are witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases.These districts are from the following States/UTs: Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat, Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka, Uttarakhand& Madhya Pradesh.Main issues discussed were the widespread infection in densely populated urban areas, with areas that shared public amenities; importance of house-to-house surveys; prompt testing followed by prompt isolation and clinical management of cases and containment strategy to be implemented.


    Areas that need constant attention included active house-to-house survey for timely detection; augmentation of the survey teams; efficient ambulance management; efficient triaging of patients at the hospitals and bed management; clinical management of the hospitalised cases through rotational 24*7 teams to ensure reduction in the fatality rates. They were also advised to ensure that the testing results were returned by the labs in time for ensuring early identification and timely treatment. So far, a total of 1,24,430 people has been cured of COVID-19. 5,137 patients were cured in the last 24 hours. This takes the total recovery rate to 48.49%. The total number of active cases is now 1,24,981.


    For details :


    About 111.02 LMT food grains lifted through 3965 rail rakes during lockdown


    Since the lockdown was announced on March 24, 2020 about 111.02 LMT food grains have been lifted and transported through 3965 rail rakes. Apart from the rail route, transportation was also done through roads and waterways. A total of 234.51 LMT has been transported. 15,500 MT grains was transported through 13 ships. Total 11.30 LMT food grains have been transported to the North-Eastern States. Under AatmaNirbhar Bharat package, Government of India has decided that 8 LMT food grains will be provided to about 8 Crore migrant labourers, stranded and needy families, who are not covered under NFSA or State scheme PDS cards. 5 Kg of food grain per person is being distributed free of cost for the months of May and June to all migrants. The states and UTs have lifted 4.42 LMT of food grains and distributed 10,131 MT of food grains to 20.26 lakh beneficiaries. The Government of India also approved 39,000 MT pulses for 1.96 crore migrant families.


    For details :


    Indian Navy Commences evacuation of citizens from Islamic Republic of Iran - “SAMUDRA SETU”


    Indian Navy had launched Operation SamudraSetu to repatriate Indian citizens commencing 08 May 2020. Indian Naval ships Jalashwa and Magar have already evacuated 2874 personnel from Maldives and Sri Lanka to ports of Kochi and Tuticorin.In the next phase of SamudraSetu, Indian Naval Ship Shardul will evacuate Indian citizens on 08 June 2020 from the port of Bandar Abbas, Islamic Republic of Iran, to Porbandar, Gujarat. The Indian Mission in Islamic Republic of Iran is preparing a list of Indian citizens to be evacuated and will facilitate their embarkation after requisite medical screening.


    For details :


    Mission Sagar - INS Kesari at Port Victoria, Seychelles


    As part of Mission Sagar, Indian Naval Ship Kesari entered Port Victoria, Seychelles, on 07 June 2020. The Government of India in these difficult times is providing assistance to Friendly Foreign Countries in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic and towards the same INS Kesari is carrying a consignment of COVID related essential medicines for the people of Seychelles.


    For details :


    OPERATION SAMUDRA SETU - INS JALASHWA ARRIVES AT TUTICORIN WITH 700 INDIAN CITIZENS EMBARKED FROM MALDIVES


    INS Jalashwa, deployed by the Indian Navy for “Operation SamudraSetu", entered Tuticorinharbour with 700 Indian nationals evacuated from Male, Maldvies on 07 June 2020. Thus far INS Jalashwa has evacuated 2672 Indian citizens from Maldives and Sri Lanka to India as part of Vande Bharat Mission.


    For details :


    DST releases information brochure on health & risk communication programme focusing on COVID-19


    National Council for Science & Technology Communication (NCSTC), Department of Science & Technology (DST) has released an information brochure for a recently launched programme on health and risk communication ‘Year of Awareness on Science & Health (YASH) with focus on COVID-19’. The brochure carries information on the genesis and need of such a mega programme in the country to address the issues of risks, crises, disasters, and uncertainties especially posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. The programme focuses on enhancing public understanding and awareness on science and health for better preparedness to cope up with the present and future challenges.


    For details :


    Indian Air Force Designs and Develops Airborne Rescue Pod for Isolated Transportation (ARPIT)


    Indian Air Force has designed, developed and manufactured an Airborne Rescue Pod for Isolated Transportation (ARPIT). This pod will be utilised for evacuation of critical patients with infectious diseases including COVID-19 from high altitude area, isolated and remote places.Requirement of an air evacuation system with facility to prevent spread of infectious aerosol from a COVID-19 patient during air travel was felt by IAF when COVID-19 was declared as a pandemic. The first prototype was developed at
    3 BRD AF and has undergone various modifications. Supporting the “Atmanirbhar Bharat” call by Hon’ble Prime Minister, only indigenous materials have been used to fabricate this pod. This indigenously designed system has been developed at a cost of Rs Sixty Thousand only, which is very less as compared to the imported systems costing up to Rs Sixty Lakh.


    For details :


    MOU entered between NIPER Guwahati and Hindustan Antibiotics Ltd for large scale industrial grade manufacturing and commercialization of 3D antimicrobial face-shields to control spread of Covid-19


    National Institute of Pharmaceuticals Education and Research (NIPER)-Guwahati, under the Department of Pharmaceuticals, is committed to providing a useful contribution cum solution in terms of developing Personal Protective Equipment’s (PPEs) to avoid the fatal spread of COVID-19 transmission. It has signed MoU with the Hindustan Antibiotic Limited (HAL, a PSU under Dept. of Pharmaceuticals), Pimpri, Pune for large scale industrial-grade manufacturing and commercialization of their 3D printed antimicrobial face-shields.NIPER-Guwahati has also filed both an Indian design patent and provisional patent at Indian Patent Office, New Delhi on their 3D printed antimicrobial face-shields.


    For details :


    Ministry of Tourism presents a virtual safari of the Wild Wonders of Madhya Pradesh through 29th webinar under DekhoApnaDesh series


    The webinar provided an immersive virtual safari experience to one of the most biodiversity rich hotspots in the world: The State of Madhya Pradesh, which is also known as the heart of Incredible India.Considering the impact of COVID-19 on tourism, Madhya Pradesh tourism has initiated a concept of rental caravan vehicles comprising of all the facilities such as beds, refrigerator and other essentials so that people doesn’t need to stay in hotels for their trips in view of social distancing and can rent these vehicles.


    For details :


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Kerala: Kerala reported its 17th Covid-19 death with a 43-year-old woman undergoing treatment in Thrissur Medical College passing away this afternoon. Meanwhile, State Health Minister K KShailaja has said that preventing community spread of COVID-19 is the top priority of the government. Cooperation of people and strict adherence to government guidelines are crucial in this endeavour. She also pointed out that the disease transmission in the state at present through contact is between 10 and 15 percent. Two persons who were under quarantine in Kozhikode and Pathanamthitta died. Their samples have been collected for Covid test. A Keralite who reached Dubai succumbed to the virus in UAE today. One Covid death and 107 positive cases were reported yesterday in the state. 1,095 patients are still under treatment.
      * Tamil Nadu: CM says ‘T.N. has highest recovery rate in India, lowest number of deaths in the world’. Tamil Nadu temples continue to remain shut as Covid-19 cases surge. State caps testing fee in private sector at Rs 3,000; Rs 500 to be charged extra for home visit; laboratories will be checked for quality. New containment strategy for three districts around Chennai; plan involves micro-management of cases in urban, rural areas. Close to 70% of the cases reported in Tamil Nadu are from Chennai. 1515 new cases, 604 recoveries & 18 deaths reported yesterday. 1155 cases from Chennai. Total cases: 31667, Active cases: 14396, Deaths: 269, Discharged: 16999. Active cases in Chennai are 10982.
      * Karnataka: From today, temples, mosques and churches opened for prayers, but government lays down strict guidelines to prevent big congregations. Markets, malls, hotels also opened up. Meanwhile BBMP has issued SOPs for home quarantine, to keep special eye on those who recommended for home quarantine 460 teams have been formed. 239 new cases, 143 discharges and two deaths were reported yesterday. Total positive cases: 5452, Active cases: 3257, Deaths: 61 Recovered: 2132.
      * Andhra Pradesh:Darshan for devotees in Tirumala temple on trial basis resumed after a gap of nearly 80 days, prior to its permanent resumption. Cultivation target for all crops in Kharif season has been set at 39.59 lakh hectares as against the normal crop acreage of 37.54 lakh hectares. Pre-survey process for district-wise ‘skill gap’ to identify industrial needs and search for manpower with needed skill sets, hit by large-scale exodus of skilled migrants, likely to commence in mid-June. 125 new cases, 34 discharged and no death reported during last 24 hours after testing 14,246 samples. Total cases: 3843. Active: 1381, Recovered: 2387, Deaths: 75.
      * Telangana: Temples open their doors for devotees from today. Guidelines being followed at temples across the State. Telangana Governor TamilisaiSoundararajan on Monday visited Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) to convey her support to the healthcare workers affected by Covid-19 while discharging their duties. Total cases as of 7th June are 3650. As on date 448 migrants, foreign returnees tested positive for Covid19.
      * Maharashtra: 3,007 new COVID-19 cases have been reported, taking the state tally of positive cases to 85,975, out of which 43,591 are active cases. Hotspot Mumbai reported 1,421 new infections on Sunday which took the total cases in the city to 48,549. Private offices in Maharashtra started their operations with up to 10% strength as per requirement with remaining persons working from home. In lockdown 5.0, the state government has announced phase wise easing of lockdown, depending upon clear demarcations for the containment and non-containment zones.
      * Gujarat: 480 new COVID-19 cases have been reported, taking the state tally of coronavirus positive cases to 20,070, out of which 5186 are active cases. 30 patients have lost their lives during the last 24 hours taking the total death toll to 1249. Lord Dwarikadheesh and Shri Somnath Temple in Gujarat reopened today for Darshan. However, the devotees have been advised to visit the Somnath Temple after 12th June after online booking in available slots.As part of Operation SamudraSetu, INS Shardul will evacuate Indian citizens today from the port of Bandar Abbas in Iran to Porbandar, Gujarat. The Indian Mission in Iran is preparing a list of Indian citizens to be evacuated and will facilitate their embarkation after requisite medical screening.
      * Rajasthan: 97 new COVID-19 cases have been reported till now, taking the state tally of positive cases to 10, 696, out of which 7814 patients have recovered. Hotels, restaurants, clubs, shopping malls and all wildlife sanctuaries have opened in Rajasthan today. The ASI owned historical monuments also opened for tourists today.
      * Madhya Pradesh:173 new COVID-19 cases have been reported, taking the state tally of coronavirus positive cases to 9,401, out of which 2658 are active cases. Most of the new cases have again been reported from Bhopal, followed by Indore.
      * Chhattisgarh: 76 new COVID-19 cases have been reported on Sunday and 31 more positive cases have been reported till today morning , taking the state tally of coronavirus positive cases to 1,073, while the number of active cases are 834. Religious places have opened up in the state from today.
      * Goa: 33 new COVID-19 cases have been reported on Sunday, taking the state tally of positive cases to 300, out of which 235 are active cases. In the wake of rising cases, the state has made requisition for 200 ventilators from the Centre, of which, 100 are expected to be delivered by tomorrow, stated the State Health Minister.
      * Manipur: 37 more people have tested COVID19 positive in Manipur. They have been shifted to COVID Care Facility in Imphal.Total cases 209 with 157 active cases.
      * Mizoram: CM convened a consultative meeting on COVID19 with representatives from Member of Legislatures, Government Officials, Non-Govt. Hospital Association, Church Leaders, Village and Local Councils members, Task Forces and NGOs to discuss the State's way forward.In Mizoram, lockdown extended for 21 more days starting from midnight tonight. Home quarantine option will be limited to only extreme unavoidable circumstances, said CM Zoramthanga.
      * Nagaland: State Govt disbursed Rs.24 crore as financial assistance to citizens stranded in other States so far. 238 Quarantines Centres are in place with bed capacity of 13 thousand persons in Nagaland. The State ranks 5th in the country in terms of strict quarantine norms.

    ******


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1630256) Visitor Counter : 942
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada
    
    
    

  
  
*