      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railways to continue to give Shramik Special Trains to States as demanded
      
      Chairman, Railway Board has reiterated that as many trains as required will be provided within 24 hours
      
      So far 4347 Shramik special trains have been run, transporting around 60 lakh people

      Posted On: 09 JUN 2020 5:07PM by PIB Delhi

    Indian Railways is committed to continue providing comfortable and safe movement of migrants through Shramik Special Trains as required by States .


    So far, more than 4347 Shramik Special services have been operated by Indian Railways to transport approximately 60 lakh persons to their destination states. Shramik trains are being run since 1st May 2020.


    Indian Railways has informed the State governments that it shall continue to provide Shramik Special Train within 24 hours after the demand is received from the States. Railway Ministry has requested State Governments to indicate their requirements about Shramik Special Trains and see that projected demand for movement of residual persons by rail mode is well chalked out and determined.


    Chairman Railway Board wrote letters to the States on 29th May and 3rd June on the subject and emphasised that “Indian Railways will provide the desired number of Shramik Special trains immediately within 24 hours of the request”. Today also a letter has been sent to Chief Secretaries of the States emphasizing the same.


    Indian Railways has also assured that it will provide additional Shramik Special trains for any requirement given in future also. It will also meet any additional demand that may arise over and above the projections given, at a short notice.


    The Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, in its order dated 28th May 2020, has also issued directions for return of willing migrant workers to their native places. Indian Railways is taking all necessary steps for further compliance of the order.


    ***


    DJN/SG/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1630467) Visitor Counter : 657
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam