      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 13 JUN 2020 6:28PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on Covid-19 from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare; Recovery rate improves to 49.95%


    During the last 24 hours, a total of 7,135 COVID-19 patients have been cured. Thus, so far, a total of 1,54,329 patients have been cured of COVID-19. The recovery rate is 49.95% amongst COVID-19 patients. Presently, there are 1,45,779 active cases and all are under active medical supervision. ICMR‘s testing capacity for detecting the novel Coronavirus in infected persons is continuously being ramped up. The number of government labs has been increased to 642 and private labs has been increased to 243 (A total of 885). In the last 24 hours, 1,43,737 samples were tested. The total number of samples tested thus far is 55,07,182 .


    The Ministry has issued an updated clinical management protocol for COVID-19. The new protocol provides for the management of COVID-19 cases based on the clinical severity of mild, moderate or severe. Infection prevention and control practices have also been specified according to the three stages of severity. These guidelines also specify investigational therapies for a defined subgroup of patients.


    For details :


    Phone call between Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and H.E. Dr. Thongloun Sisoulith, Prime Minister of Lao People’s Democratic Republic


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi spoke on phone with His Excellency Dr. Thongloun Sisoulith, Prime Minister of Lao People’s Democratic Republic. The two leaders exchanged views on the health and economic challenges posed by the global COVID-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister commended the effective measures undertaken by the Government of Lao PDR to contain spread of the pandemic in Laos. Both leaders agreed on the need for international cooperation, and for sharing of best-practices and experiences, in order to prepare for the post-COVID world.


    For details:


    Phone call between Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and H.E. Dr. John Pombe Joseph Magufuli, President of the United Republic of Tanzania


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi had a phone call with His Excellency Dr. John Pombe Joseph Magufuli, President of the United Republic of Tanzania. The Prime Minister warmly recalled his July 2016 visit to Dar-es-Salaam and stressed on the importance that India attaches to its traditionally friendly ties with Tanzania. He thanked President Dr. Magufuli for the assistance provided by the Tanzanian authorities for evacuation of Indian citizens from Tanzania in the wake of COVID-19.


    For details:


    Aarogyapath, a web-based solution for the healthcare supply chain that provides real-time availability of critical supplies launched


    A CSIR National Healthcare Supply Chain Portal that aims to provide real-time availability of critical healthcare supplies https://www.aarogyapath.in has been launched. AarogyaPath would serve manufacturers, suppliers and customers. During the present national health emergency arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic, wherein there is severe disruption in supply chain, the ability to produce and deliver the critical items may be compromised due to a variety of reasons. The information platform named AarogyaPath with a vision of “providing a path which leads one on a journey towards Aarogya (healthy life)” was developed to address these challenges. This integrated public platform that provides single-point availability of key healthcare goods can be helpful to customers in tackling a number of routinely experienced issues.


    For details:


    Submission Deadline for the ‘My Life, My Yoga’ Video Blogging Contest extended till 21st June, 2020


    The last date for submission of the entries for the video blogging contest ‘My Life, My Yoga’ recently announced by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been extended till 21 st June, 2020. This global contest on digital platform is jointly organized by the Ministry of AYUSH and the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) on the occasion of 6 th International Day of Yoga. Earlier, the last date for submission of the entries for the contest was slated to be 15 th June 2020. There had been demand from India and abroad for the extension of this date so that the yoga fraternity get more time to prepare the videos. It has been therefore decided to extend the submission deadline to coincide with the IDY which is the 21 st of June.


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

          + Chandigarh: After detailed discussions with senior officials and medical experts, the Chandigarh Administration has decided that till 30/06/2020 i.e. the end of lockdown period: (a) CTU will not operate its inter-state buses; (b) Consent given to other states for operating inter-state buses to bring passengers to Chandigarh will be withdrawn; (c) The tri-city buses being operated by Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana will continue to ply; (d) All passengers coming by trains will be screened on arrival and advised self-quarantine of 14 days. They will download Aarogya Setu applications mandatorily and will do self-monitoring. UT Administration will do random checking, as much as possible. (e) The same arrangements will be applicable for passengers coming by domestic flights and by road. (f) It was also decided that persons coming to Chandigarh by road must carry self-generated document, which can be downloaded through mobile phones from the Administration’s website. This will help the Administration to keep track of their travel and residence. It was clarified that this document is not a permit or a pass. It will simply be a travel information document for official record. (g) Government/PSU/Private employees coming to attend office will be allowed on production of identity cards.
          + Punjab: In a first-of-its-kind initiative aimed at checking the community spread of COVID, Punjab Chief Minister has launched a mobile based app - ‘Ghar Ghar Nigrani’, to undertake house to house surveillance in the state, till the elimination of the pandemic. The entire rural and urban population of Punjab above 30 years of age shall be surveyed as part of the drive, which will also cover persons below the age of 30 having co-morbidity or Influenza like Illness/Severe Acute Respiratory Illness. The survey would capture full medical conditions of a person for the previous one week and complete details of his/her co-morbidity which would help the state develop an extremely important database to further plan its COVID containment strategy and make targeted interventions for the community.
          + Haryana: Haryana Chief Secretary said that the State is fully prepared to deal with any situation arising due to the Corona virus crisis. She said that proactive strategies are made to effectively combat the spread of this global Pandemic. The Chief Secretary has directed the Deputy Commissioners and Nodal Officers appointed for COVID-19 to further ramp up COVID-19 management preparations coupled with aggressive surveillance, stringent containment, swift contact tracing, focused clinical management along with proactive IEC activities. She said that Mask wearing and following the social distancing norms has to be made compulsory and enforced in the true spirit. Chief Secretary further directed the Deputy Commissioners, to meticulously carry out the surveillance for Severe Acute Respiratory Infections or Influenza-like illnesses to detect any possible hidden infections at an early stage to ensure timely containment.
          + Maharashtra: 3,493 new COVID-19 cases have been reported on Friday, thereby breaching the one lakh mark of coronavirus infections with a total of 1,01,141 cases till date. Out of this, 49,616 are positive cases. The death toll stands at 3,717. Mumbai city alone has reported 55,451 Corona virus cases and 2,044 deaths. Meanwhile Maharashtra Government has capped maximum price for COVID-19 tests (RT-PCR) at private labs Rs 2,200, the earlier price was Rs 4,400.
          + Gujarat: The number of coronavirus positive patients rose to 22,562 after 495 new infections were reported in the last 24 hours. Six-member Economic Revival Committee headed by former Union Finance Secretary Dr. Hasmukh Adhia has submitted its final report, in which as many as 231 suggestions have been made, with a focus on the long-term and short-term strategies for the economic revival of the state post-COVID-19 pandemic.
          + Rajasthan: With the 118 new cases from the state till today morning, the COVID-19 tally of Rajasthan has gone up to 12,186. It includes 275 deaths, 9175 recovered & 8784 discharged. Most of these new cases have been reported from Bharatpur and Pali districts, followed by Jaipur.
          + Madhya Pradesh: The coronavirus case count grew to 10,443 with 202 new patients being detected in the last 24 hours. Nine COVID-19 patients died during this period, taking the number of fatalities to 440 in the state. Since the lockdown restrictions were eased on May 31, the number of patients has grown by 2,354 and 90 people have also died during this period.
          + Chhattisgarh: 47 new positive cases have been reported in the state, taking the tally of coronavirus infections to 1445.
          + Arunachal Pradesh: In Arunachal Pradesh, a meeting to discuss the District Domestic Product (DDP) performance of Tawang was organised to give impetus to 'Vocal for Local'. Under Aatmanirbhar Bharat 35 MT chana whole provided to Arunachal Pradesh for migrants for the month of May and June.
          + Assam: 25 new COVID19 positive cases in Assam. Total cases 3718, active cases 2123, recovered 1584 and deaths 8.
          + Manipur: CM while inspecting the new COVID19 Care Centre at UNACCO School in Meitram says that lack of discipline is the main reason for spike of COVID19 cases in the State.
          + Mizoram: Village Organisation under Mizoram State Rural Livelihood Mission of Chekawn village donated a variety of vegetables for quarantine centres across Serchhip District to Deputy Commissioner of Serchhip District.
          + Nagaland: Nagaland Agriculture Department to adopt one model farming village each in all districts of the state to boost agriculture production post COVID19. Health & Family Welfare Department in Nagaland carrying out online survey to assess overall mental well-being of citizens of the State during the pandemic.
          + Sikkim: The first two Covid19 patients in Sikkim who underwent treatment at STNM hospital, have fully recovered and discharged from the Hospital today.
          + Kerala: In Kerala, relaxations have been announced for Sunday lockdown. The State is to make Covid-19 certificates mandatory for expatriates returning via chartered flights from June 20. The examination report should be done within 48 hours of the journey. MoS External Affairs, V. Muraleedharan has termed the state government’s action is impractical. Eight more Keralites, five in Gulf countries, two in New Delhi and one in Mumbai, died of COVID-19 outside the state. With this, the number of Keralites who died in Gulf has risen to 220. Seventy-eight new cases of Covid-19 were confirmed in the state yesterday. A total of 1,303 are undergoing treatment and 2,27,402 people are under observation in various districts of the state.
          + Tamil Nadu: Five workers of same company among 13 new COVID-19 cases in Puducherry. The total number of cases has risen to 176 with 91 active cases, 82 discharged after cure and three deaths. Second Tamil Nadu MLA tests positive for Covid-19, this time from AIADMK; DMK's J Anbazhagan died of Covid-19 earlier this week. 1982 new cases, 1342 recoveries & 18 deaths reported yesterday. 1477 cases from Chennai. Total cases till yesterday: 40698, Active cases: 18281, Deaths: 367, Active cases in Chennai: 13906.
          + Karnataka: Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar says testing process has been streamlined in the state, testing has not been delayed and testing of suspected cases is done as per ICMR protocol. At least three lakh people, who directly and indirectly depend on the tourism sector for their livelihood, could lose their jobs due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. 271 new cases, 464 discharges & seven deaths reported yesterday. Total positive cases: 6516, Active cases: 2995, Deaths: 79, Recovered: 3440.
          + Andhra Pradesh: In Andhra Pradesh. 186 new cases, 42 discharged and two deaths reported during last 24 hours after testing 14,477 samples. Total cases: 4588. Active: 1865, Recovered: 2641, Deaths: 82.
          + Telangana: Even as uncertainty hovers over reopening of educational institutions in the State, several private schools have already launched virtual classes, while some are planning to start from Monday. Telangana Govt scotches total shutdown rumour as people of Telangana, especially in Hyderabad were worried over rumours that the state is heading towards a complete lockdown once again. Overall cases in Telangana 4,484. A ruling party MLA from Warangal district became the first legislator from the state to test positive for the virus. Active cases 2032; Deaths 174.

    FACT CHECK


    *****


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1631394) Visitor Counter : 1429
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

+