      Ministry of Earth Science

      Southwest Monsoon advances further, covering more parts of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh
      
      Rainfall intensity over East India is likely to increase
      
      A Low Pressure Area is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal & neighbourhood around 19th June
      
      Isolated Heat wave condition likely over west Rajasthan during next 2 days

      Posted On: 16 JUN 2020 8:22PM by PIB Delhi

    According to the National Weather Forecasting Centre/Regional Meteorological Centre, New Delhi of the India Meteorological Department (IMD):


    ♦ Southwest Monsoon has further advanced into some more parts of West Madhya Pradesh, most parts of East Madhya Pradesh, and some more parts of East Uttar Pradesh.


    ♦ The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) now passes through Kandla, Ahmedabad, Indore, Raisen, Khajuraho, Fatehpur and Bahraich.


    ♦ A cyclonic circulation lies over East Uttar Pradesh & neighbourhood and extends upto 3.6 km above mean sea level and a trough runs from northwest Rajasthan to the cyclonic circulation over East Uttar Pradesh across south Haryana and West Uttar Pradesh and extends upto 0.9 km above mean sea level. Under the influence of these two systems:

      * Scattered heavy to very heavy falls and isolated extremely heavy falls over Konkan & Goa during next 2 days and isolated heavy to very heavy falls over Madhya Maharashtra during next 2 days.
      * Rainfall intensity over East India is likely to increase and isolated heavy to very rainfall is likely over the region during 17th-19th June, 2020 and isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Sub-Himalayan West Bengal & Sikkim during next 5 days.
      * Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls likely to continue over Assam & Meghalaya and Tripura & Mizoram during next 5 days with isolated heavy to very heavy falls over west Assam & Meghalaya during next 3 days.

    ♦ A Low Pressure Area is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal & neighbourhood around 19th June.


    The IMD forecasts:


    ♦ Isolated Heat wave condition likely over west Rajasthan during next 2 days.


    ♦ No significant change in maximum temperatures likely over most parts of the country during next 3 days.


    Kindly visit www.imd.gov.in for updates .


    *****


    NB/KGS/(IMD Release)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1631962) Visitor Counter : 377
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Tamil
    
    
    

*