      AYUSH

      Submission Deadline for the ‘My Life, My Yoga’ Video Blogging Contest extended till 21st June, 2020
      Posted On: 13 JUN 2020 10:14AM by PIB Delhi


    The last date for submission of the entries for the video blogging contest ‘My Life, My Yoga’ recently announced by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been extended till 21 st June, 2020. This global contest on digital platform is jointly organized by the Ministry of AYUSH and the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) on the occasion of 6 th International Day of Yoga.


    Earlier, the last date for submission of the entries for the contest was slated to be 15 th June 2020. There had been demand from India and abroad for the extension of this date so that the yoga fraternity get more time to prepare the videos. The Ministry and the ICCR have therefore decided to extend the submission deadline to coincide with the IDY which is the 21st of June.


    The Prime Minister in his Mann Ki Baat address to the nation on 31 st May had called upon one and all to participate in the ‘My Life, My Yoga’ video blogging contest. The contest focuses on the transformative impact of Yoga on the lives of the individuals and came up as one of the activities related to the observation of the 6 th IDY.


    To enter into the contest, the participants are required to upload a 3 minutes duration video of 3 Yogic practices (kriya, asana, pranayama, bandha or mudra), including a short video message on how the Yogic practices have influenced their lives. The video may be uploaded on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram or the MyGov platform with the contest hashtag #MyLifeMyYogaINDIA and appropriate category hashtag. Detailed guidelines for participation can be found on the Yoga Portal of the Ministry of AYUSH( https://yoga.ayush.gov.in/yoga/ ).


    The contest will run in two legs. The 1 st leg consisting of a country-wise video blogging contests, wherein the winners will be picked up at the country level. This will be followed by the global prize winners who will be selected from the winners from different countries. The contest is an attempt to explore the transformative impact of Yoga on individuals, which will be touched upon by each contestant in the video that he or she submits.


    The entries can be submitted by the participants under 3 categories covering the youth (aged under 18), the adults (above 18 years) and the Yoga professionals, separately for the males and females. For the Indian contestants, prizes worth INR. 1 lakh, 50K and 25K for the 1 st , 2 nd and 3 rd rank within each of the categories have been announced within the first leg. At the global level, US$2500, US$1500, US$1,000 for 1 st , 2 nd , and 3 rd ranking have been announced.


    The Ministry of AYUSH invites all to make use of the extended time and submit the videos without further delay.


    ***


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1631307) Visitor Counter : 4491
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Manipuri , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Malayalam