      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah chairs meeting with Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Delhi LG Shri Anil Baijal, CM Shri Arvind Kejriwal, Mayors of three Municipal Corporations of Delhi and senior officers to review COVID-19 situation in Delhi
      
      Shri Amit Shah says we have to make the country and the national capital Corona free, healthy and prosperous at the earliest under the leadership of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi
      
      Home Minister Shri Amit Shah directs Central Government, Delhi Government and all three Municipal Corporations of Delhi to ensure proper implementation of house-to-house survey, Corona testing etc to the lowest level
      
      Union Home Minister asks Delhi Government, all three Mayors and MCsD to work together
      Posted On: 14 JUN 2020 8:05PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah has said we have to make the country and the national capital Corona free, healthy and prosperous at the earliest under the leadership of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. Shri Amit Shah chaired a meeting here today with the Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Delhi LG Shri Anil Baijal, CM Shri Arvind Kejriwal, Mayors of three Municipal Corporations of Delhi and senior officers to review COVID-19 situation in the national capital.


    The Union Home Minister directed the Central Government, Delhi Government and all three Municipal Corporations of Delhi to ensure proper implementation of the decisions taken in the meeting held earlier this morning such as house-to-house survey, Corona testing etc to the lowest level. The Home Minister said the main aim of this meeting is to win the fight against Corona with mutual coordination.


    Shri Amit Shah said we have to turn the country and the national capital Corona free, healthy and prosperous at the earliest under the leadership of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. He said this will be possible with the cooperation and coordination of all concerned. Union Home Minister asked the Delhi Government, all three Mayors and three the Municipal Corporations of Delhi to work together and implement the decisions taken in this morning’s meeting. The Home Minister also directed the Delhi Police Commissioner to ensure all guidelines are enforced strictly.


    *****


    NW/RK/PK/AD/DD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1631575) Visitor Counter : 1735
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Punjabi , Urdu , Marathi , Manipuri , Assamese , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada