      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Shri Mandaviya Reviews Revival progress of 5 Fertilizers Plants
      
      Ramagundam Plant expected to start production by September 2020,while Gorakhpur,Barauni and Sindri by May 2021 despite Covid-19
      
      Shri Mandaviya directs authorities concerned to take all possible steps for completing works on the 5 plants

      Posted On: 12 JUN 2020 2:17PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers Shri Mansukh Mandaviya held a review meeting with officers of Department of Fertilizers on the progress of revival of 5 Fertilizers plants through video conference .


    These include Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan Limited (HURL) : Gorakhpur, Barauni and Sindri); Ramagundam Fertilizers and Chemicals Limited (RFCL) and Talcher Fertilizers Limited (TFL). Senior officers from RFCL, HURL and TFL looking after revival of these 5 fertilizers plants attended the meeting.


    While reviewing the physical and financial progress of all the above fertilizer plants, Shri Mandaviya directed that the concerned authority may take all possible step for early completion of the projects.


    Shri Mandaviya was informed that the Ramagundam Fertilizers and Chemicals Limited (RFCL) has already achieved 99.53 % of physical progress and there has been some delay in completion of small component of physical work due to COVID-19. It is expected that urea production will commence by the end of September, 2020.


    Similarly, the Minister was told that Gorakhpur, Sindri, Barauni fertilizer plants have achieved 77% , 70% and 69% of physical progress respectively. It is expected that Gorakhpur, Barauni and Sindri plants will be completed before May 2021. He was also informed that the currently Pre-project activities are in progress in the Talcher Fertilizer Plants in Odisha. He was also told that these projects are being pursued vigorously despite challenges posed by Covid-19 causing some delays.


    Government of India had announced New Investment Policy (NIP), 2012 to facilitate fresh investment in urea sector and to make India self-sufficient in the urea sector. Under NIP, 2012, GOI is reviving the above referred 5 closed fertilizer plants of Fertilizer Corporation of India Ltd (FCIL) and Hindustan Fertilizer Corporation Ltd. (HFCL). The Five Public Sector Units under revival are:-


    Ramagundam Fertilizers and Chemicals Limited (RFCL)


    Talcher Fertilizers Limited (TFL)


    Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited (Gorakhpur, Barauni and Sindri)


    *****


    RCJ/RKM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1631097) Visitor Counter : 1558
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Telugu , Malayalam