      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Union Minister for Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare Shri Narendra Singh Tomar launches Sahakar Mitra: Scheme on Internship Programme, an initiative by National Cooperative Development Corporation
      
      Sahakar Mitra scheme will help cooperative institutions access new and innovative ideas of young professionals while the interns will gain experience of working in the field to be self-reliant

      Posted On: 12 JUN 2020 4:01PM by PIB Delhi

    In keeping with Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s clarion call for AtmaNirbhar Bharat(Self Reliant India) emphasizing the importance of local for vocal, Sahakar Mitra: Scheme on Internship Programme (SIP) was launchedyesterday by Union Minister for Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare Shri Narendra Singh Tomar. Launching the scheme, Shri Tomar said that the unique cooperative sector development finance organization, National Cooperative Development Corporation, NCDC has embarked upon a series of initiatives in the cooperative sector entrepreneurship development ecosystem through capacity development, paid internship to youth and assured project loans on liberalized terms to young cooperators on start-up mode.


    The Minister said that NCDC has been proactive in delivering innovative solutions for the cooperative sector. In the series of initiatives by NCDC, the new scheme called Sahakar Mitra: Scheme on Internship Programme (SIP) will provide the young professionals an opportunity of practical exposure and learning from the working of NCDC and cooperatives as a paid intern. NCDC has also introduced a complementary scheme to promote start-up cooperative ventures. Sahakar Mitra would also provide an opportunity to professionalsfrom academic institutions to develop leadership and entrepreneurial roles through cooperatives as Farmers Producers Organizations (FPO).


    Sahakar Mitra scheme is expected to assist cooperative institutions access new and innovative ideas of young professionals while the interns gain experience of working in the field giving confidence to be self-reliant. It is expected to be a win-win situation both for cooperatives as well as for the young professionals.


    Under the scheme, professional graduates in disciplines such as Agriculture and allied areas,IT etc. will be eligible for internship. Professionals who are pursuing or have completed their MBA degrees in Agri-business, Cooperation, Finance, International Trade, Forestry, Rural Development, Project Managementetc. will also be eligible.


    NCDC has earmarked funds for Sahakar Mitra paid internship program under which each intern will get financial support over a 4 monthsinternship period. Online application portal for internship application available on NCDC website, was also launched by the Union Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare Minister.


    ****


    APS/SG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1631125) Visitor Counter : 3210
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Malayalam