      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot to inaugurate Composite Regional Centre for persons with disabilities in Ranchi tomorrow through Video Conferencing
      Posted On: 16 JUN 2020 10:35PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment, Dr. Thaawarchand Gehlot will inaugurate Composite Regional Centre (CRC), located inside Namkum Block Office, Khijri, Ranchi on 17.6.2020 through video conferencing amid COVID 19 pandemic. The Minister of Tribal Affairs, Shri Arjun Munda; Minister for Labours, Government of Jharkhand, Shri Satyanand Bhogta; Member of Parliament, Ranchi, Shri Sanjay Seth; Secretary DEPwD, Ms. Shakuntala D. Gamlin; Joint Secretary, DEPwD Dr. Prabodh Seth and MLA, Khijri, Ranchi, Shri Rajesh Kachhap will attend the inaugural function through video conferencing.


    After the inauguration CRC-Ranchi, will become functional and will provide rehabilitation services including Physical medicine, Physiotherpay, Occupational therapy, Audiology and Speech Therapy, Psychology, Prosthetics & Orthotics, Special Education, Early intervention & treatment etc., to persons with disabilities in the state of Jharkhand and adjoining areas. The centre will also implement various schemes of Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities including skill development programme for PwDs and will contribute towards the vision of “Sabkaa Saath, Sabkaa Vikaas, Sabkaa Vishwaas” of Hon’ble Prime Minister of India.


    On this occasion, the centre has prepared itself for distribution of 46 nos. of wheel chairs, 80 nos. of tricycles, 64 nos. of crutches, 40 nos. of smart phones, 2 nos. of sewing machines, 2 nos. of laptops and 2 nos. of mobile repairing kits amongst Divysngjan following social distancing norms and provide necessary rehabilitation services to needy Divyangjan.


    This centre shall operate as an extended arm of Swami Vivekanand National Institute of Rehabilitation Training & Research, Cuttack, Odisha.


    *****


    NB/SK/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1632005) Visitor Counter : 699
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Manipuri , Tamil