      Ministry of Culture

      Union Minister of State for Culture Shri Prahlad Singh Patel addresses webinar on ‘Namaste Yoga- Healthy youth for Healthy Nation’ today
      
      We can build a healthy nation through Yoga - Shri Patel
      
      Shri Patel urges all to participate in Surya Namaskar on the day of International Yoga 2020
      Posted On: 19 JUN 2020 10:11PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Culture & Tourism (Independent Charge) Shri Prahlad Singh Patel addressed the webinar on ‘NamasteYoga- Healthy youth for Healthy Nation’ today in New Delhi. Member of Parliament from Ladakh Shri Jamyang Tsering Namgyal, Member of Parliament from Banglore South Shri Tejasvi Surya, Member of Parliament from West Bengal Shri Nisith Pramanik and Secretary, Ministry of Culture Shri Anand kumar also joined the webinar.


    Speakingon the occasion Shri Prahlad Singh Patel said that when we talk about Healthy youth for Healthy Nation then Yoga practice is the best option. He added that if we are fit then only we can help others. Shri Patel added that we need to make our immunity stronger to fight against minor diseases and yoga helps to build stronger immunity.


    Shri Patel said that Yoga is a part of Indian culture and is a way of healthy living as we practice several asanas knowingly and unknowingly in our daily life. He added that Yoga gives us positive energy and gives us healthy body and peaceful mind. He added that he believes if the youth is healthy Nation will be healthy.


    विश्व योग दिवस पर अपने घर पर योग ज़रूर करें, हमारे साथ सूर्य नमस्कार कर #10MillionSuryanamaskar #NamasteYoga का उपयोग कर video डालकर, आप सभी को शामिल होने के लिए आमंत्रित करता हूँ इसमें @MinOfCultureGoI@BeCureFit@ficci_india शामिल है@PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/Agvbqquzbv

    — Prahlad Singh Patel (@prahladspatel) June 19, 2020

    Shri Patel said that Ministry of Culture is Celebrating International Yoga Day 2020 by organising a Campaign Namaste Yoga from 19th to 21st June, 2020 to achieve the goal of making yoga an indispensable part of everyone's life. He hoped that on the day of International Yoga Day 10 million people will join for Surya Namaskar. Union Miniser urged all to participate in Surya Namaskar and use #10MillionSuryaNamaskar so that it can become a public movement which will create health awareness among fellow citizens.


    To see the complete webinar


    *******


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1632776) Visitor Counter : 389
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Tamil , Urdu , Hindi