      NITI Aayog

      Atal Innovation Mission partners with Coal India Ltd to boost its Innovation & Entrepreneurship initiatives
      Posted On: 20 JUN 2020 3:01PM by PIB Delhi


    Coal India Limited (CIL) has agreed to partner with Atal Innovation Mission (AIM), NITI Aayog to support proactively the flagship mission’s innovation and entrepreneurship initiatives across the country. A Statement of Intent (SoI) of a strategic partnership between AIM and Coal India Limited was signed and exchanged in a virtual e-summit for the same on Friday June 19.


    AIM has various innovation programs and entrepreneurial ecosystem building initiatives such as Atal Tinkering Labs ( ATL) at a school level, Atal Incubation Centres ( AIC) at institutional levels, Atal Community Innovation Centres ( ACIC) for Tier-2, Tier3 cities and rural India, Atal New India Challenges ( ANIC) at industry level and Applied Research and Innovation ( ARISE) for stimulating innovations in the MSME industry.


    The collaboration between CIL and AIM intends to conduct various activities / programs to support greater awareness and promotion of the innovation ecosystem through the above mentioned AIM programmes and newer initiatives.


    A Virtual SoI was signed by Mission Director Atal Innovation Mission, NITI Aayog Shri R Ramanan and Director (Technical), Coal India Limited (CIL) Shri Binay Dayal in presence of Chairman and Managing Director Coal India Shri Pramod Agrawal.


    “It’s a historic and momentous occasion of signing this SoI with CIL. We are very proud that CIL is partnering with AIM to help motivate the talented youth of our country towards developing great innovations thereby enabling an AtmaNirbhar Bharat,” said Mission Director AIM NITI Aayog. Mr Ramanan added that this partnership shall provide an excellent platform to help the unserved and under-served regions of our country benefit from innovation and entrepreneurship led local job creation in the years ahead.


    Chairman Coal India Limited, Mr Pramod Agarwal while signing the SoI said “CIL is proud to announce the partnership with AIM, NITI Aayog and we are excited to take this forward in the most significant contribution towards the mission which would further strengthen the India's innovation ecosystem.”


    Meanwhile, according to the SoI signed, the partnership has been categorised program wise where in under Atal Tinkering Labs (ATLs) CIL has agreed for adoption of select ATLs Schools, help in conducting teacher training sessions and providing mentoring support to ATL students via Mentors of Change.


    Similarly, under Atal Community Innovation Centres (ACICs), CIL has agreed for adoption and support of ACICs close to their areas of operation, supporting the youth in their journey of societal innovation, hosting community innovation challenges and other innovation based events to spread the impact of the innovation ecosystems being built in the under-served regions of the country.


    ****


    VRRK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1632873) Visitor Counter : 1452
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu