      Ministry of Earth Science

      The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Kandla, Ahmedabad, Indore, Raisen, Khajuraho, Fatehpur and Bahraich
      
      Widespread rainfall activity very likely along the West Coast
      
      Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely over Northeast, East & adjoining Central India during next 5 days
      
      Heat wave to severe heat wave conditions over West Rajasthan and heat wave conditions over East Rajasthan and Punjab during next 2-3 days
      
      Posted On: 17 JUN 2020 2:51PM by PIB Delhi


    According to the National Weather Forecasting Centre/Regional Meteorological Centre, New Delhi of the India Meteorological Department (IMD):


    ♦ The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Kandla, Ahmedabad, Indore, Raisen, Khajuraho, Fatehpur and Bahraich.


    ♦ A cyclonic circulation lies over East Uttar Pradesh & neighbourhood and extends upto 3.6 km above mean sea level.


    ♦ A trough at mean sea level runs from central Pakistan to Bangladesh and extends upto 0.9 km above mean sea level.


    ♦ A cyclonic circulation lies over north Konkan & neighbourhood between 3.1 & 7.6 km above mean sea level.


    ♦ A shear zone at 3.1 km above mean sea level runs from Jharkhand to the cyclonic circulation over Konkan region.


    ♦ Under the influence of above systems:

     1. Widespread rainfall activity very likely along the West Coast with isolated heavy to very heavy falls over Coastal Karnataka on 17th & 21st June and over Konkan & Goa 17th & 18th and heavy falls over Coastal Karnataka during 18-20th June and over Konkan & Goa during 19-21st June.
     2. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely over Northeast, East & adjoining Central India during next 5 days.

    ♦ Isolated to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds very likely over Western Himalayan Region and plains of northwest India during 19th-21st June.


    ♦ Heat wave to severe heat wave conditions over West Rajasthan and heat wave conditions over East Rajasthan and Punjab during next 2-3 days .


    Kindly visit www.imd.gov.in for updates .


    *****


    NB/KGS/(IMD Release)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1632057) Visitor Counter : 612
    
    
      Read this release in: Manipuri , Urdu , Hindi , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu
    
    
    

2.