      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Union Minister Dr. Jitendra Singh to address a Workshop tomorrow on Good Governance Practices in a Pandemic for International Civil Servants
      
      The two-day Workshop on COVID-19 is jointly organized by Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC), Ministry of External Affairs and National Centre for Good Governance (NCGG), Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances

      Posted On: 17 JUN 2020 5:59PM by PIB Delhi

    Dr. Jitendra Singh, Minister of State for Personnel, PG and Pensions will deliver the Inaugural Address at the ITEC-NCGG Two-day Workshop on COVID-19 – Good Governance Practices in a Pandemic through a webinar on June 18, 2020. The Conference would be attended by Chief of Staff, Sri Lanka Army Major General HJS Gunawardena, Senior Secretaries to Government from Bangladesh, Senior officials from Bhutan, Kenya, Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, Oman, Somalia, Thailand, Tunisia, Tonga, Sudan and Uzbekistan and will be held on June 18-19, 2020.


    The other Sessions on day 1, would cover State level best practices in Karnataka, Gujarat and Bihar and the District level best practices in Kerala, Telangana and Jammu & Kashmir. The Member Secretary of the National Disaster Management Authority Shri G.V.V Sarma would be chairing the second session and the former Cabinet Secretary, Shri Ajit Seth would be chairing the third session. On day two, the sessions would include Challenges for the Health sector and the Vande Bharat Abhiyan. Ms. Sujatha Rao, former Health Secretary, Government of India and CMD, Air India, Shri Rajiv Bansal would be chairing these sessions. The Valedictory Address would be delivered by Dr. Kshatrapati Shivaji, Secretary, DARPG and DPPW, Government of India. Senior officials from participating countries would contribute to the deliberations.


    Shri V. Srinivas, Additional Secretary, DARPG and Director General, National Centre for Good Governance said that the Two-day Workshop was jointly conceptualized by the Ministry of External Affairs, Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances and National Centre for Good Governance with the objective of disseminating India’s good governance practices to ITEC countries.


    <><><><><>


    NW/SNC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1632117) Visitor Counter : 748
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Tamil , Telugu