      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah pays tributes to Indian Army’s brave martyrs of Galwan Valley and expresses deepest condolences to their families
      
      Their bravery reflects India’s commitment towards the motherland: Shri Amit Shah
      
      “I bow to the families, who have blessed the Indian Army with such great heroes”, says Shri Shah
      Union Home Minister says the entire nation and the Modi government stands firmly with their families in this hour of grief
      
      Prays for the speedy recovery of the injured
      Posted On: 17 JUN 2020 5:52PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah has expressed his deepest condolences to the Indian Army’s brave martyrs of Galwan. He has said, “The pain of losing our brave soldiers while protecting our motherland at Ladakh’s Galwan cannot be put in words. The Nation salutes our immortal heroes who sacrificed their lives to keep Indian territory safe and secure. Their bravery reflects India’s commitment towards her land.”


    “I bow to the families, who have blessed the Indian Army with such great heroes. India will always remain indebted for their supreme sacrifice. The entire nation and the Modi government stands firmly with their families in this hour of grief. Praying for the speedy recovery of those injured,” the Union Home Minister has said.


    The pain of losing our brave soldiers while protecting our motherland at Ladakh’s Galwan can not be put in words. Nation salutes our immortal heroes who sacrificed their lives to keep Indian territory safe and secure. Their bravery reflects India’s commitment towards her land.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) June 17, 2020

    I bow to the families, who have blessed Indian Army with such great heroes. India will always remain indebted for their supreme sacrifice. Entire nation and Modi government stands firmly with their families in this hour of grief. Praying for the speedy recovery of those injured.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) June 17, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/PK/AD/DD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1632115) Visitor Counter : 794
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu