      Ministry of Rural Development

      Massive employment generation-cum-rural public works creation campaign - the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan launched by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today
      
      Problems faced by villagers, poor people, farmers and migrant workers among priority focus areas from the beginning of COVID lockdown; Government taking action on mission mode to provide employment to migrant workers who have returned to their native villages - Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Union Minister of Rural Development & Panchayati Raj

      Posted On: 20 JUN 2020 3:26PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Narendra Modi today launched a massive employment -cum- rural public works Campaign named ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan’ to empower and provide livelihood opportunities in areas/ villages witnessing large number of returnee migrant workers affected by the devastating COVID-19. The Abhiyaan was flagged off from village Telihar, Block Beldaur, district Khagaria, Bihar on June 20 (Saturday) through Video-Conference attended by Union Minister of Rural Development & Panchayati Raj Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, CMs and Representatives of the 6 Participating States, and others.


    On the occasion, Union Minister of Rural Development & Panchayati Raj Shri Narendra Singh Tomar said that India and the whole world are facing great difficulties during the COVID pandemic. Right from the time when lockdown was announced, the problems being faced by villagers, poor people, farmers and workers have been one of the priority focus areas of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. A package of Rs. 1,70,000 crores was announced to take care of essential requirements of the people, which went a long way in mitigating the difficulties of the people. Later, the Prime Minister announced a package of Rs 20 lakh crores on 12 th May 2020 whose main objective was to give economic stability, in addition, it sought to include agriculture, rural development, employment and creation of new employment opportunities within its ambit. Its implementation is being started in coordination with the State Governments, and the results will be evident in the days to come.


    Shri Tomar said that we are all grateful that under the able leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and his strategic planning, India has been able to convert challenges into opportunities during the difficult period of the Coronavirus pandemic. The government has taken cognizance of its responsibility to provide employment to the migrant workers who have returned to their native villages, there itself. He appreciated the Prime Minister’s visionary leadership in not only visualizing and planning the new scheme being launched, but also being present on the occasion of its launch today.


    Giving details, the Rural Development & Panchayati Raj Minister said that the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan is being undertaken in 116 districts of 6 states. It will be implemented at the grassroots level with active coordination between 11 ministries of the Central Government. The Abhiyaan will continue for 125 days, and 25 works have been identified which will be taken up for completion. As a result, employment will be rapidly generated. It is an important step towards providing employment to the people on a mission mode.


    The Abhiyaan will be a convergent effort between different Ministries/Departments, namely; Rural Development, Panchayati Raj, Road Transport & Highways, Mines, Drinking Water & Sanitation, Environment, Railways, Petroleum & Natural Gas, New & Renewable Energy, Border Roads, Telecom and Agriculture, to expedite implementation of 25 public infrastructure works and works relating to augmentation of livelihood opportunities. The major objectives of the initiative include:

      * Provide livelihood opportunity to returning migrants and similarly affected rural citizens
      * Saturate villages with public infrastructure and create livelihood opportunities viz. Roads, Housing, Anganwadis, Panchayat Bhavans, various livelihood assets and Community Complexes among others
      * The basket of a wide variety of works will ensure that each migrant worker is able to get an opportunity of employment according to his skill, in the coming 125 days. The Program will also prepare for expansion and development of livelihoods over a longer term.

    The Ministry of Rural Development is the nodal Ministry for this campaign and the campaign will be implemented in close coordination with the State Governments.


    ****


    APS/SG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1632878) Visitor Counter : 1136
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu , Malayalam , Malayalam
    
    
    

*