      Ministry of Earth Science

      Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall very likely to continue over east & northeast India during next 4-5 days
      
      Conditions becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some more parts of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and some parts of Uttarakhand during 22nd & 23rd June and in Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and most parts of Punjab during 24th & 25th June
      
      Rainfall activity over plains of Northwest India is likely to increase from 23rd June
      
      Heat wave conditions have abated from Rajasthan

      Posted On: 20 JUN 2020 8:40PM by PIB Delhi

    According to the National Weather Forecasting Centre/Regional Meteorological Centre, New Delhi of the India Meteorological Department (IMD):


    ♦ The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Kandla, Ahmedabad, Indore,Raisen, Khajuraho, Fatehpur and Bahraich.


    ♦ Conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some more parts of Madhya Pradesh andUttar Pradesh and some parts of Uttarakhand during 22nd & 23rd June and into entire Western Himalayan Region, Haryana,Chandigarh & Delhi, most parts of Punjab, remaining parts of Arabian Sea, Gujarat state, Madhya Pradesh & Uttar Pradesh andsome parts of Rajasthan during 24th & 25th June.


    ♦ The trough at mean sea level now runs from central Pakistan to eastcentral Bay of Bengal across south Punjab, Haryana,south Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, north coastal Odisha and northwest Bay of Bengal extending upto 0.9 km above mean sealevel. The cyclonic circulation over southeast Uttar Pradesh & neighbourhood persists and now seen at 1.5 km above mean sealevel. Under the influence of these systems, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall very likely tocontinue over east & northeast India during next 4-5 days . Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated with isolated heavy to very heavy falls likely over Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh during next 5 days and isolated heavy falls arelikely over Vidarbha during 21st-23rd June. Rainfall activity over plains of Northwest India is likely to increase from 23 rd June . Isolated falls are likely to commence over the region from 23rd June.


    ♦ Heat wave conditions have abated from Rajasthan.


    Kindly visit www.imd.gov.in for updates .


    *****


    NB/KGS/(IMD Release)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1633011) Visitor Counter : 309
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Manipuri , Tamil