      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Cabinet approves Extension of tenure of the Commission constituted under Article 340 of the constitution to examine the issue of sub-categorization within Other Backward Classes in the Central List
      Posted On: 24 JUN 2020 4:36PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has approved the extension of the term of the Commission to examine the issue of Sub-categorization of Other Backward Classes, by 6 months i.e. upto 31.1.2021.


    Impact including employment generation potential:


    The Communities in the existing list of OBCs which have not been able to get any major benefit of the scheme of reservation for OBCs for appointment in Central Government posts and for admission in Central Government Educational Institutions are expected to be benefitted upon implementation of the recommendations of the Commission. The Commission is likely to make recommendations for benefit of such marginalized communities in the Central List of OBCs.


    Expenditure:


    The expenditure involved are related to the establishment and administration costs of the Commission, which would continue to be borne by the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment.


    Benefits:


    All persons belonging to the castes/communities which are included in the Central List of SEBCs but which have not been able to get any major benefit of the existing scheme of reservation for OBCs in Central Government posts & for admission in Central Government Educational Institutions would be benefitted.


    Implementation schedule:


    Orders for extension of the term of the Commission and addition in its Terms of Reference will be notified in the Gazette in the form of an Order made by the President, after receipt of the approval of the Hon'ble President to the same.


    Background:


    The Commission was constituted under article 340 of the Constitution with the approval of President on 2 nd October, 2017. The Commission, headed by Justice (Retd.) Smt. G. Rohini commenced functioning on 11 th October, 2017 and has since interacted with all the States/UTs which have subcategorized OBCs, and the State Backward Classes Commissions. The Commission has come to the view that it would require some more time to submit its report since the repetitions, ambiguities, inconsistencies and errors of spelling or transcription etc. appearing in the existing Central List of OBCs need to be cleared. Hence the Commission had sought extension of its term, up to 31 st July 2020. However, due to the nationwide lockdown and restrictions on travel imposed on account of COVID-19 pandemic, the Commission was not able to go perform the task assigned to it. Therefore, the term of the Commission is being extended for a period of 6 more months i.e. up to 31.1.2021.


    
    *****************


    VRRK/SH


    

    
    (Release ID: 1633912) Visitor Counter : 578
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Kannada