      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah hails Supreme Court ruling permitting the Puri Rath Yatra
      
      PM not only understood the sentiment of the devotees but also initiated consultations which would ensure observance of the great traditions of our land: Shri Amit Shah
      
      Shri Amit Shah held intensive consultations with the Puri King, revered Shankaracharya of Puri and Solicitor General
      
      Considering its gravity, the matter placed before vacation bench of the Supreme Court, paving the way for the important decision by the SC: Union Home Minister
      
      “Congratulations to the people of Odisha. जय जगन्नाथ!”: Shri Amit Shah

      Posted On: 22 JUN 2020 7:30PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah has hailed the Supreme Court ruling on the Puri Rath Yatra. “Today is a special day for all of us, particularly our Odia sisters and brothers as well as devotees of Mahaprabhu Shri Jagannath Ji. The entire nation is delighted by the decision of the Honourable Supreme Court to ensure the Rath Yatra goes on,” he said in a series of tweets.


    Shri Amit Shah said, “It makes me, as well as crores of devotees across India happy that the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi not only understood the sentiment of the devotees but also initiated consultations which ensured that the great traditions of our land are observed.”


    Shri Amit Shah said urgent consultations were held with concerned authorities to resolve the issue. “Last evening, as per the instructions of the Prime Minister, I spoke to Gajapati Maharaj Ji (The King of Puri) and the respected Shankaracharya Ji of Puri and sought their views on the Yatra. This morning, on PM’s instructions, I also spoke to the Solicitor General,” he said


    “Considering the urgency and importance of the matter, it was placed in front of a vacation bench of the Supreme Court and the hearing took place this afternoon, which paved the way for the important decision by the SC,” said the Union Home Minister.


    “Congratulations to the people of Odisha. जय जगन्नाथ!,” said Shri Amit Shah.


    Today is a special day for all of us, particularly our Odia sisters and brothers as well as devotees of Mahaprabhu Shri Jagannath Ji. The entire nation is delighted by the decision of the Honourable Supreme Court to ensure the Rath Yatra goes on.
    
    जय जगन्नाथ!

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) June 22, 2020

    It makes me, as well as crores of devotees across India happy that PM @narendramodi not only understood the sentiment of the devotees but also initiated consultations which ensured that the great traditions of our land are observed.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) June 22, 2020

    Last evening, as per the instructions of PM @narendramodi, I spoke to Gajapati Maharaj Ji (The King of Puri) and the respected Shankaracharya Ji of Puri and sought their views on the Yatra. This morning, on PM’s instructions, I also spoke to the Solicitor General.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) June 22, 2020

    Considering the urgency and importance of the matter, it was placed in front of a vacation bench of the Supreme Court and the hearing took place this afternoon, which paved the way for the important decision by the SC.
    
    Congratulations to the people of Odisha.
    जय जगन्नाथ!

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) June 22, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/PK/AD/DD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1633408) Visitor Counter : 575
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Odia , Tamil