      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 24 JUN 2020 6:27PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on Covid-19 from Ministry of Health and Family Welfare: COVID-19 tests breach the ceiling of 2 lakhs/day; COVID-19 Lab capacity touches 1000


    In a significant ramping of the testing facilities across the country, more than 2 lakh samples/day were tested in the last 24 hours, the highest so far. With 2,15,195 samples tested yesterday, the total number of samples tested thus far is 73,52,911. While 1,71,587 samples were tested in Government labs, 43,608 were tested by private labs. Private labs have also reached the highest per day sampling with this quantity. India now has 1000 labs across the country for testing COVID-19. This includes 730 in the government sector and 270 private labs.


    The number of COVID-19 patients recovering very day is growing too. During the last 24 hours, a total of 10,495 COVID-19 patients have been cured. A total of 2,58,684 patients have been cured. The recovery rate is 56.71% amongst COVID-19 patients. Presently, there are 1,83,022 active cases and all are under active medical supervision.


    For details:


    Historic decisions taken by Cabinet to boost infrastructure across sectors


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi met today and took several landmark decisions, which will go a long way providing a much needed boost to infrastructure across sectors, which are crucial in the time of pandemic. These include: Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund set-up; Declaration of Kushinagar Airport in UP as International Airport; Additional investment by OVL towards further development of Shwe oil & gas project in Myanmar approved;


    For details:


    Cabinet approves establishment of Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund


    In pursuance of recently announced AatmaNirbhar Bharat Abhiyan stimulus package for ensuring growth in several sectors, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has approved setting up of Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund (AHIDF) worth Rs. 15000 crore. Government of India will provide 3% interest subvention to eligible beneficiaries. There will be 2 years moratorium period for principal loan amount and 6 years repayment period thereafter.


    For details:


    2% Interest Subvention approved on prompt repayment of Shishu Loans under Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana for a period of 12 months


    Union Cabinet has approved a scheme for interest subvention of 2% for a period of 12 months, to all Shishu loan accounts under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY) to eligible borrowers. This Scheme is for implementation of one of the measures relating to MSMEs, announced under the AatmaNirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. The Scheme has been formulated as a specific response to an unprecedented situation and aims to alleviate financial stress for borrowers at the ‘bottom of the pyramid’ by reducing their cost of credit. The Scheme is expected to provide much needed relief to the sector, thereby enabling small businesses to continue functioning without laying off employees due to lack of funds. By supporting small businesses to continue functioning during these times of crisis, the Scheme is also expected to have a positive impact on the economy and support its revival, which is necessary for employment generation in future.


    For details:


    Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises launches another funding scheme to help the distressed MSME sector


    Minister of MSME, Shri Nitin Gadkari today launched the Credit Guarantee Scheme for Sub-ordinate Debt (CGSSD) which is also called “Distressed Assets Fund–Sub-ordinate Debt for MSMEs”. As per the Scheme, the guarantee cover worth Rs. 20,000 crores will be provided to the promoters who can take debt from the banks to further invest in their stressed MSMEs as equity. It is expected that this scheme would provide much required support to around 2 lakh MSMEs and will help in reviving the economic activity in and through this sector. It will also help in protecting the livelihoods and jobs of millions of people who depend on them. Promoter(s) of MSMEs meeting the eligibility criteria may approach any scheduled commercial banks to avail benefit under the scheme.


    For details:


    Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah said “Around 20,000 beds including 250 ICU beds for COVID patients will be added in the National Capital by next week”


    The Home Minister Shri Amit Shah has said “10,000 bed COVID Care Centre at Radha Swami Beas in Delhi will be operational by 26 th June. The work is in full swing and a large part of the facility will be operational by Friday”. Shri Amit Shah said this in a tweet yesterday, stating that Delhi Chief Minister Shri Arvind Kejriwal has written to the Union Home Minister inviting him to inspect the COVID Care Centre at Radha Soami Satsang Beas campus in Chhattarpur. Delhi CM had also requested for deployment of doctors and nurses from ITBP and Army at the Centre. In his reply, Shri Amit Shah said “it has already been decided in our meeting three days back and Ministry of Home Affairs has assigned the work of operating the COVID Care Centre at Radha Swami Beas in Delhi to ITBP. He also said, “1,000 bed full-fledged hospital with 250 ICU beds for Covid patients will be ready next week”.


    For details:


    Railways to generate 8 lac mandays of employment opportunity for migrants and others in infrastructure projects worth Rs 1800 Crores in next 125 days till 31st October, 2020


    Ministry of Railways reviewed progress of ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan’ being implemented in 116 districts in 6 states. Railway Zones and Rail PSUs participated in the review meeting about the progress of Abhiyaan. Railways to appoint Nodal officers in all the 116 districts and at the State level. This Abhiyaan of 125 days, will work in mission mode, and involve focused implementation of various categories of works/ activities in 116 districts, each with a large concentration of returnee migrant workers in 6 states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha. Around 160 infrastructure works have been identified which are to be expedited.


    For details:


    Raksha Mantri reviews India-Russia defence cooperation with Russian Deputy Prime Minister


    Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh reviewed India-Russia defence cooperation with Mr. Yury Borisov, Deputy Prime Minister of Russian Federation in Moscow yesterday. Mr Borisov is the co-chair of the Inter-Governmental Commission with India on Trade & Economic & Scientific Cooperation. Their discussions on bilateral cooperation and regional issues were very positive and productive. Raksha Mantri mentioned that despite all the difficulties of the pandemic, India-Russia bilateral relations are keeping good contacts at various levels.


    For details:


    Commerce and Industry Minister Shri Piyush Goyal exhorts Service exporters to develop competitive advantage, focus on quality, and explore new destinations and services


    Union Minister of Commerce and Industry Shri Piyush Goyal held a meeting, with office bearers of the Services Export Promotion Council (SEPC), and stakeholders representing various Services sector, yesterday. Responding to various suggestions, Shri Piyush Goyal said that the services sector has large potential, but the same has not been harnessed fully. He said that the segment, which has been most successful in the Services, is the IT and allied services, and it flourished due to its own capabilities, and without seeking much of the Government’s support, which many a times comes with the bureaucratic strings and control as well. He called upon the industry to develop competitive advantage, focus on quality, and explore new destinations and services.


    For details:


    Dr Jitendra Singh addresses a Virtual Meet of India’s leading experts in AYUSH from across the country


    Union Minister Dr Jitendra Singh has said that COVID pandemic has reiterated the merits of integrated medical management and added that in the times to come, serious thought would require to be given to this aspect for a more effective medical prophylaxis as well as therapeutics. Addressing a Virtual Meet of some of India’s leading experts yesterday, in AYUSH, Dr Jitendra Singh recalled that even though the merits of integrated or holistic management had been realised even in the case of non-communicable diseases, Diabetes Mellitus but somehow this aspect did not receive the kind of attention that was required. In the context of COVID, Dr Jitendra Singh said that since it is a viral disease where the prognosis depends on the immunity of the patient and, therefore, the importance of building immunity was realised. The widespread use of Homeopathy and other medicines to build up immunity have generated interest in the alternative systems of medicines.


    For details:


    Union HRD Minister virtually launches ‘YUKTI 2.0’ platform for Higher Education Institutes in New Delhi


    Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, launched an initiative ‘YUKTI 2.0’ to help systematically assimilate technologies having commercial potential and information related to incubated startups in our higher education institutions yesterday. Addressing the participants Shri Pokhriyal said that YUKTI 2.0 is logical extension of earlier version of ‘YUKTI’, an initiative of MHRD, to identify ideas relevant in COVID pandemic. He also informed that all the outcomes of earlier version of ‘YUKTI’ will be released soon. The minister appreciated the initiative and said that our Prime Minister has given us the mission of making Bharat ‘Atmanirbhar’ and, YUKTI 2.0 initiative is a very important step in that direction.


    For details:


    OPERATION SAMUDRA SETU - INS AIRAVAT BRINGS BACK 198 INDIAN CITIZENS FROM MALDIVES


    INS Airavat, deployed by the Indian Navy for “Operation Samudra Setu", entered Tuticorin harbour early morning yesterday, with 198 Indian nationals embarked from Male, Maldives. So far Indian Navy has brought back 2386 Indian citizens from Maldives to India. The embarkation of Indian nationals was facilitated by the Indian Mission in Maldives.With this evacuation, the Indian Navy has repatriated 3305 Indian nationals from Maldives, Sri Lanka and Iran during the ongoing pandemic.


    For details:


    One-time relaxation to allottees of GPRA in view of Covid-19


    Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has provided extension of retention of Government Accommodation to allottees of GPRA for additional 15 days, that is, upto 15 th July 2020. The Ministry had earlier extended the retention period till 30 th June 2020. The Ministry has taken the decision in view of various representations received regarding hardships faced by allottees in hiring alternate accommodation, arranging labour for shifting due to increase in Covid-19 cases. The Ministry has advised concerned allottees to vacate the accommodation on or before 15 th July 2020,else damage charges/market rent will be levied.


    For details:


    Over 3000 COVID-19 samples tested at CSIR-NEERI


    CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute has tested more than 3,000 samples for COVID-19 so far. The COVID-19 testing facility became operational at CSIR-NEERI from April 2020. With testing capacity of 50 samples per day, CSIR-NEERI has the requisite infrastructure to test COVID-19 samples and take all appropriate bio-safety and bio-security precautions before testing. The facility is open to testing COVID-19 samples from Nagpur and surrounding areas of Vidarbha.


    For details:


    JNCASR kicks off crash course in molecular diagnosis of infectious diseases focusing on COVID 19


    Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research under the Department of Science & Technology, has established a state-of-the-art COVID Diagnostic Training Centre at its Jakkur campus to help build capacity for the national fight against COVID 19 pandemic. Molecular diagnostic techniques, such as the real-time PCR, play a crucial role in the diagnosis and tracking of epidemics, including COVID-19. Appreciating the crucial and unmet needs of the nation, JNCASR has embarked upon a campaign by establishing a state-of-the-art diagnostic training facility to train personnel in a real-time PCR for COVID-19.


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Kerala: State government has decided to ease the criterion of making Covid certificate mandatory for returning expats. Expats from countries where Covid tests cannot be done, will be allowed to return wearing PPE kits and the airlines to make facilities to provide the PPE kits. The government is also mulling over extending the date to bring in effect the Covid negative certificate. Meanwhile, about 40 children have been admitted in the quarantine center in Kochi, after a nurse who vaccinated the children was tested positive. Eight more Keralites succumbed to the virus outside the state. The state had confirmed 141 new coronavirus positive cases and one death yesterday. 1,620 patients are still under treatment across the State.
      * Tamil Nadu: Biggest Covid-19 spike in Puducherry with 59 cases in 24 hours, tally rises to 461. 22-year-old 108 ambulance staffer is Tirupur's first Covid-19 victim. 22-year-old 108 ambulance staffer is Tirupur's first Covid-19 victim. State’s case tally rises by 2,516; 39 more deaths take toll to 833. 1380 cases from Chennai yesterday. Total cases: 64603, Active cases: 28428, Deaths: 833, Discharged: 35339, Active cases in Chennai: 18889.
      * Karnataka: In an effort to control Covid 19, directorate of health and family welfare has issued order to open fever clinics and swab collection centres in private hospitals and medical colleges. Health minister said that based on expert committee recommendation, the state will decide on imposing lockdown again. Around 8.5 lakh students will write SSLC (10 th Std) which will commence from tomorrow all over state following all precautionary measures. Meanwhile KSRTC will start AC buses operations from June 25 in a phased manner. 322 new cases, 274 discharges & eight deaths reported yesterday. Total positive cases till now: 9721, Active cases: 3563, Deaths: 150.
      * Andhra Pradesh: Confusion reigned after the State government withdrew the orders of Vijayawada lockdown within an hour of its announcement. On Tuesday night, Krishna District Collector passed the orders announcing seven-day lockdown in Vijayawada, starting from June 26 due to the rise in coronavirus cases. In the overall cases, Kurnool district topped the list with 1483 cases, followed by 1132 in Krishna district, 1028 in Anantapur. 497 new cases, 146 discharged and ten deaths reported during last 24 hours after testing 36,047 samples; of the 497 new cases, 37 are inter-state cases and 12 from abroad. Total cases: 10,331, Active cases: 5423, Discharged: 4779, Deaths: 129.
      * Telangana: Private hospitals urge asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and those with mild symptoms to stay at home, citing shortage of beds. Telangana reported three deaths and 879 new cases logging biggest single-day spike in coronavirus cases. Total cases 9553, Active cases: 5109, Deaths: 220, Recovered: 4224, Samples tested: 63,249.
      * Maharashtra: Maharashtra on Wednesday saw a marginal dip in COVID-19 cases. The state reported 3,214 new cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of Covid cases to 1,39,010. The mortality rate climbed to 4.70, with 75 more deaths reported on Tuesday. After several weeks, Mumbai reported less than 1,000 cases at 824. The total number of Covid infections in the city now stands at 68,481. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has initiated Mission Universal Testing, under which it will use ICMR-approved antigen testing kits that provide results within 15 to 30 minutes. BMC has decided to procure 1 lakh antigen testing kits to ensure speedy results for suspected COVID-19 patients. These will be used at all civic, state-run hospitals and COVID-19 treatment facilities to test suspected patients and ensure timely treatment
      * Gujarat : The number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 28,429, after 549 new cases came up on Tuesday. Also, 26 patients lost their lives in the state on Tuesday, taking the total death to 1,711. Meanwhile, 604 patients have been discharged from various hospitals, taking the total number of patients recovered from Covid19 in the state to 20,521. Maximum new cases- 230 cases were reported from Ahmedabad. Apart from this, 152 new cases are from Surat, while 38 cases have been reported from Vadodara. More than 3 lakh 34 thousand Covid-19 tests were carried out in the state till date.
      * Rajasthan: 182 new positive cases and 7 deaths have been reported today morning, taking the state tally of COVID-19 to 15,809. While 12424 patients have recovered, 372 deaths have also occurred till date. There are 3013 active cases in the state at present. Maximum number of positive cases- 63 cases, have been reported from Dholpur, followed by 53 cases from Jaipur and then 23 cases from Bharatpur. Excise Commissioner, Rajasthan has issued guidelines to be followed in the wake of reopening of hotels and restaurants & sale of liquor in the state.
      * Madhya Pradesh: 183 new cases have been reported, taking the state tally of positive cases to 12,261. Out of this, 2401 are active cases, while 9335 patients have recovered and 525 deaths have occurred so far. In Madhya Pradesh, the state government has decided to promote all the college students. Hotspot Indore has reported 54 new cases, which took the total cases in the city till date to 4427. Bhopal has reported 29 new cases and Morena district had 23 new cases on Tuesday. The total positive patients in Bhopal till date are 2,556.
      * Chhattisgarh: 83 new COVID-19 positive cases have been reported on Tuesday, taking the state tally of coronavirus infection to 2385. Out of this, 846 are active cases. Also, 40 patients have been discharged after recovery from various hospitals in the state on Tuesday, thereby taking the total number of recoveries to 1527. Korba district has reported maximum COVID-19 cases, followed by Raipur and then Balodabazaar and Janjgir-Champa districts in the state.
      * Goa: 45 new COVID-19 infections have been identified on Tuesday, taking the state tally of positive cases to 909. Out of this, 702 are active cases. Also, 53 patients have reportedly recovered on Tuesday, thereby taking the total number of recoveries to 205.
      * Chandigarh: The Administrator, UT Chandigarh, directed Commissioner, Municipal Corporation and Deputy Commissioner, UT to ensure that all residents, who have been kept in quarantine centres are properly taken care off. Basic facilities of proper food, water and clean toilets should be ensured through regular supervision.
      * Punjab: In a bid to curtail spread of corona virus in specific areas, Punjab Government has implemented a stringent containment strategy under which 19 containment zones have been established in 8 districts, containing a population of about 25000 so far. Containment as well as micro containment zone is depending upon the total number of the COVID-19 cases in specific area so as to ensure the proper utilization of manpower to conduct the activities such as screening, tracing, testing and counseling of all high risk contacts.
      * Haryana; While taking yet another step towards further improving health care facilities in the State, in view of COVID-19 Pandemic, Haryana Chief Minister has accorded administrative approval for engaging 110 Technical Apprentices of Pharmacist at all 22 District Civil Hospitals in the State. Five Technical Apprentices Pharmacy per district hospital would be engaged under the Apprentices Act 1961 from the National Apprenticeship Training Program.
      * Himachal Pradesh: Chief Minister, while addressing the ASHA workers, said that the State Government has decided to provide an incentive of Rs. Two thousand per month for June and July to all the ASHA Workers of the State. He said that the Corona pandemic has taken the whole world by a surprise and caught the medical fraternity unprepared. He said that Himachal Pradesh has effectively fought this virus and ASHA workers of the State have played a pivotal role in controlling this virus. He said that ASHA workers not only helped in detecting the people with ILI symptoms, but also helped in motivating the people in strictly following the quarantine norms.

    FACTCHECK


    ***


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1633999) Visitor Counter : 688
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

*