      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah reviewed the preparedness of 10,000 bed ‘Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre’ in Delhi yesterday
      
      Shri Amit Shah said 10,000 bed Sardar Patel COVID care centre would provide huge relief to people of Delhi
      
      Union Government led by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi is committed to provide all possible help to its citizens.
      
      Union Home Minister applauded Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel operating the COVID care facility during these trying times. Said“their commitment to serve the nation and the people of Delhi is unparalleled”
      Posted On: 28 JUN 2020 11:55AM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah reviewed the preparedness of the 10,000 bed ‘Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre’ at the Radha Swami Satsang Beas in Delhi yesterday. Shri Amit Shah said the “10,000 bed centre would provide huge relief to the people of Delhi”.


    The Union Home Minister said, “I applaud our courageous Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel, who would be operating this COVID care facility during these trying times. Their commitment to serve the nation and the people of Delhi is unparalleled”. Shri Amit Shah emphasised that the Union Government under the leadership of Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi is committed to provide all possible help to its citizens.


    The Home Minister also thanked the Radha Soami Satsang Beas and all others who helped to create this huge COVID care facility. The Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri G. Kishan Reddy, the Chief Minister of Delhi, Shri Arvind Kejriwal, the Union Home Secretary, Shri AjayBhalla and senior officials of the Delhi Government were also present on the occasion.


    Visited the 'Sardar Patel COVID Care Centre' in Delhi to review its preparedness.

    
    I thank Radha Soami Satsang Beas and all others who helped to create this huge Covid care facility.
    
    This 10,000 bed centre would provide huge relief to the people of Delhi. pic.twitter.com/qB0OrP5vxY

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) June 27, 2020

    I applaud our courageous @ITBP_official personnel, who would be operating this Covid Care facility during these trying times. Their commitment to serve nation and people of Delhi is unparalleled.
    
    Modi govt at the centre is committed to provide all possible help to its citizens. pic.twitter.com/p5RaDomna4

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) June 27, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/AY

    
    
    (Release ID: 1634919) Visitor Counter : 608
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu