      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Governing Council Meeting of National Productivity Council held under the Chairmanship of Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of Commerce and Industry
      Posted On: 27 JUN 2020 6:57PM by PIB Delhi


    The 49th Governing Council Meeting of National Productivity Council (NPC), an autonomous body under Department for Promotion of Industry & Internal Trade (DPIIT), Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Government of India was held today through video conferencing. It was chaired by Shri Piyush Goyal, Commerce & Industry Minister and President of NPC Governing Council. Shri Arun Kumar Jha, Director General, NPC welcomed the Minister, Dr. Guruprasad Mohapatra, Secretary, DPIIT and thanked them for taking keen interest towards organizing the GC Meeting after a lapse of fifteen years. The Meeting was attended by about 180 participants, comprising of Government Officers, Leaders of Industry Associations, Industry captains, Trade Union leaders, financial institutions, Productivity Councils of States, Subject experts, Academicians, and other eminent personalities.


    Shri Goyal, stressing upon the role of productivity in transformation of any organisation, said that coincidentally, today also marks Sh. Bankim Chandra Chatterjee’s 182nd Birth Anniversary as well as the MSME Enterprises Day. Quoting famous thinker Aristotle’s famous line “We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit”, Shri Goyal suggested that adoption of technology and digital economy is going to play a vital role in not only transforming the business enterprises in the future, but also in achieving the target of $ 5 trillion economy given by the Hon'ble PM. He appreciated the role played by the worker groups in nation building. Welcoming the wide array of suggestions received from the participants to vigorously pursue enhancing the productivity in all aspects of the industry and public offices, the minister reiterated the Paul J. Meyer words “Productivity is never an accident. It is always the result of commitment of excellence, intelligent planning and focused effort”.


    The participants in the meeting endorsed the view that India can reposition itself only through productivity enhancement. Some of the suggestions made in the meeting were- sector formulation of specific action plans by NPC especially in agriculture and logistics sectors, identification of Champion sectors which has the potential to drive the economy, adoption of technology to increase the productivity and delivering cost-effective solutions for marginalised sector, interlinking of academia and industry for creation of a highly skilled labor force, financing of specific products to support MSMEs and increase their productivity, national audit on security impact etc . Shri Goyal suggested NPC to work closely with all the stakeholders and emphasised on adopting the best practices from around the world.


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1634806) Visitor Counter : 1018
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Tamil