      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah hails Union Cabinet decisions, terms them “landmark”
      
      “Today’s decisions are yet another manifestation of Modi Government's commitment towards self-reliance, welfare of poor and strengthening the economy in these challenging times”: Shri Amit Shah
      
      Union Home Minister said “Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund worth Rs 15000 Cr is another step towards Atmanirbhar Bharat; gives enormous boost to dairy sector and will lead to surge in employment”
      
      “IN-SPACe is a historic reform that will unlock India's true space potential”: Shri Amit Shah
      
      Union Home Minister said “2% interest subsidy to Shishu loan borrowers under Mudra Yojana would provide huge relief to small businesses”
      Posted On: 24 JUN 2020 8:33PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah hailed the decisions of Union Cabinet today as “landmark”. Congratulating Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, he said “these decisions are yet another manifestation of Modi Government's commitment towards self-reliance, welfare of poor and strengthening the economy in these challenging times.”


    Lauding approval of the Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund worth ₹15,000 crore, Shri Amit Shah said “it will further strengthen Modi Government's efforts towards Atmanirbhar Bharat”. “This enormous boost to the dairy sector will surely surge employment and increase milk productivity and exports,” he said.


    Welcoming private sector participation in Space activities, Shri Amit Shah said “this historic reform will unlock India's true space potential. IN-SPACe will accelerate growth of the space sector by promoting and guiding private industries in space activities.”


    Union Home Minister said “Another major decision has been taken to provide huge relief to small businesses which have been adversely affected by Covid”. “To alleviate financial stress of Shishu loan borrowers under Mudra Yojana, Modi Cabinet has approved 2% interest subsidy for a period of 12 months for eligible borrowers,” he said.


    Commenting on the Ordinance approved in Banking sector by the Modi Cabinet, Shri Amit Shah said “It will bring 1,482 Urban Cooperative and 58 Multi-State Cooperative Banks under the supervision of RBI”. “This will give an assurance to the bank depositors & boost their trust in the formal banking system by protecting their hard-earned money,” he said.

    I thank and congratulate PM Shri @narendramodi ji, as cabinet today approved several landmark decisions. These decisions are yet another manifestation of Modi government's commitment towards self-reliance, welfare of poor and strengthening the economy in these challenging times.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) June 24, 2020

    To further strengthen Modi Govt's efforts towards Atmanirbhar Bharat, cabinet has approved Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund worth ₹ 15000 crore. This enormous boost to the dairy sector will surely surge employment, increase milk productivity and exports.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) June 24, 2020

    Private sector participation in Space activities has also been approved by the Modi Government, this historic reform will unlock India's true space potential. IN-SPACe will accelerate growth of the space sector by promoting and guiding private industries in space activities.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) June 24, 2020

    To alleviate financial stress of Shishu loan borrowers under Mudra Yojana, Modi Cabinet has approved 2% interest subsidy for a period of 12 months for eligible borrowers. This will provide a huge relief to small businesses which have been adversely affected by Covid.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) June 24, 2020

    Modi cabinet has also approved an Ordinance to bring 1482 urban cooperative & 58 multi-state cooperative banks under the supervision of RBI. This will give an assurance to the bank depositors & boost their trust in the formal banking system by protecting their hard-earned money.

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) June 24, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/PK/AD/DD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1634061) Visitor Counter : 724
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Telugu