      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 25 JUN 2020 6:25PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on Covid-19 from Ministry of Health and Family Welfare: Cumulative tests cross 75 lakhs; Recovery rate improves to 57.43%


    In a significant ramping of the testing facilities across the country, India now has 1007 diagnostic labs. This includes 734 in the government sector and 273 private labs. From limited COVID-19 tests in Jan 2020, 2,07,871 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tests to 75,60,782. During the last 24 hours, a total of 13,012 COVID-19 patients have been cured. So far, a total of 2,71,696 patients have been cured of COVID-19. The recovery rate is 57.43% amongst COVID-19 patients.Presently, there are 1,86,514 active cases and all are under active medical supervision.Cases per lakh in India currently stand at 33.39 against the world’s 120.21 cases/lakh. Also, death/lakh in the country is currently amongst the lowest in the world with 1.06 deaths/lakh against the world average of 6.24 deaths/lakh.


    A Central Team from Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will visit Gujarat, Maharashtra and Telangana on 26th-29th June, 2020. The team will interact with the State officials and coordinate with them to strengthen ongoing efforts for management of COVID-19.


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1634228


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan launches Indian Red Cross Society’s ‘eBloodServices’ Mobile App


    This application is developed by the E-Raktkosh team of Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC). The Minister said, “Many people require blood related services on regularly because of certain medical conditions in their families. Through this App, four units of blood can be requisitioned at a time and the blood bank will wait for as long as 12 hours for the person to collect it. This app makes it easy for those in need to request for Blood units at IRCS NHQ.” At a time when the country is facing such a pandemic, the Mobile App will provide succor to all those who direly require blood, he stated.Dr. Harsh Vardhan praised all the voluntary blood donors who have donated blood during the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak. Red Cross has facilitated donation by voluntary blood donors by either providing transport or sending blood collection mobile vans for on-site blood donation.


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1634231


    India Fights Covid: BMC adopts ‘Dharavimodel’ to contain the virus in Mumbai’s northern suburbs


    Drawing on the lessons learnt during fight against Corona Virus in Dharavi - described as Asia’s largest slum -the BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) – is now implementing a Rapid Action Plan for the city’s northern suburbs. While Mumbai’s major Covid-19 hotspots such has Dharavi and Worli have shown significant improvement, some of the northern suburbs such as Mulund, Bhandup, Malad, Kandivli, Borivli, and Dahisar continue to register high cases on a daily basis. The Rapid Action Plan has been modelled on the lines of the strategy that helped contain the spread in Worli and Dharavi. As part of the plan, BMC has pressed into service 50 mobile fever clinics in ambulances in these areas. The mobile clinics drive around through the day with a team of doctors, who carry out door-to-door screening of residents, check for fever and other symptoms, co-morbidities, and collect swabs, if there is any suspected person.


    Prime Minister to launch ‘AtmaNirbhar Uttar Pradesh RojgarAbhiyan’ on 26th June


    COVID-19 pandemic has had an adverse impact on workforce in general and migrant workers in particular. A large number of migrant workers returned to several states. The challenge of containing Covid-19 was compounded by the need to provide basic amenities and means of livelihood to migrants and rural workers. Government of India announced the AatmaNirbhar Bharat Package to stimulate various sectors. In order to generate employment with thrust towards creating infrastructure in backward regions of the country GaribKalyanRojgarAbhiyan was launched on 20 th June 2020.In Uttar Pradesh, nearly 30 lakh migrant workers returned. 31 districts of Uttar Pradesh have more than 25,000 returnee migrant workers. These include 5 aspirational districts. Prime Minister will launch this Abhiyan on 26th June, 2020 at 11 am through Video-Conference in presence of the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh.


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1634226


    Extension of various time limits under Direct Tax &Benami laws

    In view of the challenges faced by taxpayers in meeting the statutory and regulatory compliance requirements across sectors due to the outbreak of COVID-19, the Government brought the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation of Certain Provisions) Ordinance, 2020 on 31st March, 2020 which extended various time limits. In order to provide further relief to the taxpayers for making various compliances, the Government has issued a Notification on 24th June, 2020. The time for filing of original as well as revised income-tax returns for the FY 2018-19 has been extended to 31st July, 2020.Due date for income tax return for the FY 2019-20 has been extended to 30th November, 2020. In order to provide relief to small and middle class taxpayers, the date for payment of self-assessment tax in the case of a taxpayer whose self-assessment tax liability is upto Rs. 1 lakh has also been extended to 30th November, 2020. However, it is clarified that there will be no extension of date for the payment of self-assessment tax for the taxpayers having self-assessment tax liability exceeding Rs. 1 lakh.


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1634070


    5th Anniversary of Urban Missions- Pradhan Mantri AwasYojana (Urban), Smart Cities Mission and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation


    Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs(I/C), in the webinar organized on the occasion, stated that“India has undertaken one of the most comprehensive planned urbanization programmes in the history of the world. 47 operational integrated control and command centres (ICCC) became War-rooms & played an effective role in COVID response. Smart Roads, Smart Solar, Smart Water, PPPs and Vibrant Public Spaces projects heading towards progressive paths.Under AMRUT – 11, reforms comprising 54 milestones implemented during four years--aimed at strengthening capacities of city level institutions for effective governance and citizen service delivery. Houses sanctioned under PMAY(urban) almost eight times more than those sanctioned under earlier urban housing schemes. Multiplier effect in employment generation due to construction activity under PMAY(U) with employment for approximately 1.65 cr citizens generated through forward and backward linkages


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1634268


    Union Home Ministerhails Union Cabinet decisions, terms them “landmark”


    Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah hailed the decisions of Union Cabinet as “landmark”. Congratulating Prime Minister, Shri NarendraModi, he said “these decisions are yet another manifestation of Modi Government's commitment towards self-reliance, welfare of poor and strengthening the economy in these challenging times.”


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1634061


    Indian Railways produce 1.91 lakh PPE gowns, 66.4 kl sanitizer, 7.33 lakh masks till 24/06/2020


    Indian Railways, in coordination with other Ministries and State Governments, is totally geared up to meet the challenge of providing protection to its frontline medical workers and other operational staff persons, from the COVID 19 pandemic. It is using all its resources in coordinated manner to create/upgrade its facilities.Railway workshops took up the challenge and manufactured PPE coveralls, sanitizer, masks, cots in-house. Raw material for manufacturing of these items was also procured by the field units. 1.91 lakh PPE gowns, 66.4 kl sanitizer, 7.33 lakh masks etc have been manufactured by Indian Railways till 24/06/2020. PPE coverall target for the month of June and July are fixed as 1.5 lakhs each


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1634280


    MSDE-IBM Partnership Unveils Free Digital Learning Platform “Skills Build Reignite” to Reach More Job Seekers & Provide New Resources to Business Owners in India


    Directorate General of Training (DGT), under Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, is playing a key role in the execution of vocational training schemes and in making ‘Digital India’ dream become a reality.DGT has in the past one year, collaborated with many digital industry front-liners to enable the students to become industry-ready. Even in the current scenario of the continuous impact of COVID-19, DGT is lining up with the industry partners in its efforts for enabling blended /e-learning with a combination of multimedia and similar digital resources for the students/ trainees, trainers and the administrators, by providing anytime, anywhere online digital content through its BharatSkills learning platform. SkillsBuild Reignite tends to provide job seekers and entrepreneurs, with access to free online coursework and mentoring support designed to help them reinvent their careers and businesses.


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1633965


    Shri Mandavia acknowledges the contribution of Seafarers in continuing the wheels of economy moving during the pandemic


    Shri MansukhMandaviya, Minister of State (I/C) for Shipping, today participated in the celebration of International Seafarers Day. The minister appreciated the role of seafarers for moving the wheels of economy during the pandemic and wished safe sailing in the future for the serving and building New India.He acknowledged the contribution of Indian seafarers in the economy and development of the country.


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1634278


    Shri Gowda holds meeting with pharmaceutical officers to review various aspects of proposed Bulks drugs and medical device parks


    Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers Shri DV SadanandaGowda held a meeting with senior officers of Department of Pharmaceuticals yesterday to review various aspects of proposed development of three Bulk Drug Parks and four Medical Device Parks across the country. MoS, Shri MansukhMandaviya also attended the meeting. Shri Gowda and Shri Mandaviya suggested that the modalities of selection of locality of parks as well as of beneficiaries under PLI scheme should be based on some well-defined objective criteria to ensure orderly development of the parks. Shri Gowda further said that these schemes will increase competitiveness of domestic production of bulk drugs and medical devices due to benefits available in clusters in the form of state of art common infrastructure and logistics facilities.


    For details: https://pib.gov.in/PressReleseDetail.aspx?PRID=1633977


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES


      * Kerala: State Health Minister K KShailaja has warned that there will be community transmission of Covid-19 at any moment in the state. She said six districts including the capital city have been put on high alert. DGP LokanathBehera stated that those who do not follow Covid protocol will not be advised anymore and strict action will be taken against them. Two Keralites died due to Covid outside the state. Kerala recorded its highest single-day spike of 152 Covid cases yesterday. The total number of Covid cases confirmed in the state so far is 3,603 and 1,691 patients are still under treatment. 1,54,759 persons are currently being monitored in various districts of the state;

      * Tamil Nadu: 700 fishermen from various districts of Tamil stranded in Iran due to Covid-19 board INS Jalashwa to return home. State suspends intra-zone transport till June 30. To keep cops safe, DGP issues SOPs for arrests during Covid-19 outbreak. 29 Naval personnel at Naval Air Station INS Parundu - in Ramanathapuram district test Covid-19 positive. 2865 new cases & 33 deaths reported yesterday taking the Covid tally to 67468 and death toll to 866. There are 28836 active cases in the State with 18673 of them Chennai.
      * Karnataka: Five PG doctors on Covid-19 duty test positive for virus in Mangaluru. SSLC exams began today at 2879 centres across Karnataka amid coronavirus pandemic. State cabinet approves amendments to Karnataka Industry Facilitation Act 2020 which would provide single window clearance for all types of approvals. Revenue minister rules out imposition of lockdown again in Bangalore city. 397 new cases, 149 discharges & 14 deaths reported yesterday. Total positive cases: 10118, Active cases: 3799, Deaths: 164, Discharges:6151.
      * Andhra Pradesh:High Court Chief Justice J K Maheshwari issued orders suspending all hearings in the High Court and Vijayawada Metropolitan Courts till June 28. The Covid-19 Task Force officials expressed concern at the growing number of positive cases in Nagari Assembly Constituency in Chittoor which borders Tamil Nadu. The East Godavari district administration has imposed lockdown in the entire district from today due to increase in Covid cases. In the wake of growing number of Covid positive cases in Srikakulam district, the district administration has alerted the health officials for conducting fever survey.553 new cases, 118 discharged and seven deaths reported during last 24 hours after testing 19,085 samples. Total cases: 10,884, Active cases: 5760, Discharged: 4988, Deaths: 136.
      * Telangana: Days after getting approval from Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to manufacture and sell Covid-19 drug Remdesivir in India, Hyderabad-based pharma player Hetero said it is all set to deliver the first set of 20,000 vials. Total no of cases 10,444 of which 5,858 are active cases.
      * Assam: In Assam, 31 COVID counselling centres in each and every ward of Guwahati Municipal Corporation has been activated for the citizens in Guwahati for voluntary testing for COVID19.
      * Nagaland: Dimapur district administration imposes penalty for not wearing mask.Screening Committee on Anti-profiteering under GST constituted for Nagaland.
      * Manipur: Manipur State Govt assures that there will be no shortage of fertiliser and appealed the farmers to not to panic.Churachandpur district hospital becomes the first among 5 district hospitals instructed to make dialysis units operational in a guideline by the State Mission Director to assist dialysis of COVID-19 patients.
      * Mizoram: In Mizoram, 3 more recovered patients discharged. Active cases 118 and 27 recovered so far.

    FACTCHECK


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1634293) Visitor Counter : 1214
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

  
  
*