      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah hailed PM Shri Narendra Modi on the launch of “Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Abhiyan” for the welfare of migrant workers and poor labourers of the State and their empowerment
      
      “This Scheme linked with Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan will provide double-engine growth to Uttar Pradesh”: Shri Amit Shah
      
      “Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Abhiyan will improve infrastructure and result in comprehensive development of rural India”: Union Home Minister
      
      Shri Amit Shah says “Scheme will benefit crores of migrant workers and poor labourers in 31 districts of Uttar Pradesh”
      Posted On: 26 JUN 2020 7:42PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah said “ Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Abhiyan” launched by Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi today will accelerate development in the state of Uttar Pradesh. “This scheme has been linked with Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan which will double-engine growth to Uttar Pradesh,” said Shri Amit Shah in a series of tweets.


    Union Home Minister said “under ‘ Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Abhiyan’ various developmental works will be undertaken, such as the Prime Minister Awas Yojana, PM Sadak Yojana, construction of toilets and expressways, tree plantation etc”. “This will not only lead to development of infrastructure in the villages but will also play an important role in the comprehensive development of rural India,” he said.


    Union Home Minister said, “ Atma Nirbhar Uttar Pradesh Rojgar Abhiyan will be implemented in 31 districts of Uttar Pradesh which will benefit crores of migrant workers and poor labourers by providing them with employment opportunities close to their homes”. “I express my gratitude to Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi and Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Shri Yogi Adityanath for this unprecedented scheme which is a combination of welfare of the poor and rural development” said Shri Amit Shah.


    ‘आत्मनिर्भर उत्तर प्रदेश रोजगार अभियान’ से प्रदेश के 31 जिलों के करोड़ों कामगार और श्रमिक लाभान्वित होंगे और उन्हें उनके घर के पास ही रोजगार के अवसर मिलेंगे।
    
    गरीब कल्याण व ग्रामीण विकास के इस अभूतपूर्व संयोजन के लिए PM @narendramodi और CM @myogiadityanath का अभिनन्दन करता हूँ।

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) June 26, 2020

    इस अभियान के तहत, पीएम आवास योजना, पीएम सड़क योजना, शौचालय निर्माण, एक्सप्रेसवे, वृक्षारोपण आदि जैसे विभिन्न विकास कार्य किए जाएंगे। इससे ना सिर्फ गांवों के बुनियादी ढांचे में सुधार आएगा बल्कि यह ग्रामीण भारत के समग्र विकास में महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका भी निभाएगा।

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) June 26, 2020

    उत्तर प्रदेश के कामगारों और श्रमिकों के कल्याण और उनको सशक्त बनाने के लिए प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी ने 'आत्मनिर्भर उत्तर प्रदेश रोजगार अभियान' का शुभारंभ किया। इस अभियान को गरीब कल्याण रोजगार अभियान के साथ जोड़ा गया है जिससे प्रदेश के विकास को दोगुनी गति मिलेगी।

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) June 26, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/PK/AD/DD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1634608) Visitor Counter : 379
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Tamil