      Ministry of Railways

      Elimination of Unmanned Railway Crossings
      Posted On: 04 APR 2018 5:48PM by PIB Delhi


    It has been decided to eliminate all Unmanned Level Crossings (UMLCs) on Broad Gauge (BG) route in next 2 years by either of the following methods:-

      * Closure – Closing unmanned level crossings having NIL/negligible Train Vehicle Unit (TVU).
      * Merger – Merger of unmanned level crossing to nearby manned or unmanned gates or subway/Road Under Bridge (RUB)/Road Over Bridge (ROB) by construction of diversion road.
      * Provision of Subways/RUBs.
      * Manning – The unmanned level crossings which cannot be eliminated by above means will be progressively manned based on rail-road traffic volume, visibility conditions.

    Other steps taken to avoid accidents at level crossings are as follows:


    (i) Global Positioning System (GPS) tracker to ensure presence of Gate Mitra at UMLCs will be provided by June 2018.


    (ii) Public awareness campaigns are being done at different places like villages, Gram Panchayat, weekly market, bus stands, schools and other public places.


    (iii) Periodic inspection of such level crossings is being carried out.


    (iv) Social awareness campaigns are being done to educate road users with the use of print and electronic media for observance of safe practices prescribed in Motor Vehicles Act and Indian Railways Act.


    (v) Short Message Service (SMS) campaigns are being done to create awareness amongst road users.


    (vi) Nukkad Nataks are being organized at public places with theme “Safety at Level Crossings”.


    (vii) Joint ambush checks along with civil police are being carried out to counter misadventure in front of approaching trains.


    (viii) Level crossing awareness week is being organized every year in June by the Zonal Railways.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Railways Shri Rajen Gohain in


    a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SBS/MKV/PM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1527655) Visitor Counter : 271
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

*