      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      BS-VI fuel will bring down sulphur level by 80 percent
      
      from current BSIV levels says Dharmendra Pradhan
      
      Posted On: 02 APR 2018 3:25PM by PIB Delhi


    The Petroleum & Natural Gas Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that we decided to proactively advance the roll-out of BS-VI fuel in Delhi from April 2018 , instead of April 2020 after taking stock of the alarming pollution situation in Delhi in winters. BS-VI fuel will bring down sulphur by 5 times from the current BS-IV levels – this is an 80 percent reductionwhich makes it extremely clean. It will improve emissions from the existing fleet, even from the older vehicles on road. BS-VI is as clean as CNG or even cleaner than CNG in some respects Pradhan said today at the launch of BS-VI compliant automotive fuels in Delhi and added we plan to extend the availability of these fuels across the country by 1 st April 2020.


    According to a Centre for Science & Environment study, air pollution takes 10,000-30,000 lives in Delhi every year. We believe that early migration to BS-VI fuels in the National Capital of Delhi will help in saving thousands of precious lives by bringing down vehicular pollution significantly.


    However, to take full advantage of the availability of such superior fuels, the vehicle technology has to move to BS-VI. Introduction of BS VI fuel will only give partial benefits if BS VI compliant vehicles are not put on the road. I am told that our auto-companies are already making BS VI cars in India and exporting them to developed countries. I am sure they can also do so for our own country. Pradhan appealed to all automobile manufacturers to start selling BS VI vehicles, wherever BS VI fuel is available.


    Our Ministry is trying to contribute towards solving the problem of pollution due to agricultural stubble burning and other causes by implementing 2G Ethanol plants,increasing share of gas in primary energy basket from 6% to 15%, initiating 9 th Gas Development Bidding Round,Unbundling of Gas sector to promote Gas-based Economy and other measures for Cleaner Fuel .


    With the introduction of BSVI, India joins the small list of Asia - Pacific nations -Japan, South Korea, Hong Kong, Australia, New Zealand, Philippines and China. And China he said is using it only for heavy vehicles.


    Director General of Centre for Science and Environment SmtSunitaNarain complimented the Ministry for the proactive step.

    *****


    PP/AD/KSR


    

    
    (Release ID: 1527229) Visitor Counter : 1696
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Hindi