      Ministry of Education

      Evaluation procedures redefined by CBSE to make system of marking more objective and error free
      Posted On: 02 APR 2018 7:23PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has a structured and robust Evaluation system. CBSE, as a part of continuous improvement endeavor, keeps reviewing all its process and activities from time to time to add value and refine them based on experiences. An internal committee of CBSE looked into the existing system to make the system more objective and error free. The study also took into account the experiences of the Regional Offices of the Board for identifying the nature and pattern of usual mistakes in the evaluation process. The feedback and the review of the evaluation process helped the Board to redefine some of the evaluation procedures. Board has added additional layer of supervision for ensuring marking of the answer script strictly as per marking scheme. The additional feature of posting and uploading of marks using IT solution have also added with the provision of auto totaling of marks.


    CBSE conducts examination for class X and XII for its affiliated schools as per the scheme of studies offered by the Board and opted by the child. There is no change with regard to pattern in class XII examinations.However, for class X in order to promote vocational education at secondary level, the Board has decided that the failed one subject (out of Math’s, Social Science and Science offered in class X by the Candidate) will be replaced by the 6 th vocational subject offered as additional 6 th subject as enabling passing criteria. In additional, the Board has also modified the passing criteria as a one-time measure for the batch of class X 2018 examination. This has been done in order to enable the present batch of class X to cope with the new system of assessment introduced by the Board from the year 2018 onwards.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Shri Upendra Kushwaha today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/YP/RK/CBSE

    
    
    (Release ID: 1527325) Visitor Counter : 248