      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Ministry of Tribal Affairs closely monitors management of Tribal Welfare Schools by States to ensure high quality
      Posted On: 02 APR 2018 5:27PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Tribal Affairs (MoTA) provides support under the programme under Article 275(1) of the Constitution of India to the State Governments for setting up of Eklavya Model Residential Schools (EMRSs) with the capacity of 480 students in each school. Besides, residential Ashram schools are also set up under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme ‘Establishment of Ashram Schools in Tribal Sub Plan Areas’. The objective of these interventions is to provide congenial environment and facilities to Scheduled Tribe (ST) students for their educational development. As per Guidlelines for EMRSs, a minimum of Rs. 42000/- per student per year is provided by MoTA for meeting recurring expenditure for running of EMRSs. Recurring expenditure of Ashram Schools is solely borne by the State Governments.


    As per the provisions of the Guidelines for construction of EMRSs, the Ministry’s support to the States for the EMRSs programme and its expansion is subject to the States ensuring high quality of management and running of the schools. Quality management indicates timely and smooth transition of funds allocated from the State Government to the management societies / schools; ensuring the recruitment of the desired number of teachers; ensuring the provision of medical facilities to staff and students; clean and hygienic surroundings and food for the children and providing a healthy, happy environment for the academic and overall development of the children. Maintenance and running of EMRSs and Ashram schools including provision of food, sanitation, etc. is the sole responsibility of respective State Government and is not centrally monitored by MoTA. However, MoTA also ensure monitoring of progress in implementation of schemes / programmes through:-


    i. Review of physical and financial progress of projects / activities by the Project Appraisal Committee (PAC) of the Ministry.


    ii. Utilization Certificates and Progress reports regarding the status of implementation of schemes are obtained.


    iii. Officers while visiting States/UTs also ascertain the progress of implementation of various schemes/ programmes of the Ministry of Tribal Affairs.


    iv. Meetings/ Conferences are convened at the Central level with State officials for ensuring timely submission of proposals, speeding up of implementation of the schemes/ programmes.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Shri Jaswantsinh Bhabhor in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    NB/AP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1527254) Visitor Counter : 317
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil