      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Special Package for Employment Generation in Leather and Footwear Sector
      Posted On: 04 APR 2018 3:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Government has approved special package for employment generation in leather and footwear sector. The package involves implementation of Central Sector Scheme ‘Indian Footwear, Leather & Accessories Development Programme (IFLADP)’ with an approved expenditure of Rs. 2,600 crores over the three financial years from 2017-18 to 2019-20. This information was given by Minister of State of Commerce and Industry, Shri C.R. Chaudhary in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today. The Minister informed the House that there are seven sub-schemes under IFLADP and listed out the various details of the sub-schemes:


    (i) Human Resource Development (HRD) sub-scheme provides assistance for Placement Linked Skill Development training to unemployed persons @ Rs. 15,000 per person, for skill up-gradation training to employed workers @ Rs. 5,000 per employee and for training of trainers @ Rs. 2 lakhs per person.


    (ii) Integrated Development of Leather Sector (IDLS) sub-scheme incentivizes investment and manufacturing including job creation by providing backend investment grant/subsidy @ 30% of the cost of new Plant and Machinery to Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and @ 20% of the cost of Plant and Machinery to other units for modernization /technology upgradation in existing units and also for setting up of new units.


    (iii) Establishment of Institutional Facilities sub-scheme provides assistance to Footwear Design & Development Institute (FDDI) for upgradation of some of the existing campuses of FDDI into "Centers of Excellence" and establishing 3 new fully equipped skill centers alongside the upcoming Mega Leather Cluster.


    (iv) Mega Leather, Footwear and Accessories Cluster (MLFAC sub-scheme provides infrastructure support to the Leather, Footwear and Accessories Sector by establishment of Mega Leather, Footwear and Accessories Cluster. Graded assistance is provided up to 50% of the eligible project cost, excluding cost of land with Government assistance being limited to Rs. 125 crores.


    (v) Leather Technology, Innovation and Environmental sub-scheme, assistance is provided for upgradation/installation of Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETPs) @ 70% of the project cost. The sub-scheme also provides for support to national level sectoral industry council/ association and support for preparation of vision document for Leather Footwear and Accessories Sector.


    (vi) Promotion of Indian Brands in Leather, Footwear and Accessories sub-scheme, eligible units approved for Brand Promotion are assisted. Government assistance is limited to 50% of total project cost subject to a limit of Rs.3 crores for each brand, each year for 3 years.


    (vii) Additional Employment Incentive for Leather, Footwear and Accessories Sector scheme, employers' contribution of 3.67% to Employees' Provident Fund for all new employees in Leather, Footwear and Accessories sector are provided for enrolling in EPFO for first 3 years of their employment.


    ******


    MM/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1527596) Visitor Counter : 1016
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil