      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Kiren Rijiju attends 66th All India Police Aquatic & Cross Country Championship’s Opening Ceremony
      Posted On: 02 APR 2018 7:41PM by PIB Delhi


    The Border Security Force (BSF) is organizing 66 th All India Police Aquatic & Cross Country Championship at BSF Chhawla Camp, New Delhi w.e.f. 02 nd (today) to 06 th April 2018.


    The Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Kiren Rijiju attended today’s opening ceremony at Rustamji Swimming Pool BSF Camp Chhawla, New Delhi as Chief Guest and formally inaugurated the session in the presence of DG, BSF and representatives of various CAPFs and other dignitaries. Shri Kiren Rijiju also took salute of the impressive March past by participating contingents of CAPFs & other State/UT police organization.


    Total 595 sports personnel from 27 Teams are participating in this Championship: -


    (a) Teams of CAPFs which includes BSF, CRPF, ITBP, CISF,SSB, RPF and Assam Rifle.


    (b) Teams of various State/UT Police organization includes Andhra Pradesh Police, Chhattisgarh Police, Chandigarh Police, Gujarat Police, Haryana Police, J&K Police, Jharkhand Police, Karnataka Police, Kerala Police, Maharasthra Police, Madhya Pradesh Police, Odisha Police, Punjab Police, Rajasthan Police, Tamil Nadu Police, Telangana Police, Tripura Police, Uttar Pradesh Police, Uttarakhand Police and West Bengal Police.


    Swimming events will be conducted at Rustamji Swimming pool w.e.f. 02 nd to 06 th April while cross country competition (10 kms) will be held on 4 th April at Dronacharya Stadium BSF Camp Chhawla.


    This five-day long event will conclude on 6 th April 2018.


    Addressing the sportsmen and the gathering, Shri Kiren Rijiju said that these competitions help to find talents and pave the way to compete at higher levels.


    This opening day has witnessed a spectacular synchronized and individual diving demonstration.


    ****


    BB/NK/KGS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1527344) Visitor Counter : 372
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi