      Ministry of Defence

      DAD Releases Handbook on Pay & allowances of JCOs & ORs
      Posted On: 04 APR 2018 7:45PM by PIB Delhi


    The Defence Accounts Department is entrusted with the responsibility of maintaining the pay accounts of million plus Jawans and JCOs of Indian Army. The Pay Accounts Offices (PAOs) of this department are at the forefront of the concerted efforts that are being put in to ensure that these men get their correct dues within reasonable time frame.


    An important requirement to meet the expectations of the end user and ensuring their contentment is that the JCOs/ORs understands their dues and their entitlement. If they further appreciate the processes involved in acceptance or denial of any dues, it would equip them with enough knowledge to have better awareness to contest entitlement inconsistencies, if any.


    This handbook was conceptualized with the aim to provide more grasp on the rules of entitlement as well as to have complete transparency of procedures in the PAOs. This first edition contains all the procedures right from the inception stage of publishing and processing of the daily Part II orders, till the final processing and disbursement of entitlements.


    The book also details the functional boundaries and constraints of PAOs. The chapters are so ordered that they lay down entitlement parameters in a user-friendly manner. Each of the chapter seeks to enlighten the JCOs/OR on the documentary and procedural requirements for processing an entitlement.


    The audit and procedural requirements behind processing of Contingent Bill items, AFPP Fund claims, MACPs, transfer/deputation, leave/TD etc., are all detailed in distinct chapters of the handbook. The deductions from pay and allowances, bank account details, etc. are also elaborated in the book.


    In a unique separate chapter interpretation of the Monthly Pay Slip has been elaborated. It details item-wise description of notifications provided in the Pay Slip, which, it is expected, would not only ameliorate grievances of Jawans at the inception stage but also give him confidence regarding legitimacy of the entitlements so granted. A chapter on general FAQs is also included for assistance and ready reference.


    The book has sought to cover all the parameters of pay and allowances of JCOs/ORs, incorporating the 7 th CPC entitlements as well, wherever available on the date of publication. This book in pdf format is also available on the website of PAO(OR) AMC & 11 GRRC as well as of PCDA(CC), Lucknow.


    SRR/NAo/DK/Rajib


    

    
    (Release ID: 1527731) Visitor Counter : 369