      Department of Space

      Project to Support ASEAN Countries
      Posted On: 05 APR 2018 6:20PM by PIB Delhi


    As announced by the Prime Minister of India in the India-ASEAN (Association of South East Asian Nations) Summit in October 2010, ISRO is pursuing a proposal to support Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) countries to receive and process data from Indian remote sensing satellites (RESOURCESAT-2 and OCEANSAT-2) and also to provide training in space science, technology and applications.


    All the 10 members of ASEAN, viz., Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam, will get benefitted from this project.


    India pursues international cooperation in peaceful uses of outer space with space agencies of 43 nations and 5 multilateral bodies. As part of this, ISRO keeps developing new products and services, jointly with partnering agencies, through joint missions, scientific instruments accommodation, data sharing and exchange of expertise. ISRO has built and launched ‘South AsiaSatellite’ on May 5, 2017 to provide satellite communication services to individual South Asian nations and also across the region. India participates in international disaster management mechanisms including International Charter "Space and Major Disasters“, Sentinel Asia programme of Asia Pacific Regional Space Agency Forum (APRSAF), UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and Pacific (UNESCAP) and UN Platform for Space based Information for Disaster management and Emergency Response (UNSPIDER). India, as a member of the International COSPAS-SARSAT system for search and rescue operations, provides distress alert and position location services to India and seven neighbouring countries. India has also been providing training programmes on space technology applications to officials from other countries.


    This was stated by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh, in written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/KGS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1527946) Visitor Counter : 1397
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil