      Ministry of Education

      Promotion of e-learning
      Posted On: 05 APR 2018 7:09PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) has launched many schemes for promoting e-learning across students in schools & Universities.The key e-learning initiatives run by MHRD are as follows:-


    (i) SWAYAM: The ‘Study Webs of Active Learning for Young Aspiring Minds' (SWAYAM) an integrated platform for online courses, using Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and covering school (9th to 12th) to Post Graduate Level. At present, about 1000+ MOOCs Courses are listed on SWAYAM, wherein about 30 Lakhs students have enrolled to these courses. It also offers online courses for students, teachers and teacher educators


    (ii) SWAYAM Prabha: SWAYAM Prabha is an initiative to provide 32 High Quality Educational Channels through DTH (Direct to Home) across the length and breadth of the country on 24X7 basis. It has curriculum based course content covering diverse disciplines.


    (iii) National Digital Library (NDL): The National Digital Library of India (NDL) is a project to develop a framework of virtual repository of learning resources with a single-window search facility. There are more than 153 Lakhs digital books available through the NDL.


    (iv) E-pathshala: E-books of the resources developed by National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) / State Institutes of Education (SIEs), State boards etc. SIEs in multiple languages and uploaded on e-pathshala website and disseminated through mobile app (android, iOS and Windows). E-pathshala has been listed/made available on the UMANG App of Govt. of India, which was launched by Hon’ble Prime Minister of India on 23 November, 2017 during GCCS-2017.


    (v) National Repository of Open Educational Resources (NROER) : To make digital resources available for teachers and students as free and open source material. To enable the participation of the community in development and sharing of digital resources. To facilitate the adoption and creation of digital resources in different Indian languages.


    During the last three financial years, the following amount were spent towards Swayam, Swayam Prabha, NDL, e-Pathshala & NROER:-

                                       
S. No.  Schemes            Amount Spent
                                       
                                       
                                       
1.      SWAYAM             Rs. 176 cr. 
                                       
                                       
                                       
2.      SWAYAM Prabha      Rs. 63.83cr.
                                       
                                       
                                       
3.      NDL                Rs. 24.68cr.
                                       
                                       
                                       
4.      e-Pathshala/NROER  Rs.3.13cr.  
                                       
                                       

    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Rajya Sabha question.


    ****


    NB/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1527973) Visitor Counter : 864
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil