      Ministry of Tourism

      ITDC undertakes various measures to modernize its hotels: Shri. K. J. Alphons
      Posted On: 02 APR 2018 6:25PM by PIB Delhi


    The measures undertaken by ITDC to modernise its hotels include renovation and upgradation of rooms, addition of new facilities, tie-ups with Online Travel Agencies for online room bookings, introduction of on-the-spot customer feedback, etc.


    At present, India Tourism Development Corporation Ltd. (ITDC), a Government of India undertaking under the administrative control of the Ministry of Tourism, is running the following hotels:-


    (i) The Ashok Hotel, New Delhi


    (ii) Samrat Hotel, New Delhi


    (iii) Hotel Jammu Ashok, Jammu, Jammu & Kashmir


    (iv) Hotel Patliputra Ashok, Patna, Bihar


    (v) Hotel Kalinga Ashok, Bhubaneswar, Odisha


    (vi) Lalitha Mahal Palace Hotel, Mysore, Karnataka


    (vii) Hotel Ranchi Ashok, Jharkhand, a joint venture company of ITDC and the State Government of Jharkhand


    (viii) Hotel Donyi Polo Ashok, Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh, a joint venture company of ITDC and the State Government of Arunanchal Pradesh


    (ix) Hotel Pondicherry Ashok, Puducherry, a joint venture company of ITDC and the State Government of Puducherry


    Under the disinvestment policy of the Government, it has been decided to transfer to the State Governments or go in for joint leasing with the State Government, the following loss making hotels/properties of ITDC:

     1. Hotel Lalitha Mahal Palace, Karnataka.
     2. Hotel Donyi Polo Ashok, Itanagar Arunachal Pradesh.
     3. Hotel Pondicherry Ashok, Puducherry.
     4. Hotel Patliputra Ashok, Patna, Bihar.
     5. Hotel Kalinga Ashok, Bhubaneswar, Odisha.
     6. Hotel Ranchi Ashok, Ranchi, Jharkhand.

    This information was given by Shri K. J. Alphons, Union Minister of State (I/C) for Tourism in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/SK/JP/jk/Tourism-2/02-04-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1527297) Visitor Counter : 323
    
    
    
    
    

6.