      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      A total of 1545 hostels, sanctioned by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, for tribal girls and boys in the country at present
      Posted On: 02 APR 2018 5:51PM by PIB Delhi


    There are a total of 1545 hostels, sanctioned by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, for tribal girls and boys in the country at present. Out of this, the number of hostels for boys is 544 hostels and 1001 hostels for girls.


    A total 380 hostels for ST girls and boys have been sanctioned under the schemes of Special Central Assistance to Tribal Sub Scheme (SCA to TSS) and grants under Art 275(1) of the Constitution from 2014-15 to 2017-18. A total of Rs 565.32cr were also sanctioned under the two schemes for the same period.


    Under the scheme of Hostels for ST Girls and Boys, an amount of Rs 160.29 cr was released from 2014-15 to 2017-18.


    Under the Scheme of Girls & Boys Hostels for STs, Central assistance is given to States / UTs / Universities for construction of new hostel buildings and / or extension of existing hostels. Under the scheme, State Governments are eligible for 100% central share for construction of all Girls’ hostel and also for construction of Boys’ hostel in naxal affected areas (identified by Ministry of Home Affairs from time to time). The funding pattern for the other Boys’ Hostel to State Governments is on 50:50 basis. In case of UTs, the Central Government bears the entire cost of construction of both Boys’ and Girls’ hostels. The hostels may be for middle schools, secondary schools, college or university level education. However, as a part of rationalization of schemes of the Ministry, it has been decided to subsume the intervention of the schemes of ‘Hostels for ST Girls and Boys’ under the Schemes of ‘Special Central Assistance to Tribal Sub-Scheme (SCA to TSS) and Grants under Article 275(1) of the Constitution from 2018-19 onwards. Under these schemes, receipt of proposal for construction of hostels is a continuous process. The proposal received from the State Government is appraised and approved by the Project Appraisal Committee (PAC) in the Ministry for funding depending upon the availability of funds under the relevant scheme(s).


    Monitoring and maintenance of hostels is the responsibility of the concerned States/UTs. However, with a view to improve the facilities in the existing hostels, proposals received from State Governments are considered for funding under the schemes Special Central Assistance to Tribal Sub-Scheme (SCA to TSP), Grants under Article 275 (1) of the Constitution and Scheme for Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTG) for various interventions including construction of boundary walls, toilets and arrangement of drinking water etc. from time to time as per the demand of State Governments depending upon the availability of funds under the relevant schemes.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Shri JaswantsinhBhabhor in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    NB/AP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1527275) Visitor Counter : 281