      Ministry of Power

      Shri R K Singh meets Chief Minister of Meghalaya; assures all possible support for 24*7 power supply in the State
      
      Meghalaya to launch Saubhagya scheme on 20 April, 2018

      Posted On: 03 APR 2018 8:34PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Conrad Kongkal Sangma, Chief Minister of Meghalaya called on Shri R K Singh, Union Minister of State (IC) Power and New & Renewable Energy in his office here, today. The meeting discussed various issues pertaining to power sector in the State, and to ensure round the clock supply for each household in Meghalaya.


    Shri Singh assured all possible support to Meghalaya. He said that apart from the projects sanctioned for the State, if they required any additional projects for strengthening their distribution system, the proposal may be sent and thus will be sanctioned by the Government of India.


    Shri Singh referred to the target date for electrifying all the remaining villages. The Chief Minister and the Minister for Power, Meghalaya assured to electrify all the villages by the deadline.


    The Chief Minister stated that he intended to launch the Saubhagya scheme in Meghalaya on the 20th April, 2018, and invited Shri Singh to be present. Shri Singh accepted the invitation and agreed to be present.


    Chief Minister also mentioned that if freight subsidy was provided for the coal meant for power plants, it might help in reducing the electricity rates in the State.


    Both Minsters discussed the ways for expediting the projects stuck-up due to various reasons. On the issue of shifting of a transmission line in Meghalaya (for laying a new railway line), Shri Singh emphasised that this shifting should be done without any disruption of supply to the consumers.


    Chief Minister of Meghalaya, Shri Conrad Kongkal Sangma thanked Shri RK Singh for all the support and cooperation provided for the State.


    ****


    JN/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1527539) Visitor Counter : 367
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu