      Ministry of Railways

      Steps Taken by Railways for Safety of Passengers in Trains
      Posted On: 04 APR 2018 5:56PM by PIB Delhi


    Railway Protection Force (RPF) supplements the efforts of GRP to provide better protection and security of passenger area & passengers and for matters connected therewith. Policing on Railways being a State subject, prevention of crime, registration of cases, their investigation and maintenance of law & order in Railway premises as well as on running trains are the statutory responsibility of the State Governments, which they discharge through Government Railway Police (GRP)/District Police.


    The following steps are being taken by the Railways to provide security to passengers-


    1. On vulnerable and identified routes/sections, 2500 trains (on an average) are escorted by Railway Protection Force daily, in addition to 2200 trains escorted by Government Railway Police of different States daily.


    2. Security Help Line number 182 is made operational over Indian Railways for security related assistance to passengers in distress.


    3. Surveillance is kept through CCTV cameras, provided at about 394 stations over Indian Railways, to ensure safety and security of passengers.


    4. An Integrated Security System (ISS) consisting of surveillance of vulnerable stations through Close Circuit Television Camera Network, Access Control etc. has been sanctioned to improve surveillance mechanism over 202 railway stations.


    5. Through various social media platforms viz. Twitter, Facebook etc., Railways are in regular touch with passengers to enhance security of passengers and to address their security concern.


    6. Drives are conducted from time to time against the entry of unauthorized persons in trains and railway premises.


    7. Regular coordination is made with the State Police/GRP authorities at all levels for prevention of crime, registration of cases, their investigation and maintenance of law & order in Railway premises as well as on running trains.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Railways Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SBS/MKV/PM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1527669) Visitor Counter : 385
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil