      Ministry of Railways

      Catering Facility in Railways
      Posted On: 04 APR 2018 5:54PM by PIB Delhi


    Improvement of catering services is an on-going process. In its endeavour to provide quality and hygienic food to the passengers, a new Catering Policy has been issued on 27th February 2017. As per Catering Policy 2017, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC) has been mandated to carry out the unbundling by creating a distinction primarily between food preparation and food distribution on trains. In order to upgrade quality of food preparation, IRCTC is to set up new kitchens and upgrade existing ones. Further, detailed instructions/guidelines have been issued to the Zonal Railways for conducting joint inspections by Medical, Commercial and concerned infrastructure maintenance departments to inspect each and every catering unit (mobile and static) including base kitchens/cell kitchens on all Railway divisions/zones. Apart from this, regular and surprise inspections are done by Food Safety Officers, Designated Officers and Joint Food Safety Commissioners. A joint team of ticket checking staff and RPF/GRP staff also conduct surprise checks to prevent unauthorised vending on stations and trains. General Managers of the Zonal Railways have been requested to monitor such drives personally. Food samples collected by Food Safety Officers are sent to the nominated accredited Laboratories under Food Safety & Standard Act for analysis and testing. Penalties are imposed in cases of detection of unsatisfactory food samples and prosecutions are carried out as per provisions of Food Safety & Standard Rule -2011.


    At present, 378 mobile and 9208 static catering units are operational in Indian Railways. As per Catering Policy 2017, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Limited (IRCTC) has been mandated to carry out the unbundling by creating a distinction primarily between food preparation and food distribution on trains. At present, IRCTC has taken over almost all mobile units in phased manner from Zonal Railways and they are contracting out mobile units centrally. Details of the names of the contractors (companies/firms) providing catering services in trains are as under:-

                                                          
S. No.  Name of Company/firm                              
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
1       Doon’s Caterers                                   
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
2       Express Food Services                             
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
3       Brandavan Food Products                           
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
4       R. K. Associates & Hoteliers Private Limited      
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
5       Sanraj Hospitality                                
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
6       Roop Caterers                                     
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
7       J. K. Ghosh                                       
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
8       Arenco Catering                                   
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
9       Deepak & Company                                  
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
10      Sunshine Caterers Private Limited                 
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
11      Krishna Enterprises                               
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
12      Food World                                        
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
13      Satyam Caterers Private Limited                   
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
14      Om Sai Ram Enterprises                            
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
15      Ambuj Hotel & Real Estate Private Limited         
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
16      A. S. Sales Corporation                           
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
17      Poorvanchal Caterers                              
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
18      P. Siva Prasad                                    
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
19      Boon Catering Company Private Limited             
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
20      Singh Caterers & Vendors                          
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
21      Alok Kumar Ghosh                                  
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
22      Griham Food & Hotel Private Limited               
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
23      Variety Pantry Services Private Limited           
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
24      Golden Caterers                                   
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
25      Hakmichand D. & Sons                              
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
26      A. A. Catering Company                            
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
27      Hotel Rajasthan                                   
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
28      New Classic Caterers Private Limited              
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
29      Pplus Facility Management Services Private Limited
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
30      R. K. Food Products                               
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
31      Salasar Enterprises                               
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
32      P. K. Shefi                                       
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
33      Classic Caterers                                  
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
34      Kwality Caterers                                  
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
35      P. R. Kumar                                       
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
36      Seema Caterers                                    
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
37      Srinathji Caterers                                
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
38      Vasantham Catering                                
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
39      Fine Caterers & Suppliers                         
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
40      K. M. Musthafa                                    
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
41      K. M. A. Caterers                                 
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
42      Sai Balaji Food & Beverage (India) Private Limited
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
43      Speed Catering Services Private Limited           
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
44      Sree Venkateswara Enterprises                     
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
45      ABC Enterprises                                   
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
46      Kannelite Facility Management Services            
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
47      Quinn India                                       
                                                          
                                                          
                                                          
48      Sunil Catering Services                           
                                                          
                                                          

    As per the provisions of New Catering Policy 2017, the following ceiling limits are applicable for various categories of catering units:-


    (i) Stand alone Automatic Vending Machines (AVMs): An entity is allowed to hold a maximum of 10 AVMs over each Zonal Railway.


    (ii) Milk Stalls: Authorized franchisee/agencies of allottees (apex dairy cooperative societies approved by Government, dairy cooperative federations/members of NCDFI and/or developed under the aegis of Operation Flood Programme, bodies/agencies registered/certified by FSSAI) are allowed to hold a maximum of five milk stalls per Railway Division.


    (iii) Minor catering units: A licensee is allowed to hold a maximum of five minor catering units per Division.


    (iv) Food Plaza, Food Courts and Fast Food Units: An individual/firm/company is allowed to hold a maximum of two units per Division, subject to a further limit of 25 units over Indian Railways.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Railways Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SBS/MKV/PM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1527667) Visitor Counter : 1070
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil