      Ministry of Education

      Awareness Programme on Swachhata in Educational Institutions
      Posted On: 02 APR 2018 7:20PM by PIB Delhi


    All educational institutions have been asked to spread awareness about sanitation and hygiene. Department of School Education & Literacy has advised States and Union Territories to encourage school education authorities for promoting cleanliness and hygiene practices in schools by undertaking various activities, including Swachhata Pakhwada, appointment of Student Ambassador, singing Swachhata songs in BalSabha/Children’sassembly, celebrating Swachhata Diwas and drawing/painting competitions focusing on Swachhata in each school. During Swachhata Pakhwada 2017 observed during 1-15 September, 2017, Green School drive was taken up in schools across the country. Dustbins with blue and green colour were used for recycled and unrecyclable wastes, respectively. Planting of trees around school premises and around toilets to utilize waste water for gardening, were also taken up during the drive, in which 6.81 lakhs schools in the country participated. The Departmentof School Education & Literacy has instituted SwachhVidyalaya Puraskar (SVP) in 2016 at district, State and national levels to recognise inspire and celebrate excellence in sanitation and hygiene practices in schools. The SVP aims to encourage schools to achievea higher Swachhata scale and standard, for which a Standing Operating Procedure has been released.


    University Grant Commission have issued guidelines on Swachh Bharat- Swasth Bharat Scheme, wherein among other things, Universities/Colleges have been asked to maintain proper waste segregation and disposal system and to ensure that it is implemented at the structural level. Universities/Colleges have also been asked that a separate project must be designed for students which may include embedding instructions about cleanliness, creating awareness camps in organizing cleanliness drives so that cleanliness is inculcated in their attitude and learning. In order to generate peer pressure amongst Higher educational Institutions in the area of hygiene, a Swachhata Ranking exercise was also undertaken based on various hygiene parameters including solid & liquid waste disposable process, water availability, water purity, kitchen hygiene, garbage disposable facility in campus, etc. 3500 Institutions participated in the exercise. Out of these, 25 Institutions were awarded during the Swachhata Pakhwada 2017. This will be an annual exercise so that built in standards of hygiene are upgraded over time through peer pressure.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/RK/ SEGREGATION OF WASTES


    

    
    (Release ID: 1527320) Visitor Counter : 286