      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Rehabilitation of Freed Labourers
      Posted On: 04 APR 2018 3:11PM by PIB Delhi


    The exact domicile of freed bonded labourer is not centrally available as the Central Government releases financial assistance for rehabilitation of freed bonded labourers based on the proposals from the States. The Chhattisgarh Government, since 2012 till date, sought financial assistance for rehabilitation of 2682 freed bonded labourers.


    Prior to the revamp of the bonded labour rehabilitation scheme with effect from 18.5.16, the financial assistance for rehabilitation of a freed bonded labourer was Rs.20,000/- which was borne by the Centre and the States in the ratio of 50:50. The revamped scheme, namely the Central Sector Scheme for Rehabilitation of Bonded Labourer, 2016, provides, inter-alia, financial assistance for rehabilitation of a rescued bonded labourer at the rate of rupees one lakh for adult male beneficiary, Rs. 2 lakh for special category beneficiaries such as children including orphans or those rescued from organized & forced begging rings or other forms of forced child labour, and women, and Rs. 3 lakh in cases of bonded or forced labour involving extreme cases of deprivation or marginalization such as trans-genders, or women or children rescued from ostensible sexual exploitation such as brothels, massage parlours, placement agencies etc., or trafficking, or in cases of differently abled persons, or in situations where the District Magistrate deems fit. The financial assistance for rehabilitation under the revamped scheme is fully borne by the Central Government and linked to conviction. However, immediate assistance of Rs. 20,000/- may be provided by the District Magistrate, which is reimbursed by the Central Government.


    The District Magistrate provides the rehabilitation cash amount directly to the concerned freed labourer as prescribed u nder the Central Sector Scheme for Rehabilitation of Bonded Labourer, 2016.


    Rehabilitation cash amount is provided to the freed labourer by the District Magistrates, following which the Central assistance is reimbursed on receipt of the proposals from State Governments on their fulfilling the requirements stipulated in the Scheme.


    This information was given by Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Union Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employment in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    JN/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1527592) Visitor Counter : 386
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil