      Ministry of Education

      Ranking and Accreditation System for Higher Educational Institutions
      Posted On: 02 APR 2018 7:32PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Human Resource Development has launched the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) on 29 th September, 2015 to rank institutions across the country. The parameters for ranking broadly cover “Teaching, Learning and Resources,” “Research and Professional Practices,” “Graduation Outcomes,” “Outreach and Inclusivity,” and “Perception”.


    In India, the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) does the institutional assessment and accreditation, while National Board of Accreditation (NBA) does programmatic accreditation of technical programmes and courses.


    India Rankings 2016 and 2017 have already been released which are available at ‘ https://www.nirfindia.org/Home ’. India Rankings, 2018 is set to be released in the first week of April 2018.


    The University Grants Commission (UGC) has issued the Mandatory Assessment and Accreditation of Higher Educational Institutions, Regulations, 2012, whereby all eligible Higher Educational institutions are required to get themselves accredited.


    To rationalize the expansion of courses in engineering / technical, management etc. and to bring quality in technical education, AICTE has made it mandatory to have NBA Accreditation for institutions seeking new courses / expansion of existing courses.


    Ranking promotes competition among the Universities and drive them to strive for excellence. Government has also started a scheme called ‘Institutions of Eminence’ in which 20 institutions both public and private, would be selected on challenge method and they would be actively supported to come up in the global rankings.


    In NIRF, to promote Research and Development in Higher Education, ‘ Research and Professional Practices’ has been given the highest weightage of 40%, for ranking Universities.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/RK/ Ranking and Accreditation System

    
    
    (Release ID: 1527336) Visitor Counter : 766
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu