      Ministry of Education

      Central RTE Rules amended to ensure learning outcomes amongst students
      Posted On: 02 APR 2018 7:23PM by PIB Delhi


    The Goal-4 of Sustainable Development Goals is to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. The major emphasis is on access, equity and quality of education. All the major schemes of the Ministry viz. Sarva Shiksha Abhiyaan (SSA), Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyaan (RMSA), Mid-Day Meal (MDM) Scheme, Shakshar Bharat and Rashtritya Ucchatar Shiksha Abhiyaan (RUSA) are being implemented with the objectives of development of educational Infrastructure, emphasis on equal opportunities for all and ensuring quality & standard of education.A number of corrective steps have been taken by the Government to further improve the quality of education in the country. Some important measures are:

     1. Focusing on quality education, the Central RTE Rules have been amended on 20 th February, 2017 to include reference on class-wise, subject-wise Learning Outcomes. These would serve as a guideline for States and UTs to ensure that all children acquire appropriate learning level. For the first time in November, 2017 National Achievement Surveys (NAS) was conducted for classes III, V and VIII to assess the learning outcomes of students in government and government aided schools on all subjects.
     2. The RTE Act, 2009 was amended in 2017 to ensure that all teachers acquire the minimum qualifications prescribed under the Act by 31st March, 2019. This would ensure an improvement in the overall quality of teachers and teaching processes, and consequently learning outcomes of children. Further, it reinforces the Government's emphasis on improvement of quality of elementary education.
     3. The Department is placing a lot of emphasis on the development and provision of e-content for students and also training of teachers, head masters and Principals.
     4. Government is implementing a centrally sponsored scheme namely RashtriyaUchatterShikshaAbhiyaan (RUSA) with the aim of promoting access, equity and quality in higher education. Under RUSA, inter-alia, central assistance is provided to States for creation of model degree colleges, infrastructure grants to colleges and Universities, creation of Universities either through up gradationof existing autonomous colleges or clustering of colleges. Further, Higher Education FinancingAgency (HEFA) has been set up by the Government to mobilize funds from the market as perrequirements of the centrally funded higher educational institutions.
     5. The University Grants Commission (UGC) has been constantly striving to develop a system of higher education of quality, appropriate to the national needs and aspirations and in tune with global trends. The Commission is committed to constant improvement of the quality of higher education and defining excellence in the processes of teaching, learning and research. In order to ensure quality of higher education is further streamlined, UGC has notified a number of regulations which are mandatory for every institution of higher education across the country .

    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Shri Upendra Kushwaha today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AK/RK/ SDGs on Standard of Education


    

    
    (Release ID: 1527324) Visitor Counter : 400
    
    
    
    
    

5.