      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Several measures being taken by MoTA to generate awareness about schemes/projects for tribal development
      Posted On: 02 APR 2018 5:26PM by PIB Delhi


    Tribal population has their own traditional life styles, remoteness of habitations, dispersed population and displacement. Ministry of Tribal Affairs is seized of the matter that tribal population are inhabiting in far flung remote areas and may not be fully aware of the programmes, policies and development schemes but it has taken several steps to disseminate awareness of the programmes / schemes implemented by the Ministry as mentioned below:


    (i) Guidelines of the Schemes / programmes implemented by the Ministry as well as Annual Reports have been uploaded on the Ministry’s Website.


    (ii) Sanction Orders mentioning therein the name of the project to be implemented in the States under a particular Scheme are uploaded on the Ministry’s website.


    (iii) Scholarships are provided directly in the accounts of the students.


    (iv) With regard to implementation of Forest Rights Act, 2006, training and awareness programmes are organized at Gram Panchayat level by the States.


    (v) While issuing sanction orders under the Scheme Special Central Assistance to Tribal Sub-Scheme (SCA to TSS), State Governments are advised to ensure that concerned Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) should be duly informed about the projects / programmes relating to Tribal Development to be implemented in the area of jurisdiction. It is also advised to ensure that meetings of Gram Sabha are conducted on regular intervals as per norms in such areas.


    (vi) MoTA also provides focused advertisement in the newspapers / dailies besides press releases from time to time in order to generate awareness among the targeted ST beneficiaries so that they can approach the system for the services due to them.


    (vii) Further MoTA provides supports to local NGOs for conducting awareness programmes, training of local level functionaries, Forest Rights Committees and training of master trainers, capacity building of functionaries and tribal representatives on socio-economic programs and capacity building of artisans trough Tribal Research Institutes (TRIs).


    (viii) As per the Guidelines for Tribal Sub-Plan issued by erstwhile Planning Commission, the States/UTs shall set up its own Social Audit Programme with the involvement of elected representatives, beneficiaries and reputed voluntary organizations / NGOs / CSOs. As tribal habitations are scattered at large distances, States/UTs has to design social audit programmes such that these are undertaken at the level of the ST cluster or habitation. States/UTs shall undertake to develop adequate capacities amongst the inhabitants of the cluster/habitations.


    (ix) In order to consistently improve public service delivery, Ministry of Tribal Affairs continuously reviews various schematic initiatives; the recent ones being rationalization of scholarship schemes, onboarding of scheme on DBT, online portal for NGO Grants etc.


    (x) The Ministry has been consistently spending funds for programmes / schemes for educational, and socio-economic development of tribals and monitoring the spend through various mechanisms like Project Appraisal Committee, Utilisation Certificates, Physical Progress Reports, field visits etc., Ministry of Tribal Affairs has developed and an online monitoring system http://stcmis.gov.in wherein funds provided by various Central Sector Ministries / Departments under the schemes meant for the development of tribals and tribal dominated areas with respect to roads, buildings, hygiene, education, scholarship etc. are invariably reflected and updated on daily basis.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Shri Jaswantsinh Bhabhor in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    NB/AP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1527253) Visitor Counter : 462