      Cabinet

      Cabinet approves the Protection of Human Rights (Amendments) Bill, 2018
      Posted On: 04 APR 2018 7:18PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the Protection of Human Rights (Amendments) Bill, 2018 for better protection and promotion of human rights in the country.


    Salient Features:

     1. It proposes to include “National Commission for Protection of Child Rights” as deemed Member of the Commission;
     2. It proposes to add a woman Member in the composition of the Commission;
     3. It proposes to enlarge the scope of eligibility and scope of selection of Chairperson, National Human Rights Commission as well as the State Human Rights Commission; and
     4. It proposes to incorporate a mechanism to look after the cases of human rights violation in the Union Territories.
     5. It proposes to amend the term of office of Chairperson and Members of National Human Rights Commission and State Human Rights Commission to make it in consonance with the terms of Chairperson and Members of other Commissions.

    Benefits:


    The Amendment will strengthen the Human Rights Institutions of India further for effective discharge of their mandates, roles and responsibilities. Moreover, the amended Act will be in perfect sync with the agreed global standards and benchmarks towards ensuring the rights relating to life, liberty, equality and dignity of the individual in the country.


    Background:


    The amendment to the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993 will make National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) more compliant with the Paris Principle concerning its autonomy, independence, pluralism and wide-ranging functions in order to effectively protect and promote human rights.


    ******


    AKT/VBA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1527699) Visitor Counter : 2324
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Assamese , Gujarati , Tamil
    
    
    

5.