      Ministry of Tourism

      Government produces thematic creatives on niche products under ‘Incredible India 2.0’: Shri. K. J. Alphons
      Posted On: 04 APR 2018 5:04PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Tourism, as part of its on-going activities, annually releases global print, electronic and online media campaigns in important and potential markets overseas, under the Incredible India brand-line, to promote various tourism destinations and products of the country including Wellness and Wildlife Tourism. Promotions are also undertaken through the website and Social Media accounts of the Ministry. In addition, the Indiatourism Offices abroad undertake various promotional activities overseas with the objective of showcasing India’s tourism potential and increasing tourist arrivals to the country. These promotional activities include outdoor advertising, participation in travel fairs and exhibitions; organising road shows, Know India seminars & workshops; organizing and supporting Indian food and cultural festivals; publication of brochures; offering joint advertising and brochure support and inviting media personalities, tour operators and opinion makers to visit the country under the Hospitality Programme of the Ministry.


    The Ministry of Tourism, Government of India has launched the “Incredible India 2.0” Campaign during 2017-18. The 2.0 Campaign marks a shift from generic promotions being undertaken across the world to market specific promotional plans and content creation. Thematic creatives on different Niche products have been produced for the Television, Print and Online media. These include Television Commercials on Yoga, Medical Tourism, Golf Tourism, Fashion, River Cruises, Cuisine, Wild Life, Heritage Sites, etc.


    This information was given by Shri K. J. Alphons, Union Minister of State (I/C) for Tourism in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/SK/JP/jk/Tourism-2/04-04-2018


    

    
    (Release ID: 1527630) Visitor Counter : 426