      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      Shri Vijay Goel discusses MPLD Scheme with Hon’ble Members of Rajya Sabha
      Posted On: 05 APR 2018 1:38PM by PIB Delhi


    An open House was organized at the initiative of Hon’ble Minister of State (MOS) for Statistics & Programme implementation with Hon’ble Members of Rajya Sabha for first time to understand the problems in smooth implementation of MPLAD Scheme and also elicit getting their suggestions for improvement. Initiating the discussion Minister told them that in last four years 3.17 lakh number of works were completed. The MPLADS portal is also being improved so as more information can be given and a transparent and friendly information system can work.


    Hon’ble MOS inaugurated a pocket book on Scheme guideline, to be used as a ready reckoner, and also launched an e-book on the scheme. The e-book highlights the good quality assets created under the scheme as well as informs about the basic feature/ provisions of the scheme.


    A number of MPs attended the meeting. All MPs were provided with an opportunity to give their suggestions which can improve the outcome of the scheme. All MPs were very appreciative of the effort and especially lauded the MOS for the initiative and hoped that such forum would be made available to them in future also. The suggestions of the MPs were wide ranging however the following appeared prominently in the course of the meeting:

      * Involvement of NGOs in the utilization of funds
      * Smart classrooms for the educational institutions
      * Motorized Try-cycle for persons with disabilities
      * Use of funds on Irrigation projects

    The MOS also informed the Hon’ble Members that there is a provision of 2% administrative expenditure out of released funds which can be used to hire the services of manpower to facilitate the Hon’ble Members with respect to MPLADS and also assist district authority in discharging the works pertaining to the Scheme.


    The MOS told the Hon’ble Members that in future the Ministry would highlight the good works done under MPLADS through e-books.


    Secretary Shri K V Eapen, Additional Secretary Dr. Amita Prasad and other officers were also present.


    ***


    AKT/RKC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1527812) Visitor Counter : 551
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

*