      Ministry of Education

      Model Curriculum prepared by AICTE for various engineering and management courses
      Posted On: 02 APR 2018 7:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has prepared outcome based Model Curriculum for Under Graduate (UG) and Post Graduate (PG) Programme in Engineering and PGDM/MBA Programme in Management. The Model Curriculum for Engineering revises the credit points from 180 to 160, facilitates students to opt for electives from their disciplines as well as cross disciplines, provides opportunity for students to take up induction programme & internships and includes non-credit course on value education for holistic development of students.


    The focus of curriculum for PG Programme in Engineering is advanced study of specialization through core subjects, flexible and diverse program specific electives, open electives to widen skills, collaborating and interactive learning to ensure talent development.


    The model curriculum for MBA/PGDM Courses has been designed with an objective to provide in depth knowledge of the academic disciplines and applied fundamental areas necessary to meet the requirement of business enterprises. Courses on Indian ethos and business ethics and compulsory internship/ field work have been made an integral part of course curriculum.


    The AICTE is aware about the need for imparting training to teachers. It is preparing comprehensive training policy for Teachers Training Programmes for upgrading the skills of teachers through AICTE Quality Improvement Centres which are set up in leading academic institutions in various parts of the country. AICTE has already started consultative process with all stakeholders in this regard.


    The AICTE, as per its policy conducts surprise inspections of AICTE approved institutions to verify the information provided by them and takes appropriates actions based on inspection reports.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/RK/AICTE

    
    
    (Release ID: 1527319) Visitor Counter : 273