      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Safety and Protection to Foreign Women
      Posted On: 04 APR 2018 5:43PM by PIB Delhi


    ‘Police’ and ‘Public Order’ are State subjects under the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India. The responsibility to maintain law and order, protection of life and property of the people rests primarily with the respective State Governments. The State Governments are competent to deal with such offences under the extant provisions of laws.


    The Ministry of Tourism has taken following measures to ensure safety and protection for the foreign guests:


    The Ministry of Tourism has launched the 24x7 Toll Free Multi-Lingual Tourist Info-Helpline on the toll free number 1800111363 or on a short code 1363 in 12 Languages including 10 international languages and in Hindi & English in February 2016, for domestic and foreign tourists to provide support service in terms of information relating to Travel in India and also offers appropriate guidance to tourists in distress while travelling in India.


    A Welcome card with “Tips to enjoy your stay” is being handed over to foreign tourists on their arrival to make the visit of tourists a memorable experience.


    The State Governments / Union Territory Administrations of Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jammu & Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha have deployed Tourist Police, in one form or the other.


    The Ministry of Tourism has launched Social Awareness Media Campaigns with the objective of sensitizing stakeholders in the tourism industry as well as the masses and general public about the importance of good conduct and behavior towards tourists and to reinforce the spirit of ‘Atithidevo Bhava’.


    The Ministry of Tourism in the year 2010, has launched code of conduct to be adopted by the Indian travel and tourism industry for Safe and Honourable Tourism with the objectives to encourage tourism activities to be undertaken with respect to basic rights like dignity, safety and freedom from exploitation of both tourists and local residents, in particular women and children.


    The Ministry of Tourism has issued the Guidelines on Safety and Security of Tourists for State Governments /Union Territories and ‘Tips for Travelers’ in September 2014 to stress the importance of safety and risk management, assist in identifying best practices and encourage closer cooperation for ensuring a pleasant experience to the tourists.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Ganga Ram Ahir in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK/AK/4225


    

    
    (Release ID: 1527654) Visitor Counter : 652