      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Cleanliness is the first step for development: Shri C.R. Chaudhary
      
      Shri Chaudhary gives away prizes to the winners of various Swachhta activities performed during Swachhta Pakhwada from 16th -28th February, 2018

      Posted On: 04 APR 2018 6:13PM by PIB Delhi

    The Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Shri C.R. Chaudhary has said that cleanliness is the first step for development and people should inculcate the habit of cleanliness into their daily life. Shri Chaudhary stated this while distributing prizes to the winners of various Swachhta activities performed during Swachhta Pakhwada from 16 th -28 th February, 2018 in New Delhi today.


    Trophies were awarded to the cleanest Depot in FCI, CWC and CRWC. A Running Trophy to most clean section in this Department was also given. Prizes were distributed to winners of Essay Writing Competition on Swachhta. The contractual Safai Karmcharis were also felicitated for their outstanding contribution for maintaining Swachhta in this Department. Shri Ravikant, Secretary, Department of Food & Public Distribution and other officials from the Department ware also present on the occasion.


    Shri Ram Vilas Paswan, Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution inaugurated the Swachhta Pakhwada by administering Swachhta Oath to the officials in the Department in the presence of the Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Shri C R Chaudhary and Secretary, Department of Food & Public Distribution, Shri Ravikant. Swachhta Oath was followed by cleanliness drive in the Krishi Bhawan premises by Shri Ram Vilas Paswan, Shri C R Chaudhary, Shri Ravikant and other officers and staff in the Department.


    During the Swachhta Pakhwada which was organized from 16 th -28 th February, 2018 various activities/events like Swachhta Oath, play on Swachhta, Swachhta awareness rally along with Swachhta activities, Nukkad Natak, recording and reviewing of old records, essay writing competition were also carried out at the HQ’s of offices/ organizations of this Department and in all the regional offices all over the country.


    *****


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1527677) Visitor Counter : 272
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil