      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      The mantra of 3R – Reduce, Reuse and Recycle - Is at the heart of any vision towards the sustainable development of mankind
      
      Prime Minister Narendra Modi's message to the Eighth Regional 3R Forum

      Posted On: 08 APR 2018 2:21PM by PIB Delhi

    In a message to the participants of the Eighth Regional 3R Forum in Asia and the Pacific , Prime Minister Sh. Narendra Modi has said, “The mantra of 3R – Reduce, Reuse and Recycle- is at the heart of any vision towards the sustainable development of mankind. All stakeholders –producers, consumers and the State alike must adhere to this golden principle which can contribute significantly in solving the twin challenges of waste management as well as the sustainable development”.


    The Eighth Regional 3R Forum in Asia and the Pacific is all set to commence in Indore from 9 to 12 April 2018 with an overall theme of “Achieving Clean Water, Clean Land and Clean Air through 3R and Resource Efficiency – A 21st Century Vision for Asia-Pacific Communities”.


    The forum will kick start on 9th April with a pre event ceremony welcoming more than 500 delegates from across India and the world. The event will be inaugurated by Smt. Sumitra Mahajan, Speaker of the Lok Sabha and Sh. Hardeep S. Puri, Minister of State (I/C), Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on 10th April 2018. Sh.Tadahiko Ito, State Minister, Ministry of the Environment, Japan will also be present at the event.


    The Eighth Regional 3R Forum will see participation of around 40 mayors of cities around the world and mayors of more than 100 cities across India.The highlight of the event will be a series of sessions with mayors focusing on sustainable urban development and forging of inter-municipal partnerships and cooperation at the national and international level.The signing and subsequent adoption of the ‘ Indore 3R Declaration on Achieving Clean Water, Clean Land and Clean Air’ in cities by mayors and city authorities is the major expected outcome of the event.


    Apart from a series of plenary sessions to be spread over three days, the Forum will also host the International 3R Exhibition and various technical cum cultural field visits for its delegates. The Forum will also recognise and reward industries and civil society organisations carrying out exceptional work in the area of 3R for waste management through the 3R Awards scheduled for April 12.


    3R FORUM : Aims and Objectives


    The Forum aims to address how 3R and resource efficiency measures can provide complementary benefits in making cities and countries clean, smart, liveable and resilient. The Forum also aims to generate policy-level, institutional level and technological insights towards effective implementation of 3R and resource efficiency to foster circular economic development, sustainable change in current use of natural resources and ultimately achieve a zero waste society.


    In addition, the Forum seeks to engage the public and private sector to explore various partnership opportunities in areas of 3R and waste management for moving towards a zero waste society. The Forum further provides an opportunity to establish insightful linkages between the principles of 3R and resource efficiency and the objectives of Swachh Bharat Mission (Clean India Mission). Through this Forum, India aims to strengthen this focus through its ‘Mission Zero Waste’ approach thereby encouraging cities, industries and other diverse stakeholders to see look at waste as a resource.


    The Eighth Regional 3R Forum in Asia and the Pacific is hosted by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Government of India, and co-organized by the Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan, and the United Nations Centre for Regional Development of the Division for Sustainable Development /United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs. The Indore Municipal Corporation, Government of Madhya Pradesh, and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) have been designated as the City Partner, Organizing State Partner and Industry Partner respectively.


    ***


    RJ/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1528246) Visitor Counter : 1193
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil