      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      'Indore 3R Declaration on Achieving Clean Water, Clean Land, and Clean Air in Cities' Adopted and Signed by Mayors and City Authorities of Asia Pacific Region
      Posted On: 11 APR 2018 9:06PM by PIB Delhi


    The historic INDORE 3R DECLARATION was today adopted by the mayors and city authorities of India and countries of Asia Pacific region and signed and brought into effect in the presence of Smt. Malini Gaur, Mayor of Indore which is hosting the Eighth Regional 3R Forum in Asia and the Pacific region from 9-12 April 2018. The declaration was adopted and signed after day-long discussions and deliberations of the mayors and city authorities of the the participating nations.


    The adoption and signing of the Indore 3R declaration is relevant to vision of sustainable development and achieveing SDG goals. The commitments expressed in the declaration are crucial to promote the principles of 3R . i.e Reduce , Reuse, Recycle and achieveing resource efficiency.The Indore 3R declaration will help in realising the goal of Mission Zero Waste.


    The Indore 3R declaration is an important outcome of the ongoing Eighth Regional 3R Forum in Asia and the Pacific region which aims to address how 3R and resource efficiency measures can provide complementary benefits in making cities and countries clean, smart, liveable and resilient. The Forum also aims to generate policy-level, institutional level and technological insights towards effective implementation of 3R and resource efficiency to foster circular economic development, sustainable change in current use of natural resources and ultimately achieve a zero waste society.


    Indore 3R Declaration of Asian Mayors on


    Achieving Clean Land, Clean Water and Clean Air in Cities


    PREAMBLE


    Achieving access to Clean land, clean water and clean air are fundamental rights of citizens. The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the New Urban Agenda (NUA) have, inter-alia, a common objective to make cities and human settlements safe, resilient, inclusive and sustainable. In order to achieve this objectives sound management of, 3R (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle), circular economic development, sustainable waste management and resource efficiency assume paramount importance. Pursuing 3R as an economic industry could further enable cities to move towards on the path of sound material cycle societies and circular economic development to achieve necessary socio-economic and industrial transformation through the sustainable use of natural resources, enhanced water and energy security, reduced carbon foot-print, and improved land, water and air quality.


    THE DECLARATION


    Cognisant of the above socio-economic context in achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the SDGs and the NUA, we, the Mayors, city and local government authorities and representatives at the Asian Mayors’ Policy Dialogue on Achieving Clean Water, Clean Land and Clean Air through 3R and Resource Efficiency, as part of the 8th Regional 3R Forum in Asia and the Pacific held at Indore, Madhya Pradesh (India), do hereby declare and adopt, on this 11th day of April 2018, our commitment to:

     1. Accelerate movement of holistic waste management in our cities through prevention, reduction, reuse and recycling of all waste streams (including industrial waste, municipal solid waste, and domestic waste water) with an objective to achieve clean land, clean water and clean air, including Greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction;
     2. Implement local-level actions to make cities clean, safe, smart, resilient, resource efficient, inclusive and sustainable through the effective implementation of 3R policies and promote tenets of circular economy for moving towards a zero waste society;
     3. Foster sustainable urban development planning and practices focusing on eco-products, green energy, rainwater harvesting, conservation of water bodies, urban farming with composting, safe disposal of agricultural waste, green city development, green construction materials, etc. for maintaining bio-diversity;
     4. Inspire citizens to take proactive ownership for managing their own waste, including segregation at source, on-site processing of bio-degradable waste, safe handling of other waste forms and safe disposal by concerned agencies;
     5. Partner and collaborate with civil society organizations, including integration of informal sector with formal waste management chain in order to provide decentralized approaches to 3R, along with providing sustainable livelihood opportunities, while minimizing health and environmental impacts;
     6. Leverage national and international collaborations to promote (i) 3R as an economic industry, 3R-related science, technology and infrastructure, inter-municipal, inter-indsutry and city-to-city cooperation, (ii) public-private-partnerships (PPPs) for integrated waste management, and expand investment opportunities in the 3R space;
     7. Strive towards complete ban of illegal disposal of plastics in eco-sensitive or eco-fragile areas, including in tourist areas close to oceans, rivers, lakes, wetlands, other water bodies and mountains, to preserve coastal, marine and mountains ecosystems and resources, keeping in mind the widespread plastic littering which affects eco-systems;
     8. Undertake to work towards sound and sustainable wastewater management and treatment and reuse with an objective to achieve water security and water quality for sustaining livelihood, in view of the the critical nexus between water quality, water security and effective implementation of 3R policies, programmes and infrastructure development ;
     9. Focus on sound and effective management of new emerging waste streams such as micro-plastics, chemicals and hazardous waste, e-waste, medical waste and construction and demolition waste;
    10. Promote and facilitate the use and development of viable existing and emerging technology, including Information and Communication technologies to strengthen the waste management value chain; and
    11. Engage in dissemination and acceptance of national and international best practices in 3R among all stakeholders for wide-scale adoption and replication.

    Adopted in Indore, Madhya Pradesh (India), this Eleventh Day of April in the Year of Two Thousand and Eighteen.


    The declaration is also available on http://www.uncrd.or.jp


    RJ/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1528744) Visitor Counter : 610
    
    
    
    
    

11.