      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      CIC organises Seminar on Health and Right to Information Act, 2005
      Posted On: 07 APR 2018 2:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Information Commission organised a seminar on the topic “Health and Right to Information Act 2005” here today. The seminar was attended by Chief Information Commissioner, Central Information Commissioners, former Information Commissioners, State Information Commissioners, NGOs and other stake-holders. The seminar began with the welcome address by Chief Information Commissioner Shri Radha Krishna Mathur, Central Information Commission. Shri R.K. Mathur highlighted that the seminar was held on World Health Day and touched upon issues like suo-motu disclosure on real-time basis along with transparency in right to get information.


    Information Commissioner Prof. M. Sridhar Acharyulu focused on the Right to Health Information.Dr. Sheela Priya, State Chief Information Commissioner, Tamil Nadu, highlighted the issues on Health and Right to information Act 2005. Shri. Alok Saxena, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health (AIDS Control and Ayushman Bharat) highlighted on the scheme ‘Ayushman Bharat’ paving way for transparency.Prof. Jayanta Kumar Das, Director, National Institute of Health Family Welfare (NIHFW),Government of India, touched upon Right to Information, Clinical Establishment Act and Good Governance in Health Sector. Mr. Sunil Nandraj, Former Advisor, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India, focussed on transparency under the Clinical Establishment Act, 2010 in the context of Right to Information Act, 2005. Dr. Sabahat S. Azim Chief Executive Officer, (Glocal Healthcare System Private Limited) addressed the seminar on the topic - Health and Right to information - newer paradigms.Dr. V. K. Paul, Member, Niti Aayog addressed regarding issues in the Medical Sector and ways to tackle them in consonance with the latest scheme ‘Ayushman Bharat’. Mr. Shikhar Ranjan, Medical Council of India delivered a lecture. Shri Indu Bhushan, CEO, Ayushman Bharat, NHPS, Ministry of Health attended the seminar.


    The session concluded with closing remarks by Shri Yashovardhan Azad, Information Commissioner.


    *****


    
    BB/NK/PK
    

    
    (Release ID: 1528216) Visitor Counter : 575