      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railways setting new Benchmarks in Environmental Management
      
      GreenCo rating implemented in 42 production units and workshops of Indian Railways
      
      Posted On: 12 APR 2018 3:54PM by PIB Delhi


    Pursuing sustainable growth through preserving the environment is one of the hallmarks of Indian Railways. To further spread its green initiatives, Indian Railways had entered into partnership with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in July 2016. As part of this partnership, CII is facilitating various railways’ production units, workshops and other units go the Green way and in the process equipping them to green the operations and practices.


    CII’s GreenCo Rating System is a first-of-its-kind rating in the world that facilitates companies in improving their overall green performance. GreenCo focus on major environmental areas including- energy efficiency, renewable energy, water conservation, waste management, resource conservation, green supply chain, product stewardship and life cycle assessment.


    As on date, GreenCo Rating is being implemented in 42 facilities (production units and workshops) of Indian Railways. 26 facilities of Indian Railways have achieved rating levels ranging across Certified, Bronze, Silver and Gold levels, while the others are in the process of implementation. More than 400 companies across several sectors from the manufacturing and services verticals are also in the process of this certification.


    GreenCo has helped Indian Railways bring in a focused approach towards green practices by strengthening its energy conservation initiatives, facilitating renewable energy opportunities, water management and waste management. Indian Railways has also utilized GreenCo as an opportunity to work with its suppliers in greening their operations. The awareness and training imparted to employees and other relevant stakeholders is extremely impressive. Indian Railways has not only reduced the environmental impact, but has also been realizing substantial benefits, both tangible and intangible. The participation in GreenCo rating process has helped the Indian railways manufacturing units and workshops in achieving approximately Rs 10 crores per year of saving.


    Two Railway stations, two Railway schools and administrative buildings of IRICEN, ICF and SCR headquarters have also been certified green as part of this effort.


    Green Rating System has been facilitating inculcating green practices in individuals, and across IR as an organization. IR units have started excelling in areas, in addition, have also explored fields that were not in focus earlier and have put in efforts to improve performance.


    *****


    SBS/MKV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1528811) Visitor Counter : 981
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil