      President's Secretariat

      India-Equatorial guinea joint statement during state visit of President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind to Equatorial Guinea (April 8, 2018)
      Posted On: 09 APR 2018 11:26AM by PIB Delhi


    1. At the invitation of His Excellency, Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, the President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea, H.E. Shri Ram Nath Kovind, President of the Republic of India paid a State visit to Equatorial Guinea from April 7-9, 2018.


    2. This was the first ever visit of a Head of State from India to Equatorial Guinea. The President of India is accompanied by his spouse Smt. Savita Kovind and a high level delegation comprising Minister of State, Shri Mansukh L Mandaviya, MPs and senior government officials.


    3. H.E. Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, the President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea received President Shri Ram Nath Kovind on his arrival at Malabo Airport. A ceremonial welcome was accorded at the airport and also at the Presidential Palace in Malabo.


    4. President Kovind held bilateral discussions with President Obiang on April 8, 2018, and thereafter an extended meeting along with members of the two delegations. A State banquet was hosted by President Obiang in honour of President Kovind.


    5. President Kovind addressed the Parliament of Equatorial Guinea and attended a reception with the Indian expatriate community.


    6. The discussions between the two sides were held in a warm and cordial atmosphere. President Kovind congratulated President Obiang on the election of Equatorial Guinea for the first time as a non-Permanent Member of United Nations Security Council for the 2018-19 term.


    7. Both sides acknowledged the longstanding excellent bilateral relations and reaffirmed their mutual desire to strengthen economic, commercial, technical, educational, agricultural, scientific and cultural cooperation between the two countries. The Government of Equatorial Guinea appreciated the support being extended by the Government of India in capacity building.


    8. Both leaders shared the view that terrorism is a grave threat to mankind and global peace and security. They expressed their willingness to join hands with the international community in eradication of the menace of terrorism from society. They agreed on the need to take strong measures against terrorist organizations, terrorists and their networks. President Obiang conveyed the support of Equatorial Guinea for early adoption of Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism (CCIT) proposed by India at the United Nations.


    9. The leaders call for an urgent need for reforms of the UN Security Council to make it more representative and reflective on the geo-political realities in the 21 st Century.


    10. Both countries agreed to work closely to intensify their cooperation in the United Nations and other multilateral fora in order to address the challenges being faced by mankind including climate change and to foster global peace, security and sustainable development.


    11. The two leaders underscored the need to hold regular consultations on bilateral issues in order to further deepen cooperation between the two countries.


    12. Both Presidents agreed that there was great potential in expansion of bilateral trade relations and emphasized on the importance of higher Indian participation in Equatorial Guinea in a range of sectors including agriculture, mining and IT.


    13. The two leaders welcomed the signing of agreements/MoUs on Cooperation in the field of Health and Medicine, Cooperation in the field of Medicinal Plants, Cooperation in the field of Traditional Systems of Medicine, Cooperation in the fields of Geology and Mineral Resources; and on Cooperation in Information and Communication Technology.


    14. President of Equatorial Guinea thanked the President of India for his announcements of setting up of an Entrepreneurship Development and Vocational Training Centre and an English Language Training Laboratory in Equatorial Guinea.


    15. Both sides expressed satisfaction at the intensification of bilateral relations, as agreed upon during the first bilateral Joint Commission Meeting in October 2017 in Delhi.


    16. Both sides welcomed the visits of delegations from India in April/May 2018 in the sectors of agriculture, mining and telecom to Equatorial Guinea, and expressed hope that this would pave the way for enhancing Indian participation in Equatorial Guinea's economy, which would help in realizing the objectives of Horizon 2020 programme.


    17. Both sides agreed to encourage regular exchange visits at Ministerial level to further intensify bilateral relations.


    18. President Kovind thanked President Obiang for the warm hospitality extended to him and the delegation during the State visit and extended an invitation to him to visit India.


    ***


    AKT/SH/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1528276) Visitor Counter : 846
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil