      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      India Signs MOU With World EXPO 2020 Dubai
      Posted On: 10 APR 2018 6:03PM by PIB Delhi


    Joint Secretary, Ministry of Commerce and Executive Director, Dubai Expo 2020 signing participants contract today


    India and World Expo 2020 signed participants contract today for India’s pavilion in the prestigious World Expo 2020 held once in 5 years. The contract was signed by Shri Manoj K. Dwivedi, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Commerce, Government of India on Indian side and Mr. Najeeb Mohammed Al Ali, Executive Director, Dubai Expo 2020 Bureau on behalf of Expo 2020 at the Expo site in the presence of Shri Navdeep Suri, Ambassador of India to UAE, Shri Vipul, Consul General of India, Dubai and Dr. Tarek Shayya, Board Director-Chief International Participants Officer, Dubai Expo.


    The contract provides for the setting up of India pavilion at Expo 2020 on an extra large plot (about one acre) in the ‘Opportunity’ segment. This is tune with the great opportunity for economic activity that India provides today on the way to becoming a $5 trillion economy by 2025. Focus will be given to India’s advances in Space, Pharma, IT, Renewable Energy, Telecom sectors.


    The pavilion will be developed in public-private partnership mode. Leading industries and businesses will work with Central government and State governments to participate in India’s pavilion. A number of state governments, various ministries of central government and major industry associations and businesses have shown interest in partnering and participating in World Expo 2020 which will take place for six months beginning October 2020.


    Commerce & Industry Minister, Shri Suresh Prabhu has expressed his happiness on the signing of the contract. Commerce Secretary, Smt. Rita Teaotia has held meetings with stakeholders and industry associations like FICCI and CII for helping the Government in making India’s participation a memorable and befitting one.


    ***


    MM/RC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1528498) Visitor Counter : 736
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil