      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh launches online dashboard to monitor public grievances on real time basis
      
      Dashboard to benefit all Ministries/Departments to monitor implementation of reforms to address public grievances, says Minister
      Posted On: 11 APR 2018 4:24PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh launched an online dashboard developed by Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) here today. The dashboard will monitor public grievances on real time basis and periodically review progress of systemic reforms. The systemic reforms and their monitoring metrics, catering to grievance issues are highlighted on the dashboard. This will enable concerned Ministries/Departments to monitor implementation of these reforms.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr Jitendra Singh said that the DARPG is the nodal department for the dashboard that was launched today, but it will also be helpful to the concerned Ministries/Departments to monitor the implementation of various initiatives and will provide inputs to them. He said that DARPG should create awareness among departments/ministries about this dashboard so that they can benefit the citizens to the maximum out of it. He said that the Government under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi works on the principle of ‘maximum governance, minimum government’ for the benefit of the citizens of the country. He said that grievances received by the Government has increased many times, due to the prompt response given by the Department and faith of public in the Government. He said that an analysis has been done by the department on the causes of grievances and this has helped in the indepth understanding of the causes and taking corrective steps. The Minister said that the number of pensioners is more than the number of working employees in the country. The pensioners are a big resource for us and we should do an analysis how best to tap their potential, he added. The ‘Anubhav’ initiative can provide various inputs to us in assessing the ministries/departments, the Minister said.


    On the occasion, the Minister also released the Project Monitoring Report on "Monitoring of Systemic Reforms and Public Grievances" as well as the Reports "Grievance Data Analysis, Study of CPENGRAMS and Systemic Reform Recommendations" and "Recommendations for Anubhav portal". A Grievance Analysis Study through the Quality Council of India (QCI) was initiated in 2015 in respect of top 20 highest grievance receiving Ministries/Departments (from 01.01.2012 to 19.08.2015). The Study involved identification of top grievance prone areas and focus on root cause analysis. The Reports recommended systemic reforms to impact and bring about improvements in service delivery. In order to monitor the implementation of the reforms/ recommendations made, a Project Management Unit (PMU) was set up by DARPG in August, 2016.


    A presentation on the study of grievances in various ministries and their causes was also given on the occasion. The presentation included discussion about root causes of grievances in various ministries including Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Railways, Central Board of Direct Taxes, Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Communication & IT, Ministry of Finance and others. It was said that analysis of root causes of grievances has helped the departments of take suitable action on the main causes in their ministries/departments e.g. reduction in the average response time and others.


    Secretary, DoPT, Shri C. Chandramouli, Secretary, DARPG, Shri K. V. Eapen and senior officers of various ministries were also present on the occasion.

    ******


    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1528637) Visitor Counter : 598
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil