      Vice President's Secretariat

      Make it mandatory to have proficiency in mother tongue for recruitments up to Group-I level: Vice President
      
      We must teach our children how to live with nature;
      
      
      
      Shun ostentatious weddings;
      
      Posted On: 13 APR 2018 5:11PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has suggested to state governments to make it mandatory to have proficiency in mother tongue for job recruitments up to Group – I level. Addressing a gathering of students, teachers and parents after inaugurating a Computer Laboratory and RO Water Plant at the Andhra University High School in Visakhapatnam, he said that there is a need for cultural renaissance in the country. Culture is a way of life and religion is a way of worship, he added.


    The Vice President also called for comprehensive reforms in the education system and asked people to return to our roots, heritage, traditions, culture and values.


    The Vice President said that ‘we must teach our children how to live with nature’ we have the tradition of respecting nature –worshiping trees, animals and rivers. Ethical values should be inculcated in children, he added.


    The Vice President said that India was once known as the Vishwaguru and people from across the globe used to come and study in ancient centres of learning like Nalanda, Takshashila. He further said that today the world is again looking at India, and our education system must produce youngsters who will be able to confidently face global challenges. Education must empower, enlighten and enhance knowledge, he added.


    Later, the Vice President attended Sree Venkateshwara Kalyanam at MRC Kakatiya Convention Center in the city, where he called upon people to shun ostentatious weddings.


    The Vice President said that marriage is a sacred ceremony and there shouldn't be any display of wealth and wastage of food. A country like India cannot afford wastage of food, he added.


    The Vice President asked people to keep their surroundings clean and take it as a mission to maintain cleanliness at all places. Government alone cannot do everything. People’s participation, cooperation and involvement are essential in making a city clean and green, he added.


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1528990) Visitor Counter : 879
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil