      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      3R Forum to Help Entire Asia Pacific Region to Explore and Address the Ways to Utilize Waste as a Resource.
      
      3R Forum Pre - Event Ceremony Welcomes Delegates from all over the World

      Posted On: 09 APR 2018 10:11PM by PIB Delhi

    The Eighth regional 3R Forum will help entire Asia Pacific Region to explore and address the ways to utilize waste as a resource said Sh. V K Jindal, Mission Director (Swachh Bharat Mission - Urban) and Joint Secretary in Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, in Indore today.He said that India is hosting the event at an opportune time when the country has embarked on the ambitious mission of Swachh Bharat.The Eighth regional 3R forum commenced today with a pre-inauguration ceremony which welcomed the delegates from around the world and the country.


    Addressing the forum , Ms. Birgitte Bryld, Senior Economic Affairs Officer(Division for Sustainable Development), UN DESA said that forum seeks to engage public and private stakeholders to explore various partnership opportunities in 3R waste management and emphasised on 3R to be integrated in local level policy making in pursuit of sustainable development.The participants were welcomed in the opening address by Sh. Manish Singh , Commissioner of Indore Municipal Corporation.


    The event will be inaugurated by Smt. Sumitra Mahajan, Speaker of the Lok Sabha and Sh. Hardeep S. Puri, Minister of State (I/C), Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on 10th April 2018. Sh.Tadahiko Ito, State Minister, Ministry of the Environment, Japan will also be present at the event.The Eighth Regional 3R Forum will see participation of around 40 mayors of cities aroundthe world and mayors of more than 100 cities across India.The highlight of the event will be a series of sessions with mayors focusing on sustainable urban development and forging of inter-municipal partnerships and cooperation at the national and international level.The signing and subsequent adoption of the ‘Indore 3R Declaration on Achieving Clean Water,Clean Land and Clean Air’ in cities by mayors and city authorities is the major expected outcome of the event.Apart from a series of plenary sessions to be spread over three days, the Forum will also host the International 3R Exhibition and various technical cum cultural field visits for its delegates. The Forum will also recognise and reward industries and civil society organisations carrying out exceptional work in the area of 3R for waste management through the 3R Awards scheduled for April 12.


    ******


    RJ /SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1528433) Visitor Counter : 543
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil