      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      65th National Film Awards for 2017 announced
      
      Late Veteran Actor Shri Vinod Khanna awarded Dadasaheb Phalke Award
      
      Assamese movie Village Rockstars awarded Best Feature Film and Baahubali - The Conclusion awarded as Best Popular Film providing Wholesome Entertainment
      
      Late eminent Actress, Sridevi awarded Best Actress for the Hindi movie Mom
      
      Riddhi Sen to be given Best Actor award for the film Nagarkirtan;
      
      Jasari language movie Sinjar, directed by Pampally awarded the Indira Gandhi Award For Best Debut Film of a Director
      
      Jayaraj given Best Direction Award for Malayalam movie Bhayanakam
      Posted On: 13 APR 2018 1:42PM by PIB Delhi


    The 65 th National Film Awards 2017 were announced today by the Chairpersons of the juries on Feature Films, Best Writing on Cinema and members of Dadasaheb Phalke Award and Non-Feature films. The Feature Film Central panel was headed by Shri Shekhar Kapur, an eminent filmmaker known for his works in Hindi cinema and international cinema. The Non- Feature Film panel was headed by Shri. Nakul Kamte and the Best Cinema on Writing jury by Shri.Anant Vijay. The National Film Awards would be presented by Hon’ble President of India on May 3 rd , 2018. The Jury Chairpersons of the 65th National Film Awards had submitted its report to the Minister of Information & Broadcasting, Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani on 12.04.2018.


    Veteran Hindi film actor Shri Vinod Khanna was awarded the Dadasaheb Phalke Award for his contribution to Indian Cinema. Some of the other prominent winners in various categories for this year National Film Awards included Assamese movie ‘Village Rockstars’ in Best Feature Film category and ‘Baahubali - The Conclusion’ in the Best Popular Film providing Wholesome Entertainment category. Indira Gandhi Award For Best Debut Film Of A Director was given to the Jasari language movie ‘Sinjar’ directed by Pampally. Marathi Movie ‘Dhappa’ was awarded the Nargis Dutt Award For Best Feature Film On National Integration. Jayaraj was awarded the Best Direction in the Feature Film category for the movie ‘Bhayanakam’ and Nagraj Manjule won the award for the Best Direction in the Non Feature Film Category. Riddhi Sen and Sridevi got the award for the Best Actor (movie- Nagarkirtan) and Best Actress award (movie- Mom) respectively .


    Malayalam Movie ‘Aaalorukkam’, directed by V.C.Abhilash was awarded the Best Film on Social Issues. ‘Water Baby’ directed by Pia Shah, won the Best Debut Film of a Director in the Non Feature Film category.
    Movies in the languages other than those specified in the VIII Schedule of the constitution in the feature Film categories were also awarded. The award for the Best Jasari Film was given to ‘Sinjar’, Best Tulu Film to ‘Paddayi’ and the Best Ladakhi Film to ‘Walking With The Wind’.


    Best Film Critic award was given to Giridhar Jha for his writings covering vast horizon of Hindi cinema with authenticity and originality. Special Mention Award was given to the Sunil Mishra for his articles on cinema. Best Book on Cinema award was given to ‘Matmagi Manipur-The first Manipuri Feature Film’ authored by Bobby Wahengbam.


    Special Jury Award in the Feature category was given to the movie ‘Nagarkirtan’ directed by Kaushik Ganguly and produced by Sani Ghose Ray. Special Jury Award in the Non-Feature category was given to ‘A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings And Monday’, directed by Prateek Vats and produced by Films Division. The best Children’s film was given to the Marathi Movie Mhorkya, directed by Amar Bharat Deokar. A.R Rahman was awarded the Best Music Direction award for the movie ‘Kaatru Veliyidai’.


    Click here to see List of National Film Award Winners in Various Categories.


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1528940) Visitor Counter : 5185
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil , Malayalam