      Prime Minister's Office

      On Ambedkar Jayanti, PM to visit Chhattisgarh, inaugurate Health and Wellness Centre to mark the launch of Ayushman Bharat
      Posted On: 13 APR 2018 2:19PM by PIB Delhi


    On the occasion of Ambedkar Jayanti tomorrow, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit the aspirational district of Bijapur in Chhattisgarh.


    He will inaugurate a Health and Wellness Centre, which will mark the launch of the Union Government’s ambitious Health Assurance Programme – Ayushman Bharat.


    The Prime Minister will visit the Jangla Development Hub in Bijapur district. In the course of about one hour, he will interact with a number of people, and will be briefed on several development initiatives.


    At the inauguration of the Health and Wellness Centre, he will interact with ASHA workers. He will visit a model Anganwadi Centre, and interact with Anganwadi workers and beneficiary children of Poshan Abhiyan. He will visit a Haat Bazaar Health Kiosk and interact with health workers. He will inaugurate a bank branch at Jangla and distribute loan sanction letters under the Mudra Scheme to select beneficiaries. He will also interact with Rural BPO employees.


    The Prime Minister will then arrive at the venue of the public meeting. He will launch the Van Dhan Yojana, which aims at empowering tribal communities. It envisages a mechanism for marketing of Minor Forest Produce through Minimum Support Price and development of value chain for MFP.


    Via video conference, the Prime Minister will dedicate to the nation, the Bhanupratappur-Gudum Railway Line. He will flag off a train between Dalli Rajhara and Bhanupratappur. He will also inaugurate a dialysis centre at Bijapur Hospital.


    The Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone for construction of 1988 km of PMGSY roads in LWE areas; other road connectivity projects in LWE areas; water supply scheme of Bijapur; and two bridges. He will also address the gathering.


    *****


    AKT/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1528957) Visitor Counter : 1121
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Assamese , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu