      Vice President's Secretariat

      Peace is prerequisite for progress: Vice President
      
      India and Nepal are age-old friends with similar cultures and traditions
      
      Interacts with the Prime Minister of Nepal
      
      Posted On: 07 APR 2018 8:11PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that peace is the prerequisite for progress of any nation. He was interacting with the Prime Minister of Nepal, Shri K.P. Sharma Oli, who called on him, here today.


    The Vice President said that relations between India and Nepal show our shared History, Common Cultural Ethos, Trade and Economic Partnership & close people-to-people contact. He further said that our Policy is ‘Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas’ – for achieving shared prosperity of our two countries – Peace and Progress to Nepal. Regular exchanges of High-Level visits demonstrates priority of strengthening our friendship and cooperation, he added.


    The Vice President said that we have Broad-Based Economic and Development Partnership in Training & Education, Infrastructure Development, Health, Culture, Water Resources & River Protection, Agriculture, Rural & Community Development and Small Development Projects at grass-roots level. He further said that enhanced connectivity between both countries – for improved People-to-People Connections and to facilitate Trade & Economic Growth. Increased focus should be on Cross-border Rail links, Integrated Check Posts, Oil Pipeline and Road projects (Hukali roads) – issue of land acquisition and clearances are to be settled by Nepal in a time bound manner, he added.


    The Vice President said that India and Nepal have tremendous opportunities in Energy and Hydro-power Development, Harnessing Water Resources and Agriculture for mutually beneficial co-operation. Great Satisfaction that India partners with Nepal in its Human Resource Development – Happy to share our Experience in Skill Development and Capacity-Building, he added.


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1528241) Visitor Counter : 426