      Ministry of Shipping

      Shri Nitin Gadkari to visit Republic of Korea
      Posted On: 08 APR 2018 4:34PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister of Shipping, Road Transport & Highways and Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenationwill be on an official visit to the Republic of Koreafrom 9 April 2018.


    During the 4 day visit, Shri Gadkari will focus on taking forward the bilateral cooperation between India andKorea in shipping, ports, inland waterways, highways, river interlinking and infrastructure sectors. An Undertaking on Mutual Recognition of Certificate of Competency of sea-farers will be signed during the visit.


    Known for maritime technology prowess, Republic of Korea had partnered with the Ministry of Shipping in the Maritime India Summit held in Mumbai during April 2016 . This visit will further promote the bilateral cooperation. Shri Gadkari will visit Samsung Heavy industries, Busan Port, National Transport Information Centre in Seoul, and address a business forum on the maritime sector and also a seminar on India- Korea Infrastructure Corporation Forum. An interaction with financial institutions and investors is also scheduled.


    The Minister will meet his counterpart, Minister of Ocean & Fisheries and Minister for Land, Infrastructure & Transport and interact with the captainsof RoK trade and industry.


    India and RoKhave an institutional framework for cooperation through the memorandum of understanding (MoU)for cooperation and mutual assistance to facilitate development of ports, port-related industries and maritime relationship.


    The visit of Shri Gadkari is aimed at strengthening ties between the two nations and further cementing cooperation in areas including sharing of technology, experience in port development and operation and joint participation in port-related construction, building andengineering projects of mutual interest amongst others.


    Before leaving for Seoul, Shri Gadkari said, “Mutual Recognition of Certificate of Competency of sea-farers is an important step for both countries. Signing of the Undertaking will pave the way for recognition of maritime education and training, certificates of competency, endorsements, training documentary evidence and medical fitness certificates for seafarers issued by the Government of both the countries.”


    He said thatthe undertaking with the Republic of Korea for mutual recognition of Certificate of Competency (CoC) will be beneficial to both the countries as Korea is a large ship owning nation while India is a large seafaring nation with around 1,54,349 Indian seafarers. This agreement will facilitate Indian seafarers to work on Korean ships as there is requirement of seafarers on their ships. Korean entities as of now own more than 500 foreign going ships.


    “ This will lead to increase in the employment opportunity for Indian seafarers”, the Minister added.


    Shri Gadkari said, “we are looking to have partnership in the field of ship building , smart transportation system, water conservation &recycling , eco-friendly energy system for marine industries and technology to develop our rivers to drive economic growth” .


    FICCI is partnering to organize a coinciding visit of a business delegation from India comprising of firms with business interests in Maritime, Highways and infrastructure sectors.


    *****


    NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1528249) Visitor Counter : 499