      President's Secretariat

      President’s greetings on the eve of birth anniversary of Dr B.R. Ambedkar
      Posted On: 13 APR 2018 4:48PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind has greeted fellow-citizens on the eve of birth anniversary of Dr B.R. Ambedkar.


    In a message, the President has said, “On the occasion of the birth anniversary of Dr B.R. Ambedkar, I pay my homage to this icon of our national life, and extend my warm greetings to all fellow citizens. Dr Ambedkar was a multifaceted personality whose impact on our society and nation has remained relevant – and will remain relevant. He was an academic and economist, a scholar and moral philosopher, an exceptional legal mind and constitutionalist. Above all, he was an activist for social reform and for legitimate opportunities for women, and a champion of liberty.


    Dr Ambedkar waged a life-long struggle for a better and fairer society – for a modern India free of caste and other prejudices, ensuring equal economic and social rights to women and to those from traditionally disadvantaged communities. His ideals and his belief in the rule of law found most eloquent expression in the Constituent Assembly. Appropriately, he is considered the Chief Architect of our Constitution – which continues to be the guiding light for the Republic of India.


    Despite the personal challenges he faced, Dr Ambedkar was remarkably free of rancour and resentment. For this, and for his many social, political and professional contributions, he continues to be a beacon for us. And he shines as a universal symbol of human freedom and individual dignity. It is important to appreciate Dr Ambedkar’s personality and message in all its dimensions, and not to compartmentalise, as we often do.


    Let us draw inspiration from this great figure of history and this great Indian. The best tribute to him would be to build a just, egalitarian and developed India – an India that lives up to the republican ethic that Dr Ambedkar shaped and defined for us and for future generations.”


    Click here for Hindi version of the message


    ***


    AKT/HS/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1528984) Visitor Counter : 550
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil