      Ministry of Shipping

      India signs MoU with Republic of Korea on Mutual Recognition of Certificates of Competency of Seafarers in Busan today
      
      The agreement will open up employment opportunities for Indian seafarers on Korean ships
      
      Shri Nitin Gadkari holds bilateral meeting with his Korean counterpart, attends India - Korea Maritime Cooperation Forum

      Posted On: 10 APR 2018 6:23PM by PIB Delhi

    India signed an MoU with the Republic of Korea on Mutual Recognition of Certificates of Competency of Seafarers. This paves the way for the two governments to mutually recognize the certificates of maritime education and training, competency, endorsements and medical fitness of seafarers issued by each other. The agreement was signed by Shri Nitin Gadkari, Ministry of Shipping, Road Transport & Highways and Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation and his Korean counterpart Kim Young-choon at a ceremony in Busan today.


    Speaking on the occasion Shri Gadkari said that the signing of the agreement will benefit both countries. Korea is a large ship owning nation. As of now, Korean entities own more than 500 foreign going ships, and need seafarers to work on their fleet. India has around 1,54,349 seafarers. The agreement will open up employment opportunities for Indian seafarers on Korean ships.


    Shri Nitin Gadkari is on a four day visit to the Republic of Korea since yesterday. On the second day of his official visit, Shri Gadkari held bilateral meeting with the South Korean Oceans Minister Kim Young-choon. He visited Busan Port and attended India - Korea Maritime Cooperation Forum (IKMCF). Shri Gadkari’s visit is aimed at strengthening the bilateral cooperation between the two countries in shipping, ports, inland waterways, highways, river interlinking and infrastructure sectors.


    ***


    NP/MS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1528504) Visitor Counter : 465
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil