      Ministry of Railways

      World heritage day to be celebrated at National Rail Museum, New Delhi on 18th April, 2018.
      
      Children, Students and Senior citizens will be given free entry to the Museum on 18th April, 2018.
      
      Posted On: 17 APR 2018 5:28PM by PIB Delhi


    Every year, 18 th April is celebrated Worldwide as World Heritage Day to create awareness about Heritage among communities. This year the theme is Heritage for Generations emphasizing on inter-generational transfer of knowledge.


    National Rail Museum, New Delhi has chalked out an elaborate programme to celebrate World Heritage Day. The focus shall be to foster dialogue and interaction between generations. For this, children, students and senior citizens will be given free entry to the museum on 18 th April, 2018. There will be three story telling sessions by Nivesh India scheduled between 1130am to 2PM at Indoor gallery ( Programme attached ). ShriYash Pal Gupta, Retired Member, Railway Board shall be sharing his reminiscences about revival of century old Morris Fire Engine which is a star attraction of Delhi’s vintage car rally. NRM will also organize three film shows on Railway heritage at Auditorium at 12pm, 2pm and 4pm. There will many other events like Railway quiz, guided tours etc. for children.


    Indian Railways are the proud owner of 04 UNESCO World Heritage Sites viz. Darjeeling Himalayan Railway, Nilgiri Mountain Railway, Kalka Shimla Railway and Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Mumbai. These World Heritage Sites will be celebrating World Heritage Day on 18 th April, 2018 by undertaking various activities to foster fruitful dialogue between generations.


    Inaugurated on February 1, 1977, National Rail Museum, Chanakyapuri, is a prime cultural destination of Delhi NCR area. NRM has an interesting collection of history and heritage including more than 100 real size exhibits display the glory of the bygone era in the museum. NRM is also planning to keep its door open till 9 PM during weekends (Friday to Sunday) from first week of May 2018. The measure is being taken to promote night tourism in the country.


    * * * * *


    SBS/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529364) Visitor Counter : 526
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil