      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Stakeholder consultation on National Clean Air Programme concludes in Environment Ministry
      Posted On: 20 APR 2018 7:14PM by PIB Delhi


    Assuring all technical and policy support, the Centre has empahsised that in the fight against air pollution, the focus will now be on the implementation of city-specific action plans. This was emphasised at t he two-day Stakeholder Consultation to discuss the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) that concluded in the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) here today.


    Drawing upon from the experiences of implementation in the States, suggestions at the Consultation included constitution of Chief Secretary level committees in the States for multi-sectoral coordination, area-specific standards, satellite monitoring, enforcement issues and high-resolution inventory for Indo-Gangetic plains. During the discussions, it was also pointed out that studies show that pollution in cities is deeply influenced by emissions from surrounding regions other than local multi-sectoral pollution sources, necessitating the need for a multi-city, multi-sectoral and multi-stakeholder coordination.


    The Stakeholder Consultation also provided an opportunity to interact with international experts from Europe, United States, China, Brazil, Japan and World Bank. International experts shared their experiences in the field of air quality monitoring, modelling, management and explained the measures taken in different parts of the world to improve air quality in their respective cities. Success stories from across the world on control of air pollution and possibilities of their replication in the Indian context were also figured in the deliberations. With this objective, specific sessions were organised and sector-specific sessions were conducted to discuss sectoral issues in transport, industries, residential, refuse and dust sectors.


    Several international experiences were shared during the deliberations. The Chinese representative highlighted the advanced stack emission control technology, which has reduced power plant emissions in China dramatically. The Brazilian example showed how improvements in the transport sector can reduce pollution in cities, as was the case in Sao Paolo. The Mongolian example highlighted how the improved cooking stoves can reduce PM 2.5 concentration. The European experience showed the use of strategies to control emissions from ammonia in the agriculture sector. Ammonia is known to react with SO2 and NO2 to form secondary particulates. The USA example reflected the improvements in vehicular technologies, inspection and maintenance systems and emission trading schemes.


    The main objective of the two-day Stakeholder meet was to carry out consultations with the State government bodies on the newly formulated NCAP and to ensure their participation during the stages of formulation and implementation. Specific technological and management options were also suggested. It was acknowledged that issues arising from city-level pollution also need to be dealt with on a regional scale and coordination between different agencies across various states is required. It was also pointed out that there is a need to empower state-level agencies and provide them with a roadmap for implementation of NCAP. During the discussions, it was emphasised that the cities must assess their air quality, source contributions and derive action plans based on their local conditions and resource availability.


    In its presentation on NCAP, MoEF&CC indicated its commitment to collaborative and participatory approach for its effective implementation. It was however, also emphasized that source-based initiatives as measures to address industrial pollution, vehicular pollution and road dust need to be a part of city-specific plans and cannot be integrated in NCAP, which basically provides a broad roadmap to address the issue of air pollution in the country.


    Besides international experts, national experts from Indian Institute of Technology (Kanpur), Indian Institute of Technology (Mumbai), Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (Pune), The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI), National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) also participated.


    The two-day Consultation was attended by representatives from more than 20 States/Union Territories. The Consultation was organized with support from Central Pollution Control Board, The World Bank, and The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI). The Stakeholder Consultation was inaugurated by the Minister of State for (EF&CC) Dr. Mahesh Sharma yesterday.


    ***


    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529792) Visitor Counter : 674
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil