      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister holds meeting with the Finance Commission
      Posted On: 21 APR 2018 8:36PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh held a meeting with Shri N K Singh, Chairman of the 15 th Finance Commission and members of the Commission on 19.04.18. Ministers of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir and Shri Kiren Rijiju, Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba and Senior Officers from MHA were present during the meeting.


    A presentation was made during the meeting which stressed that the responsibilities of Ministry of Home Affairs have increased manifold in meeting the diverse and varied internal security challenges, even though ‘public order’ and ‘police’ are constitutional responsibilities of states. The capabilities of states alone are not adequate to meet the threats of insurgency and terrorism which have national and international links, it added.


    Shri Rajnath Singh pointed out that MHA also has other challenges that include – improving sense of security amongst the public, making vulnerable sections such as women and children safer, improving effectiveness of police, meeting cyber threats, providing immediate relief and rehabilitation during natural disasters etc.


    He said due to concerted and coordinated efforts of the Central Government and the State Governments, there has been a significant and steady improvement in the overall security situation in the hinterland, in the North-Eastern States and in the areas affected by Left-Wing Extremism. But relentless efforts are needed to be made continuously in order to consolidate the gains and spread successes in the new areas, he added.


    The Finance Commission was briefed about the various schemes being implemented by the MHA, which require continued capital expenditure such as Modernisation of Police Forces (MPF), Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS), Immigration, visa, Foreigners Registration and Tracking (IVFRT), Coastal security, border infrastructure, Integrated Check Posts. Further capital investment is also required to make appropriate use of new technologies for cyber security, border management etc.


    Accordingly, the Ministry has projected budgetary requirement of more than 3,50,000 crores for the period 2020-2025 for internal security, Central Armed Police Forces, police modernization, Border security, disaster management and Union Territories. A detailed memorandum will be submitted later.


    ***


    BB/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529854) Visitor Counter : 386