      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Five Look-out Circulars to be issued by Ministry of Women and Child Development regarding NRI Matrimonial disputes.
      
      Standard Operating Procedures (SoPs) discussed to streamline the process of dealing with the cases of NRI matrimonial disputes

      Posted On: 17 APR 2018 6:14PM by PIB Delhi

    The third meeting of the Integrated Nodal Agency (INA), under the chairpersonship of Secretary, Ministry of Women and Child Development(MWCD) was held in the Ministry in New Delhi today. Based on the deliberations during the meeting, it was decided that 5 cases pertaining to the NRI Matrimonial Dispute have been found fit for issuance of Look-out-Circular (LOC) & MWCD will issue those 5 LoCs. The Integrated Nodal Agency has also deliberated on the Standard Operating Procedures (SoPs) to streamline the process of dealing with the cases of NRI matrimonial disputes. The SoPs are also defining the responsibility of concerned authorities with specified timelines and would keep the women informed on the progress.


    Speaking on the issue, Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi , Honourable Minister of Women and Child Development has said that the SOP will enable the women facing such disputes to seek redressal in a time bound manner. She also said that any women can now approach MWCD for the purpose of tracing her NRI husband by having a LoC issued.


    In criminal matter involving NRI’s, Look-out-Circular (LOC) could be issued by the investigating agency in cognizable offences, when the overseas husband is deliberately evading arrest or not appearing in the trial court despite Non Bailable Warrants and other coercive measures or there is a likelihood that he will leave the country to evade trial or arrest. The LoC will be issued after having the case scrutinised by NCW .


    Government of India has been receiving complaints of frauds, abandonment, domestic violence, extra-marital relationships, ex-parte divorce, being duped of money after promising marriage, forceful/illegal retention of children’s custody, non-payment of maintenance etc. A large number of NRI Matrimonial dispute cases remain pending on account of non-appearance of the perpetrator jeopardising women and children’s future. An Integrated Nodal Agency (INA) was constituted under the chairpersonship of Secretary, Ministry of Women and Child Development (MWCD) to work on the issues related to NRI Matrimonial Dispute.. Consequently, three meetings of INA have been conducted since January 2018.


    ***


    AKR/NG/SKK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529390) Visitor Counter : 961
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil