      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister’s visit gives fillip to several development projects in Dadra Nagar Haveli
      Posted On: 20 APR 2018 3:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister, Shri Rajnath Singh today reiterated the government’s commitment for the development of marginalized communities and inaugurated several development projects in the Union Territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli.


    Highlighting the natural advantages of beauty and greenery of Dadra-Nagar Haveli, Shri Rajnath Singh said it could be a very good destination for tourists. In addition, because of its proximity to Mumbai, Dadra-nagar haveli has the potential to be a centre of industrial development as well as a hub for film-making as the industrial electric tariff here is very low than other states. Further, there is a single window permission system and proximity to trade routes which makess many new avenues of development possible.


    The Union Home Minister informed that a campaign titled ‘Gram Swaraj Abhiyan Yojana’ has been launched coinciding with the birth anniversary of Dr. B. R. Ambedkar on 14 th April that will run until 5 th May during which officials of the Central government will make field visits and monitor progress of various development schemes launched for the benefit of marginalized communities. Among these schemes are Pradhan Mantri Ujjawala Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Ghar Yojna (Soubhagya).


    Shri Rajnath Singh expressed satisfaction that so far 11,437 people have benefitted under Pradhan Mantri Ujjawala Yojana. Further 300 more households will be added to the beneficiaries after relaxation of scheme guidelines.


    He inaugurated several development projects and welfare schemes as enumerated below:

     1. Swabhiman Scheme: The Scheme aims to provide nutritious and balanced diet to pregnant women, lactating mothers and school going girls in the age group of 11-14 years. Launching the Scheme, Shri Rajnath Singh said that it will benefit approximately 6,000 women who constitute 80 percent of the target group in Dadra-Nagar Haveli, suffering from malnutrition and anemia.
     2. Silvassa Sports Complex: Coupled with Silvasasa stadium and Sayali Cricket stadium, the new Sports Complex will encourage various sports including Swimming, Squash, Table-tennis, Snooker and Billiards on par with international standards. The Union Home Minister expressed hope that this Sports Complex, built at a cost of 6.95 crore rupees, will inculcate healthy life style and passion for sports.
     3. Labour Housing Complex (Sparsh): Under this project, 48 good quality flats (45,000 sq. m. area) at a cost of Rs. 5.5 crore were built by Omnibus Industrial Development Corporation under the CSR scheme of various industries. The Union Home minister said that the houses would alleviate housing problem of workers coming from all over the country and contribute to the success of Make in India scheme.
     4. Sewerage System Scheme (Phase-II part-2) in Silvassa- Amli town: He said that the scheme is aimed at providing sewage facilities for the central area as well as outskirts by establishing four pumping stations and some other works at a cost of Rs. 15.59 Crore.
     5. Expansion of sewage Treatment Plant: Under the scheme, the capacity of the existing sewage treatment plant in Silvassa-Amli will be expanded to treat 5 MLD sewage more. to cover needs of the increasing population until 2026.
     6. Expansion of Silvassa- Amli water supply scheme to meet needs of growing population upto the year 2046 at a cost of Rs. 37.61 Crores.
     7. High level Bridge at Kauncha: Shri Rajnath Singh said, several villages including Kauncha, Jamalpada, Gunsa, Dudhani etc. do not have direct connectivity and people of these areas are suffering in times of medical emergencies. Currently they are using a ferry boat service which is not sufficient to meet daily travel needs of students and vehicles. The proposed high level bridge will improve connectivity to the neighbouring villages in Gujarat also by providing inter-state connectivity to Tukwada in Gujarat, Nasik, Triambhakeshwar and Shirdi in Maharashtra. The bridge is planned to be 900 metres long and 10.5 metre wide. It will cost Rs. 54.73 Crore.

    Shri Rajnath Singh expressed confidence that these development schemes will add to the development of the region and improve the quality of life of the people.


    *****


    ABB/NK/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1529742) Visitor Counter : 563
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

7.