      Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs

      Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs organizes‘Swachhata Awareness Programme’ in Bharti Public School to attract young students towards ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’
      
      Children are the biggest ambassadors of ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’: Shri Vijay Goel

      Posted On: 18 APR 2018 6:46PM by PIB Delhi

    As a part of the ‘Swachhata Pakhwada’ being observed from 16 th to 30 th April 2018, Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs organized todaya Swachhata Awareness Programme in Bharti Public SchoolSwasthya Vihar, which is also the winner of the 52 nd Youth Parliament Competition 2017 - 18 . Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Statistics & Programme Implementation, Shri Vijay Goel, presided over the programmeand administered the ‘ Swachhata Pledge ’ to the students .


    Encouraging the students to become leaders of the ‘ Clean India Campaign ’ ,Shri Goelsaid that children are the biggest ambassadors of the ‘ Swachh Bharat Abhiyan ’ who can play a vital role to fulfil the dream of the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, of a clean and hygienic India . Emphasizing on the need of inculcating a spirit of hygiene and cleanliness in the children, the Ministerlauded the efforts of the school to attract young students towards ‘ Swachh Bharat Abhiyan ’ .


    On the occasion, studentspresented theme based songs on ‘ Swachh Bharat Campaign ’ . The programme ended with plantation of trees by Shri Goel, Shri S.N. Tripathy, Secretary, and Shri Satya Prakash, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs .


    The Swachh Bharat Abhiyan was launched by Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi on the 145 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on 2 nd October 2014 at Rajghat, New Delhi . It is aimed to make India a ‘ Clean India ’ by 2 nd October 2019 on the 150 th birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation . In order to derive maximum benefits from this programme, it is important that our student community must know and be aware of the mission . In this direction, Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs is running awareness programme about Swachh Bharat Abhiyan through the platform of Youth Parliament Competition so as to attract our students towards this mission .


    *****


    VM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1529533) Visitor Counter : 246
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil