      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Shri Nitin Gadkari announces a new highway alignment between Delhi and Mumbai
      
      Prime Minister to inaugurate EPE and Package –I of Delhi-Meerut Expressway on 29thApril
      
      Posted On: 16 APR 2018 8:58PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways, Shipping, Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Nitin Gadkari has announced development of a new highway alignment between Delhi and Mumbai. A sum of one lakh crore rupees will be spent on this expressway. The Minister also disclosed plans for a Chambal Expressway which would be connected to this Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, and is likely to benefit states like Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, where the backward areas will also shine like Gurugram.


    Addressing a media event in New Delhi today, Shri Nitin Gadkari outlined major initiatives of his ministry for de-congestion of Delhi NCR. A total of ten projects are underway costing 35,600 crore rupees. He said, about forty thousand commercial vehicles enter Delhi on a daily basis, which cause increased pollution and congestion in the city state. An ambitious scheme of developing Eastern and Western Peripheral Expressways around Delhi was taken up, and the Eastern Peripheral Expressway will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on the 29 th of this month. Similarly, to ease traffic in East Delhi, Delhi-Meerut Expressway was envisaged, and its Delhi-Dasna portion will also be inaugurated by PM on 29 th April by a road show.


    Shri Gadkari informed that work on signal free corridor from Dhaula Kuan to Airport has been awarded at a cost of 260 crore rupees. He said, eight-lane fully access-controlled Dwarka Expressway is being developed in four packages. While three packages have already been awarded, the work on the Expressway is likely to start in a month’s time. Total investment on the project is 9500 crore rupees. Additionally, under improvement of Mahipalpur at Rangpuri, a bypass is being envisaged to connect Dwarka/ NH8. Regarding development of major junctions on NH8 in Gurugram like the flyover/ underpass at IFFCO Chowk, Signature Tower intersection, Rajiv Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk, the Minister informed that the work, costing Rs 1000 crore, has been substantially completed.


    ****


    NP/MS/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529279) Visitor Counter : 982
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil