      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Environment Ministry notifies Plastic Waste Management (amendment) rules
      
      Automated Central Registration system prescribed

      Posted On: 16 APR 2018 3:52PM by PIB Delhi

    The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has notified the Plastic Waste Management (Amendment) Rules 2018. The amended Rules lay down that the phasing out of Multilayered Plastic (MLP) is now applicable to MLP, which are “non-recyclable, or non-energy recoverable, or with no alternate use.”


    The amended Rules also prescribe a central registration system for the registration of the producer/importer/brand owner. The Rules also lay down that any mechanism for the registration should be automated and should take into account ease of doing business for producers, recyclers and manufacturers. The centralised registration system will be evolved by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for the registration of the producer/importer/brand owner. While a national registry has been prescribed for producers with presence in more than two states, a state-level registration has been prescribed for smaller producers/brand owners operating within one or two states.


    In addition, Rule 15 of the Plastic Waste Management (Amendment) Rules 2018 on “explicit pricing of carry bags” has been omitted.


    Based on several representations received from various stakeholders, MoEF&CC had constituted a committee on issues/challenges faced with regard to the implementation of Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016 and Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The committee deliberated on several issues related to the Rules and its implementation by various stakeholders and submitted its recommendations to the Ministry.


    The Ministry notified the Plastic Waste Management (Amendment) Rules, 2018 on March 27, 2018.


    PWMNotification


    ***


    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529209) Visitor Counter : 2818
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil