      Vice President's Secretariat

      Share and Care has been the core of our philosophy: Vice President
      Temples have been the centres of India’s cultural ethos;
      
      Inaugurates renovated Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Temple

      Posted On: 22 APR 2018 5:33PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that Share and Care has been the core of our philosophy. He was addressing the gathering after inaugurating Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Temple renovated by Hare Krishna Foundation, in Hyderabad today. The Minister for Housing, Law and Endowments, Telangana, Shri A. Indra Karan Reddy and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President said that temples have been the centres of India’s cultural ethos and they have been centres of music, dance and spiritual upliftment of the masses. They have spread awareness of religious and spiritual thoughts through traditions like Harikatha and Purana Pravchana, he added.


    The Vice President said that temples have had a central place in India’s cultural life and we revere every action that serves humanity. He further said that there is a sanctity attached to many of our daily activities which is why we have words like “Vidyalaya”, “Chikitsalaya”, “Bhojanalaya” and even “Shauchalaya”. We see divinity everywhere because we believe that all living and non-living beings are manifestations of the same divine principle and energy, he added.


    The Vice President said that Krishna symbolizes the eternal values of love, compassion, empathy and righteous behaviour. He further said that if we can bring about the Krishna consciousness in society, we can usher in a huge transformation in the lives of people. We can fosterpeace, prosperity, fraternity and bring Vaikuntha or anxiety free environment in each and every family, he added.


    Following is the text of Vice President’s address :


    “I am blessed to be amidst all of you today and partake of the divine blessings of Lord Krishna and the spiritual radiance of SrilaPrabhupada.


    SrilaPrabhupada gave practical spiritual life by which people can adopt the principles of Krishna Consciousness in their lives and thus benefit by the ancient wisdom of India in the form of Bhagavad-Gita and SrimadBhagavatam.


    Temples have been the centres of India’s cultural ethos from time immemorial. They have been centres of music, dance and spiritual upliftment of the masses. They have spread awareness of religious and spiritual thoughts through traditions like Harikatha and PuranaPravchana. They have also encouraged philanthropy and fostered a sense of concern for fellow beings through charitable actions. Share and Care has been the core of our philosophy.


    Hare Krishna Movement has focused on a temple centric transformation of the society based on the teachings of Bhagavad-Gita and SrimadBhagavatam.


    I am impressed by the whole gamut of services being rendered by the Hare Krishna Movement. Food distribution Programs like Akshaya Patra, Bhojanamritha, SaddhiMoota (feeding farmers and hamalis in market yards) and AkshayaAlpaharam are indeed very laudable initiatives taken up by your organization.


    Dear Sisters and Brothers,


    Temples have had a central place in India’s cultural life. In the Indian tradition, we revere every action that serves humanity. There is a sanctity attached to many of our daily activities which is why we have words like “Vidyalaya”, “Chikitsalaya”, “Bhojanalaya” and even “Shauchalaya”. We see divinity everywhere because we believe that all living and non-living beings are manifestations of the same divine principle and energy.


    Krishna symbolizes the eternal values of love, compassion, empathy and righteous behaviour. If we can bring about the Krishna consciousness in society, we can usher in a huge transformation in the lives of people. We can fosterpeace, prosperity, fraternity and bring Vaikuntha or anxiety free environment in each and every family. A temple such as this educates the people in the principles of happiness and plays a pivotal role in bringing inner peace and a positive, healthy attitude towards life.


    I am happy to be among the devotees of Lord Krishna today.


    May this temple become a source of direction and joy for millions in the days to come. I pray to Lord Krishna, the Jagadguru or the guru for the entire universe, to continue to bless the entire humanity with his infinite grace. Let the world be a better place with each passing day.


    Krishnam Vande Jagadgurum!


    Hare Krishna!”


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529881) Visitor Counter : 797
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil