      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Shri J P Nadda chairs high level review meeting on Leprosy and TB
      Posted On: 17 APR 2018 5:24PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri J P Nadda, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare, held a high level meeting to review the status of the National Leprosy Eradication Programme (NLEP) and the progress made under the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program (RNTCP), here today. ShriSanjeeva Kumar, AS (H), Shri Manoj Jhalani, AS & MD and other senior officers of the Union Health Ministrywere present at the meeting.


    During the meeting,ShriNadda directed for a comprehensive strategy for addressing incidence, prevalence and surveillance aspects to eliminate leprosyat the district level. He further directed the officials to take up new interventions in areas where the prevalence is high andmount aggressive IEC campaigns to enhance awareness on prevention and control of leprosy in the states, and to destigmatise leprosy.


    Taking stock of the Tuberculosis Control Program, ShriNaddaurged all stakeholders to come together for an aggressive strategy for TB free India by 2025. He further said that there is an urgent need for creating awareness in the community and was of the view that ‘TB Champions’ who survived Tuberculosis, may be identified to raise awareness about TB in various states. He further suggested that innovative approaches should be adopted to address TB. He further directed that TB awareness and case detection should be addressed through campaign mode and should be made into a mass movement.


    The Health Minister also directed the officers to conduct regular supervisory visits to various states for assessing the situation, preparedness and to provide on the spot technical guidance to the state health authorities. The Minister has also asked senior officers to review the progress of both the programme regularly.


    ***


    MV/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1529361) Visitor Counter : 802
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil