      Ministry of Defence

      People of Chennai Make Defexpo-2018 a Grand Success
      Posted On: 14 APR 2018 1:55PM by PIB Delhi


    The 10th edition of Defexpo India, a biennial exhibition on Land, Naval and Internal Homeland Security Systems, held from 11 to 14 April 2018 at Thiruvidanthai in Kancheepuram district on the East Coast Road near Chennai, concludes today.


    Governor of Tamil Nadu Shri Banwarilal Purohit presided over the closing ceremony, which was also attended by Secretary (Defence Production) Dr Ajay Kumar, Chairman and Managing Director Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd, Shri T Suvarna Raju, Additional Secretary (Defence Production) Shri Subhash Chandra and District Collector of Kanchipuram Shri P Ponniah.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Governor congratulated the Ministry of Defence for having successfully organised the DefExpo India – 2018 at Thiruvidanthai attracting large number of Indian and foreign exhibitors. He also mentioned that the occasion added flavour to the celebrations as it coincides with Tamil New Year and also with 127 th birth anniversary of Babasaheb Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar, the principle architect of our Constitution. Shri Purohit also thanked the people of Chennai and neighbouring areas for playing host and volunteers who have partnered and contributed to the success of the exhibition.


    On the concluding day, very large crowd turned up to DefExpo India – 2018 making the event a grand success. Enthusiasm was also evident among organised groups from schools and colleges and visiting youth who were curious and showing keen interest in defence technology.


    On the sidelines of the DefExpo India – 2018, indigenously designed and built Indian Naval Ships Sahydari - a stealth frigate, Kamorta - anti submarine warfare corvette, Sumitra - a naval advanced offshore patrol vessel, Airavat - an amphibious ship and Kirch - a missile corvette were kept ‘Open to Visitors’ at Chennai Port for the first time in the history of DefExpo from 13 to 15 April 2018. The ships visit witnessed overwhelming response from the citizenry of Chennai and adjoining districts.


    The DefExpo witnessed four-days of hectic activities with underlined theme of ‘India: The Emerging Defence Manufacturing Hub’ showcasing India’s capability in export of defence systems and components. More than 670 exhibitors, including over 150 international exhibitors took part in the event. The MSME sector had representation this time around 15 per cent. An event of this scale was made feasible by the wholehearted support of people and various service agencies, including hotel industry and tour operators, in the host state of Tamil Nadu. The people of Chennai lived up to the reputation of being excellent hosts.


    SRR/NAo/ CGR/MK/DK/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529113) Visitor Counter : 468
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil