      Ministry of Culture

      Winners of the ‘1st Print Biennale India 2018’ given away awards in New Delhi today
      Posted On: 20 APR 2018 9:15PM by PIB Delhi


    Lalit Kala Akademi , organised the award ceremony of the 1 st Print Biennale India 2018 (PBI) in New Delhi today. Dr. Mahesh Sharma , Hon’ble Minister of State (I/c) for Culture, Government of India , couldn’t attend the function personally due to some reasons. However, he sent his message which was read out by Dr. Paula Sengupta at the event- “ I am so glad to know that the Akademi is preserving and encouraging such fine art of printmaking though this grand event! I appreciate all the beautiful prints on display and the outstanding effort of the Academy that contributes and makes us aware of the contemporary trends in art. I also extend my compliments to the Lalit Kala Akademi for supporting and encouraging contemporary artists through this biennale, creating a unique legacy for the future . I congratulate all the winners ”


    The Chief Guest of the programme Ms. Sujata Prasad , Additional Secretary, Ministry of Culture , stated, “ I am delighted to be here today. I must appreciate the tremendous job done by the Jury members. Prints exhibited at the biennial are joyous, quirky, protest prints, surreal, realistic etc. and the entire display is quite versatile and interesting. I congratulate award winners and other participants.”


    Addressing the ceremony, Shri M.L. Srivastava , Protem Chairman of the LKA, said, “ The 1 st Print Biennale India is a major step forward, taken by the LKA, in making the lessor known genre of visual arts, which is printmaking, popular. The event has elicited higher interest globally in both- artists as well as art lovers. And for that, I thank the then Administrator LKA, Shri C.S. Krishna Setty, PBI Commissioner Ms. Anupam Sud and its steering committee, and also congratulate the award winners and Honourable Mentioned artists. ”


    The Chief Guest Ms. Sujata Prasad launched the 1 st PBI Catalogue and the medallion, and honoured the awardees of the Biennale India with 2 lac rupees as prize money along with the medallion and certificate.


    Arup Kumar Kuity (Andhra Pradesh), Satya Narayana Gavara (Andhra Pradesh), Preya Bhagat (Uttar Pradesh), Purvi Parmar (Gujrat) and Sonal Varshneya (Uttar Pradesh) are given the award in the 1 st PBI. Apart from the 5 awardees of the 1 st PBI, 8 printmakers have been chosen Honourable Mention by the PBI Jury panel; these artists include Urmi Roy ( Bangladesh ), Seema Sharma ( Nepal ), Jagadeesh Tammineni ( India ), Srinivas Pulagam ( India ), Arun Kumar Maurya ( India ), Shripad Amrut Gurav ( India ), Uma Shankar Shah ( Nepal ) and Ugne Zilyte ( Lithuania ) .


    The occasion also witnessed mesmerising Mohan Veena performance by Pandit Vishwa Mohan Bhatt (Padma Bhushan) and Kathak performance by Ms. Manisha Gulyani, and the release of the Print Biennale India 2018 catalogue by the Hon’ble Chief Guest. Ms. Anupam Sud , Commissioner of the 1 st PBI, along with its steering committee members Ananda Moy Banerji, Dattatraya Apte, R.S. Sham Sunder, Dr. Paula Sengupta and Vijay Bagodi graced this august event with their presence. Numerous art lovers and visitors attended the award giving ceremony


    The participants of the 1 st PBI are from countries – USA, UK, Sri Lanka, Italy, Mexico, China, Israel, Sweden, Lithuania, Poland, Argentina, Greece, Nepal, Bangladesh, and Mauritius. The 1 st tier Jury consisted of eminent artists- Martin King (Australia), Monirul Islam (Bangladesh) and Yusuf (India), sharply examined the 1126 entries received from 415 artists across the globe – 364 Indian and 51 International printmakers, and unanimously chosen 177 exhibits. The 2 nd tier jury constituted of distinguished artists- Waswo X. Waswo (US), Laxma Goud (India) and Shirish V. Mitbawkar (India) selected 5 awardees & 8 Honourable Mentions out of 153 printmakers.


    ***


    NB/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529825) Visitor Counter : 519