      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Central Government hands over reference of MahanadiWater Disputes to the Tribunal Chairman and Supreme Court Judge, Justice A M Khanwilkar
      Posted On: 17 APR 2018 6:48PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri. U.P. Singh, Secretary Ministry of Water Resources, River Developmentand GangaRejuvenation handed over reference of Mahanadi Water Disputes Tribunal under Section 5 (1) of the Inter-State River Water Disputes Act (ISRWD), 1956 to Hon’ble Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, Chairman of Mahanadi Water Disputes Tribunal and Judge of the Supreme Court today.


    On 19.11.20116, the Odisha Government had submitted complaint under Section 3 of the ISRWD Act, 1956 to the Central Government for seeking constitution of Inter-State Water Disputes Tribunal for the adjudication of water disputes in respect of Mahanadi river between the riparian states of Odisha and Chhattisgarh. On this, the Ministry constituted a Negotiation Committee which held two meetings, but the negotiations were not successful. Odisha also filed Original Suit 1 of 2017in the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court in their Order dated 23.01.2018 directed the Central Government to constitute a Tribunal for adjudication of disputes on river Mahanadi and also advised Odisha to present its plea before the Tribunal.


    The Central Government constituted Mahanadi Water Disputes Tribunal on 12.03.2018 with the following composition:-


     1. Mr. Justice A.M. Khanwilkar - Chairman


    Judge of the Supreme Court of India


     1. Dr. Justice Ravi Ranjan, - Member


    Judge of the Patna High Court


     1. Mrs. Justice Indermeet Kaur Kochhar, - Member


    Judge of the Delhi High Court


    Hon’ble Justice A.M. Khanwilkar was briefed by Secretary (WR, RD & GR) today, about the profile of Mahanadi river, development of water resource projects by various states and dispute in sharing of its waters. Hon’ble Justice was also briefed about the legal provisions for adjudication of water disputes. The Secretary (WR, RD & GR) assured the Hon’ble Justice A.M. Khanwilkar that Central Government is taking all necessary steps for early functioning of the Tribunal and sought his guidance on the road-map for resolving Mahanadi dispute.


    Shri. U.P. Singh, Secretary Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation handing over reference of Mahanadi Water Disputes Tribunal Disputes to the Tribunal Chairman and Supreme Court Judge, Justice A M Khanwilkar


    ****


    NP/MS/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529403) Visitor Counter : 467
    
    
    
    
    

1.