      Ministry of Steel

      Steel Minister Felicitates Winners of Contest on
      
      Start-Up India - #Mylovesteelidea

      Posted On: 17 APR 2018 7:17PM by PIB Delhi

    SteelMinister, Chaudhary Birender Singh felicitating winners of contest on


    Start-up India’ in steel sector in New Delhi


    Union Minister of Steel, Chaudhary Birender Singh felicitated the winners of contest on Start-up India titled #myLOVESTEELidea at a function organized by Ministry of Steel in New Delhi, today. This contest launched during the India International Trade Fair, 2017 by Ministry of Steel aims to encourage fresh business ideas based on steel. The Minister said, the contest received huge participation and many smart ideas have been received reflecting that steel as a material is gaining popularity and can have several uses.He further added thatsteel as a material can find various usages in several sectors apart from the conventional sectors. The life cycle cost of steel, its durability, strength, eco friendliness makes it a better choice in construction and infrastructural work.


    The first prize was awarded to Sumit Gupta from Delhi for his idea of Steel based expandable tiny homes for providing low cost basic housing with solar panels and bio toilets. Second Prize was awarded to HareeshS. from Thiruvanthapuram for his idea of designs for Stainless steel waste bin, incorporating enclosed segregated storage and with provisions for advertising space. Third prize was awarded to VasimMalek from Nadiad City , Gujarat for his idea of laying underground permanent steel utility ducting along roads and in apartments for eliminating disruption of daily life of citizens due to repeated digging up. Apart from these, four appreciation prizes were also awarded.


    This contest was held in association with MyGov, Government of India. Steel Research and Technology Mission of India(SRTMI), an organization with Ministry of Steel, will provide technical support to the contest winners for taking their projects forward.


    Steel secretary Dr.Aruna Sharma, Chairman SAIL and other dignitaries were present on this occasion.


    ***


    MM/BL


    

    
    (Release ID: 1529408) Visitor Counter : 240