      Ministry of Communications

      IMC-2018 promises to be one of the biggest TMT & ICT summits in the world
      
      Event expected to Attract over 200,000 participants & 1,300 Exhibitors
      Posted On: 13 APR 2018 8:15PM by PIB Delhi


    The India Mobile Congress (IMC) today announced the initial details of the India Mobile Congress 2018, including exhibitors, sponsors, programmes and activities planned for the annual mobile industry event. Under the theme “NEW DIGITAL HORIZONS: Connect. Create. Innovate.”, India Mobile Congress will be held from 25 th to 27 th October 2018, at Aerocity, New Delhi, with a slew of parallel events taking place at the same venue. The IMC expects that more than 200,000 professionals from the Telecom industry, encompassing the 5G, start-up ecosystem, Internet of Things (IoT), Big Data, Artificial Intelligence (AI), Smart Cities, and allied industry sectors will attend India Mobile Congress 2018.


    India Mobile Congress is one of the biggest marquee Mobile, Internet and Technology events in Asia, organized by Department of Telecommunications, Government of India and Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI). Addressing the curtain raiser ceremony of India Mobile Congress, the Hon’ble Minister of State for Communications (I/C) and Minister of State for Railways, Government of India, Shri Manoj Sinha today made the formal announcement of India Mobile Congress 2018, the country’s foremost and biggest platform to bring together all stakeholders from the domain of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and position the Indian telecom industry at the forefront, in the global Context.


    “The India Mobile Congress 2018, hosted by the Department of telecommunications and the Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI), is an excellent platform for policy makers, industry and regulators to engage in meaningful deliberations to drive the future direction of this important sector. This year, we will also be honoured by the presence of our friends from ASEAN and BIMSTEC which will lend a global connect to our exchanges.


    I take this opportunity to invite you to be a part of the India Mobile Congress 2018 in October this year, and look forward to meeting you at this key annual event”, said Shri Manoj Sinha, Hon’ble Minister of State for Communications (I/C) and Minister of State for Railways, Government of India.


    While announcing the theme and the schedule of the event, Ms. Aruna Sundararajan, Chairperson, Telecom Commission & Secretary, Department of Telecommunications, Ministry of Communications, Government of Indi a said, “We are at the cusp of a tectonic shift in human history with the advent of futuristic technologies such as 5G and IoT. India is gearing up to embrace this new digital future with our focus on 5G readiness and the facilitation of new technology adoption across sectors. We firmly believe that the India Mobile Congress platform will be instrumental in driving this, by bringing together all stakeholders in the Telecommunications and IT ecosystem and providing the right forum for deliberations on the way forward in connectivity solutions.”


    “With more than 1.2 billion subscribers, mobile now connects the whole of India. It is fuelling innovation, revolutionising industries and spurring exciting new opportunities, across both developed and developing markets ,” said Rajan S Mathews, Director General, Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI) . He further added, “Mobile provides access to life-enhancing and, in some cases, life-changing services. Reinforcing our industry’s commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, mobile is providing lifelines to hope, reducing inequalities and preserving our world’s resources. We look forward to Mobile World Congress 2018 and showing how mobile is creating a better future – today.”


    Exhibition Featuring More Than 1,300 exhibitors


    India Mobile Congress 2018 will bring together the leading players from across the mobile ecosystem, as well as adjacent industry sectors such as automotive and consumer electronics, showcasing the innovative products, services and technologies that are shaping digital world today. More than 1,300 exhibitor’s companies will participate in the exhibition at the event.


    The first edition of India Mobile Congress held in September 2017, was attended by 2,000+ delegates, 32000+ visitors, 152 Speakers, 100+ Exhibitors and 100+ start-ups. IMC 2018, is envisaged to be an even bigger event with its theme “New Digital Horizons: Connect. Create. Innovate.”. It aims at building ideas, forging lasting Industry relationships, showcasing leading-edge mobile technology and product trends, and providing sectoral insights and impactful solutions. The platform will see a greater International presence with partner countries from the ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) and BIMSTEC (Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation) region .


    For more information, please visit – www.indiamobilecongress.com


    <><><><><><>


    SNC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1529083) Visitor Counter : 600