      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Prime Minister Inaugurates ‘Dr. Ambedkar National Memorial’at 26, Alipore Road, Delhi
      Posted On: 13 APR 2018 9:18PM by PIB Delhi


    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi inaugurated the “Dr. Ambedkar National Memorial (DANM)” at 26, Alipore Road, Delhi at the place of Mahaparinirvana of Dr. Ambedkar here today. The memorial is dedicated to the life and contributions of Dr. Ambedkar, the principal architect of the Constitution of India. The Foundation stone of DANM was laid by the Prime Minister on 21 st March, 2016.


    Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot; Union Minister for Science & Technology, Earth Sciences, Environment, Forest and Climate Change Dr Harsh Vardhan; Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Shri Ram Vilas Paswan; Ministers of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Ramdas Athawale and Shri Vijay Sampla; and Secretary of M/o Social Justice and Empowerrment Smt Latha Krishna Rao were present on the occasion.


    Addressing on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that he feels proud to be at the inauguration of Dr. Ambedkar National Memorial and it is a tribute to Baba Saheb. He congratulated Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment and other departments for completing the memorial in time. He said that now onwards 26, Alipur Road, Delhi has become a landmark not only in Delhi but also in our country. People will visit this memorial to know about the life and ideals of Baba Saheb. This memorial has been given the shape of a book because Baba Saheb was the brain behind the drafting of the Constitution of India. He showed the path of democracy to the largest democratic country of the world. He said that his government declared five sites related to Baba Saheb as Panchtirth, which include Mhow (Madhya Pradesh); Deeksha Bhoomi in Nagpur (Maharashtra); Dr. Ambedkar Memorial Home in London; Mahaparinirvan Bhoomi in Alipur Road (Delhi; and Chaitya Bhoomi in Mumbai (Maharashtra).


    Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, in his address, said that the Government has taken many new initiatives during past four years as a tribute to the Father of the Indian Constitution. 100 research students were sent to London School of Economics, London (UK) and Columbia University (USA) on a study tour, where Dr. Ambedkar had studied. He said that the government is committed to the welfare of the weaker sections.


    Bharat Ratna Baba Saheb Dr. B.R. Ambedkar was born on 14 th April 1891 at Mhow in Madhya Pradesh and was the First Law Minister of Independent India. After resigning from the Union Cabinet on 1 st November 1951, Dr. Ambedkar started residing in the house of Maharaja of Sirohi at 26, Alipur Road, Delhi where he breathed his last and attained Mahaparinirvana on 6 th December 1956. In the memory of Dr. Ambedkar, Dr. Ambedkar Mahaparinirvana Sthal, 26, Alipur Road was dedicated to the Nation by Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the then Prime Minister of India on 2 nd December, 2003. The followers of Baba Saheb believe 26, Alipur Road as Holy place where he attained Mahaparinirvana. Since this building was to be constructed as a Memorial of Baba Saheb, who was the brain behind the Constitution of India, hence, the building has been given the shape of a book.


    The memorial is spread over an area of approx. 7400 square meters and built at a cost of 100 crores. The memorial is completely green building. First building in the country with façade of open book which reflects the constitution of Indian. The memorial has an advanced museum, in which the life and works of B.R. Ambedkar are shown through modern technology. The building has an exhibition area, memorial, meditation hall with the Buddha Statue, 12 feet height bronze statue of Dr. Ambedkar among others. Ashoka Pillar (11 m) at Entrance Plaza and Meditation Hall at Back side has been constructed. There exists Sewerage Treatment Plant (30 KLD), Rain Water Harvesting System and roof top solar energy (50 kw) with net metering. The building standS in plot area of 7374 sq meter and a total built up area of 6758 sq meter.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/MoSJ&E/13.04.2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529092) Visitor Counter : 1987