      Vice President's Secretariat

      Science and technology interventions should improve the nutritional status of women & children in underserved areas: Vice President
      
      Addresses Scientists of CSIR – North East Institute of Science And Technology
      
      Posted On: 17 APR 2018 6:51PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that science and technology interventions should improve the nutritional status of women and children in underserved areas. He was addressing the scientists and other staff of the CSIR – North East Institute of Science And Technology, in Jorhat, Assam today. The Governor of Assam, Shri Jagadish Mukhi, the Minister for Agriculture, Assam, Shri Atul Bora and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President said that Science and Technology can make farmers get more income and enable them to optimally utilize resources like soil and water. Technology can also help protect forest wealth, reduce pollution and help us lead healthier lives, he added.


    The Vice President said that one must strive to be among the leaders in the field, accessing applying and adding to the wealth of scientific knowledge. We need to continuously draw inspiration from this lineage and forge ahead in the current world which is witnessing phenomenal changes mediated by science and technology, he added.


    Following is the text of Vice President's address :


    "I am delighted to be with all of you at the CSIR – North East Institute of Science and Technology in Jorhat.


    I am glad to note the tremendous work done by this Institute right from its inception in 1961 as a multi-disciplinary laboratory harnessing science for development.


    Glancing at the 120 technologies developed by you, I am impressed at the wide range of activities taken up by you in the fields of biological sciences, material sciences, geo-sciences, engineering sciences and chemical sciences.


    You have researched and come up with healthcare herbal formulations like anti-lung cancer, anti-arthritis and anti-fungal products as well as mosquito repellents.


    I am happy that your research findings have great relevance to farmers. The bio-organic fertilizer and bacterial formulations for crop enhancement and yield improvement as well as bio-remediation of hydrocarbon contaminated soil can contribute to enhanced farm productivity.


    I am equally impressed by the ‘Aroma Mission’ you have undertaken since 2017. This will bring significant value addition to the existing agricultural practices in the region and augment farmers’ incomes. This is an initiative that holds great promise and needs to be pursued with great zeal and devotion in the next few years.


    Your research into seismicity of the north east region and your networking of 27 seismic stations is generating valuable data that will be most useful for hazard communication and disaster preparedness.


    Institutes like yours have a vital role in ensuring that science and technology brings tangible benefits to the people of our country.


    You have undertaken a challenging mission and you are doing a commendable job. I notice that you are not only focussing on research and product development but also on training and skill development.


    Your training programmes on mushroom cultivation, vermin compost production, weaving and textile products manufacturing and banana fibre extraction can transform the agrarian economy in many ways.


    In keeping with the spirit of ‘Antyodaya’ you have taken up science and technology interventions to improve the nutritional status of women and children in underserved areas.


    I congratulate the Director and the entire team for making significant progress in your mission. The north eastern region has vast natural resources and incredible bio-diversity. If we can tap into the power of science and technology, we can add considerable value to existing occupation and processes.


    Science and technology has a powerful transformational potential.


    It can make farmers get more income, it can enable us to optimally utilize the scarce natural resources like soil and water, it can help protect forest wealth, it can reduce pollution, it can make us lead healthier lives.


    I am happy that scientists like you are working hard to push the frontiers of science and technology still further.


    We are a country with long, illustrious scientific heritage.


    We need to continuously draw inspiration from this lineage and forge ahead in the current world which is witnessing phenomenal changes mediated by science and technology.


    We must strive to be among the leaders in the field, accessing applying and adding to the wealth of scientific knowledge.


    I wish you all success in this noble endeavour. The new India we are dreaming of will be built in the laboratories like yours which connect science with societal development. So as long as you keep this connection alive, you will stay relevant, you will stay energized and take up newer challenges with each passing day.


    My greetings to each one of you on your achievements and best wishes for your continued success.


    Jai Hind!

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529404) Visitor Counter : 841
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil