      Ministry of Coal

      Coal India on full throttle to ward off the Strike
      Posted On: 17 APR 2018 11:46AM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Trade Unions of Coal India Limited (CIL) the Maharatna coal mining behemoth served notice to go on a one-day strike on 16th April protesting against the commercial coal mining.


    In a bid to ward off the strike Hon’ble Union Minister of Railways and Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal invited the four trade unions BMS, HMS, AITUC and CITU for a meeting in Mumbai where their apprehensions were dispelled in a proper perspective.


    Subsequently a next round of meeting was held with Secretary (Coal) as a result of which the four trade unions agreed to call off the strike in principle. In fact, BMS and HMS inked their pact to steer clear off the strike. Though AITUC did not formalize their consent through signature, nevertheless they agreed to back off the strike.


    CITU was the lone union to head off and called for a protest day against the commercial mining.


    To ensure no loss to production and off-take Coal India management made elaborate arrangements and a multi-pronged plan was put into action at all mines of CIL viz...


    (a) To maintain peace and thwart any disruption of mining activities all the subsidiary companies geared up by setting up videography and photography arrangement at mine level to identify the persons taking part in the strike. This move paid result as it dissuaded the agitators to force any stoppage of work and sit on dharna


    (b) Officers of CIL and subsidiaries maintained a round the clock vigile at production units to monitor the situation.


    (c) Law and Order machinery worked in tandem with CIL authorities to ensure peace and running of usual operations.


    (d) It was informed to all concerned that any unlawful activity would be dealt with disciplinary actions as per the legally enforceable measures.


    (e) Control rooms were set up at every area, subsidiary and Coal India to constantly monitor the situation.


    (f) All the subsidiaries were intimated to send reports to CIL every two hours informing the developments.


    The state of preparedness by CIL led to a point where there was hardly any untoward incident.


    The arrangements were so elaborate that the operations in all the subsidiaries of CIL were normal today except for few stray incidents where protesters tried to sit on dharna but it didn't succeed and no adverse effect on production related activities was reported anywhere.


    The cohesiveness with which the trade unions and CIL management worked together reflected a high level of maturity and harmonious coordination.


    *******


    SBS/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1529284) Visitor Counter : 898
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Hindi