      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi Lays Foundation Stone, Inaugurates Development Works in Rampur Under the Multi-Sectoral Development Programme
      Posted On: 17 APR 2018 3:49PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minority Affairs Minister Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said that “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas” is not a slogan, but it is “Rashtraniti” and “Inclusive Growth” is “Rajdharma” of the Modi Government. He said that in the last 4 years the government has made development as a part of dignity of poor and weaker sections and provided roads, electricity, water, employment, employment opportunities to them.


    The Minister was speaking at Adarsh Ramlila Ground, Civil Lines Rampur, where he laid foundation stone and inaugurated various development projects of the Ministry of Minority Affairs and Minority Welfare, Government of Uttar Pradesh in Bilaspur, Swar, Saidnagar, Shahbad and Chamraua under Multi-Sectoral Development Programme (MsDP).


    Shri Naqvi said that Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi‘s commitment to “inclusive growth” has ensured welfare of villages, poor, farmers, youths, minorities and women . He said that there is an atmosphere of trust and development among all sections including Minorities due to our policy of “Empowerment without Appeasement” and “Development with Dignity”.


    Highlighting the achievements of his Ministry he said various scholarships- pre-matric, post-matric, merit-cum-means, free coaching, “Begum Hazrat Mahal Girls Scholarships” to 2 crore 66 lakh Minority students have been given in last 48 months. Job oriented skill development training and employment and employment opportunities to 5 lakh 44 thousand 994 youths through “Seekho aur Kamao”, “Usttad”, “Nai Manzil”, “Garib Nawaz Skill Development Scheme”. In last 1 year, 1 lakh 18000 artisans have been provided employment and employment opportunities through “Hunar Haat”. Through “Nai Raushni” scheme, leadership training has been given to 2 lakh 95 thousand Minority women, various scholarships to 1 crore 21 lakh girl students.


    Under Multi-Sectoral Development Programme (MsDP), 330 multi-purpose community centres “Sadbhav Mandap”, 68 Gurukul type residential schools, 436 market shed for farmers and artisans, 11 degree colleges, 469 class rooms, 163 girls hostels, 53 ITIs, 874 school buildings and 16 thousand 297 additional class rooms have been constructed.


    Under Term Loan and Micro Finance Schemes for self-employment and education, the present government has provided for self-employment and education to 6.33 lakh families through National Minorities Development Finance Corporation (NMDFC). Rs 1979 crore has been given to minorities as concessional loans for education and employment purpose. Shri Naqvi further said the several reforms have been made in the entire Haj process making it pro-pilgrims and transparent. A record 1 lakh 75 thousand 25 Indian Muslims are going to Haj this year. For the first time, Choice of Embarkation points has been given to Haj pilgrims and women are go to Haj without “Mehram” (male companion). Despite ending Haj subsidy, airfares in 2018 are lowest in comparison to last several years.


    Minister of State for Minority Welfare, Government of Uttar Pradesh, Shri Baldev Singh Aulakh, Smt. Monika Garg, Principal Secretary, Minority Welfare, Uttar Pradesh Government and senior officials and prominent people were also present on the occasion.


    ****


    JN/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1529336) Visitor Counter : 441
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil