      Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

      Shri RK Singh inaugurates Solar Lamp Assembly & Distribution Center; distributes Solar Study Lamp to students
      
      Flags off UJALA van from Arrah to initiates the Gram Swaraj Abhiyan
      
      Lays the foundation stone for PV Module Manufacturing Plant in Gaya

      Posted On: 14 APR 2018 5:29PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri R K Singh, Minister of State (IC) for Power and New & Renewable Energy, Government of India, on the occasion of 127th Birth Anniversary of Bharat Ratna Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar launched a number of initiatives for the welfare of the underprivileged, today.


    At this occasion, Shri Singh expressed the Government’s commitment to provide 24*7 power supply to all. He said that every household in country will get electricity connection by December, 2018 under ‘Saubhagya’ . Emphasising the importance of renewable energy for rural areas, the Minister said, “Off-grid solutions will empower the local women and provide a reliable source of electricity for school going children so they can study and progress well. Thus, it will help in integrating the deprived sections of society with the mainstream.”


    Of the several initiatives launched, Shri Singh inaugurated Assembly & Distribution Centre for Solar Study Lamps at Mahuli village in Arrah. In this centre, local women Self Help Group (SHG) will assemble Solar Study Lamps and distribute them to underprivileged students who do not have access to electricity. Thus the Centre will not only provide kerosene-free affordable illumination to students, but also empower rural women with the skills to assemble, distribute and repair solar lamps.


    This initiative is part of the Government of India’s scheme of providing 70 lakh Solar Study Lamps in five States where rural household electrification levels are low. In Bihar, the target is to provide more than 18.84 lakh underprivileged students with Solar Study Lamps. Around 4.57 lakh such lamps have already been distributed to students of the State.


    Shri RK Singh also laid the foundation (remotely) for a solar photovoltaic (PV) module manufacturing plant in Sherghati block of Gaya district. This plant will be first of its kind in the State, and will be entirely owned and operated by local women Self Help Group Federations . For this purpose, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between the Bihar Rural Livelihood Promotion Society (BRLPS) - Jeevika, IIT-Bombay, and the Cluster Level Federation of women self-help group members.


    Initiating the Govt of India’s Gram Swaraj Abhiyan, Shri Singh flagged off the UJALA van from Arrah. The van will travel across Bihar distributing the LED bulbs and spreading awareness about energy efficiency and energy conservation. As part of this initiative, 16000 Indian villages with a significantly large number of low income households will be able to buy LED bulbs for a special price of Rs. 50 under the Unnat Jyoti by Affordable LEDs for All (UJALA) programme. In Bihar, 635 villages will benefit under this programme. The LED bulbs will equip homes with energy-efficient, cost-effective lighting, and higher lumen output than conventional incandescent bulbs.


    The Gram Swaraj Abhiyan is launched by the Government to promote social harmony and apprise rural communities of various government welfare schemes and initiatives. The campaign will be implemented between 14th April and 5th May, 2018 in 16000 villages across India.


    The event was graced by the officials from Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, EESL, IIT Bombay, Bihar Rural Livelihoods Promotion Society - Jeevika and District Administration of Bhojpur.


    Background:


    After the success of 10 lakh solar study lamp scheme, Ministry of New & Renewable Energy, Government of India launched a scheme for providing 70 lakh solar study lamps to students of underserved areas of five States where the rural household electrification level was less than 50 per cent as per Census 2011. These states are Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh. Under the Scheme solar study lamps are provided to students for which they have to contribute a small amount of Rs. 100/- only.


    The scheme is being implemented by Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), along with IIT Bombay. So far over 11 lakh solar study lamps have been distributed under the scheme.


    

    *****


    JN/MS/RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529121) Visitor Counter : 851
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil