      Ministry of Culture

      The second session of NAI’s Book reading series -“Archives Reads”- showcases its rich archival records
      Posted On: 20 APR 2018 5:50PM by PIB Delhi


    The Second Book reading session of 'Archives Reads' was organised by NAI today with Author & Prof Deepak Kumar, former Professor, JNU reading from his latest publication “Trishanku Nation – Memory, Self and Society in Contemporary India".


    Speaking on the occasion, Director General, National Archives of India (NAI), Shri Pritam Singh, said that the rich archives available with NAI is a treat for students, researchers, historians and authors. He said this book reading series would help inculcate archival awareness among the masses, to bring prominent historians closer to the young readers and to showcase the vast treasure of archives available with NAI for research and reference purposes.


    The author, Prof Deepak Kumar, mentioned that around 4500 files on Home affairs, Polity, meteorology and various other branches were referred by him from the National Archives over past 15 years which has helped him publish many books, significant being “Science and Raj". The author was immensely proud of the institution of NAI with its exceptionally rich archives indexes in various fields. He stated that ‘NAI serves as the Memory of the Nation’. He also appealed that NAI should consider preserving even private papers of historically significant organisations in the country.


    The book- “Trishanku Nation – Memory, Self and Society in Contemporary India" is built on a narrative on the state of contemporary India. The Trishanku Nation gives an account of a country marked by its contradictions and seamlessly combines everyday social history with academic insights. Based on memory, both historical and personal it examine issues of casts, religion, communalism, governance, corruption, education, science, culture, etc. as seen in the past five decades.


    Archives reads book reading series was launched on 23rd February 2018 to inculcate archival awareness among the masses and bring prominent historians/scholars closer to the young scientists/citizens.


    *****


    NB/PS/UD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1529775) Visitor Counter : 434
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil