      Ministry of Railways

      More than 100 employees/officers felicitated at the 63rd Rail Week National Award function
      
      Sh. Piyush Goyal announced two new initiatives for people of Madhya Pradesh - Indore-Howrah-Indore Shipra Express to be equipped with pantry service facility and train frequency made daily now
      
      Minister of Railways & Coal, Sh. Piyush Goyal urged Railway fraternity to continue with their good work with full vigour and as a team

      Posted On: 17 APR 2018 5:06PM by PIB Delhi

    Winners of four zonal competitions and 113 employees/officers and units were awarded by the Union Minister of Railways and Coal Sh Piyush Goyal for their outstanding performance. The 63rd Rail Week National Award function was held in Bhopal on the 16th of April 2018. This occasion was graced by Minister of Railways & Coal, Sh. Piyush Goyal in presence of Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, Sh. Shivraj Singh Chouhan, and Minister of State for Railways, Sh. Manoj Sinha, Chairman, Railway Board Sh. Ashwini Lohani, Secretary Railway Board Sh. Ranjanesh Sahai and other officials of Indian Railways and its employees.


    Speaking on the occasion, Sh. Piyush Goyal urged Railway fraternity to continue with their good work with full vigour and as a team. He also highlighted that Railway is progressing at a fast pace in Madhya Pradesh. He took this opportunity to announce two new initiatives for people of Madhya Pradesh in which Train number 22911/22912 Indore-Howrah-Indore Shipra Express will be provided with facility of pantry service along with increasing its frequency from three days a week to daily.


    Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh Shri Shivraj Singh Chouhan while appreciating the headway made by railway in Madhya Pradesh said that this rail budget has seen maximum allocation to Madhya Pradesh which will help effective and timely fruition of ongoing railway works.


    The programme was inaugurated by Minister of State for Railways Sh. Manoj Sinha by lighting the lamp for motivation and positivity. Minister of State for Railways, Sh. Manoj Sinha said that Railway is on the path of progress in which focused contribution of all railway employees is necessary to catapult Railway to further heights.


    Minister of Railway complemented the Organising Committee of Railway Board and West Central Railway for successful arrangements during the function and announced Rs 11 lakh award to each.


    Shri Piyush Goyal along with Shri Sanjiv Lohia, CEO, Indian Railways Station Development Corporation (IRSDC) also inspected the ongoing redevelopment work at Habibganj station which is the first station taken up for world-class station in Indian Railways. He saw the detailed planning and progress of the work. He visited the subway site at Habibganj station. Minister of Railway & Coal, Sh Goyal instructed that targets of December 2018 should be met for the Habibganj Station redevelopment work.


    ***


    SBS/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529355) Visitor Counter : 484
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil