      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Vice President to inaugurate Civil Services Day function
      
      PM to confer Awards for Excellence in Public Administration
      Posted On: 19 APR 2018 12:04PM by PIB Delhi


      The Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions is organizing a 2-day Civil Services Day function here on April 20- 21, 2018. The Vice President of India Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu will be the Chief Guest at the inaugural function tomorrow (April 20, 2018). The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will confer the Awards for Excellence in Public Administration for effective implementation of identified Priority Programmes and Innovation to districts/ implementing units and other Central/ State organisations on April 21, 2018.


      PM Awards for Excellence in Public Administration have been instituted with a view to recognize the extraordinary and innovative work done by Districts & Organizations of the Central and State Governments for the welfare of common citizen.


      Following four priority programmes have been identified for the awards to be presented on Civil Services Day 2018:

       1. Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana,
       2. Promoting Digital Payments,
       3. Pradhan MantriAwas Yojana – Urban & Rural, and
       4. Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana.

      In addition there are awards for Innovation for Central, State organisations including Districts.


      11 awards for 4 identified Priority Programmes will be given this year while two awards shall be given to organizations of Central/ State Government/Districts for innovations out of which one award will be given to an Aspirational District.


    A new category of awards for Additional Secretary/ Joint Secretary level officers and Director/ Deputy Secretary serving in Government of India has also been introduced this year to recognize their contribution towards bringing about transformational improvements in processes/systems through simplification and process re-engineering, etc.


    In the inaugural session, the Vice President will release a book titled: ‘Emulating Excellence- Takeaways for Replication’ and inaugurate an exhibition put up by DARPG on identified Priority Programmes and Innovations. The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh will preside over the function. The inaugural session will be followed by a Plenary Session on the topic ‘Evolving Strategies for Transforming Aspirational Districts’ chaired by Shri Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog. Apart from this, four Breakaway Sessions will be organised on subjects related to Agriculture, Housing, Digital Payments and Skilling.


    Shri Parshottam Rupala, Minister of State for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare and Panchayati Raj will chair the Session on Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana while Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State (Independent Change), Housing &Urban Affairs will chair the session on Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Minister for Rural Development, Panchayati Raj and Mines will chair the session on Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gramin Kaushalya Yojana and Ms. Aruna Sundararajan, Secretary Telecom will chair the session on Promoting Digital Payments.


    During Awards event on April 21, 2018, the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will release two books, namely ‘New Pathways’ comprising of Success stories on implementation of identified Priority Programmes & Innovations and ‘Aspirational Districts: Unlocking Potentials’ on evolving strategies for transforming Aspirational Districts. The Award ceremony will be preceded by the Plenary Session on ‘Artificial Intelligence for Effective Governance’ chaired by Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, Minister of Law & Justice, Electronics & Information Technology.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1529577) Visitor Counter : 1333
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Marathi , Tamil
    
    
    

4.