      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Madhya Pradesh conferred Most Film Friendly Award
      
      Uttarakhand conferred Special Mention Certificate for Film Friendly Environment
      
      Jury lauds continuing efforts of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat towards creating a Film Friendly Eco System : Ramesh Sippy
      
      Posted On: 19 APR 2018 12:25PM by PIB Delhi


    The Most Film Friendly State Award was announced today by the Chairman of the Jury, Shri Ramesh Sippy. The Most Film Friendly State Awards would be presented by Hon’ble President of India on May 3 rd , 2018 during the presentation of the National Film Awards.


    State of Madhya Pradesh was conferred the award for the Most Film Friendly State for its efforts towards easing filming in the State by creating a well-structured web site, film friendly infrastructure, offering incentives, maintaining databases, undertaking marketing and promotional initiatives, unanimously by the Jury from among the 16 States that participated. Madhya Pradesh also received positive feedback from established filmmakers who have shot there. The efforts taken by the State to present their case for the Awards were also appreciated. State of Uttarakhand is given a Special Mention Certificate to recognize the efforts made by the State of Uttarakhand towards creating a film friendly environment.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Ramesh Sippy Chairman of the Jury said “The Jury members laud the continuing efforts of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat towards creating a film friendly eco system in their States and hope that they keep up the good work. This year Madhya Pradesh where a lot of filmmakers have shot over the years, has won the award due to the ease of filming that the State offers along with excellent on ground support and filmic infrastructure, an informative website and incentives for film making. Their entry was also presented beautifully with all required documents given in a very comprehensive manner. In addition, the jury would like to acknowledge the sincere efforts made by Uttarakhand in this direction, despite it being a relatively new State with a difficult terrain and hence has been given the Special Mention.”


    The jury for selecting the Most Film Friendly State Award 2017 was chaired by acclaimed filmmaker Shri Ramesh Sippy and comprising of renowned filmmakers, Shri Nagraj Manjule, Shri Raja Krishna Menon, Shri Vivek Agnihotri, and Shri Uday Singh, MD , Motion Picture Distributors Association.


    NAMES OF THE STATES THAT PARTICIPATED IN THE ‘MOST FILM FRIENDLY STATE AWARD 2017’

     1. Andaman and Nicobar
     2. Delhi
     3. Gujarat
     4. Karnataka
     5. Kerala
     6. Madhya Pradesh
     7. Maharashtra
     8. Mizoram
     9. Odisha
    10. Punjab
    11. Rajasthan
    12. Sikkim
    13. Telangana
    14. Tripura
    15. Uttarakhand
    16. Uttar Pradesh

    ***


    AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1529584) Visitor Counter : 1214
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil , Malayalam
    
    
    

16.