      Ministry of Corporate Affairs

      Shri P.P. Chaudhary meets senior ministers of the Government of Barbados; holds discussions to decide the way forward to enhance bilateral relations between both nations in areas of trade and investment, taxation, connectivity, logistics, MSME, agro processing and capacity building
      Posted On: 28 APR 2018 7:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Law & Justice and Corporate Affairs Shri P.P. Chaudhary called on various senior Ministers of the Government of Barbados which included the Minister of Industry, International Business, Commerce & Small Business Development, The Hon’ble Mr. Donville Inniss; Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade, The Hon’ble Maxine McClean; and Minister of Education, Science, Technology and Innovation, the Hon’ble Ronald Dacosta Jones J.P. during his collective visit to the Caribbean island nations St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Barbados under the Bruhad Sampark Yojana.


    During the meeting with The Hon’ble Donville Inniss, Minister of Industry, International Business, Commerce & Small Business Development, extensive discussions were held to discuss means and ways to enhance bilateral relations between both nations in areas of trade and investment, taxation, connectivity, logistics, MSME, agro processing and capacity building.


    During the meeting with The Hon’ble Maxine McClean, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade, the discussions between the Ministers touched upon the issues of cooperation in various multilateral fora regarding matters of bilateral interest between both the countries. Shri Chaudhary conveyed his sincere gratitude to The Hon’ble Mr. McClean on behalf of the people of India and its Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for consistently supporting India’s candidacy for a permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council (UNSC).


    During the meeting, the Hon’ble Foreign Minister Mr. McClean requested assistance from India in setting up of an Information-Technology (ICT) Centre in Barbados and for imparting quality skill-based training to Barbadians in various sectors such as film making, tourism Industry, enhancing capacity building in disaster management etc. Shri Chaudhary raised the matter of facilitation of visa to the Indian medical students studying in various offshore medical colleges located in Barbados.


    The Hon’ble Ronald Dacosta Jones J.P, Minister of Education, Science, Technology and Innovation in his meeting with Shri Chaudhary, assured him of keeping up the standard of the offshore medical colleges in Barbados commensurate with the high standards that Indian medical colleges are expected to maintain by the Medical Council of India within India. During this meeting, the issues of importance of connectivity between both the countries and visa liberalization for the Indian students & their parents were also raised.


    The visit of Union Minister of State Shri P.P. Chaudhary to Barbados was highly successful and met the expectations for which the Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi had deputed the Minister to visit St. Vincent and the Grenadines and Barbados in the Caribbean Islands. This visit turned out to be a win-win for both the countries and it shall go a long way in enhancing mutual synergy between India and these nations thereby raising India’s profile at the global stage.


    ****


    DSM/RM/KMN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1530674) Visitor Counter : 491