      Ministry of Tourism

      Tourism Minister inaugurates Indian Culinary Institute, Noida Campus
      
      First “Indian Culinary Museum” opened at ICI campus

      Posted On: 27 APR 2018 6:36PM by PIB Delhi

    The Indian Culinary Institute (ICI), Noida campus was inaugurated today by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Tourism and Minister of State for Electronics and Information Technology, Shri K. J. Alphons in presence of the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Culture and Minister of State for Environment, Forest and Climate change, Dr. Mahesh Sharma for starting culinary courses. This is in line with the commitment of creating specialized skilled manpower in the field of hospitality and posturing the research and development in Culinary Arts.


    Inaugurating the Institute, Shri. K. J. Alphons said that tourism had grown tremendously in the last year for which country's best and varied dishes have played a great role. The Minister also wished that the institute which has been conceived with the guidance & suggestions of great chefs from across the world will come out as one among the best in the world.


    Congratulating the Tourism ministry and other partners involved in this new initiative which was completed in a record time of two and half years, Dr. Mahesh Sharma said that the Institute is first of its kind and will be a pride for the nation. He wished that the students should come out in flying colours and will take the country to great heights and spread all over the world.


    Smt. Rashmi Verma, Secretary Ministry of Tourism during welcome address mentioned the key role played by experts in the field, great chefs, and officials in conceiving the idea for a world class institute. She said that ‘culinary’ has a huge potential in enhancing the tourism sector and also the institute will play a great role in documenting and research in culinary arts. MLA (Noida Assembly Constituency), Sh. Pankaj Singh graced the occasion as Special Guest.


    ICI offers various courses ranging from Diploma, Under Graduate, and Post Graduate to research in Culinary Arts. The graduate and post graduate courses will start from July this academic year.


    The NOIDA campus of ICI will also have a state of the art “Indian Culinary Museum” where the rich historical and diversified culinary objects and other literature will be displayed. This will provide a unique platform for preserving the Indian culinary heritage.


    Govt. of India commissioned the project of setting up of Indian Culinary Institute, which is a state-of-art Institute and is expected to be at par with the best International Culinary Institutes. For young students, this is the right time to join the culinary industry for jobs and a lucrative and satisfying career. The initiative of Government of India by commissioning Indian Culinary Institute, Noida will fulfill dreams of many of the students to make their career in this field. The students of this Institute will service the domestic industry and also contribute internationally as an ambassador of India’s rich and diversified food heritage.


    The campus and the building of ICI, NOIDA, having a built up area of 2,31,308 square feet, was developed and completed in time and it took 2 years to build it with world class infrastructure facilities.


    The Indian tourism industry today added another step for further promotion and development of culinary tourism in India as the campus of ICI at NOIDA will attract the best of the talents in the specialized field with a world class infrastructure such as culinary studio with facility to have smart class rooms, specialized kitchens and microbiology labs with modern and latest equipment, training restaurants for various cuisines, modern hostel facility for boys and girls with a capacity of about 400 students.


    *****


    NB/JP/Tourism/27-04-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1530621) Visitor Counter : 241