      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh pays visit to offices of DoPT, Pensions and Space located in LokNayakBhawan
      
      Minister interacts with employees and understands various functional aspects

      Posted On: 24 APR 2018 3:28PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, DrJitendra Singh paid a visit to the offices located in LokNayakBhawan, here today. The officers of Department of Personnel & Training (DoPT), Department of Pensions & Pensioners’ Welfare and Department of Space, for which DrJitendra Singh is Minister of State, are located here and it houses around 300 employees. This was a surprise visit paid by him to personally understand various functional aspects of these departments.


    During his visit, DrJitendra Singh met the officials working in the departments and interacted with them regarding their working conditions and understand any difficulties faced by them during their functioning. He conducted an inspection of the office and also supervised the swachhta/cleanliness status of these departments. While going from seat to seat, he interacted with the entire staff of all the three departments. These visits help in keeping the morale of employees high and also motivate them, he said.


    Thereafter, the Minister conducted a joint meeting of all the officers in which welfare activities of employees, cadre management activities of 19,000 officers of CSS, SSCS and CSSS as well as welfare activities pertaining to Central Government Pensioners were discussed. The Minister also visited the DoPPW NIC centre which manages the Pensioners’ portal and all the online activities of the Pensions Department such as CPENGRAMS, Sankalp, Anubhav, Bhavishya and Mobile App. The Minister appreciated the online processing of Pension settlement on Bhavishya. The Minister also appreciated the Department’s initiative of Pension Adalats considering the fact that the number of Pensioners now exceed the number of working staff.


    While briefing him, Joint Secretary, Pensions informed the Minister that there was an abandoned store-house on the ground floor outside the building which had been lying in a dilapidated state from several years. The same is being renovated and shortly would be used as a facilitation centre for Pensioners as well as a convention centre for small activities of the Department of Pensions.


    The Minister while briefing the officers of DoPT mentioned that it might be a good idea to have some institutionalized service from the department’s side for certain outdoor work of officers and staff so that they can give their maximum time to the department’s activities.


    After the visit, DrJitendra Singh said that the purpose of his visit was to understand the ground working conditions of the employees working in various departments located here. He said that DoPT is an important department of Government of India and performs various important functions including cadre management and meeting training requirements. Speaking about Department of Pensions, he said that the department has taken various initiatives including organizing Pensions Adalats, SCOVA meetings and others including Pensions Portal, Anubhav scheme, Sankalp and Bhavishya. The Convention Centre being built by the Department of Pensions will help in meeting their regular requirements, he added. He also talked about e-office initiatives being implemented by departments.


    The Minister also visited the Department of Space Branch Secretariat located in LokNayakBhawan. It also has a liaison unit for ISRO which represents the DoS ISRO Headquarters at Bangalore.


    ***


    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1530021) Visitor Counter : 249
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil