      Ministry of Textiles

      Collaboration between Centre and States to boost Handloom and Handicraft sectors
      
      Union Minister of Textiles Chairs meeting of State Textiles Ministers

      Posted On: 27 APR 2018 10:53AM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Textiles and Information & Broadcasting, Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani presiding over the Meeting of the State Textiles Ministers, in New Delhi.


    A meeting of State Textiles Ministers was held on 26 th April, 2018 in New Delhi for taking comprehensive view on the schemes of Government of India for Handloom and Handicraft sectors. Minister of Textiles and Information & Broadcasting Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani presided over the meeting with Minister of State for Textiles Shri Ajay Tamta and Secretary Textiles, Anant Kumar Singh.


    Secretary, Textiles, initiated the meeting by highlighting the crucial role of State Governments in identification of weavers and artisans and their active participation in implementation of the Government of India schemes. A detailed presentation on schemes of Government of India for development of Handloom and Handicraft sectors was made by the concerned Development Commissioners.


    Speaking on this occasion, the Minister of Textiles and Information & Broadcasting reiterated the belief in cooperative federalism and appealed to State Ministers and representatives to play a pivotal role in decision making for the growth of the textiles sector. Underlining the need for all-round development of weavers and artisans, the Minister requested officials at the Centre and the States to ensure that the benefits of all Government of India schemes, like Ujjwala Yojana, Swachhta Abhiyan, reach the beneficiaries along with Textiles Ministry initiatives. She said that India Handloom Brand launched by the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, is a bridge between weavers, manufacturers and consumers, ensuring increased earnings for weavers and quality products for consumers. The Minister urged everyone present at the meeting to encourage stakeholders to register their products with India Handloom Brand. She also requested State Ministers to set targets and regularly review activities at Handloom and Handicraft clusters. She emphasized the need for educating weavers and artisans and their families by encouraging them to enroll with NIOS and IGNOU through initiatives taken by the Ministry of Textiles.


    State Ministers of Arunachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand were present at the meeting along with senior officials of the Ministry of Textiles and Development Commissioners for Handloom and Handicrafts.


    ***


    MM/ SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1530509) Visitor Counter : 741
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Tamil