      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Nafed makes impressive turn around, organizes thanks giving function to express gratitude to Hon’ble Prime Minister, Union Agriculture Minister, Central & State Governments and lender banks for their guidance & support
      
      Union Agriculture Minister Shri Radha Mohan Singh call upon management of Nafed to continue its efforts for the service of farmers and introduce a more transparent mechanism
      
      
      Shri Singh cautions Nafed, asserts there will be no second opportunity if its affairs and working is not transparent and above board
      
      Union Petroleum Minister Shri Dharmendra Pradhan hails Nafed for its new initiatives like farm waste management and production of CNG/Bio Fuel which is to be distributed through Indian Oil Corporation
      Posted On: 26 APR 2018 2:26PM by PIB Delhi


    National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. (NAFED) reeling under financial distress and massive debt of its lender banks till recently, has made an impressive turn around with record profit for the financial year 2017-18. This has enabled the Federation to contribute Rs. 220 Crore as cash payment to its lender banks towards part fulfillment of its One Time Settlement amount of Rs. 478 Crore.


    Nafed had signed the Debt Settlement Deed on 27 th March, 2018 at its Headquarter at New Delhi. Central Bank of India was the lead bank, representing all eight lender banks. This journey of Nafed from a period of acute financial crisis, staring at imminent closure to the present when it has reported record profit and wiped out its liabilities to its lender banks as well other high value creditors, has been quite arduous. Several efforts and schemes were drawn for the financial revival of the federation, whose role is very vital for implementation of Price Support Scheme of Oilseeds, Pulses and Copra as well regulating the prices of perishables. Finally, the One Time Settlement worked out on 27 th January, 2016, saw the light of the day.


    The federation had organized a Thank Giving Function at Dr. Ambedkar International Centre, 15, Janpath, New Delhi, yesterday evening to express its sincere thanks and gratitude to Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, Union Agriculture Minister, several Departments of the Govt. of India, the lender banks and State Governments for their support.


    Union Agriculture Minister, Shri Radha Mohan Singh, was the Chief Guest. Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Union Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas alongwith Shri Parshottam Rupala, Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Ministers of State for Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare were present. A host of senior Govt. of India Officials, State Governments, National Cooperative Bodies, State Cooperative Bodies, Banks, Niti Aayog and the Members of the Board of Directors of Nafed, ex-Managing Directors, retired employees of the federation, etc. were present.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Chief Guest Shri Radha Mohan Singh complemented Nafed and lender banks for implementing the One Time Settlement. Shri Singh lauded the efforts of the federation in making record procurement of Pulses and Oilseeds under Price Support Scheme of Govt. of India, thereby earning substantial business income for the federation as well service to the farmers and further called upon the Management of Nafed to continue its efforts for the service of the farmers as well to introduce transparent mechanism of the procurement and disposal of the commodities being procured on behalf of Govt. of India.


    Recalling the genesis of the crisis which had engulfed the federation, Union Agriculture Minister mentioned that Nafed without proper security had been distributing financial assistance to the private parties during the year 2003-07. The money was never returned by the private parties to Nafed, leading to defaults to banks. Shri Singh mentioned that a common borrower is put through lot of check and appraisal before he/she is granted personal loan but here was the case in which no financial rules and regulations were followed. Shri Singh cautioned the present Management to be careful in discharge of their functions so that there is no repetition of such instances. There shall be no second opportunity for the Federation if its affairs and working is not transparent and above board. He called upon the Management to induct professionals in its system as they will properly guide and steer the federation to greater heights.


    Criticizing the UPA regime, Shri Singh said that the previous government was bent upon closing this organization by taking policy decisions which were anti-farmer. The capping of losses to 15% in case of PSS was suicidal, as there will be no procurement within defined percentage. He said that the present government is reimbursing losses as per the actual. Further, he criticized the UPA Government for reducing the government guarantee of Nafed to tune of Rs. 261 Crore, when the Present government is giving guarantee of Rs. 42000 Crore to Nafed to serve the farmers. This shows the deep commitment of the government for the service of the farmers.


    Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Union Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas praised the efforts of Nafed for making such an impressive turn around with dedicated efforts, which was beneficial to the Organization as well the farmers. He mentioned that Nafed has been very active in recent past in taking new initiatives like Farm Waste Management and production of CNG/Bio Fuel which is to be distributed through the Indian Oil Corporation. The recent signing of Agreement by Nafed with Indian Oil Corporation was mentioned by the Union Minister. He called upon the Cooperative Sector to come forward for the skill development of the Indian farmers, which will long serve the Indian rural economy.


    Shri V R Boda, Chairman, Nafed and Shri S K Chadha, MD, Nafed, in their speeches thanked Govt. of India for their generous support.


    *****


    APS/RCS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1530374) Visitor Counter : 740
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Tamil