      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      May Day Celebration by Ministry of Labour and Employment
      Posted On: 27 APR 2018 1:21PM by PIB Delhi


    International Labour Day is also known as the May Day and is celebrated at the international level to promote and encourage the healthy dialogue among social partners. International Workers’ Day is a big celebration at the world level and it is celebrated to commemorate the 4 th of May of 1886, the Haymarket affair (Haymarket Massacre) in the Chicago.


    Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of State(Independent Charge) for Labour & Employment conveys Best Wishes to all the workers on MAY DAY and said, “Your hard work and your dedication have built the Nation”.


    Ministry of Labour & Employment will organise programme on the 1 st May, 2018 at 10.00 AM at Pravasi Bharatiya Kendra, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi. Shri Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping and Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation will be the Chief Guest. The Event will be attended by the Secretaries of various Ministries of Government of India, Senior Officers of Ministry of Labour & Employment, Members of various Boards/Advisory Bodies of the Ministry, Academicians, and senior representatives of Workers’ & Employers’ Organisations and representatives of ILO.


    On this occasion, while sharing key initiatives and achievements of the last 4 years, Ministry will also be launching a series of new Online Services through Shram Suvidha Portal as well as new initiatives by EPFO. Further, V.V. Giri National Labour Institute (V.V.G.N.L.I) will be releasing a new Publication on the challenges of Social security to the working class.


    Ministry of Labour and Employment for the first time will be awarding the Model Employers as recognized by ESIC & EPFO and Central Labour Service Officers who have excelled in their service. The benefits to Building and Other Constructions Workers will also be distributed. It would be followed by a panel discussion of labour experts on the “Strategy for providing Social Security to Unorganised Workers”.


    Minister once again Greets every worker in the country and appeals to “ MAKE INDIA GREAT LAND ON EARTH WITH OUR HARD WORK AND DETERMINATION…”


    *****


    JN/SKP/IA/JK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1530547) Visitor Counter : 616
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil