      Ministry of Culture

      Israeli Modern Art Exhibition inagurated in the capital, today
      Posted On: 28 APR 2018 8:40PM by PIB Delhi


    The exhibition 'To the end of Land' was inagurated today at the National Gallery of Modern Art, New Delhi by his Excellency, Daniel Carmon, Ambassador, Embassy of Israel in India in the presence of Director General, NGMA, Adwaita Gadanayak.


    The Exhibition is in collaboration with the Petach Tikva Museum of Art, Israel and is titled ‘To the End of Land’ contemporary art from Israel on the occasion of 25 years of diplomatic relations between the two countries.


    Speaking on the occassion the ambassador said that the exhibition is a festival of art and friendship between the two countries and represents the vision of the leaders of both the countries and widening dialouge between India and Israel.


    The Israeli Ambassador also said , “This exhibition speaks to the heart of the Indo-Israeli relations as it tells the story of Israel’s agriculture and technology in an innovative and out of the box context of contemporary art. It presents the Israeli spirit not only in its content, but also in its method of delivery. We are proud to have partnered with the Indian Ministry of Culture and the NGMA and to have upgraded our cultural cooperation via this special project. Through art, we find a common language through which to deepen our understanding of one another and strengthen our people to people bonds.”


    The exhibition presents a wide range of references and approaches to recent changes in the economic and social landscape in Israel, as manifested by the appearance of


    natural scenery in Israeli contemporary art. Engagement with the land, its borders, scars, and produce runs through the work of many artists active in Israel today. The chosen title, “To the End of Land:, strives to draw attention to some of the cultural, social, and political aspects embodied in their artistic explorations of land.


    The exhibition is available for the public viewing for the entire month of May, 11am to 6.30pm, tuesday to Sunday. (Closed on Sundays and national holidays.)


    NB/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1530682) Visitor Counter : 274