      Ministry of Defence

      Lt Gen Bipin Puri takes over as Senior Colonel Commandant of AMC
      Posted On: 26 APR 2018 4:58PM by PIB Delhi


    Lt Gen Bipin Puri took over as Senior Col Commandant of the Army Medical Corps, here today. He assumed the appointment of Director General Armed Forces Medical Services (DGAFMS) on 01 November 2017.


    Lt Gen Bipin Puri graduated from the Armed Forces Medical College, Pune and was commissioned in the Army Medical Corps (AMC) on 08 December 1979. He completed his post graduation in General Surgery from AFMC in 1985 and MCh(Paed Surg) from the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh in 1993.


    He is a paediatric surgeon par excellence with a national standing in the field. He was Associate Professor at AFMC Pune and has served with distinction in Command Hospital (CC) Lucknow & Army Hospital (Research and Referral) as Senior Adviser, Professor & HOD. The General Officer has pioneered the NUSS Procedure for Pectus Excavatum deformity in India and has conducted various workshops to showcase the procedure. With a penchant for medical research, the General officer has passionately endeavoured to indulge extensively into diverse facets of Paediatric Surgery & guided many research fellows in their professional journeys.


    During his illustrious Service career of more than 38 years, the General Officer has tenanted important staff and command appointments viz. Commandant at 155 Base Hospital, Tezpur, Dy DGAFMS (Coord) at 0/o DGAFMS, MoD, Commandant at Command Hospital (NC) Udhampur, Major General (Medical) at HQ NC, Assistant Chief of Integrated Defence Staff at HQ IDS, MoD, Sr Consultant (Surgery) at O/o DGAFMS, MoD DG(Org & Pers) at 0/o DGAFMS, DGMS (Navy) at IHQ, MoD (Navy), DGMS (Army) prior to taking over as DGAFMS.


    The General Officer was awarded the GOC-in-C Commendation in 2010 and the COAS Commendation twice, in 2001 and 2012. The General officer was awarded the Vishisht Seva Medal by the President of India in 2017 in recognition of his meritorious service. The General Officer was appointed Honorary Surgeon to The President of India (PHS) from June 2016. For his excellence in medical profession, the General Officer was awarded ‘Double Helical's National Health Awards-2017' by Indian Medical Association, which was presented by the Minister of Health and Family Welfare Shri JP Nadda in May 2017. The Royal College of Surgeons (Edinburgh) conferred upon him prestigious Award of Fellowship ad hominem in November 2017.


    NAo/Nampi/Rajib


    

    
    (Release ID: 1530419) Visitor Counter : 287
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil