      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Santosh Gangwar gives away NSCI Safety Awards – 2017
      Posted On: 27 APR 2018 3:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of State (Independent charge) Ministry of Labour & Employment said that his Ministry is committed towards job security, wage security, social security and safety and health of each and every worker. Moreover the Ministry has taken steps for simplification, amalgamation and rationalization of Central Labour Laws. Shri Gangwar said that the Government of India is following the approach of ‘Reform to Transform’ through far-reaching structural reforms. The Minister was speaking at the function to give away the National Safety Council’s (NSCI) Safety Awards’ for the year 2017 at New Delhi today. Shri Satish Reddy, Chairman, National Safety Council & Chairman, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. presided the function.


    The NSCI Safety Awards are much coveted national level Awards in the field of occupational safety, health and environment and are given in recognition for effective Safety Management System and excellent safety & health performance by the organizations in Manufacturing, Construction and MSME Sectors during the relevant assessment periods.


    Indian Farmers Fertilizer Co-operative Ltd., Bareilly (UP); NPCIL, Kaiga Generating Station 3 & 4, (Karnataka); Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (Automotive Sector), Haridwar, Uttarakhand and Vardhman Acrylics Ltd., Bharuch, Gujarat won top level Sarva Shreshtha Suraksha Puraskar under Group A, Group B, Group C, Group D and Group E respectively in Manufacturing Sector. Sojitz - L & T Consortium, Jaipur, Rajasthan was awarded Sarva Shreshtha Suraksha Puraskar in Construction Sector and Parijat Industries (India) Pvt. Ltd., Ambala, Haryana in MSME Sector have won the top level award. Altogether 70 organizations have been pronounced as winners of the awards in four awards categories – Sarva Shreshtha Suraksha Puraskar, Shreshtha Suraksha Puraskar, Suraksha Puraskar and Prashansa Patra. Besides, 12 client organizations from Construction Sector were also awarded.


    These Awards are adjudged and declared every year by the National Safety Council, an autonomous society set up by the Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of India.


    ****


    JN/SKP/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1530553) Visitor Counter : 297
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil