      Ministry of Tourism

      Noida Campus of the Indian Culinary Institute to be inaugurated tomorrow
      Posted On: 26 APR 2018 6:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Tourism, Goverment of India has established a state of the art Indian Culinary Institute (ICI) at A-35, Sector 62, Noida. Shri K.J.Alphons, Hon'ble Minister of State for Tourism (Independent Charge) and Minister of State for Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India will inaugurate the campus on 27th April 2018 at 4.00 PM. Dr.Mahesh Sharma, Hon'ble Minister of State for Culture (Independent Charge) and Minister of State for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Government of India will be the Chief Guest of the function.


    The Noida campus is one of the two ICI campuses envisaged, the other being at Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh. The Noida campus is in 5-acre land with a total project cost of Rs.98 crore and fully developed with the facility of academic block, commercial area, hostels for boys and girls, guesthouse for visiting faculties and other amenities like water harvesting, STP etc. ICI offers various courses ranging from Diploma, Under Graduate, and Post Graduate to research in Culinary Arts. The Institute has fully equipped kitchen labs, micro biology lab, Cuisine theatre, Training Restaurants, fully equipped class rooms, library, including a modern hostel with facilities for 400 students.


    The main objective of setting up of the Indian Culinary Institute (ICI) is to institutionalize a mechanism to support efforts intended to preserve, document, promote and disseminate Indian Cuisine, meet the sectoral requirement of specialists specific to Indian Cuisine, as also of promoting Cuisine as a Niche Tourism product.


    In India, at present, there is a dearth of state-of-the-art training ground to groom top-of-the-line chefs of international standards. To fill this void, the Indian Culinary Institute would provide the appropriate training platform at par with the elite “Chef Schools” functioning in different parts of the developed world.


    *****


    NB/JP/Tourism/26-04-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1530467) Visitor Counter : 327