      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Shri Ashwini Choubey releases Handbook on Prevention of Accidents and Awareness of First Aid
      Posted On: 26 APR 2018 5:19PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare released a Handbook on Prevention of Accidents and Awareness of First Aidon the occasion of ‘Road Safety Week’ at a function, here today. Speaking at the function, ShriChoubey emphasized on the need for giving medical trauma care to the injured during the first hour of the accident, known as the golden hour for saving the lives of the injured persons.SmtPreeti Sudan, Secretary (Health) and Dr. Promila Gupta, DGHS, were also present at the event.


    ShriChoubey stated that the Health Ministry is implementing a National Programme for Trauma Care with a focus on improving pre-hospital, hospital and rehabilitative services for injury victims. He said that the trauma care facilities are being strengthened in the existing government hospitals near the State and National Highway. He further added that the Government is also taking initiatives to provide training to the doctors, nurses, paramedics and even to the common people on first aid and management of injuries and till date more than 500 pre-hospital trauma technicians have been trained by Safdarjung, RML and Lady Harding Hospitals of the Centre government alone.


    ShriChoubey further said that the Road Safety Week is being observed from 23 rd April to 30 th April, 2018 to raise awareness and to encourage citizens to prevent casualties and make roads safer. He said that during the year 2016, 4,80,652 Road accidents were reported, causing injury to 4,94,624 persons and claiming 1,50,785 lives in the country. He observed that according to this statistics, 1317 accidents take place of which 413 people die on Indian roads every day, which means 55 accidents and 17 deaths every hour. ShriChoubey stated that substantial number of accidents and injuries are preventable by following simple Do’s and Don’ts. He expressed optimism that the Handbook released will be found a very useful tool in this regard.


    ShriChoubeyalso administered an oath to the officers and staff on road safety. He also appreciated the skit played on the occasion highlighting the critical importance of first aid training and administering of first aid.


    ***


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1530423) Visitor Counter : 310
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil