      Ministry of Science & Technology

      CSIR bags National Intellectual Property (IP) Award 2018 in the category Top R&D Institution / Organization for Patents and Commercialization
      Posted On: 26 APR 2018 8:38PM by PIB Delhi


    The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) is awarded the National Intellectual Property (IP) Award 2018 in the category “Top R&D Institution / Organization for Patents and Commercialization”. Dr. Girish Sahni, DG, CSIR and Secretary, DSIR received the award today at the hands of Mr. Suresh Prabhu, Hon’ble Minister, Commerce and Industry, Government of India, at a function organized by the Indian Intellectual Property Office and Confederation of Indian Chambers of Commerce (CII) in New Delhi, to celebrate the World IP Day.


    The Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) is a contemporary R&D organization. It has been ranked 9 th in the world amongst the 1207 government institutions, with an overall global ranking of 75 in the world, covering 5250 institutions. Pioneer of India’s intellectual property movement, CSIR today is strengthening its patent portfolio to carve out global niches in select technology domains.


    CSIR Laboratories have been developing and providing Technology focused at the unmet need and the cutting edge knowledgebase and human resource on the other, for socio-economic development in the Country. The CSIR S&T domains range from environment to health and drinking water, from food, housing, energy to specialty chemicals & petrochemicals, glass & ceramics to mining, metals & minerals, medicinal plants, leather to machinery, instrumentation and strategic sectors including aerospace. It is contributing for the Missions such as Swachh Bharat, Swasth Bharat, Samarth Bharat, Make in India, Innovate for India, Startup India and Skill India.


    The Indian Intellectual Property Office confers National Intellectual Property (IP) Award on outstanding innovators, organizations and companies in the fields of patents, designs, trademarks and geographical indications on the occasion of World IP Day every year.


    ***


    SRD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1530502) Visitor Counter : 516
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil