      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Centre Committed to In-Situ Redevelopment of Slums in Delhi: Puri
      
      Foundation Stone Laid for Kathputli Colony In-Situ Redevelopment Project

      Posted On: 24 APR 2018 3:53PM by PIB Delhi

    Sh. Hardeep Puri, Minister of State(I/C), Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs reiterated the Centre’s commitment for In-situ redevelopment of slums areas in Delhi to achieve the vision of housing for All. He was speaking while laying the foundation stone for the In-situ redevelopment project at Kathputli Colony in the presence of Sh. Anil Baijal, Lt. Gov of Delhi, here today. Secretary, Housing & Urban Affairs Sh. Durga Shanker Mishra and Vice Chairman of DDA Sh. Uday Pratap Singh were also present on the occasion. Addressing the gathering, Sh Puri stated that the project at Kathputli Colony will be not only a slum re-development project but also rekindle hope and trust between the State and similarly placed citizens in other slums. He further said that this redevelopment project, which was conceived way back in the year 2009, is finally seeing the light of the day and will provide clean, well planned and habitable units together with adequate social infrastructure to the people of Kathputli colony.


    The Minister further informed that this is one of the first re-development projects under the Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode. As per the Agreement with the private partner in this project, the developer has to construct 2,800 EWS houses (30.5 Sq. mtr. each) and in the interim provide transit camp with 2,800 porta cabin dwelling units and other amenities/ facilities for jhuggi dwellers. The developer will meet his cost through building and disposing of freehold flats and commercial built up area equivalent to 10% of EWS FAR on lease hold basis.


    Apart from the residential units, the project involves provision of community facilities in an area of 0.25 acres, which include Heritage/ Exhibition Museum, Kaushal Kala Vikas Kendra, Multipurpose Hall, Basti Vikas Kendra, Health Centre, Shishu Vatika, Amphitheater, essential Retail Outlets, Police Post, Religious site, Selling booths/weekly market, Art & Craft, Children’s Park and area for marriage ceremonies. Thus, it will be a self-sufficient unit with all the facilities available to the residents within their vicinity. Adequate facilities and provisions are proposed to be provided for performance, training on the ground and to conduct their performance sessions. Along with this, display areas for their artefacts are also provided so that they can showcase and sell and even export, their art and handicrafts to visiting tourists which will enable them to earn for themselves and will help for their socio-economic upliftment. The amphitheatre being constructed will enable the community to hold large public performances.


    DDA is implementing the project under the ambitious Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana in which one of the verticals provides for in-situ rehabilitation of existing slum dwellers is undertaken using land as a resource through private participation. The cost involved per dwelling unit is ₹ 1,12,000/- and ₹ 30,000/- for maintenance for a period of five years.


    RJ/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1530027) Visitor Counter : 591
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil