      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Safdarjung Hospital celebrates Platinum Jubilee
      
      The Institute is a premier learning space and has contributed significantly to affordable quality healthcare: J P Nadda

      Posted On: 27 APR 2018 8:23PM by PIB Delhi

    “Safdarjung Hospital has been a premier learning space for young physicians and has the unique distinction of giving birth to three medical colleges. The Institute has contributed significantly to affordable and quality healthcare to lakhs of patients” This was stated by Shri J P Nadda, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare, at the Platinum Jubilee celebration function of Safdarjung Hospital, here today.


    Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State, Ministry of Culture, Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey and Smt. Anupriya Patel, Ministers of State for Health & Family Welfare also graced the occasion.


    Speaking at the celebration function, Shri Nadda stated that the Institute has traversed a long illustrious journey of glorious 75 years. “The stalwarts who formed the foundation of this premium healthcare institute, I salute and congratulate them,” Shri Nadda added. He further said: that let us remember this day as one where we decide to take it to the heights of pioneering healthcare, and envision where this Institute shall be as it celebrates 100 years of serving the people with the best health services. Shri Nadda also suggested that the celebrations should continue for one year where various activities are conducted. “A focussed committee can be formed of its alumni who can guide the direction in which Safdarjung hospital should proceed. Let’s build on its strength- a hospital for the common man, providing quality healthcare,” Shri Nadda elaborated.


    Pointing to the disconnect often witnessed among doctors and patients in various hospitals, the Health Minister stated that this is many a time due to lack of communication between them. He suggested that high quality qualified counsellors may be appointed to communicate with the patients and their attendants. “They need to be professionals who are qualified in communication. This is important as patient load increases and patient-doctors altercations tend to increase,” Shri Nadda elaborated.


    Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State (I/C), Ministry of Culture, an alumini of the hospital himself, highlighted the accomplishments of the Safdarjung Hospital and stressed on the importance of compassion among doctors. He saluted the founding fathers and stalwart doctors for their valuable contribution. He stressed on the need for doctors to show empathy and compassion to the patients.


    Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Minister of State for Health & Family Welfare said that the services at the hospital are progressing steadily and he is confident that it will one day become India’s top hospital. He further said that doctors and healthcare should not be commercialised as doctors are still revered as god on earth. Shri Choubey emphasised importance of ethical practices and compassion among doctors.


    Smt. Anupriya Patel, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare congratulated the doctors and faculty at the Safdarjung and said that the Institute is one of the world’s largest public sector hospitals with a mission to deliver free and affordable healthcare to every child, woman and man and provides world class medical education to young doctors who shall become the torchbearers in this millennium. She also highlighted various initiatives undertaken by the Centre to enhance the quality of services at Safdarjung Hospital.


    The dignitaries released a stamp also to mark the occasion.


    Also present at the function were Dr. Promila Gupta, DGHS, Shri Sanjeeva Kumar, Addl. Secretary, Dr. Rajendra Sharma, Medical Superintendent, Safdarjung Hospital & VMMC, New Delhi, Shri R K Maharaj, Post Master General, Dept of Posts, Students and Faculty members of the Institute and senior officers from the Ministry.


    ***


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1530657) Visitor Counter : 232