      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Sports Minister Vijay Goel congratulates Badminton player Shrikanth Kidambi for his Indonesian Open victory and the Hockey Team for emphatic win against Pakistan
      Posted On: 19 JUN 2017 5:43PM by PIB Chennai


    Union Minister State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel here today congratulated the Indian Hockey team for their emphatic victory over Pakistan in the ongoing Hockey World League Semi-Final in London. India decimated Pakistan 7-1 to continue their winning streak in the league. Shri Goel hailed the goal scorers Harmanpreet Singh, Talwinder Singh, Akashdeep Singh and Pradeep More for their splendid performance. Earlier, India defeated Scotland and Canada.


    Shri Vijay Goel said, “For the participation of Indian team in the Hockey World League, preparation camps were held at Sports Authority of India (SAI) Southern Centre, Bengaluru and the entire cost was borne by the Union Sports Ministry. An amount of Rs.1.1crore was also approved by the Ministry for the squad consisting of 18 players and 7 support staff members.” Till date approx. Rs.3.20 crores have been spent on foreign exposure of the Indian Men’s Hockey Team during the year 2017-18.


    Shri Vijay Goel also congratulated Shrikanth Kidambi on winning the Indonesia Open Super Series. Kidambi is now the only Indian man to win Super Series Premier, Super Series and Grand Prix Gold title in Badminton. Shri Goel also stated that till date approx. Rs. 3.60 crores have been spent on the foreign exposure of the Indian badminton team during the year 2017-18.He said, “We are committed towards development of every game and our Sports Ministry along with SAI will provide complete support to all players and support staff”. Goel also reiterated that the Ministry’s doors are open 24x7 to provide help, support and best facilities to sportspersons.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493375) Visitor Counter : 90
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil