      Ministry of Textiles

      MoS, Textiles views Swachh Bharat as a new type of revolution in India
      Shri Ajay Tamta briefs the media on Swachhtha Pakhwada of Ministry of Textiles

      Posted On: 19 JUN 2017 5:39PM by PIB Chennai
      Minister of State, Textiles, Shri Ajay Tamta said that there is a need for the message of Swachhtha to reach to every citizen of the country; he said that everyone needs to realize that Swachh Bharat Abhiyan can become a success only if each one participates actively in it. The Minister said that according to the vision of the Hon’ble Prime Minister, the Government as well as all sections of the society have been working together for a Swachh Bharat. Shri Tamta thanked the media for their support and said that there is a need to bring about a change in mindset among the people, so that all nations realize that a new type of revolution has been unleashed in India.
      The Minister said this while briefing the media on the observance of ‘Swachhtha Pakhwada’ (cleanliness fortnight) of the Ministry of Textiles. Shri Tamta said that all 17 bodies coming under the Ministry undertook various activities to advance Swachhtha in letter and spirit. Cleanliness drives have been conducted in offices, jute mills, residential colonies of workers in the textile sector and also in public places. Students of various NIFT (National Institute of Fashion Technology) centres across the country worked closely with various sections of the society and cleaned public places and decorated walls with mural paintings containing messages of Swachhtha. The Minister complimented the officials for closing/weeding out around 2,000 office files during the cleanliness fortnight. A Swachhtha video song too was prepared by the Ministry and shown to various stakeholders.
      Besides these, an exhibition on waste management and organic farming (organized by Central Silk Board), plantation drives, awareness campaigns, health and cleanliness camps, debate competitions, slogan-writing competitions, street plays, human chain, Padayatras and painting competitions were held in various locations as part of the Pakhwada.
      During the media briefing, Shri Tamta read out a short poem on Swachhtha:
      करते हैं नए युग का निर्माण , स्वच्छता में ही है हमारी शान ,
      रखते है पर्यावरण का ध्यान , हमारा भारत , हमारा अभियान
      जिसने देखा अपने चश्मे से स्वच्छ भारत का सपना ,
      उसे हमसे उम्मीद थी की हम देंगे योगदान अपना ,
      चलो कर दे अपने बापू का सपना साकार ,
      भारत को देते है एक सुन्दर और स्वच्छ आकार
      Secretary, Textiles, Shri Anant Kumar Singh and OSD, Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation, Shri Akshay Rout were also present on the occasion.
      The Ministry of Textiles seeks to make Swachhtha a way of life, in all functions coming under its jurisdiction. A comprehensive Swachhtha Action Plan has been formulated by the Ministry, keeping this in view. The components of the plan, and the fund requirement under Swachh Bharat Mission in respect of Ministry of Textiles and its organizations, for the years 2017-18 and 2018-19 and details are given below:
  Sl. No.    Name of the Component                        Budget (in lakhs)
                                                                           
  2017-18    2018-19                                  
                                                      
  1.         Outreach                                     2,012.48             2,384.3
                                                                                      
  2.         Adoption of Clusters                     
                                                      
  3.         Innovation Processes for Clean Production
                                                      
  4.         Improvement to Citizen Interface Areas   
                                                      
      ***
    
    
    (Release ID: 1493373) Visitor Counter : 212
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil