      Ministry of Power

      Shri Piyush Goyal Launches Energy Conservation Building Code 2017
      Adoption of ECBC could lead to 30%-50% energy savings by commercial buildings

      Posted On: 19 JUN 2017 6:02PM by PIB Chennai

    Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of State (IC) for Power, Coal, New and Renewable Energy and Mines launched the Energy Conservation Building Code 2017 (ECBC 2017) here today. Developed by Ministry of Power and Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), ECBC 2017 prescribes the energy performance standards for new commercial buildings to be constructed across India.


    The updated version of ECBC provides current as well as futuristic advancements in building technology to further reduce building energy consumption and promote low-carbon growth. ECBC 2017 sets parameters for builders, designers and architects to integrate renewable energy sources in building design with the inclusion of passive design strategies. The code aims to optimise energy savings with the comfort levels for occupants, and prefers life-cycle cost effectiveness to achieve energy neutrality in commercial buildings.


    In his address , Shri Goyal, said, I would like to dedicate today ECBC Code 2017 to all the young children of India …to the future of India for whose sake , it is incumbent on all of us to efficiently utilize every bit of resource , ensure implement such progressive and forward looking programmes of Government very diligently and ensure that we will leave behind for next generation a better world then what we inherited .”


    Shri Pradeep Kumar Pujari, Secretary, Power, stated that ECBC 2017 will give clear direction and have criteria for new buildings to be Super ECBC: “The new code reflects current and futuristic advancements in building technology, market changes, and energy demand scenario of the country, setting the benchmark for Indian buildings to be amongst some of the most efficient globally.”


    In order for a building to be considered ECBC-compliant, it would need to demonstrate minimum energy savings of 25%. Additional improvements in energy efficiency performance would enable the new buildings to achieve higher grades like ECBC Plus or Super ECBC status leading to further energy savings of 35% and 50%, respectively.


    With the adoption of ECBC 2017 for new commercial building construction throughout the country, it is estimated to achieve a 50% reduction in energy use by 2030. This will translate to energy savings of about 300 Billion Units by 2030 and peak demand reduction of over 15 GW in a year. This will be equivalent to expenditure savings of Rs 35,000 crore and 250 million tonnes of CO2 reduction.


    ECBC 2017 was developed by BEE with technical support from United States Agency for International Development (USAID) under the U.S.-India bilateral Partnership to Advance Clean Energy – Deployment Technical Assistance (PACE-D TA) Program.


    The launch event was attended by senior officers of Ministries, State Governments, technical bodies, public utilities, multilateral agencies, international funding bodies, academicians and industry experts and consultants from across the building, infrastructure, real estate, energy and construction sectors. The event also featured a video on the ECBC, as well as a technical session that highlighted the salient features of ECBC 2017, international best practices in the building sector, as well as the presentation of case studies on energy efficient buildings.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493380) Visitor Counter : 116
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil