      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Indian Delegation at 2017 BIO International Convention
      Posted On: 20 JUN 2017 2:57PM by PIB Chennai


    The Biotechnology Innovation Organization (BIO) BIO 2017 is being held in the San Diego Convention Centre, San Diego from 19 th June t0 22 nd June, 2017. The Indian delegation taking part in the BIO 2017, is being led by Shri Y S Chowdary, Minister of State for Science & Technology and Earth Sciences. As a part of his program, the Minister visited Jacob School of Engineering, University of California San Diego Campus on 19 th June, 2017 to interact with Indian students and the local faculty, many of whom have roots in India.


    While welcoming Shri Chowdary, Dr. Albert Pisano, Dean, Jacob School of Engineering, University of California San Diego stressed the need of collaboration with India in various fields related to Science & Technology. Dr. Pisano highlighted the high end scientific growth in Indian Academia and stressed the need for growth of technologies such as point of care diagnostics and lab on chip diagnostics for infectious diseases prevalent in the country. He also said that UCSD had its strengths in the area of Stem Cell engineering and emphasized that it could be a potential area of collaboration, besides areas like maternal health and geriatrics.


    Shri Chowdary in his address highlighted various aspects that have been the guiding factor in the advances of research and development and said that the key words are affordability and sustainability as both these had a huge potential in Indian scenario. He said that India need not be dependent on reverse technology based research as the talent is over flowing with original research that is primarily an outcome of the various forms of handholding by the government in promoting research in the country. He urged the students to be future players for initiating start-ups in the areas of potential growth and informed the audience that the Indian Government had several prestigious schemes like Ramalingaswamy Fellowship; DST Inspire, DBT-Welcome Trust Fellowship and IYBA to name a few among such schemes that facilitate the re-entry of Indian researchers working abroad into India who are desirous of pursuing post-doctoral research in the country. He even stressed that any suggestions shall be welcome to initiate a specific tailor made program for students and researchers who would come up with specific issues.


    The BIO International Convention is the largest global event for the biotechnology industry and attracts the biggest names in biotech, offers key networking and partnering opportunities, and provides insights and inspiration on the major trends affecting the industry. The event features keynotes and sessions from key policymakers, scientists, CEOs, and celebrities. The Convention also features the BIO Business Forum (One-on-One Partnering), hundreds of sessions covering biotech trends, policy issues and technological innovations, and the world's largest biotechnology exhibition - the BIO Exhibition. The first BIO International Convention was held in 1993 and attracted approximately 1,400 attendees.


    The BIO International Convention is hosted by the Biotechnology Innovation Organization (BIO). BIO represents more than 1,100 biotechnology companies, academic institutions, state biotechnology centers and related organizations across the United States and in more than 30 other nations. BIO members are involved in the research and development of innovative healthcare, agricultural, industrial and environmental biotechnology products.


    BIO performs many services for members, but none of them are more visible than the BIO International Convention. The BIO International Convention helps BIO fulfill its mission to help grow the global biotech industry. Profits from the BIO International Convention are returned to the biotechnology industry by supporting BIO programs and initiatives. BIO works throughout the year to create a policy environment that enables the industry to continue to fulfill its vision of bettering the world through biotechnology innovation.


    The key benefits of attending the BIO International Convention are access to global biotech and pharma leaders via BIO One-on-One Partnering, exposure to industry though-leaders with over 1,500 education sessions at your fingertips, and unparalleled networking opportunities with 16,000+ attendees from 76 countries. India is taking part in the BIO 2017.

  
  
  

    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493524) Visitor Counter : 229
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil