      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Bureaucrats shall think fresh taking a cue from Prime Minister - Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu
      Asks them to draw lessons from the past and be inspired by future of the country

      Posted On: 30 JUN 2017 3:18PM by PIB Chennai

    Minister of Information and Broadcasting, Urban Development and Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu today urged the bureaucracy to think fresh and act differently so as to live up to the expectations of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. He said so while addressing about 100 senior officers from the three ministries at a farewell function hosted by him at his residence on the occasion of retirement and transfer of Secretaries concerning three of his ministries.


    Shri Naidu urged the officials to emulate Prime Minister saying “Prime Minister is a storehouse of ideas and fresh and innovative thinking. All that he expects from all of us is to think and act differently. By this, what he means is innovation for higher productivity and better results.”


    Noting that bureaucracy over time has come to be seen as an icon of ‘status quo’ and playing safe, the Minister urged the officials to break the stereotype to live up to the expectations of the Prime Minister. He suggested that officials should not be guided by the past but shall be inspired by the future of the country and the people and the past shall only be a reference for drawing right lessons so as to meet the challenges of the future as the country is keen to discover and herald a new future.


    Shri Naidu complimented Dr. Nandita Chatterjee, who is superannuating today, for her contribution to promoting affordable housing, Shri Rajiv Gauba who is to take over as Home Secretary for pushing transformative urban reforms and Shri Ajay Mittal, who is going as Secretary(Personnel) for his good work in the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting. He also welcomed new I&B Secretary Shri N. K. Sinha and Shri D. S. Mishra, new Secretary (UD).


    Minister of State for Planning (Independent Charge) and Minister of State for UD and HUPA Rao Inderjit Singh, Minister of State for I&B Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore and Chairman of Prasar Bharati Shri A. Surya Prakash were also present on the occasion.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1494583) Visitor Counter : 186
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil