      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Saving Cyber Network from Criminal Threat
      Posted On: 07 MAR 2018 4:42PM by PIB Delhi


    As per the data maintained by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), a total of 9622, 11592 and 12,317 cyber-crime cases were registered during the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 respectively. Government has taken various measures for preventing cyber crime in the country which inter-alia includes:

     1. The Ministry of Home Affairs has recently set up a Cyber & Information Security Division to look into relevant matters relating to cyber-crime & information security.
     2. Ministry of Home Affairs is implementing a scheme ‘Cyber Crime Prevention against Women and Children’ (CCPWC) from NIRBHAYA funds in the period 2017-2020, under which Rs 82.8 crore as Grants-in-Aid have been disbursed to the States/UTs for setting up of one cyber forensic training laboratory in each State/UT.
     3. Various steps are taken by MHA as well as States to modernize the preventive setup and equip police personnel with knowledge and skills for prevention and control of crime through various national and state police academies/institutes. CCPWC scheme of Ministry of Home Affairs aims to train 27,500 police personnel across the country in the field of cyber domain.
     4. Information Technology Act, 2000 has adequate deterrent provisions for cyber threats and cyber attacks.
     5. All the new government websites and applications are to be audited with respect to cyber security prior to their hosting. The auditing of the websites and applications is to be conducted on a regular basis after hosting.
     6. The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) is regularly tracking the hacking of websites and alerts the website owners concerned to take actions to secure the websites to prevent recurrence.
     7. Government has formulated Cyber Crisis Management Plan for countering cyber attacks and cyber terrorism.
     8. CERT-In issues alerts and advisories regarding latest cyber threats/vulnerabilities and countermeasures to protect computers/servers on regular basis.
     9. Cyber security mock drills are being conducted regularly to enable assessment of cyber security posture and preparedness of organizations in Government and critical sectors.
    10. CERT-In conducts regular training programmes for key stakeholders.
    11. Government has initiated setting up of National Cyber Coordination Centre (NCCC).
    12. Government has launched the Cyber Swachhta Kendra (Botnet Cleaning and Malware Analysis Centre).
    13. NIC which provides IT/E-Governance related services to Government Departments protects the cyber resources from possible compromises through a layered security approach in the form of practices, procedures and technologies.

    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir in written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/PK/SS/PP/1332


    

    
    (Release ID: 1522980) Visitor Counter : 427
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

13.