      Ministry of Defence

      DefExpo 2018 website http://www.defexpoindia.in/: a versatile interface for participating in DefExpo 2018
      Posted On: 06 MAR 2018 1:30PM by PIB Delhi


      For those planning to participate in DefExpo 2018, the website ( http://www.defexpoindia.in/ ) provides all necessary information in a comprehensive manner. It has complete registration details whether one is an international business visitor, company, MSME or a general visitor. DefExpo is open for business visitors from April 11-14, 2018 and for general public on April 14 th .


      The website provides a section for participation by the media personnel, who are required to register before March 15 th 2018. Separate section is also provided for Embassy Officials to facilitate official delegations from their respective countries.


      Companies interested in displaying their products and services can register on line. Full details of the rates at which space can be booked are all available on the website. 50% concessional rates have been offered to MSMEs, thereby making it extremely easy for them to participate in the Expo.


      DefExpo and Government of Tamil Nadu Tourism Department have tied up with hotels in and around Chennai for the benefit of outstation visitors during the DefExpo. Special rates have been negotiated with these hotels so that the visitors, especially foreign delegates do not face difficulty. Details of hotels with room availability and rates are also available on the website. Hotel rooms are being booked very fast and all concerned needing rooms must take advance action to reserve their rooms.


      Suggestions regarding additional information/services that are required by users are also solicited. These may be sent to Dr Amit Sahai, Joint Secretary, Department of Defence Production, Ministry of Defence,Email: <jscoord-ddp@nic.in>


      SRR /NAo/Nampi

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522673) Visitor Counter : 1012
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil