      Ministry of Education

      Various regulations notified by UGC recently to improve standards in Higher Education
      Posted On: 05 MAR 2018 6:49PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government is committed to improve the quality of education and it is a continuous ongoing process. A number of initiatives are being undertaken by UGC and AICTE for quality improvement in general and technical education in higher education sector. Several initiatives are currently being undertaken in this direction. Initiatives such as:

     1. Study Webs of Active-Learning for Young Aspiring Minds (SWAYAM)
     2. National Academic Depository (NAD)
     3. Global Initiative for Academics Network (GIAN)
     4. Impacting Research, Innovation & Technology (IMPRINT)
     5. Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme (TEQIP)
     6. Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya National Mission on Teachers and Teaching (PMMMNMTT)
     7. National Digital Library
     8. Campus connect programme

    are being implemented to improve the quality of higher education. To promote objective assessment of performance annually, Government has also launched the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) for Higher Educational Institutions.


    UGC has notified various Regulations to improve the standards in Higher Education such as the UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of Ph.D. Degree) Regulations, 2016, UGC (Minimum Qualifications for Appointment of Teachers and other Academic Staff in Universities and Colleges and Measures for the Maintenance of standards in Higher Education 2010) Regulation 2016 (Third Amendment), UGC (Categorisation of Universities (only) for Grant of Graded Autonomy) Regulations, 2018 and UGC (Conferment of Autonomous status upon Colleges and Measures for maintenance of Standards in Autonomous Colleges) Regulations, 2018.


    The Government is in the process of formulating a New Education Policy to meet the changing dynamics of the student population’s requirement with regard to provide quality education and aiming to make India a knowledge hub by equipping its students with the necessary technology skills and knowledge.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AK/RK/ Overhaul of Higher Education

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522608) Visitor Counter : 625
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

8.