      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Shri Nitin Gadkari to inaugurate International Workshop on “use of large diameter pipes for Mega Water Conveyance Systems”
      Posted On: 07 MAR 2018 1:31PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Road Transport & Highways and Shipping will inaugurate a one day international workshop on “Use of Large Diameter Pipes for Mega Water Conveyance Systems” in New Delhi on 9 th March 2018. The workshop is being organized by WAPCOS and National Water Development Agency under the aegis of the Ministry of Water Resources.


    Traditionally, water conveyance in India is done through canal systems. The efficiency of such a system of delivery varies between 35-60 percent. Conveyance of water through pipes is now gaining ground as the efficiency of such a system is much higher at 70-80 percent. Piped conveyance requires lesser land, hence it helps save costs. There is lesser loss of water due to theft and evaporation, and contamination is also greatly reduced. The system is especially useful in water logged areas. Large diameter pipes are increasingly being used for large scale water conveyance, for example, water supply to an entire city or for irrigation.


    The workshop will focus on planning, design, materials to be used, construction aspects, operation and maintenance and other related issues pertaining to the use of large diameter pipelines for water conveyance. The workshop will be attended by key stake holders like manufacturing companies, organizations involved in water asset management, engineering specialists, water resources departments of Central and State Governments and private companies. Indian and foreign experts will present papers at the workshop.


    The workshop will have three technical sessions on Conventional Water Conveyance System, use of non-conventional methods in mega water conveyance system and planning, design and management of Large Diameter Piped (LDP) water conveyance system.


    *****


    NP/SKP/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1522901) Visitor Counter : 478
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil