      Ministry of Defence

      Escalation in Ceasefire Violations
      Posted On: 05 MAR 2018 3:06PM by PIB Delhi


    There have been 351 instances of Ceasefire Violations (CFVs) along the Line of Control (LC) under operational control of Army in Jammu and Kashmir in the current year. The month wise details of CVFs are as under:-

                                                                         
Sl. No.  Months (2018)                        No. of Ceasefire Violations
                                                                         
                                                                         
                                                                         
(i)      January                              209                        
                                                                         
                                                                         
                                                                         
(ii)     February (till 21st February, 2018)  142                        
                                                                         
                                                                         

    Appropriate response to these ceasefire violations has been carried out wherever necessary. During ceasefire violations, the inhabitants of border villages, which are vulnerable to shelling / firing, are shifted to safer locations to prevent any loss of life. All arrangements are made to shift them to safer locations.


    The defences along the border are periodically fortified to withstand attacks by continuous improvements in the defences to make them more robust and resilient.


    This information was given by RakshaRajyaMantriDr. Subhash Bhamre in a written reply to ShriSanjay Rautin Rajya Sabha today.


    ***


    NAo/Nampi/Rajib/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522510) Visitor Counter : 459
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil