      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Rehabilitation and Development Package for Naxal Affected Areas
      Posted On: 06 MAR 2018 4:28PM by PIB Delhi


    For holistic development of LWE affected areas, various schemes are being implemented by the line Ministries/Departments. Some of the major development initiatives, specifically taken/being taken, in the LWE affected areas are as follows:


    Road Requirement Plan-I (RRP-I): Being implemented by MoRTH since 2009 for improving road connectivity in 34 LWE affected districts of 8 States. This Scheme envisages construction of 5,422 km roads, of which 4,537 km road have been completed.


    Road Connectivity Project for Left Wing Extremism Affected Areas : The Government has recently approved this Scheme for construction of 5412 km roads and 126 bridges/culverts in 44 LWE affected districts with an estimated cost of Rs. 11,725 crore. The MoRD is the nodal Ministry to implement the Scheme.


    Skill Development in the LWE affected districts : Being implemented by the MoSDE since 2011 for establishment of 01 ITI each in 47 LWE districts and 02 SDCs each in 34 LWE districts. So far, 15 ITIs and 43 SDCs have been completed.


    Educational initiatives : DoSEL has sanctioned 8 new Kendriya Vidyalayas and 5 new Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalays in the most LWE affected districts, which did not have any KVs/JNVs. Under RMSA, 1,590 new/upgraded Schools and 350 girl’s hostels have been sanctioned in 35 most LWE affected districts.


    Mobile Towers: Being implemented by the Department of Telecom. In the first phase 2329 mobile towers have been installed.


    Special Central Assistance for 35 most LWE affected districts: The Government has approved this new Scheme on 27.09.2017 for providing public infrastructure and services in the most LWE affected districts. The Scheme will continue for 3 years i.e. from 2017-18 to 2019-20 with total outlay of Rs. 3,000 crore.


    Besides, other Ministries/Departments like, MNRE, MoTA, MoWR, RD &GR, MoEF & CC, Ministry of Railways, Ministry of I&B, MoDWS, Ministry of A & FW, Ministry of Health, Department of Post, Department Financial Services, DoSEL, MoU & HD etc. are also implementing various schemes.


    ‘Police’ and Public order’ being State subjects and the State Governments have their own surrender and rehabilitation incentives to bring Left Wing Extremism (LWE) cadres into the mainstream. However, under the Security Related Expenditure (SRE) Scheme for LWE affected States approved by Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) in September, 2017, there is provision for reimbursement of expenditure of State Governments on the rehabilitation of surrendered LWE cadres of upto Rs. 5 lakhs for higher ranked LWE cadres and Rs. 2.5 lakhs for middle/lower rank LWE cadres. They will also be imparted training in a trade/vocation of their liking and shall be paid a monthly stipend of Rs. 6000/- for three years. In addition, incentives for surrender of weapons/ammunition are also provided under the Scheme.


    NITI Aayog has launched an initiative for rapid transformation of relatively backward 115 districts including 10 districts of Chhattisgarh. A large number of LWE affected districts are also included in these 115 aspirational districts. One officer for each district has been designated as “Prabhari (in-charge), who are working in collaborative manner with the state and district teams to achieve effective convergence between various Central and State Government programmes. Each State has also appointed a Nodal Officer of Secretary rank for regular interaction. Strategy of this initiative includes leadership of states, setting up of real time monitoring mechanism and convergence of existing scheme of Central and State Governments. Focus of this initiative is empowerment in health & nutrition, education, infrastructure, water resources and financial inclusion etc.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir in a written reply to question in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK/YS/1612

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522719) Visitor Counter : 488
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil