      Ministry of Defence

      Dr Bhamre inaugurates Annual Army Seminar 2017-18
      Posted On: 01 MAR 2018 4:41PM by PIB Delhi


    Raksha Rajya Mantri Dr Subhash Bhamre inaugurated one-day Annual Army Seminar for 2017-18 on ‘Contribution of the Army Towards Nation Building’ at Manekshaw Centrehere today. Objective of the seminar is to highlight the contributions of the Indian Army towards Nation building and identify new spheres and areas for future participation.


    Delivering the key note address Dr Bhamre said currently, 60 per cent of defence related requirements are met through imports.This is, however, changing with the ‘Make In India’ endeavour. In the coming years, a huge chunk of our defence budget that now goes to foreign companies will be infused into indigenous defence industry. The Indian Army, with its extensive range of equipment, emerges as a key entity in making the ‘Make in India’ pursuit, a success.


    Complimenting the role of the Army, Dr Bhamre said, the pan India footprint has facilitated it to be the de-facto ‘first responders’ in many a disaster situation saving the precious lives of our citizens. The nation is grateful to the Army for its dedicated efforts and contribution.


    Dr Bhamre saidceasefire violations on the Line of Control continue to target Indian Army posts as well as civilian population and infrastructure…However, focussed operations by our security forces have resulted in neutralisation of a large number of terrorists. He further said the country needs to continue with firm actions to negate, mitigate and destroy elements inimical to our security. He also mentioned that the insurgency problem in the North Eastern States have been largely contained.


    He also released two books, namely ‘The Purpose of India’s Security Strategy: Defence, Deterrence and Global Involvement’by Prof Gautam Sen and ‘Mountain Warfare and the Indian Army: Towards An Effective Deterrence Capability’ by Col Gautam Das (Retd). Chief of the Army Staff General Bipin Rawat delivered the welcome address.


    During the day long deliberations, major aspects like contribution of Indian Army towards nation building in the fields of education, social systems, youth empowerment, economic upliftment and direct connect with the people in far flung areas were discussed.The aspects of military diplomacy being an effective instrument of national foreign policy was also deliberated upon.


    The seminar was well attended by eminent senior veterans and serving officers of the three Services &Ministry of Defence, DRDO, Defence Public Sector Undertakings, the Strategic Community and the Media.


    NAo/Nampi/MT/DK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522297) Visitor Counter : 433
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil