      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of the text of PM's speech at Conference on ‘Islamic Heritage: Promoting Understanding and Moderation'
      Posted On: 01 MAR 2018 4:19PM by PIB Delhi


    Your Majesty the King of Jordan Janaab Abdullah Ibn Al Hussain,


    Excellencies, Religious scholars, top leaders and distinguished guests present here.


    It’s a matter of great happiness and pride for me today as the King of Jordan is present here amongst this gathering of a few select leaders and religious scholars of India.


    It is beyond my words to say something about your Majesty. The important role that you played in building the true identity of Islam, cannot be expressed in words. It can only be felt.


    The book by His Highness Prince Ghazi which has just been discussed, is also the outcome of efforts made under your leadership in Jordan.


    I am very hopeful that it will be of great help to the curious minds to understand Islam and the young people throughout the world will read the book.


    With the kind of ease, with the kind of simplicity and sobriety you have accepted my request to attend this event clearly shows your affection towards India and its people.


    Your Majesty,


    Your country Jordan, which is a friend of us, is an indelible name in the annals and religious books. Jordan is situated on such a holy land from where the message of God reverberated in the entire world in the form of the voice of prophets and saints.


    Your Majesty,


    You are a wise man in your own right and you are very much familiar with India. You know it very well that all the major religions of the world have flourished in India’s cradle. All the religions and sects of the world have flourished on the Indian soil. They breathed, they all got life here. Be it the Lord Buddha two thousand five hundred years ago or be it Mahatma Gandhi in the last century. The fragrance of peace and love has spread across the entire world from the garden of India.


    The soothing effect of this message has worked as balm on wounds. Leave alone philosophy and religion, it is there in the Indian psyche that every human being’s heart is lighted by the same spark. In every inch of his being is reflected the glory of the Almighty.


    Your Majesty,


    India’s capital Delhi was known as Indraprastha in the olden days. The philosophy of Sufi saints also struck deep roots into its soil.


    The mausoleum of an eminent Sufi saint Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya, about whom there was a discussion here just a short while ago, is at a short distance from here. The name Dilli has been derived from the word Dehleej.


    This doorstep of the land of two rivers – Ganga-Jamuna is the gateway to India’s mixed Ganga-Jamuni culture. The ancient Indian philosophy and the mixed tradition of the love and humanism of Sufi saints have given the message of fundamental unity of the mankind from here.


    This feeling of unity of mankind has given India the philosophy that the whole world is one family. It means that India and Indians have established their identity with the world by considering the whole world as one family.


    The cultural and social diversity and plurality, and the openness of our outlook have remained India’s identity for ages. This has remained the hallmark of India. Every Indian is proud of this diversity of our rich heritage, no matter which language he speaks or whether he lights lamp in a temple or kneels down in a mosque or offers prayer in a church or sings Shabad in a Gurudwara.


    Your Majesty,


    At present the colorful festival of Holi is being celebrated in India. The New Year according to Buddhist tradition has started a few days ago. The entire country will celebrate Good Friday at the end of this month and after a few weeks it will celebrate the birth anniversary of Lord Buddha. Thereafter there will be the holy month of Ramzan at the end of which the festival of Eid-ul-Fitr will remind us of sacrifice and mutual harmony and concord. These are some of the examples of those Indian festivals which are the festivals of peace and harmony.


    Friends,


    In the world’s largest Democracy, India, Democracy is not just a political system but it is also the fundamental basis of equality, diversity and concord. Indian democracy is a celebration of our age old plurality. This is that power because of which every Indian has respect for country’s glorious past, he believes in the present and is confident about its future.


    Friends,


    The rich diversity of our tradition provides us that support which is extremely essential in the fight against the challenges like terrorism and extremism in today’s world which is full of uncertainties and apprehensions; which has been plagued by violence and malice. This legacy of us and our values, the message of our religions and their principles are those powers on the basis of which we can overcome the challenges like violence and terrorism.


    Friends,


    Those who carry out barbaric attacks against humanity perhaps fail to understand that the damage is being caused to that religion on behalf of which they claim to stand up. The movement against terrorism, extremism and radicalisation is not against any sect. It is against that mentality that misleads our youth and drives them to commit crimes against the innocent.


    Your Majesty,


    In India, it is our effort to take everyone along for the sake of everyone’s progress. It is because the destiny of the entire country is linked with the progress of every citizen. It is because the happiness of the country is linked with everyone’s happiness.


    Gentlemen,


    Your presence here in such a large number is indicative of the fact how much yearning, how much commitment you have for showing the path to the future generations. This also symbolises the fact that you not only place emphasis on the progress of youth but you also place emphasis on providing them with the teachings of human values.


    Holistic happiness and all round development are only possible when you will see that the Muslim youths have Quran Sharif on one hand and computer on the other. The essence of religion can never be inhuman. Every sect, every creed, every tradition exists only for advancing the human values. Therefore, the need of the hour is while on the one hand to connect our youths to a humane Islam make them use modern science for progress on the other.


    Your Majesty,


    The steps, which have been taken under your guidance, are extremely helpful in containing the fire of barbarism. It’s a matter of happiness for us that two Indians too have been signatory to the ‘Aman Declaration’ and they are present here amongst us. It is our effort to create this kind of responsible awareness with the help of influential leaders like you, with the cooperation of friends like Jordan and with the cooperation of the leaders of all the sects and religions which will show the path to entire mankind.


    All our efforts will be further strengthened due to your presence here. India would like to walk with you side by side in your efforts towards de-radicalization. More than a thousand Indian Ulemas, religious scholars and leaders are present here to give assurance to this effect. They are also present here so that they share your thoughts and by so doing gain courage and guidance from your leadership. I am extremely grateful to you for accepting the invitation to be here.


    Gentlemen,


    I thank you very much for participating in this event.


    Thank you very much.


    ***


    AKT/SH/KT/DG/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522290) Visitor Counter : 1709
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil