      Ministry of Defence

      Measures to enhance Coastal Security
      Posted On: 05 MAR 2018 3:04PM by PIB Delhi


    Since the 26/11 Mumbai attacks in 2008, inputs from various intelligence agencies indicate the continued likelihood of such attacks. However, presently, there is no specific input pertaining to an increased threat to the country from the sea routes.


    The National Committee for Strengthening Maritime and Coastal Security (NCSMCS) is a national-level forum and an apex review mechanism for maritime and coastal security, in which all concerned ministries and government agencies are represented. The last meeting of NCSMCS was held on 20th October 2017.


    Electronic surveillance mechanism has been augmented by provisioning of an electronic / radar chain called Coastal Surveillance Network (CSN) comprising of Chain of Static Sensors having radar, Automatic Identification System (AIS), Long Range Identification and Tracking (LRIT), day / night cameras, communication systems. These measures assist in developing Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA) through interconnecting 51 Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard stations, which has been established to develop a Common Operational Picture. Vessel Traffic Management System (VTMS) radars in ports also facilitate surveillance of port areas.


    The Indian Navy, Indian Coast Guard and State Marine Police, as a three tiered cover, along with other agencies such as Customs and Port Trusts, patrol the Maritime Zones of India, islands and adjacent seas, using ships and aircraft to detect and check infiltration through the sea-routes. Since ‘26/11’ the Government has taken a number of measures to strengthen coastal, offshore and maritime security. Broadly, these measures include capacity augmentation of maritime security agencies for surveillance and patrol of the nation’s maritime zones; enhanced technical surveillance of coastal and offshore areas; establishment of mechanisms for inter-agency coordination; increased regulation of activities in the maritime zones; as also integration of the fishing and coastal communities. Besides, State-wise Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for coordination among various agencies on coastal security issues have been formulated. Coastal Security Exercises are being conducted regularly by Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard to assess the effectiveness of existing mechanisms and to address gaps.


    This information was given by RakshaRajyaMantriDr. Subhash Bhamre in a written reply to ShrimatiRajaniPatilin Rajya Sabha today.


    NAo/Nampi/Rajib/HS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1522507) Visitor Counter : 788
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil