      President's Secretariat

      President Hosts King of Jordan; Says Jordan has been an Oasis of Stability in The Region
      Posted On: 02 MAR 2018 11:46AM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, received His Majesty King Abdullah II Ibn Al Hussein, the King of Jordan, at Rashtrapati Bhavan today (March 1, 2018). He also hosted a banquet in his honour.


    Welcoming the King to India , the President said that Jordan has remained stable and peaceful in a troubled region. This has been possible because of the stellar and visionary leadership of King Abdullah II. India deeply appreciates the lead he has taken on tackling radicalisation through the Aqaba process. The President stated that terrorism is challenging us on a daily basis. Therefore, we need to work together to defeat it.


    The President said that Jordan and India enjoy warm and friendly ties. India attaches great importance to its relations with Jordan. He was happy to note that phosphate related joint ventures of the two countries are doing well. He stated that a large number of Indian textile companies have invested in Jordan and they have received good support from the Government of Jordan. The President emphasised that there is much scope to enhance trade and investment between India and Jordan, particularly in the fields of IT, infrastructure, pharma and tourism.


    Subsequently, in his banquet speech, President Kovind said that Jordan has played a key role in the Middle East. It has been an oasis of stability in the region. We deeply appreciate Jordan providing hope and shelter to a large number of refugees. As a close friend and partner, India is happy to give Jordan a helping hand in rendering humanitarian assistance to the refugees. The President conveyed India’s deepest appreciation to Jordan for the assistance extended to Indian citizens in the region.


    Click here to see speech


    ***


    AKT/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522397) Visitor Counter : 992
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil