      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Shri Nitin Gadkari to launch Sukhad Yatra App and Toll-free Emergency number for Highway users
      
      To also launch the scheme for District Driving Training Centres, Grant of financial assistance for Road Safety Advocacy and Awards for outstanding work in the field of Road Safety

      Posted On: 06 MAR 2018 12:38PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping, Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Nitin Gadkari will launch a mobile App and Toll-free Emergency number for Highway users tomorrow in New Delhi.


    Sukhad Yatra mobile application has been prepared by National Highways Authority of India, NHAI, to empower the Highway user. The key feature of the app includes provision for the user to enter road quality-related information or to report any accident or pothole on the highway. It also provides users with real-time data related to waiting time expected at Plazas and various facilities like points of interest, highway nest/nest mini, etc., available across the highway. The app can also be used by the users to purchase the FASTag tag and further facilitate the highway user experience.


    A toll-free number, 1033, will enable users to report an emergency condition, or highway-related feedback, across the highway. The service has also integrated with various ambulance/tow away services along the road to ensure rapid response time in emergency. The service is supported by a multi-lingual support and user location tracking features to provide the user with accurate and responsive complaint resolution.


    At least one model driving training centre will be set up in each district of the State or UT. financial assistance of up to Rs. 1 Crore will be provided by the Ministry. The agency shall also invest equal amount of the grant under the scheme. The scheme is designed with an objective of creating employment and meeting the requirement of HMV and LMV drivers in the country. It also aims at inculcating the habit of road safety, like behavioral and attitudinal changes among drivers. Training course will be conducted for drivers who carry dangerous/hazardous goods. The agencies willing to open the centre shall be required to provide infrastructure facilities like land, class rooms, simulator, etc.


    Under the scheme for grant of financial assistance for administering Road Safety Advocacy and awards for the outstanding done in the field of Road Safety, assistance up to Rs. 5 lakh will be provided to NGO / Trust / Cooperative Societies and another agencies for administering road safety programme. Three awards of Rs. 5 lakhs, Rs. 2 lakh and Rs. 1 lakh will be given in each State / UT to the individuals of agencies engaged in road safety advocacy and allied activities.


    ***


    NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522665) Visitor Counter : 977
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil