      Ministry of Railways

      40 Participants of Indian Origin from Nine Countries call on Union Minister of Railways & Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal under the 46th Edition of “Know India Programme”
      Posted On: 06 MAR 2018 5:00PM by PIB Delhi


    40 participants of Indian Origin from Nine Countries called upon the Union Minister of Railways & Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal in New Delhi today. The Know India Programmes (KIP) is an important initiative of the Government of India with an aim to engage and make the students and young professionals of Indian Diaspora, in the age group of 18 to 30years, feel a sense of connect with their motherland, to be motivated and inspired by transformational changes taking place in India and to give them an exposure to various aspects of contemporary India’s forms of art, heritage and culture.


    The KIP – a 25-day orientation programme is organized by the Ministry of External Affairs in partnership with one or two States for 10 days orientation programme. The participants are selected on the basis of nominations received and recommendations of Heads of Indian Missions/Posts. The participants are provided all the hospitality in India.


    As part of the 46 th KIP, the participants visited Madhya Pradesh as the Partner State. The participants also visited Parliament House, President’s House in addition to an orientation programme at the Foreign Service Institute.


    Shri Piyush Goyal congratulated Ministry of External Affairs for conceptualizing this “Know India Programme” (KIP). Shri Goyal said that KIP helps as a great learning tool for them for knowing their original motherland and sharing experiences for life.


    The participants acknowledged that KIP has given them a useful opportunity to know the emerging opportunities in India and helping them understand the Indian traditions, heritage and their family history. The participants particularly mentioned that they had an enjoyable train ride from Delhi to Gwalior.


    *****


    SBS/PM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522742) Visitor Counter : 525
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil