      Ministry of Education

      Prime Minister's Research Fellowship (PMRF) Scheme for Doctoral Studies (Ph.D.) in IITs and IISc aim at attracting the best talent
      Posted On: 05 MAR 2018 6:49PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government approved the Scheme ‘Prime Minister’s Research Fellowship (PMRF)’ at a total cost of Rs.1650 crore for a period of seven years beginning 2018-19. Under this Scheme, the best students who have completed (in last 5 years) or are in the final year of B. Tech or Integrated M.Tech or M.Sc. in Science and Technology streams from IISc/IITs/NITs/IISERs/IIITs, with atleast 8.0 CGPA, will be offered direct admission in Ph.D programme in the IITs / IISc, after going through the selection process. Such students will be offered a fellowship of Rs.70,000/- per month for the first two years, Rs.75,000/- per month for the 3 rd year, and Rs.80,000/- per month in the 4 th and 5 th years. Apart from this, a research grant of Rs.2.00 lakh will be provided to each of the Fellows for a period of 5 years to cover their foreign travel expenses for presenting research papers. A maximum of 3000 Fellows would be selected in a three year period. Government provides necessary budgetary support to all Institutions including IITs and IISc, inter-alia for up-gradation of research.


    For attracting highly skilled researchers and scientists to pursue their R&D interests in Indian Institutions, several initiatives have been launched such as: Faculty Recharge Programme, CV Raman Post-Doctoral Fellowship Scheme by University Grants Commission (UGC), Ramanujan Fellowship, JC Bose Fellowship, Swarnjayanti Fellowship, Young Scientist Project Award, Women Scientist Scheme by Department of Science & Technology (DST), and Ramalinga Swami Re-entry Fellowship by Department of Biotechnology. Ministry of Human Resource Development have launched Global Initiative for Academic Network (GIAN) which seeks to tap the talent pool of scientists and entrepreneurs from abroad, including those of Indian origin to augment the country’s existing academic resources.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Human Resource Development, Dr. Satya Pal Singh in reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/RK/PMRF

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522609) Visitor Counter : 726
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil