      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Leaders hail Govt decision to refer SSC issue to CBI
      Posted On: 06 MAR 2018 5:21PM by PIB Delhi


    Several prominent leaders, including former Union Minister and Congress MP Dr. Shashi Tharoor, Delhi State BJP President Shri Manoj Tiwari, MP from New Delhi Ms Meenakshi Lekhi and others have lauded the Government decision to refer the Staff Selection Commission (SSC) issue regarding Combined Graduate Level Examination (CGLE) to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). They welcomed the Government’s initiative in defusing the situation and prevented it from snowballing into a crisis.


    Dr. Shashi Tharoor personally called up the Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh to convey his appreciation. In his tweet, he complimented the Government for its decision and said “the protestors should know when they have won”. Shri Manoj Tiwari also thanked the Government on behalf of the aspirant candidates for having resolved the tangle with maturity and wisdom.


    Ms. Meenakshi Lekhi, in a statement, said that she appreciated the unassuming approach of the Government and requested that the inquiry by CBI should be wide-based and go into all aspects of selection process including the role of coaching centres and coaching institutes.


    
    Meanwhile, speaking to mediapersons, Dr Jitendra Singh said that the Union Government led by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has, living up to its spirit of responsiveness and sensitivity towards the sentiments of the youth, decided to concede to their demand for referring their grievances to the CBI. He said that for the CGLE-2017 conducted by SSC, more than 30 lakh candidates across the country had applied for just over 8,000 vacancies. Out of this, around 1.5 lakh were shortlisted after the Tier-1 exam.


    Following a meeting with the delegation of candidates in the presence of Chairman SSC and after a wide-based discussion with different concerned agencies including the Home Ministry, Dr Jitendra Singh said it was decided that the issue be handed over to the CBI.


    *****


    BB/NK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1522751) Visitor Counter : 891
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil