      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog to launch Women Entrepreneurship Platform on International Women’s Day
      Posted On: 07 MAR 2018 3:52PM by PIB Delhi


    NITI Aayog, the premier think tank of the country will launch its Women Entrepreneurship Platform (WEP) on 8 th March tomorrow, on the occasion of the International Women's Day. NITI Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar, CEO, Amitabh Kant, UN Resident Coordinator in India Yuri Afanasiev and Kailash Kher, along with industry leaders and partners of WEP will be present on this occasion


    Women Entrepreneurship Platform (WEP) would provide a vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem where women do not face any gender-based barriers. The platform aspires to substantially increase the number of women entrepreneurs who will create and empower a dynamic New India. WEP will provide opportunities to women to realize their entrepreneurial aspirations, scale-up innovative initiatives and chalk-out sustainable, long-term strategies for their businesses. The WEP shall aim to,


    1.Promote women entrepreneurship by collaborating with various partner organisations


    2. Provide industry linkages & partner support to women entrepreneurs Increase the visibility of existing schemes, programmes & services across government and private sectors


    3. Identify and address issues and bottlenecks through appropriate channels


    4. Develop a national database through a centralised portal for registration of women entrepreneurs


    5.Provide evidence-based policy recommendations to develop a vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem


    Nominations for the third edition of the Women Transforming India Awards 2018, shall also be opened on the occasion. The theme of this year’s campaign is ‘Women and Entrepreneurship’ which will be launched in partnership with United Nations. DICE Districts, an initiative that provides innovative financing opportunities for Social Entrepreneurs will also collaborate. This year's edition will also see winners receive rewards and mentorship, enabled by the WEP.


    *****


    AKT/HS/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522960) Visitor Counter : 1135
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil