      Ministry of Defence

      Infiltration along Gujarat Coast
      Posted On: 07 MAR 2018 3:12PM by PIB Delhi


    Coastal security is a multi-stakeholder activity and necessary measures are implemented by various agencies. To ensure coordination, regular meetings of the National Committee on Strengthening Maritime and Coastal Security (NCSMCS), at the Apex Level are held with all stakeholders participation. Under the Coastal Security Scheme of MHA, coastal police stations, check-posts and outposts have been established and in addition supported with jetties, interceptor boats have been provided for patrolling and surveillance of coastal areas particularly in the shallow areas. The Water Wing of Border Security Force has been deployed in Sir Creek area for preventing infiltration through the creeks. Floating Border outposts have been provided to them for effective patrolling in the creek areas.


    Further, ships and aircraft of Indian Coast Guard and Indian Navy are deployed on 24x7 basis for surveillance in the maritime zones of India to protect national interests including for preventing infiltration and poaching by foreign fishing boats. Indian Coast Guard conducts community interaction programmes with the fishermen to sensitize them on prevailing security situations. Static radars have been installed along the Indian Coast line for electronic surveillance of vessel traffic. Coast Guard has been conducting regular exercises biannually on coastal security in co-ordination with other Central and State Government agencies i.e. Marine Police, Customs, CISF, Fisheries Department, Port Authorities, State Police and Indian Navy.


    As per the records held with ICG, the details of fishing boats apprehended in Gujarat in the last three years and the current year is as follows:

                              
Year  No. of boats apprehended
                              
                              
                              
2015  Nil                     
                              
                              
                              
2016  07                      
                              
                              
                              
2017  03                      
                              
                              
                              
2018  01                      
                              
                              

    This information was given by Raksha Rajya Mantri Dr. Subhash Bhamre in a written reply to Dr. Kirit P Solanki in Lok Sabha today.


    NAo/Nampi/Rajib/HS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1522938) Visitor Counter : 396
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu