      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Curtain Raiser on Nari Shakti Puraskars
      
      Nari Shakti Puraskars, 2017 to be given away by the President tomorrow
      
      30 individual awardees and 9 institutional awardees are selected for these puraskars
      Posted On: 07 MAR 2018 1:17PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind will present Nari Shakti Puraskars 2017 at a special ceremony to be held in Rashtrapati Bhavan,New Delhi on International Women’s Day tomorrow. To acknowledge women’s achievements, the Government of India confers Nari Shakti Puraskars on eminent women and institutions in recognition of their service towards the cause of women empowerment. This year, 30 individual awardees and 9 institutional awardees are selected for these Puraskars. Ministry of Women and Child Development announces these national level awards for eminent women, organisations and institutions.


    A Selection Committee considers the achievements of organizations and individuals so nominated and recommends the Awards. Outstanding contribution in the respective field is the primary consideration in selecting the recipients. For inviting the applications for the Awards, an advertisement is published by the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Govt. of India in newspapers and through social media across the country. The Ministry also writes to all State Governments, Union Territory Administrations, Central Ministries/Departments. The Awards are open to all Institutions, organisations and individuals. To be eligible for the Awards, it is necessary that the nominee is recommended by the State Governments, Union Territory Administrations, Central Ministries/Departments, Non-Governmental Organisations, Universities/Institutions, private and public sector undertakings (PSUs) working for empowerment of women. Women can also nominate themselves or by anyone from the general public to the Ministry. The Selection Committee may also, suo motu, recommend a person or institution for the award.


    The Awards were initiated in the year 1999.


    AKR/NG/SKK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1522895) Visitor Counter : 698
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil