      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Mutawallis will be awarded for excellent management of Waqf properties – Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi
      
      National Mutawalli conference of central Waqf Council Organised in New Delhi

      Posted On: 08 MAR 2018 4:47PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said that the Central Government will award those “Mutawallis” who will perform well in management of waqf properties to ensure utilisation of these properties for upliftment of the society especially educational empowerment of girls. Addressing the first National Mutawalli conference of Central Waqf Council in New Delhi Shri Naqvi said that this award programme will be held every year.


    Stating that the “Waqf Mutawallis” are the custodian of waqf properties across the country the Minister added that these properties should be utilised for educational, employment oriented skill development and health related activities. Schemes being run by Ministry of Minority Affairs such as “Garib Nawaz Skill Development Scheme”, Seekho aur Kamao”, “Nai Roshni”, “Ustaad” have ensured prosperity of Minority communities. He said that protection and development of waqf properties across the country is on priority of the Central Government so that these properties are utilised for socio-economic-educational empowerment of the Muslim community.


    “Waqf Mutawallis” from Bihar, Chandigarh, Delhi, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttrakhand attended the first Mutawalli conference. Shri Naqvi said that Conference of Waqf Mutawallis are being organised across the country regarding preservation and development of waqf properties under Waqf Act.


    Shri Naqvi said that Central Waqf Council is providing financial help to state waqf boards for digitisation of records so that state waqf boards can complete the task within timeframe. Two legal support officers, two zonal waqf officers, two surveyors will be appointed by Central Waqf Council in state waqf boards for preservation, maintenance, development of waqf properties and related legal matters for which the process is on .


    Shri Naqvi said that Central Waqf Council will also help those institutes which are being established and those who are running on waqf properties and are engaged in educational activities especially educational empowerment of girls. Shri Naqvi said that the Minority Affairs Ministry, in cooperation with the state governments, will construct schools, colleges, malls, hospitals, skill development centres etc and revenue generated will be utilized for educational and other developmental activities for the Muslim community. Multi-purpose community centres "Sadbhav Mandap" will also be constructed on waqf land which will be utilized for marriage ceremonies, exhibitions and also relief centres during a calamity.


    The conference also reviewed the status of “Quami Waqf Board Taraqqiati Scheme” implemented by Central Waqf Council. Two schemes, which were implemented separately as “Computerisation of the Records of State Waqf Boards” and “Scheme of Strengthening of State Waqf Boards” by CWC and NAWADCO respectively, have now been clubbed together for achieving optimum results to make the State Waqf Boards self-reliant leading to better implementation of their welfare activities for betterment of the community.Besides, other provisions of the scheme, the main component is of GIS/GPS mapping of the waqf properties to prevent encroachment. There are around five lakh sixty thousand waqf properties across the country.


    Secretary Minority Affairs Ministry Shri A Luikham, Joint Secretary Shri Jan-e-Alam, CWC Secretary Shri B M Jamal, Members of Central Waqf Council and state waqf boards and other officials attended the conference.


    ***


    JN/FH/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1523300) Visitor Counter : 458
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil