      Ministry of Defence

      DRDO Workshop on International Women’s Day
      Posted On: 11 MAR 2018 8:21PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister for Ladakh Affairs and Cooperative, Govt of Jammu & Kashmir Shri Chhering Dorjay, today inaugurated a national workshop named “DRDO Initiative of Women Augmenting Services (DIWAS – 2018)” organised to celebrate the International Women’s Day by Defence Institute of High Altitude Research (DIHAR), the Leh based premier Life Sciences cluster laboratory of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Member of Parliament from LadakhShri Thupstan Tsewang, Chief Executive Councillor, LAHDC, Leh, Shri Dorjay Motup, Chairman DRDO & Secretary, Department of Defence Research & Development Dr. S. Christopher, GOC Fire & Fury Corps Lt Gen SK Upadhyay, Padma Shri Dr. Tsering Ladol and Director DIHAR, Leh Dr. OP Chaurasia were present on this occasion.


    In his inaugural address, Shri Chhering Dorjay mentioned that women in DRDO have tirelessly been working with devotion, determination and soldierly dedication and providing technological solutions. He appreciated the R&D efforts of DIHAR to facilitate agro-animal fresh food supply to army deputed at high altitude through civil-military interface. He also appreciated the DRDO’s efforts in establishing the Extreme Altitude Research Centre (EARC) at Chang La at 17,664 feet altitude, which has received the Guinness World Records certification.


    Dr. S. Christopher, in his address complimented the DRDO women scientists for their glorious work and dedicated service to the nation. He appreciated that Indian women are shining in all spheres at national and international arena and expressed hope that the trend would see better achievements in times to come.


    Distinguished Scientist & Director General (Life Sciences) and Chairperson of “DIWAS-2018” Dr. Shashi Bala Singh, in her address, congratulated the organizing committee for bringing the participants together and ushering for a brighter India, where larger number of women would be playing leadership roles.


    The aim of the workshop is to celebrate the role of women in nationbuilding and commitment to create a gender neutral work environment to facilitate skill development and enhancement among women across the globe. The event was held in the serene backdrop of Ladakh, where researchers, entrepreneurs, government servants, farmers and NGOs joined hands for a global cause.


    About 300 delegates from diverse backgrounds attended the workshop. DIG, ITBPMs. Aparna Kumar, Former MD & CEO, NSE Ms. Chitra Ramakrishnaand Principal, Miranda College, Delhi University Dr. Pratibha Jolly were prominent among others who graced the occasion. Women scientists of DRDO participating at the workshop included Distinguished Scientist & Director General - Systems Analysis and Modelling (SAM) Dr. Chitra Rajagopal andDirector, ASL, HyderabadDr. Tessy Thomas. The workshop deliberations by eminent women achievers motivated the audience and infused them with energy to scale greater heights in personal and professional space.


    During the workshop, Dr. S. Christopher visited a technical exhibition displayed at DIHAR campus showcasing the R&D achievements of Life Science cluster to facilitate operational support at high altitude.


    SRR/NAo/DA/SNA/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1523752) Visitor Counter : 600
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil