      Ministry of Defence

      RM Calls for Citizens’ Empowerement at AFMS Function Celebrating International Women’s Day
      Posted On: 09 MAR 2018 9:10PM by PIB Delhi


    Raksha Mantri Smt Nirmala Sitharaman has said that debate about empowerment should not always be the gender based argument, whether individual can perform being a woman or a man. Therefore, the whole narration on Women’s Day is to look at it in this context. She was addressing a function on women in uniform of Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) to celebrate the spirit of ‘Womanhood’ at Manekshaw Centre, Delhi Cantthere today.


    Highlighted the stellar role, power and potential of women officers in AFMS and felicitated three senior retired lady AFMS officers, she further said, “I think there are areas in which men should be posted, not so much to fight them, but for making them understand that well you may not be good in this you may be good at something else. So blanket rejection of male or female can completely be avoided.That’s why I think whenever we talk, it should be citizens’ empowerment.


    International Women’s Day, celebrated globally on 08 March marks the indomitable spirit of a woman. Lady officers have been an integral part of AFMS since Independence as doctors, dentists and nursing officers. They have stormed the conventional male bastions through sheer determination, grit and merit.


    DGAFMSLt Gen BipinPuri delivered the welcome speech and lauded the role of women officers as health care providers and care givers. Ex DGMS (Air) Air Marshal (Retd) P Bandopadhyay gave an inspiring talk on the role of women in AFMS down the years. The session was chaired by Ex DGMS (Navy) Surg Vice Admiral (Retd) PunitaArora the first lady three star General of the AFMS.


    The event was attended by delegates comprising of senior serving and retired lady AFMS officers from across the country. It was followed by a panel discussion on role of lady officers in field/operational areas. Overall, the event celebrated the tenets of gender sensitisation and parity, equal opportunities, respect and shared responsibilities for building a brighter future for women in the AFMS.


    SRR/NAo/Nampi/DK/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1523627) Visitor Counter : 361