      NITI Aayog

      Cabinet Secretary reviews progress of the transformation of 115 Aspirational Districts
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2018 6:39PM by PIB Delhi


    Cabinet Secretary P.K.Sinha chaired today a meeting to review the progress of the transformation of 115 Aspirational Districts. The meeting was attended by the Prabhari Officers, the officer in-charge coordinating the exercise for transformation of 115 Aspirational Districts along with the Secretaries and representatives from 12 Union ministries.


    In his remarks, Cabinet Secretary called upon the Prabhari Officers to be the catalysts of change for all round development of the Aspirational Districts. He underlined the need to come out with innovative ways to address the issues in these districts. The Cabinet Secretary emphasized that NITI Aayog will be undertaking overall co-ordination of the exercise and that there is need to set up an institutional mechanism for oversight and faster implementation of schemes in the Aspirational Districts.


    CEO NITI Aayog outlined the priorities, challenges and the road ahead for the aspirational districts. He urged the officials to work in close coo-ordination with the state Government and evolve mechanisms for effective implementation of Government programs in a time bound manner.


    Secretary Health, Preeti Sudan said that the ministry will share health indicators and HMIS data so that the progress of health and nutrition related schemes in the identified districts can be monitored properly. She underlined the importance of convergence of the the efforts of ASHA, ANM an d Anganwadi workers.


    Secretary, Rural Development, Amarjeet Sinha said the social capital can make a remarkable difference given the fact that 8603 Gram Panchayats are covered in the Aspirational Districts. He underlined the need to expand the Self Help Groups in these districts for a better outcome.


    Secretary School education, Anil Swaroop, Secretary Skill Development, Dr.K.P.Krishnan, Secretary Tribal Affairs, Secretary Power Along with senior officials from the Ministry of Home Affairs, Agriculture, Water Resources, Drinking Water and Sanitation, Women and Child Development, Department of Financial Services addressed the gathering.


    *****


    AKT/HS/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1523363) Visitor Counter : 621
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil