      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railways celebrates International Women’s Day with fervor.
      
      Matunga (Maharashtra), Gandhinagar (Rajasthan), Govindpuri (UP), Chandragiri (Andhra Pradesh), Vidyanagar (Telangana), Maninagar (Gujarat) New Amaravati station (Maharashtra) and Ajni (Maharashtra) stations managed efficiently by women staff
      
      Several Trains Operated by All Women Crew
      
      Sanitary Napkin Dispensers and Incinerators to Be Installed at 200 Major Railway Stations Across the Country
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2018 7:08PM by PIB Delhi


    On this International Women's Day, Indian Railways led from the front by showcasing capabilities and potential of what women of this country can achieve when given equal opportunities. Indian Railways showed its commitment by promoting its equal-opportunity employer and inclusive work culture.


    In a unique endeavour to ensure women’s empowerment, Indian Railways appointed all-women staff at its suburban stations Matunga, Gandhinagar (Rajasthan), Govindpuri (UP), Chandragiri (Andhra Pradesh), Vidyanagar (Telangana), Maninagar (Gujarat) New Amaravati station (Maharashtra) and Ajni (Nagpur) stations to name a few. Indian Railways is leading by an example to empower women by training them to manage all operations at the stations which are managed by women staff. Gandhi Nagar railway station in Jaipur has become the country's first and only major railway station run fully by all women staff - from ticket checker to station manager. Mumbai's Matunga railway station has become the first sub urban railway station in the country to be run by an all-woman staff, has already entered the Limca Book of Records 2018 for the rare feat. Matunga railway station will be operated by 31 women employees including station superintendent, booking clerks & security personnel. Chandragiri station in Andhra Pradesh is the first women operated station in the state. Maninagar in Gujarat became the first women operated station in the state.


    In another instance, twenty women ‘ganged up’ in Guwahati for maintenance of railway coaches, the first time that women employees have come forward for the job in the history of Indian Railways. Surekha Yadav, the first railway driver in the country, is truly an inspiration for young girls in the country.


    Several trains across Indian Railways were operated by women staff on the occasion of women’s day, Koyna Express, Deccan Express, Mumbai Ahmedabad Shatabdi Express, Ranchi Bici Tori Express, Howrah Digha Express, Dadadham Express, Gorakhpur Nautanva Express, Baramati Express, Sangamitra Express, Bhopal -Bilaspur Express were operated by all lady ticket checking staff.


    It is noteworthy that Ms Manju Devi, coolie badge no. 15 at Jaipur station, who is the first female coolie on Indian Railways, was also honoured at the 'First Ladies' event by the Ministry of Women and Child Development. She Started working in March'13.


    Shri Ashwani Lohani, Chairman, Railway Board met with women employees of PP yard, Bhilai during his visit to South East Central Railways. These lady employees are doing technical works for ROH of wagons. At PP yard total 32 lady employees, are working. Out of them, 18 are working in technical works like spring Inspection , gauging & calibration, operation of CNC wheel lathe, EOT crane operation, SAB over hauling, Distributor valve over hauling, super check of wagins in sick line etc.


    On the occasion of International Women's Day on 8th March 2018, Bengaluru Division by recognising the intrinsic role played by the Women employees, flagged off Tr. No.12295 Bengaluru - Dhanapur Sangamitra Express by Smt.Sakkamma, MCM from the Mechanical Dept.


    Another noteworthy decision of Indian Railways to support women’s empowerment includes installation of sanitary napkin dispensers and incinerators at around 200 major railway stations across the country. The initiative will particularly help women employees and women of financially weaker sections of the society. The Railway Women Welfare Central Organization (RWWCO) also inaugurated a sanitary napkin dispenser and incinerator at Rail Bhavan on the occasion of Women’s day. Smt. Mithila Bouri, Ayah and senior most staff of ADRA Divisional Hospital, inaugurated the incinerator and sanitary napkin dispenser in the Female Medical Ward on International Women's Day.


    Apart from installing CCTV cameras at all railway stations, Indian Railways has been taking various other steps also to ensure the safety of women. To make women travellers feel safe & comfortable in trains, Railways have secured 6 seats in sleeper and AC classes exclusively for women


    ***


    SBS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1523382) Visitor Counter : 518
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil