      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      On International Women’s Day, the President conferred the prestigious Nari Shakti Puraskars to 30 eminent women and 9 distinguished Institutions for the year 2017
      
      Women empowerment and women’s safety are the top most priorities of the Government: Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi

      Posted On: 08 MAR 2018 8:17PM by PIB Delhi

    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind presented Nari Shakti Puraskars 2017 at a special ceremony held in Rashtrapati Bhavan, New Delhi on the occasion of International Women’s Day today. The awards were conferred on 30 eminent individuals and 9 distinguished institutions in recognition of their efforts in rendering distinguished services for the cause of women, especially vulnerable and marginalized women.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Minister for Women & Child Development, Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi said that the Government is working relentlessly for the empowerment of women.


    Outlining the initiatives of the Ministry of Women & Child Development, the Minister said that women’s safety is one of the top most priorities of the Government and the Ministry is working to ensure the security of women in public spaces, at their work places, within their homes and even online. The Minister also added that about 200 one stop centres for single window services to women facing violence have been setup across the country, which have already assisted about one lakh women.


    Speaking on the steps taken by the Government on the women empowerment, the Minister highlighted that 1.26 crore girls and 16.44 crore women have opened their bank accounts and loans have been extended to 6.28 crore women entrepreneurs. She also added that 20,000 women sarpanches are being trained so they can contribute better to their village’s development. She also highlighted that the ban on women going to Haj without a Mehram or the male companion has now been lifted. For the first time in the history of India, women have been inducted into combat roles in the armed forces, she added.


    In her address, the Minister of Women & Child Development, Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi congratulated the awardees for receiving the highest award for women in the country.


    Lauding the achievements of the awardees, the Minister remarked that each one of the awardees touched the lives of innumerable people and has contributed to making our society and environment a better place to live in.


    This year the winners of the Narishakti puraskar are from fields as diverse as sports, social work, science, art, agriculture, education, conservation, security, handicrafts and defence. The list of the winners :

     1. Ms. Ambica Beri
     2. Dr. Anita Bhardwaj
     3. Ms.Anuradha Krishnamoorthy and Ms.Namrata Sundaresan
     4. Dr. Bharti Kashyap
     5. Dr. C.K. Durga
     6. Ms. Chirom Indira
     7. Ms. Deepika Kundaji
     8. Ms. Gargi Gupta
     9. Ms. Gauri Maulekhi
    10. Justice Gita Mittal
    11. Ms. Jayamma Bandari
    12. Ms. Jetsun Pema
    13. Ms. K. Syamalakumari
    14. Dr. Lizymol Philipose Pamadykandathil
    15. Dr. M.S. Sunil
    16. Ms.Madhu Jain
    17. Dr. Malvika Iyer
    18. Ms. Mehvish Mushtaq
    19. Ms. Mittal Patel
    20. Ms. Purnima Barman
    21. Ms. Pushpa Girimaji
    22. Ms. Rekha Mishra
    23. Ms. Revanna Umadevi Nagraj
    24. Dr. S. Siva Sathya
    25. Ms.Sabarmatee
    26. Ms. Sheela Balaji
    27. Dr. Sindhutai Sapkal
    28. Ms. Thinlas Chorol
    29. Ms. Urmila Balawant Apte
    30. Aranya naturals
    31. AVANI organization
    32. Beti Zindabad Bakery
    33. Karuna Society for Animals and Nature
    34. Millet Network of India
    35. Navika Sagar Parikrama - INSV Tarini Team
    36. One Stop Centre, Raipur
    37. Shrujan
    38. State of Punjab
    39. Vanastree

    Click here for the details of Nari Shakti Puraskar Awardees.


    ***


    AKR/NG/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1523402) Visitor Counter : 534
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

39.