      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      Swachh Shakti 2018 celebrated in Lucknow with 15000 women Swachh Bharat champions resolving to usher in clean India on International Women’s Day
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2018 2:32PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation, in association with the Government of Uttar Pradesh, organized a Women’s Convention called Swachh Shakti 2018 today, on the occasion of International Women’s Day, at Lucknow. 8000 women sarpanches, 3000 women Swachhagrahis and women champions from other walks of life from across the country were recognised for their outstanding contribution towards making a Swachh Bharat.


    The Minister of Drinking Water and Sanitation, Sushri Uma Bharti, Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, along with other Ministers and dignitaries addressed and honoured women champions on this occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Chief Minister, Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath said that he was confident that the Swachh Shakti of women Swachhagrahis present on the occasion would help take the women empowerment movement forward. He spoke about the power of access to safe sanitation and drinking water to change the lives of women. He also spoke in detail about other initiatives of the UP government that are working towards improving the quality of life of rural women, such as, employment generation for rural women, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao and Ujjwala.


    Addressing the gathering, the Union Minister of Drinking Water and Sanitation, Sushri Uma Bharti, spoke about the power of women in bringing about change at home as well as in society. She complimented the commitment made by the Uttar Pradesh government to make the State Open Defecation Free (ODF) by October 2018. She said that, in addition to a toilet, it is every woman and adolescent girl's right to have access to a wide choice of products for Menstrual Hygiene Management (MHM).


    Central and State Ministers and Secretary MDWS also addressed the gathering.


    Last year, 6000 women sarpanches from across the country had assembled in Gujarat on the occasion of International Women’s Day under the banner of Swachh Shakti 2017. They were addressed and honoured by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi.


    This year, Uttar Pradesh hosted Swachh Shakti 2018 being the largest State with a massive rural populace. The event included a special exhibition, launch of a film celebrating Swachh Shakti and flagging off of 30 Swachhata Raths that will travel across the State, spreading the message of sanitation at the grassroots.


    Meanwhile, across the country, many States are holding public events to honour Women Swachhata Champions as a part of Swachh Shakti 2018.


    The Swachh Bharat Mission, launched on October 2nd, 2014, by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, is aimed at achieving a Clean and Open Defecation Free (ODF) India by 2 nd October, 2019. With all-round efforts, 314 districts and 3.23 lakh villages and 9 States and 2 UTs have been declared ODF. The sanitation coverage has more than doubled from 38.70% to 78.98% since the launch of the Swachh Bharat Mission.


    <><><><><>


    AR/SNC/SD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1523247) Visitor Counter : 570
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil