      Ministry of Finance

      Coverage of Health Insurance Schemes
      Posted On: 09 MAR 2018 5:55PM by PIB Delhi


    As per Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), the total number of lives covered under any type of health insurance policy as on 31 st March, 2017 were 43.75 crore which is approximately 36 per cent of India’s population as per Census 2011.


    Health Insurance Policies generally provide coverage for inpatient treatment including Domiciliary Hospitalization benefits subject to policy terms and conditions. However, more number of health insurance products now provide coverage for Out Patient Department (OPD) treatment in order to encourage policyholders to go for treatment at early stages. IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, 2016 inter-alia enable the insurers to introduce wellness and preventive features as part of health insurance policies. During the year 2016-17, the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY) was in implementation in 15 States/UTs involving 265 districts, covering 3.63 crore families. Some of the insurance products where OPD treatment and maternity cover are being covered is at Annexure.


    Annexure

                                                                     
Name of the Insurance Company       Name of the Insurance Product    
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
Star Health Insurance Company       Star Health Gain Insurance Policy
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
Cigna TTK Health Insurance          Pro Health Group Insurance       
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
Company                             Policy                           
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
DHFL General Insurance Limited      Group Health Insurance Policy    
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
DHFL General Insurance Limited      Group Personal Accident          
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                    Insurance Policy                 
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
Liberty Videocon General            Liberty Group Health Policy      
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
Magma HDI General Insurance Co.     One Health                       
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
Ltd                                                                  
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
New India Assurance Co. Ltd.        New India Premier Mediclaim      
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                    Policy                           
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
Apollo Munich Health Insurance Co.  Day 2 Day Care                   
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
Ltd.                                                                 
                                                                     
                                                                     

    This was stated by Shri Shiv Pratap Shukla, Minister of State for Finance in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    DSM/RM/KA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1523538) Visitor Counter : 598