      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of PM’s address at the National Legislators Conference
      Posted On: 10 MAR 2018 5:38PM by PIB Delhi


    Respected Sumitra Taiji, my colleague of the cabinet Mr. Anand Kumar, Deputy Speaker Mr. Thambidurai, Hon’ble Speakers of all the Legislative Assemblies from across the country, MPs, MLAs and the senior leaders from all the political parties,


    I would first like to thank Sumitra ji for organising this programme. We all feel like going to pilgrimage centres and take our parents along. We make resolutions to accomplish different tasks in lives or for the family after going to a pilgrimage centre.


    Today all of you are present not just in a programme. Imagine - Where are you sitting? This is the house where for the first time in my life I had entered in the month of May in 2014; before that I had never seen the Central Hall. Chief Ministers are allowed here and there is no bar for the Chief Ministers, but I never had such an opportunity. After the people of our country elected our party and the leader was to be chosen here, at that time I had come to this central hall. This is the Central Hall, where for years the early meeting of the Constituent Assembly had taken place. You are sitting in the place where once Pandit Nehru, Baba Saheb Ambedkar, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, Rajagopalachari, Dr. Rajendra Babu and K.M. Munshi used to sit.


    They were, such great men who are inspiration for the country used to be present here. They used to sit here, discuss and debate. It is a pristine feeling to recall these events.


    The framers of our constitution, especially Baba Saheb Ambedkar had described our constitution as a social document and this is true. Our constitution has a special place in the world, not because of the different streams, the rights, or the division of work; but because the nectar derived from the liberation of the country from the social evils that were prevalent in the country, has found a place in our constitution. That was a matter of social justice. Now whenever we discuss about social justice, it is necessary to remain confined to the status of the society, but sometimes there seems to be a greater scope for social justice.


    Please tell me, if there is electricity in one house but not in the adjacent house, is it not our responsibility as a part of social justice to ensure that there is electricity in that house too? There is electricity in a village but there is no electricity in the adjacent village; is it not the message of social justice that tells us to ensure that if one village has electricity then it should be made available to the other village too? One district is well-developed but the other district is left behind; is there no obligation on us to ensure that even the other district is also developed so that it is at least elevated to the level of the first district? So, the principle of social justice motivates us all for fulfilling this obligation.


    Probably, the country has not been able to reach at the expected level but if five districts in one state were able to progress then it is possible for the three backward districts to reach up to the level of the five. If some districts within the state can do very well, that means the state has a potential to do well.


    What is the nature of the people in our country? During school examinations, we think that if we are weak in geography, we will emphasise more on mathematics so that the low marks in geography can be compensated with high marks in mathematics to get first class. Everybody thinks alike since we have grown up with this mentality. When such targets are set for states or the Indian government, what do they do? Those who are more productive are pushed further. As a result, those who do well bring good results consistently and the statistics improve. We feel good since the targeted percentage has been achieved. But the backward ones continue to degrade. So, strategically, we need to make our development model more focused. If we look at the states, it is good that an atmosphere of competitiveness has been created through cooperative federalism and I also accept this view. These views are living examples of federalism where members of the Parliament sit together with the legislator and discuss the concerns of their areas, the states and the country. This federalism has gained a new dimension out of it.


    Comparisons have been made between states; the lagging states have been criticised under cooperative federalism. Definitely, an environment of competition and progress has been created, but if the country wants to fulfil the expectations of the people then we probably won't get results if we move with the same parameters.


    In case of the Swachhta Campaign, a competition was created between towns, cities for swachhta rankings. If a metropolis or a city was left behind, the people from the villages began to raise their voices against the reasons for lagging behind. A movement and a competition had started.


    When you think of this topic, you will wonder that even if the country is making good progress, why is the country not growing further. Why are the conditions not changing? So we thought of an idea about sorting out the districts in the country, setting some parameters and working according to those figures which have been officially published. Some figures are based on the criteria of the year 2011. There are no subsequent surveys. Yet, we should find out 48 parameters from whatever is available and narrow down to those districts. As per the experience, it has been observed that those districts that were lagging in five-ten parameters were also lagging in the other parameters.


    Sometimes when 10 districts are moving forward but five districts are lagging behind, the backward districts tend to pull the progressing ones. Thus, it is indispensable that all the districts should try pushing for development. The districts need to be identified that need to work on particular parameters. This homework has been going on for almost a year. Discussions and meetings were held and identification was done at different levels. Later, the DMs or District Magistrates from those 115 identified districts were called here and a two-day workshop was organised to discuss the problems.


    Now if we talk of politics, we are no different from you. We all are the same. What is the nature of the people? Okay, tell me the budget; where are the funds? If you look carefully, you will realise that a district progresses with the same available resources while the other district is left behind despite the availability of the same resources. This means availability of resources is not the issue; perhaps governance is the issue, leadership is the issue, coordination is the issue, effective implementation is the issue, and so how do we change these things? All the collectors have discussed these issues with all the senior government officials.


    One thing has drawn my attention; I am not asking to criticize anyone, but in one of the houses, if I openly talk about something, it will not be a bad idea. I was surprised to see that usually the district collectors have an average age of 27, 28, 30 years. They are young IAS officers who get the opportunity to go there in three to four years but in these 115 districts, I observed that more than 80% of the district collectors I met were 40 plus, some were even 45.


    Now tell me that if an officer in the age-group of 40-45 years is in charge of that district, what will happen? Their children have grown up and they are worried about their admission; he constantly thinks about getting his posting in a big city for getting his child admitted in a good school. Secondly, in most of the cases the promoted officers from the state cadre are appointed there. Now they are constantly worrying that the district is backward. The problem starts from there. If we appoint young and fresher officers in these districts for the next five years the things will start changing.


    I am talking to Chief Ministers that they need to instil trust in them that this is a challenge for them. The officers start discussing among them that - you have been sent there means you are doomed! What to do? There is no political link, man! What happened? Why were you sent there? That's the psychology at the back of the minds.


    Now tell me, that the work of vaccination is going well in a district but not in the adjoining area. What is lacking? I do not believe there is any shortage of resources. One needs motivation, a perfect plan and people's participation. We keep complaining that there is no vaccination, the door opens up for the diseases to enter; the diseases keep affecting thereafter.


    School dropout - There are schools, teachers as well as buildings. Everything is there. Even budgetary allocation has been made. Yet the dropout is low there. There are two views. In short, the matter is not about the resources.


    Secondly, you may have seen that wherever the officers and the local leadership have started a work on a mission mode by public participation, the results are instant. The people, the heads of the Panchayats, members of the Panchayats, members of the municipality, the head of the municipality, the District Panchayats, the Tehsil Panchayats, and all those who have got the opportunity to participate in public life in their society as a legislator or as an MP should try to move in a single direction to work for aspirational districts. We will work with our full potential and strength by connecting more people. You will start seeing the changes.


    Sometimes the change comes from being closely involved; One day a person who is healthy and physically fit, eating properly, with a good family life, and no other issue, gradually notices that his weight is decreasing. He ignores it in the beginning, saying that he is dieting or is feeling more fit and healthier than before. However, his weight keeps falling and then he starts wondering that why is it happening? Further, he starts feeling weak, yet he keeps enjoying his life blissfully unaware of his problems. But once an experienced doctor suggests him to get the check-up done, he comes to know that he is suffering from diabetes. He soon starts medication for controlling diabetes. Although, diabetes was not cured but all the parameters were improving.


    I believe our districts are also in a similar situation. Once we can identify the root cause of the problem that is weakening these districts and address it and try to bring changes in it; you will see that no district will remain behind any longer.


    There are 115 districts of which 30-35 districts are left-wing extremism affected. I have specifically told the Home Ministry to give special attention to those districts. How can we solve those problems? However, the remaining 80-90 districts can be addressed easily. How to plan for the districts now? You will see that in a district, there will be a Tehsil probably doing very good in vaccination and another Tehsil showing positive results in the school dropouts i.e. the dropout rates will be very low. Each place will have some strength. But we need to address the areas with weak points; if a village has 3 strengths and two weaknesses, we must strive towards addressing those weaknesses.


    This job will not be so difficult. The people from NITI Aayog will give a presentation before you. I have seen the presentation with all the ministers two days ago. I have been looking at the presentations of the government for the last 20 years, but this one is so precise and clear that even a layman can understand it. Amitabh Kant ji has given a wonderful presentation! This was the presentation of the NITI Aayog. I was so impressed. They are also going to show it to you.


    There is a method by which one can understand that how far a particular district is lagging behind from the state's average and also from the best performing district of the state and the National average. The four parameters are used as a measure. You will also feel that if the country's 200 districts can grow then even your district can move forward. If thousands of tehsils of your country can move forward, then your Tehsil can also move ahead. People from different political parties are also present here. There was a time when hard core politics, politics of movement, politics of statement, politics of conflict in the country used to work in the country. Now the time has changed; whether you are in power or in opposition, the people are more concerned about your work for their welfare.


    All these things such as your fights, your marches, your jail visits etc. in your political career used to matter 20 years ago. The circumstances have changed today. You must have seen that some representatives get elected again and again. If you analyze the reason, you will realize that it's not because of political struggles but because of some of the aspects that are totally unrelated to politics or power struggle; which are associated with the welfare of the public. Every time he or she does something new related to an issue; probably the person undertakes regular hospital visits or meets the people. This image helps him or her in politics.


    I am not asking you to completely leave hard core politics but the society itself is compelling us to leave it. The awareness of the society is compelling us to leave it. They want us to be for them at all times. They wonder who is with them to bring a change in their lives. It has a huge impact. We should decide in our areas that we will put our 100% efforts in girl child's education. We should decide - I will make at least one change on my own initiative. The system will automatically start changing.


    Someone may decide that he will be on the field, gather volunteers and the people on the day of vaccination under the Indradhanush scheme and complete the vaccination work. Earlier we used to have vaccination coverage of 30 per cent, 40 per cent or 50 per cent; It's not that the government did not spend. It definitely used to spend out of the budget. It used to be there when Ghulam Nabi Ji was in the health ministry. But in the absence of public participation, those things were suspended.


    A special effort was made under the Indradhanush scheme and now the vaccination has reached up to 70-75%. But can we make it 90%? Once we reach 90 per cent, then accomplishing the goal of 100 per cent will not be difficult. If the children and pregnant women get vaccinated then automatically serious diseases can also be prevented.


    There is a system and a plan in place. There is no need for a new budget. If the work is done on mission mode with the existing budget, the available resources, and man power, we can certainly get the desired results. This role can be played for aspirational districts. I have told everyone not to use the word 'backward', otherwise the mind-set again becomes negative.


    You already know that earlier we used to have three classes in the railways - First class, second class and third class. Later, the government cancelled the third class about 20-25 years ago. There was no difference in the coaches but the psychology was changed. Earlier a person travelling in a third class compartment was looked down upon. Now that has changed. The coach is the same. Similarly, if we use the word 'backward' the mind-set becomes negative. Oh you are the MLA of that backward district! Well, you too are backward? Everything starts from there. We do not have to compete in the country for backwardness but for development. If these districts develop, then automatically the goal of social justice will be accomplished.


    Educating all the children in our area will be a step closer to social justice. Accessibility of all the houses to electricity will mean a step closer to social justice. We can achieve greater results if all of us move ahead with the kind of social justice that our great personalities had put in front of us in this hall of this house, in a new form, and in which the probability of conflict is very low.


    I believe the leaders of all political parties are present here. The legislators and the MPs of the same area are here. Be determined! Right now I met some of the officers of the Aspirational districts who were transferred two months back, I called them and asked them about the status. Recently when I visited Rajasthan's Jhunjhunu district, I had called the officers of the five aspirational districts of Rajasthan and one of Haryana. I spent half an hour with them and asked them to provide me the updates of the status. I believe that we should work with them by extending a helping hand; if we keep nagging them regarding the completion of work - 'why has it not been completed? what is the reason? and so on', they will get tired. That's fine, it is the nature of politics but we should lend out a helping hand saying - 'do not worry; I am with you, come on'. This will increase their confidence. We should increase the confidence of the people in the government.


    We need to increase public participation. Why don't we gather the NGOs and the youngsters from that area? We need to change this situation. We have the resources but are not getting the desired results. We have to fill the loopholes and we will! The system of governance will automatically start improving because as soon as they start getting results their confidence will automatically strengthen. there are certain districts among the 115 districts that will astonish you. You will wonder how come those districts are backward? It is industrially developed yet is among the backward districts. Just like that diabetic patient, these districts developed in one parameter and gained popularity but lagged behind in the other parameters. That single parameter is something that overwhelms everyone, 'wow! that's so great!' But the district is messed up in other parameters.


    There are instances where some people feel that their districts were left out. I understand that districts were selected based partly on 2011 figures while some figures were received later. States were told that some of your districts have been selected, you may change if you think that these should be changed. Around five to six states have changed the districts.


    Without giving any political colour or having any resentment in mind, we should together put one year; I am not asking for more time, just one year. If we work hard for just one year and see the parameters of the state change, the entire picture of the country will change. In Human Development Index, our rank is 131 in the world.


    Today, the world has hope and expectations from India. If we improve ourselves in terms of human development index and improve the 115 districts, then the country is going to automatically improve. We do not have to do anything extra.


    We can avail the benefits of the schemes in this way. See, schemes like MGNREGA are for the the poor, who don't have employment. Getting employment is their basic goal. As per the experience, the areas with maximum poverty has minimal implementation of MNREGA and the areas with prosperity have maximum implementation of MNREGA. Why? The reason is good governance in prosperous states that is naturally benefitting MGNREGA; while those states which has maximum poverty and has the need for wages; the funds for MNREGA are also available, but the governance is poor; so, the money does not reach the poor.


    In reality, minimum funds should reach the states with economic prosperity, while more funds under MNREGA should reach the poorer states but the problem is not about the lack of resources. Lack of good governance is a problem, lack of coordination is a problem, lack of focus is a problem. If these things are emphasized then we can get better results.


    I once again thank Sumitra ji from the core of my heart for changing the fate of these 115 districts, through this discussion and the two-day brainstorming, at a place where once the Constituent Assembly had met, where our great personalities had had long debates and discussions for the nation they had dreamed of; We are moving towards a new direction, sitting in the same house today. I wish you all very well. I again thank you from the bottom of my heart for coming here.


    Thank you.


    ***


    AKT/VJ/KT/RSB/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1523718) Visitor Counter : 725
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Tamil