      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      I - Metros’ -an association of all Indian Metro Rail companies launched by cabinet secretary
      
      I-Metros - a platform for mutual sharing of ideas & experiences for nurturing excellence in performance for Indian Metro Rail companies

      Posted On: 08 MAR 2018 4:34PM by PIB Delhi

    “ I-METROS ”, an association of all Indian Metro Rail companies was launched by Sh. P K Sinha, Cabinet Secretary, Government of India at the Conference on “Indian Metros: Collaborating for Excellence” held at Metro Bhawanhere today. The platform will be a forum for exchange of ideas, pooling of knowledge and sharing of experience, best practices, innovations etc. among the Indian Metro Rail companies to nurture excellence in performance. Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban AffairsSh. DurgaShankerMishra,DMRC’s Managing Director, Dr. Mangu Singh and representatives from Metro organizations from all over the country were also present on the occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, Sh. Sinha said that suggestion for such a common platform for idea and experience sharing for all the Metros had come from the Prime Minister himself and that he was glad to see considerable progress in this direction. He expressed confidence that‘I-METROS’ will go a long way if it progresses in the right way in terms of sharing of best practices and adoption of the latest technologies. Sh. Sinha also appreciated the journey of the Delhi Metro and said that D elhi Metro has been a real success story which has set benchmarks for othermetro organisations in the country.


    Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Sh. DurgaShanker Mishra saidthat, “The government has come up with a new Metro policy last year which will pave the way for creating an eco-system for the rapid growth and development of Metro systems in the country.”


    Cabinet Secretary Sh. P K Sinha also released “The Operator’s Story”- a publication by World Bank and Railway and Transport Strategy Centre (RTSC), Imperial College London, on findings of the research on “What makes Metros successful”.


    The conference on “Indian Metros: Collaborating for Excellence” was also attended by representatives of Metro systems from all over the world who are in Delhi to attend the management meeting of the Community of Metros (CoMET).


    I- METROS:


      * “I-Metros” is proposed to be a platform to provide a forum for exchange of ideas, pooling of knowledge and sharing of experience, best practices, innovations etc. among the Indian Metro rail companies to nurture excellence in performance.

      * This society will be registered under Society Registration Act-1860.
      * The objective of forming this association is to provide a common platform for all Metro rail companies for sharing experience, information, best practices, innovations etc.
      * This association will also undertake and promote techno-economic studies and research. It will safeguard the interest and rights of metro rail companies and will be resource tank of information for decision making.

    RJ/SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1523295) Visitor Counter : 861
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

*