      Ministry of Education

      An Empowered Expert Committee to select ten private and ten public institutions of Eminence
      Posted On: 12 MAR 2018 5:42PM by PIB Delhi


    University Grants Commission (UGC) has issued / notified enabling regulatory architecture in the form of UGC (Declaration of Govt. Educational Institutions as Institutions of Eminence) Guidelines, 2017 and UGC (Institutions of Eminence Deemed to be Universities) Regulations, 2017 to enable 10 public and 10 private institutions to emerge as World Class Teaching and Research Institutions named as ‘Institutions of Eminence’ (IoEs).


    As per the Guidelines and Regulations, an Empowered Expert Committee (EEC) has been constituted to select 10 Private and 10 Public Institutions of Eminence (IoEs) from the 114 applications which have been received in the Ministry for the status of IoEs. No timeline has been prescribed in the Regulations for selection of IoE. The composition of the said committee is as under:


     1. Shri N Gopalaswami (Chairman)- former Chief Election Commissioner (EEC)

     2. Professor Tarun Khanna (Member)- Director of South Asia Institute at Harvard University
     3. Ms. Renu Khator(Member)-President of University of Houston
     4. Shri Pritam Singh(Member)- former Director of IIM Lucknow.

    The selected IoEs will have freedom to fix and charge fee from foreign students without restriction and would have the freedom to determine the domestic students fees, subject to the condition that no student who gains admission should be turned away for lack of finance.


    The IoEs shall have flexibility of course structure in terms of credit hours and number of years to take a degree, after the approval of its Governing council and subject to broadly conforming the minimum prevailing standards.


    The IoEs will have freedom to enter into academic collaboration with top 500 Global ranking institutions without approval of the Government or UGC except with institutions from negative list of countries determined by the Ministry of External Affairs or the Ministry of Home Affairs.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/RK/ Institutions of Eminence


    

    
    (Release ID: 1523869) Visitor Counter : 525
    
    
    
    
    

4.