      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog Opens Nominations for Women Transforming India Awards 2018
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2018 6:38PM by PIB Delhi


    The nominations for the Women Transforming India Awards were opened during the launch of the Women Entrepreneurship Platform (WEP) today at NITI Aayog.


    The theme of the Awards this year, ‘ Women and Entrepreneurship’, was introduced by Shri Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayogin the presence of Shri Yuri Afanasiev, UN Resident Coordinator in India.


    “The Women Transforming India Awards shine a light on path-breaking initiatives of women who act as beacons of hope for the millions who toil silently without recognition”, said Shri Amitabh Kant, underscoring the need to have more such initiatives. “We need to bring them to the center of our development narrative and begin weaving their stories into a movement for women empowerment.”


    NITI’s flagship event, which it has organised in partnership with United Nations, will also see the collaboration of DICE Districts this year.


    "Since its launch in 2016, Women Transforming India Awards have recognised exceptional women who are breaking new ground every single day and making a difference in the lives of countless others. After the tremendous success of the campaign with almost 300 million impressions on social media, it was the next logical step to link these incredible women this year to business opportunities, directly through NITI Aayog's Women Entrepreneurship Platform,” said Yuri Afanasiev.
    Achieving gender equality and empowerment rests upon unlocking the full potential of women. The Women Transforming India Awards -2018 invites stories of exceptional women entrepreneurs, who are breaking the glass ceiling and challenging stereotypes through businesses, enterprises, and initiatives that provide:


    · Innovative solutions to address key development challenges and/or,


    · Impact communities


    Over the years, the Women Transforming India campaign has received an overwhelming response and has recognised women, who are breaking new ground every single day and making a difference in the lives of countless others through sheer grit, determination and courage. This year’s award with its focus on women entrepreneurship and set within the enabling framework of the newly launched WEP under NITI Aayog, aspires to recognise, award, and encourage those who are not only leaders of their trade, but are leading a generation towards a New India.


    Nominations can be filed on behalf of individuals or by the individual themselves on https://wep.gov.in . Alternatively, give a missed call +91-7042648877 and we will help.


    *****


    AKT/SH/BM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1523362) Visitor Counter : 530
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil