      Vice President's Secretariat

      Peace is a prerequisite for progress and development: Vice President
      
      Interacts with the Korean Parliamentary Delegation

      Posted On: 08 MAR 2018 6:59PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President and the Chairman, Rajya Sabha, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that peace is a prerequisite for progress and development of any nation. He was interacting with the visiting Korean Parliamentary Delegation led by Speaker of National Assembly of the Republic of Korea, Mr. Chung Sye Kyun, here today.


    The Vice President said that India is a peace-loving country and we want to have good cordial relations with all its neighbours. He further said that our neighbour is creating unrest in India by promoting cross-border terrorism. Terrorism is global threat to humankind and all should unite to combat the same, he added.


    The Vice President said that India and Korea are natural partners as both have civilization linkages and deep people-to-people bonds, which are the strength of relationship of both countries. He further said that there were many Parliamentary level visits and exchanges and this present visit will give further momentum to parliamentary exchanges between both nations. Age old linkage – Indian Princess Suriratna from AYUT Kingdom married Korean King Kim Suro (who established Gaya Dynasty in 78 A.D.) – more popular in Korea and a memorial of Princess at Ayodhya, UP is planned, he added.


    The Vice President said that we wish to expand our cooperation with Korea in Defence and Strategic areas and we should proceed for BROAD BASED STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP. He expressed happiness over the Korean President’s efforts to resolve North Korean nuclear issue through Dialogue and Engagement – North Korea has participated in Winter Olympics which is a good sign. We support efforts to bring peace and stability on Korean Peninsula through dialogue and diplomacy, he added.


    ***


    AKT/BK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1523372) Visitor Counter : 412
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil