      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Group of students from Indian Institute of Democratic Leadership call on Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 12 MAR 2018 4:08PM by PIB Delhi


    A group of students from Indian Institute of Democratic Leadership (IIDL), Maharashtra, met the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today. The group included 32 students from 14 states belonging to the Post-Graduate programme in Leadership, Politics and Governance. The students shared their experiences of interaction with leaders of various political parties.


    While interacting with the students, Dr Jitendra Singh said that the political leadership should work for the benefit of last man in the last queue i.e. the least privileged in the country. He said that India has become a world leader in the space science and growing economy where the country cannot ignore the aspirations of youth population of the country which consists of about 70% of the population. The youth will play a decisive role in future roadmap, he added. He added that youth in today’s world are more aware about the developments around them.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said that technology plays an important role in the governance. The Government under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has utilised technology as a tool in e-governance, he added. Speaking on the role of decisive leadership, he said that the leader should be capable of taking strong decisions. He quoted examples of demonetisation and GST introduced by the Government in this regard. He also said that north east region (NER) of India is the priority of the Government and all efforts are being made to ensure that it does not lag behind other parts of country in the development process.


    The Minister said that we are an evolving democracy and we have evolved through these 70 years post-independence. He said that the mindset of people has changed and now developmental issues are priority for them over past feudal mindset. The future leadership should keep these changing values in mind, he emphasised.


    ****


    BB/NK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1523825) Visitor Counter : 321
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil