      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NCRB launches Mobile App useful for Citizens on its 33rd Inception Day
      Posted On: 14 MAR 2018 7:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) celebrated its 33rd Inception Day and released “Citizen Services” Mobile App.


    Shri Rajiv Jain, Director, IB was the Chief Guest and Dr. A.P. Maheshwari, DG, BPR&D was the Guest of Honour on this occasion.


    A Mobile App called “Citizen Services” was released on this occasion.


    Citizen Services Mobile App


    NCRB has introduced a Mobile App template, which is a bouquet of 9 police related services, for the citizen. These services will provide smooth interface between Citizens and Police. States/UTs upon customization can host this App on their CCTNS platform through which citizens can register Police Complaint, and can check the Status of their complaint. Another feature of the App also enables a complainant to download FIR (except those categorized as "Sensitive").


    Clicking SOS button of the App, automatically sends an emergency SMS to friends and family with user’s current location. Locate Police Station feature helps a citizen to locate nearby police station details and route to approach using GPS technology. Emergency Contact List provides helpline numbers, which are useful during emergency or regular services like Fire Brigade, Ambulance, Medical Emergency, Women Helpline, Railway Helpline and Child Helpline. Any citizen can anonymously inform Police about any suspicious/anti-social activities using Citizen Tip feature. Using Telephone Directory feature, Citizen can view detail of any police station in a district for particular State. Vahan Samanvay stolen vehicle Registration feature is helpful to the public, Road Transport Authorities, and Insurance agencies, to verify the status of stolen/recovered vehicles, before purchase, re-registration, claim settlement etc.. Talash/ Missing Person (Lost persons Registration) a web link in the App to provide a link to NCRB website displaying missing persons/ unidentified dead bodies and unidentified persons.


    The App is developed by in house team of NCRB and as per the compliance of MeitY directions, the Mobile App was tested & certified by CERT-In empanelled Company. The App is being released to States/UTs for utilization at field levels.


    ***


    BB/NK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1524444) Visitor Counter : 775
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil