      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      New India will be inspired by aspirations of youth: Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 13 MAR 2018 4:50PM by PIB Delhi


    A group of students from MIT School of Government, Pune, Maharashtra, met the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today. The group included 24 students from different states belonging to the Master’s Program in Government. The students are on a National Study Tour and are currently in Delhi. They have visited Election Commission of India, Parliament and also met the leaders of various political parties during their visit. The students discussed various issues relating to the developments in the country including North Eastern Region (NER) and the state of Jammu and Kashmir.


    While interacting with the students, Dr Jitendra Singh said that modern technology is an important tool in the hands of people these days and it has immense power to change the lives of people. He also cautioned that social media should be utilised by people for the benefit of country and for disseminating awareness about Government schemes. He also discussed various schemes of Government such as Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yoajana, Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao and Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana, among others. It is our duty to inform people at the ground level about these Government schemes, he added. The Minister also emphasised on meeting the aspirations of last man in the queue.


    The Minister said that ‘ New India’ will be inspired by the aspirations of youth and the country cannot ignore the aspirations of this part of population which consists of about 70% of its population. He said that India under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has emerged as a world power. The Minister said that we are an evolving democracy and we have evolved through these 70 years post-independence. The youth will decide the future roadmap of the country, he added. He also emphasised on the development of self by individuals to become effective leaders.


    **********


    BB/NK/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1524088) Visitor Counter : 301
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi