      Ministry of Science & Technology

      ‘Put little more heart and soul into science, think out-of-the-box’: Dr. Harsh Vardhan
      
      
      S&T Minister releases book on inspirational moments in the life of 54 Indian scientists

      Posted On: 12 MAR 2018 7:56PM by PIB Delhi

    Urging the fraternity of scientists to put a little more heart and soul into science and think out-of-the-box to solve the unsolved problems facing the country, Union Minister for Science & Technology, Earth Sciences and Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan has said that India’s scientific accomplishments are not inferior to any other in the world. Speaking after releasing the book on Indian scientists titled - ‘Indian Scientists - The saga of Inspired Minds’ in New Delhi today, Dr. Harsh Vardhan said that the book is not a routine biography, but is on a different plane. He added that he would request the Union Minister for Human Resource Development to reach out with the book to the school children.


    The Minister pointed out that the effort has been to catch inspirational moments in the life of scientists that are not known widely. Dr. Harsh Vardhan read out excerpts from the book on various renowned scientists such as J.C. Bose, S. Chandrasekhar, C.V. Raman, Birbal Sahni, S.N. Bose, Har Govind Khorana, P.C. Ray, Meghnad Saha, Homi J. Bhabha, S.S Bhatnagar, S. Ramanujan, A.P.J Abdul Kalam and Ms. Janaki Ammal.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan addressing the gathering after releasing the book


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan also reiterated that the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and Science & Technology are working in close coordination so that science benefits the cause of environment and environment in turn, benefits science. The Minister also released a compendium of science news articles syndicated by India Science Wire (ISW) during 2017. The compendium includes 425 original news stories in English and Hindi produced by India Science Wire and published in Indian media outlets. These news articles highlight some of the unique and novel research work done in Indian research laboratories, academic institutions and universities, which also will be another landmark in science communication and popularizing domain. Another compendium of Ramanjunan Fellows was also released on the occasion.


    Addressing the gathering, Secretary, DST, Prof. Ashutosh Sharma said that the focus of the book was to popularize science communication and take the message of science to the society.


    Written by leading science writers, the book includes glimpses of inspiring moments from the lives of 54 eminent Indian scientists and technologists across the entire gamut of disciplines and eras. The publication also serves a very important purpose of science communication. It is designed to create awareness about the wealth of insights on the forms and functions of science and technology as tools for inclusive growth. The catalogue includes some very renowned scientists like Homi Jahangir Bhabha, Jagdish Chandra Bose, Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar, Satyendra Nath Bose, Satish Dhawan, APJ Abdul Kalam, Har Govind Khorana, Raja Ramanna, Meghnad Saha, S Chandrasekhar, Birbal Sahni, Vikram Sarabhai and M Visvesvaraya. The initiative to bring out the book highlights the values and ethos that these great minds stood for. The volume puts together turning points in the lives of Indian scientists whose achievements laid the foundation for the robust growth and development of science and technology in the country. Their lives are glowing examples of triumph over adversity which will enthuse Indian youth, who aspire to embark on the path painstakingly laid by them.


    The book has been published by Vigyan Prasar, an autonomous institute of the Department of Science and Technology (DST).


    ***


    KSP/HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1524005) Visitor Counter : 644