      AYUSH

      Government Signed many Agreements with WHO for Promoting Traditional Medicine
      Posted On: 13 MAR 2018 6:39PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of AYUSH has signed following agreements with the WHO for cooperation in promoting traditional Medicine. The details are as;

     1. Ministry of AYUSH, Government of India has signed Project Collaboration Agreement (PCA) with WHO , Headquarter, Geneva for collaboration activities, including long term collaboration with WHO in the area of Traditional Medicine on 13 th May, 2016 at WHO headquarters in Geneva. The title of this project is “cooperation on promoting the quality, safety and effectiveness of serving provision in traditional and complementary Medicine between WHO and Ministry of AYUSH, India, 2016-2020. Its aim is to promote the quality and safety of TC&M (Traditional system and Medicine) and consumer protection through supporting WHO in the development and implementation of the WHO Traditional and Complementary Medicine Strategy, 2014-2023. In this project, areas of collaboration are- Development of the WHO publications; benchmarks for training in Yoga, Ayurveda, Unani, Panchakarma, basic (essential) terms for T&CM practitioners and support the establishment of a network of international regulatory cooperation for T&CM practice.

     1. Ministry of AYUSH, Government of India has signed another Project Collaboration Agreement (PCA) with WHO, Headquarter, Geneva for developing WHO terminology in Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha on dated 27 th December, 2017.


     1. Ministry of AYUSH has signed an Agreement with WHO for concerning the Secondment of Dr. Geetha Krishnan to the WHO with costs paid by the releasing institute to WHO for providing inputs for preparation of strategic agenda and workplan in promoting quality, safety and effectiveness of the traditional and complementary medicine and development of practice documents in Traditional Medicine including Ayurveda, Unani, Panchakarma and training document in Yoga.


    The following achievements made under these Pacts with WHO;


     1. In respect to Secondment Agreement, Ministry of AYUSH has deputed Dr. Geetha Krishnan Gopalakrishnan Pillai as Technical Officer to the Traditional, Complementary and Integrative (TCI) Medicine unit of WHO in Geneva and he has joined WHO, headquarters on February 1, 2018.


     1. In respect to Agreement signed with WHO for developing WHO terminology in Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha, the Ministry of AYUSH has developed comprehensive document on Ayurvedic Terminologies with National Ayurveda Morbidity Codes through a consultative process of experts. The print version of document has been finalized while the Morbidity codes have been launched through NAMSTP (National AYUSH Morbidity and Standardized Terminologies Portal) by Hon’ble PM on dated 17 th October, 2017 (2 nd Ayurveda Day) and morbidity statistics are being captured.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    RJ/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1524180) Visitor Counter : 755
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

1.