      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      NCPCR initiates exercise for conducting social audit of Child Care Institutions
      Posted On: 15 MAR 2018 2:46PM by PIB Delhi


    The exercise of conducting social audit of Child Care Institutions has been initiated by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). This is in pursuance of the directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in the matter of Exploitation of Children in Orphanages in State of Tamil Nadu vs. UOI & Ors.


    The Government has enacted the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 replacing the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000 in order to further improve and strengthen the condition of rehabilitation homes. The primary responsibility in execution of the JJ Act lies with the State Governments.


    Under the JJ Act, 2015 several provisions have been included to improve the condition of Child Care Institutions (CCIs) including those housing children in conflict with law by providing for inspections of these CCIs by Juvenile Justice Board; prescribing various rehabilitation and reintegration services including skill development, recreational facilities, mental health interventions, etc.


    Under Section 41 of the Act, registration of institutions including Homes for children in conflict with law has been made mandatory with penalty in case of non-compliance. Under Section 54, the State Governments are required to appoint inspection Committees for the State and district for mandatory inspection of all facilities housing children, at least once in three months.


    Maintenance grant for children in rehabilitation homes has been enhanced to Rs. 2160 per child per month with effect from 16.11.2017. Maintenance grant was increased from Rs. 750 to Rs. 2000 per child per month when financial norms were revised under Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS) with effect from 1st April, 2014.


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development has issued advisories from time to time to States/UTs to register all Government and Non-Governmental Organization run CCIs under Sub-section (1) of Section (41) of JJ Act by 31 st December, 2017. Recently a letter was sent to all the State/UTs and it was mentioned in the said letter that States/UTs, which have reported to have certain un-registered institutions hosting Children in need of Care and protection (CNCP), and are not willing to register themselves under the JJ Act or have not been found fit to be a CCI by the State/UT, that immediate steps should be taken for suitable rehabilitation of these children. The States/ UTs have also been advised to initiate steps to close down those Institutions which have declined to register.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Women and Child Development, Dr. Virendra Kumar in reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    NG/SKK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1524570) Visitor Counter : 609
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil