      AYUSH

      Government increased budget allocation for NAM in the recent budget
      Posted On: 13 MAR 2018 6:41PM by PIB Delhi


    Government has marginally increased the budget allocation for NAM. Total budget allocation for the year 2018-19 is Rs. 504.43 Crores and it was Rs. 490.50 Crores in 2017-18 at Revised Estimate (RE) stage.


    No State-wise specific targets have been fixed by the Central Government for the States/UTs under NAM. However, for each financial year based on the total budget availability under NAM, resource pool for each State/UT is fixed as per standard parameters. The State /UT Governments accordingly furnish their State Annual Action Plans which is approved by the competent authority in the Ministry of AYUSH fixing physical and financial yearly targets of each State/UT.


    For 2018-19, a tentative ceiling of Rs.50.370 crores has been fixed for Rajasthan State to furnish State Annual Action Plan.


    The detailed objectives of National AYUSH Mission (NAM) are as follows:


    (i) To provide cost effective AYUSH Services, with a universal access through upgrading AYUSH Hospitals and Dispensaries, co-location of AYUSH facilities at Primary Health Centres (PHCs), Community Health Centres (CHCs) and District Hospitals (DHs).


    (ii) To strengthen institutional capacity at the state level through upgrading AYUSH educational institutions, State Government Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathy (ASU&H) Pharmacies, ASU & H Drug Testing Laboratories and enforcement mechanism.


    (iii) Support cultivation of medicinal plants by adopting Good Agricultural Practices (GAPs) so as to provide sustained supply of quality raw-materials and support certification mechanism for quality standards, Good Agricultural/Collection/Storage Practices.


    (iv) Support setting up of clusters through convergence of cultivation, warehousing, value addition, marketing and development of infrastructure for entrepreneurs.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1524182) Visitor Counter : 947
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil