      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Districts affected by Naxal Violence
      Posted On: 14 MAR 2018 5:33PM by PIB Delhi


    106 districts in 10 States are included in the Security Related Expenditure Scheme of the Government for Left Wing Extremism (LWE) affected States. However in 2017, only 58 districts in the country reported LWE violence.


    In order to bring Left Wing Extremist cadres into the mainstream, the State Governments have their own surrender and rehabilitation policies. The Central Government supplements the efforts of the State Governments in this regard through the Security Related Expenditure (SRE) Scheme for Left Wing Extremist (LWE) affected States approved by Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) in September 2017. Under the scheme, the Centre reimburses the claims made by the State Government in the rehabilitation of surrendered LWE cadres subject to a ceiling of Rs. 5 lakh for higher ranked and Rs. 2.5 lakh for middle/lower ranked LWE cadres. Additional incentives given for surrendering with weapons/ammunition are also reimbursed to the States depending on the type of weapons surrendered. The surrenderees are also imparted training in a trade/vocation of their choice during which they are paid a monthly stipend of Rs 6,000 per month for a maximum period of 36 months. The Central Government does not have any scheme for rehabilitation of surrendered Maoists through rubber cultivation.


    The question pertains to acquisition of operational technologies by the Security Forces, disclosure of which, may not be in the interest of security. The Government has a multi-pronged strategy to deal with Left Wing Exremism. The strategy is centered around security related measures, developmental interventions and ensuring rights & entitlements of local communities etc. Security related measures include assistance to LWE affected States by providing CAPF Bns, helicopters, UAVs, construction of fortified police stations, funds for modernization of State Police forces, arms and equipment, training assistance, sharing of intelligence etc. On development side, apart from flagship schemes of the Central Government in infrastructure, education, health, skill development, agriculture etc, several initiatives have been taken specifically for development of LWE affected areas. These include focused schemes for development of roads, installation of mobile towers, skill development, improving network of banks and post offices, health and education facilities, particularly in the 35 worst affected districts.


    Recently the Government has approved the Special Central Assistance Scheme which envisages an outlay of Rs 1000 Cr per annum for three years for the 35 worst affected LWE districts to cover gaps in critical infrastructure and services. In addition, the Special Infrastructure Scheme has also been revived for providing support to the States for strengthening the Special Forces and SIBs and also for construction of additional fortified police stations. The Security Related Expenditure Scheme has also been extended with increased allocation and new features up to 2020.


    The National Technical Research Organization (NTRO) is assisting the Security Forces in anti-Naxal operations by providing Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs).


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir in written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK/YS/2121

    
    
    (Release ID: 1524365) Visitor Counter : 280