      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Selection and training of participants for international sports competitions
      Posted On: 14 MAR 2018 5:06PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Youth Affairs &Sports is implementing Target Olympic Podium (TOP) Scheme within overall ambit of National Sports Development Fund (NSDF) in order to provide customized training to elite sportspersons for participation in Olympics and other major international sports competitions. Target Olympic Podium (TOP) Scheme envisages selection of potential sportspersons by a designated Committee whose Members include eminent ex-sportspersons, sports administrators etc. These athletes are identified through a process of research and in consultation with the concerned stakeholders. Benchmark for selection of these athletes under the scheme is their performance in relation to international standards. The selected athletes are given financial assistance for their customized training at Institutes having world class facilities and other necessary support for preparing them for Olympics and other major international competitions. National Sports Federations (NSFs) are primarily responsible for judicious selection of national teams for participation in major international events, including the Olympics, based on merit and with the objective of enhancing national prestige and bringing glory to the country.


    The Government, through National Sports Development Code of India 2011, has prescribed that the Selection Committee is to be constituted by the concerned NSF comprising of the President of the NSF, the National Coach and eminent sportspersons. The Government also appoints Observers for specific sports disciplines to observe the selection process.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Youth Affairs and Sports Col. RajyavardhanRathore in reply to a written Question byDr.SatyanarayanJatiya in Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    PP/TFK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1524336) Visitor Counter : 344