      Ministry of Railways

      Union Railway Minister Shri Piyush Goyal holds consultations with Architects & Planners to discuss issues related to Station Redevelopment Program
      
      Program worth Rs. One Lakh Crore investments requires extensive involvement of Engineers, Planners, Architects and other Professionals besides the Contractors and Developers

      Posted On: 13 MAR 2018 11:40AM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of Railways and Coal Shri Piyush Goyal met with Architects and Planners to discuss issues related to Station Redevelopment Program. A total of 110 professionals from 54 firms participated in the meeting. The Minister was categorical that in view of the financial condition of Indian Railways and the paying capacity of public, there is a need for finding solutions that meet the aspirations of travelling public at low cost. Shri Piyush Goyal said “We shall work on providing innovative solutions tailored to uniquely Indian conditions. I am confident that we will eventually be in a position to share the expertise in other countries as well”.


    This consultation meeting held with Architects was aimed to understand the issues and difficulties in participating in development/redevelopment of railway stations. The discussions were held on wide range of issues from the difficulties that the architects and planners are facing in participating in station redevelopment program; modifications required in various documents guiding the station design; general direction that station redevelopment program shall take. Minister Shri Goyal assured the participants that as desired the empanelment will be made in more categories; name of the Architect will be included in the plaque. The Minster also directed IRSDC to take up capacity building of Consultants as Station Development is as yet a new field . Shri Goyal also stated that young architects and planners shall also be involved in the station development program and they may be engaged for smaller/simpler stations.


    It may be recalled that Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Limited (IRSDC), as the nodal agency, is taking up redevelopment of around 600 major Railway stations across the country. Towards this objective of stakeholders’ consultation, an idea competition for development of 635 stations of Indian Railways, ‘SRIJAN’ ( S tation R ejuvenation I nitiative through J oint A ctio N ) has been launched at MyGov portal since 26.01.2018.


    This mammoth exercise will kickstart the program worth Rs 1,00,000 crore investments and requires extensive involvement of engineers, planners, architects and other professionals besides the contractors and developers. To prepare the plans for stations, IRSDC has taken up multiple initiatives:

     1. International Design Competition for 3 Railway Stations, namely, Nagpur, Gwalior and Baiyappanhalli
     2. IRSDC has empaneled experienced consultants with multi-disciplinary teams
     3. IRSDC has also invited professionals to take initiatives and share their vision for railway stations for a token fee and in response, eleven architects have registered themselves for development of 74 railway stations.
     4. SRIJAN (Station Rejuvenation Initiative through Joint Action), an Ideas competition has been launched by IRSDC, where users and young minds are invited to put across their ideas for implementing “Low Cost High Visibility” items at station areas. Around 450 entries have been received so far.

    The last date for submission of entries in this competition is 26.03.2018. The winners will get certificates and worthy ideas will be incorporated in the designs. IRSDC has also launched competition through Mygov portal for IRSDC logo and tagline. The winner for logo competition will get cash prize of Rs 75,000/-and for tagline also will get Rs 75,000/-. The last date of submission of entries is 26.3.18.


    ****


    SBS/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1524022) Visitor Counter : 568
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil
    
    
    

4.