      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Important information on agricultural research is the main attraction of Krishi Unnati Mela 2018: Shri Radha Mohan Singh
      
      Several websites, portals, apps, SMS are being used to provide information to farmers at the right time: Union Agriculture Minister

      Posted On: 16 MAR 2018 7:41PM by PIB Delhi

    India is moving towards Digital and Mobile revolution and even far-flung villages have access to mobile phones. We have been seamlessly linking Information Technology with agriculture and in order to establish direct connect between the government and farmers, mobile and internet plays a key role. This was stated by Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shri Radha Mohan Singh at the Krishi Unnati Mela 2018 in Pusa, New Delhi. Shri Singh Said that Several websites, portals, apps, SMSes are being used to provide information to farmers at the right time. Important information on agricultural research is the main attraction of this fair.


    Union Agriculture Minister also said that for new harvesting techniques through organic means and its successful implementation, the Jaivik Mahakumbh pavilion is a special attraction at the fair. He said that in order to give a boost to Cooperatives, a Sahakar Sammelan is also being organized. Apart from this, 9 farmers-scientist discussions (3 each day) are also being organized on important issues. Exclusive seed selling counters have also been set up in the fair.


    More than 800 stalls have been set up by the Central and State Governments, various organizations, etc. in this fair. Ways to enhance farmers’ income through theme pavilions like micro irrigation, neem-coated urea, soil check/Soil Health Card, reducing costs through less use of fertilizer, effectiveness of crop insurance scheme and new dimensions of income generation, such as animal husbandry, bee keeping, poultry farming, are being showcased. Through a Live demo, farmers can witness actual farming at the fair.


    Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, on March 17, 2018, will address the farmers, agricultural scientists and other participants during the mela. He will inaugurate the Jaivik Kheti portal and will lay the foundation stone of 25 KVKs. He will also confer the Krishi Karman Award & Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhaya Krishi Vigyan Protsahan Puruskar.


    *****


    APS/AS/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1524924) Visitor Counter : 722