      Ministry of Defence

      Curtain Raiser for Award of President’s Standard Presentation to 51 Sqn and colours presentation to 230 signal unit
      Posted On: 15 MAR 2018 1:04PM by PIB Delhi


      Air Marshal C Hari Kumar PVSM, AVSM,VM, VSM, ADC Air officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Air Command addressed a media conference at Air Force Station Halwara, as a curtain raiser to the prestigious President’s Standard and Colours Presentation ceremony, scheduled to be held on 22 Mar 18 at AF Stn Halwara.


      In his address, Air Marshal C Hari Kumar informed the media personnel that the Hon’ble President of India and Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, Sh. Ram Nath Kovind would be awarding the prestigious President’s Standards to 51 Squadron and Colours to 230 Signal Unit of the Indian Air Force. Gp Capt Satish S Pawar, Commanding Officer of 51 Sqn, would receive the Presidents Standard and Gp Capt SK Tripathi Station Commander of 230 Signal Unit would receive the Presidents Colours from the Hon’ble President of India during a spectacular ceremonial parade at Air Force Station Halwara. On this occasion the Hon’ble President would also release the First Day Covers of 51 Sqn and 230 Signal Unit of the Indian Air Force.


      The award of the President’s Standard and Colours is the highest military honour for an armed forces unit. The selection for the Presidents Standard and Colours is based on the squadron’s performance and achievements during both peace and hostilities. The selected units are honoured for the meritorious services rendered by them over at least 25 years. This award is an acknowledgement of the operational excellence, dedication and the proven contribution of the unit during both peace and war.


      This prestigious ceremony would be witnessed by Air Chief Marshal Birender Singh Dhanoa PVSM, AVSM, YSM, VM, ADC Chief of the Air Staff, and Air Marshal C Hari kumar PVSM, AVSM, VM, VSM, ADC Air officer Commanding-in-Chief Western Air Command along with high ranking defence officers. The civilian dignitaries expected to grace the occasion include the Governor, Chief Minister and other senior Govt Officials of Punjab State.


      ARG/BBS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1524555) Visitor Counter : 358
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil