      Ministry of Science & Technology

      “Government committed to take people-centric initiatives, generate jobs for socio-economic development of the North Eastern Region’: Dr Harsh Vardhan
      
      Technology Business Incubation Centre inaugurated in Manipur

      Posted On: 15 MAR 2018 8:27PM by PIB Delhi

    Emphasising the Government’s commitment to undertake initiatives that are people-centric and boost the income of farmers, as well as generate jobs for the socio-economic development of the North-Eastern region, Union Minister for Science & Technology, Earth Sciences and Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan has said that the North East is a special focus of the Government. Inaugurating the Technology Business Incubation Centre at the campus of the Institute of Bioresources and Sustainable Development (IBSD) in Imphal, Manipur today, the Minister stated that this Centre will help in nurturing new and small biotechnology-based enterprises and help the unemployed youth and farmers of the North-East region to survive and grow their businesses through the early stages of development.


    “The initiative of IBSD is in line with the vision of the Prime Minister of this region as a Natural Economic Zone”, Dr Vardhan said. Recalling his visit to IBSD in February 2015 to lay the foundation stone for a Technology and Skill Development Centre, the Minister pointed out that in the last three years, IBSD has increased its impact through its physical presence in four North Eastern states – Sikkim, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Manipur. Dr. Vardhan underlined that the Institute is providing a great boost to the Bamboo Mission.


    The Minister strongly urged the people of Manipur and the North Eastern region to fulfill the Green Social Responsibility and to become ‘Green Messengers’. He exhorted the people to contribute towards developing a social movement through Green Good Deeds by undertaking one Green Good Deed a day such as planting a sapling, cycling to work, promoting bamboo, strengthening the bioresources, developing a sustainable development programme. “The list of 500 Green Good Deeds can be accessed Dr Harsh Vardhan App”, he added. Dr. Vardhan also rode a bicycle made from bamboo in the campus of IBSD.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan riding a cycle made from bamboo at IBSD campus in Imphal.


    Earlier, Director, IBSD, Prof. Dinabandhu Sahoo made the welcome remarks. Institute of Bioresources and Sustainable Development was established in 2001. IBSD is a national institute under the Department of Biotechnology.


    The North Eastern region is among the top 10 Mega-Biodiversity Hotspots in the world. The mandate of IBSD is the conservation and sustainable utilization of bioresources for the socio-economic development of the North Eastern region. IBSD has also been making efforts to increase the yield of Black Rice, locally known in Manipur as Chak-Hao and also add more value to it. IBSD has also set up a National Bioresources Park in Imphal East to train farmers and youth for entrepreneurship development in a 40-acre land.


    ***


    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1524724) Visitor Counter : 451