      Ministry of Education

      Initiatives for digitalization of education
      Posted On: 15 MAR 2018 5:18PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government has taken various initiatives for digitalization of education. Some of these are-


    (i) E-Pathshala, a web portal has been designed to disseminate e-resources including e-books developed by NCERT, SCERT/SIEs, State Boards.


    (ii) Shagun portal has been designed to showcase the innovative and successful models implemented by all States and UTs in diverse circumstances.


    (iii) The National Repository of Open Educational Resources (NROER) is an initiative to bring together all digital and digitisable resources across all stages of school education and teacher education.


    (iv) SWAYAM (Study Webs of Active learning for Young Aspiring Minds), a Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) platform has been launched to offer various online courses for school education and higher education.


    (v) SWAYAM PRABHA DTH-TV programme for utilization of satellite communication technologies for transmission of educational e-contents through 32 National Channels has been launched.


    The Central Government provides funds for implementation of various interventions of different levels of schooling at par to rural and urban area. Under SSA, there is a provision for the release of Rs. 50 lakh per district per year to the States and UTs for Computer Aided Learning (CAL) and Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan (RAA) to maximize ICT coverage in upper primary schools. The number of schools to be covered is decided by the concerned State/UT. An amount of Rs. 47433.24 lakh has been released under CAL and RAA components of SSA during last three years. Further, an amount of Rs. 99976.5 lakh has been released under the ICT component of RMSA during last three years to the states/UTs for creation and running of ICT facilities in secondary and senior secondary schools.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Shri Upendra Kushwaha today in a written reply to a Rajya Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK/RK/ Initiatives for digitalization of education


    

    
    (Release ID: 1524642) Visitor Counter : 511
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil