      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      National Strategic Plan for Tbelimination
      Posted On: 16 MAR 2018 3:21PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government launched the National Strategic Plan (NSP) to control cases of Tuberculosis in the country during the period 2012-2017. The key components of the NSP (2012-2017) are:

     1. Strengthening and improving the quality of basic DOTS services.
     2. Deploying improved rapid diagnostics to the field level
     3. Expanding efforts to engage all care providers
     4. Expanding diagnosis and treatment of drug resistant TB cases
     5. Improving communication, outreach and social mobilization.
     6. Promoting research for development and implementation of improved tools and strategies.
     7. Utilizing Information Communication Technology (ICT) tools for strengthening TB surveillance .

    The implementation of National Strategic Plan for TB Elimination (NSP 2017-25) has started in January 2017 and the funds allocated for FY 2018-19 is Rs.2770.91 Crore which includes funds for cash transfers and social welfare schemes.


    As per the Global report 2017 of the World Health Organisation (WHO), India accounts for 1,47,000 estimated MDR-RR cases which is 24% of the Global cases.


    
    However, as per this report, the incidence of TB in India has fallen from 217 per lakh population per year in the year 2015 to 211 per lakh population per year in the year 2016.


    After introduction of NIKSHAY portal and Active Case Finding Scheme, higher number of cases reported by private practitioners was included in the National data of TB case finding, this resulted increased data on TB cases.


    In addition to the above, the reason behind the increase in TB cases can be attributed to various social determinants which perpetuate the spread of TB infection. These social determinant factors like poverty, under-nutrition, crowded and poorly ventilated living, air pollution, alcohol consumption, tobacco smoking, etc. increase the likelihood of conversion of TB infection to TB disease.


    The details of steps taken by the Government are as follows:

      * early diagnosis of all the TB patients, prompt treatment with quality assured drugs and treatment regimens
      * suitable patient support systems to promote adherence.
      * engaging with the patients seeking care in the private sector.
      * prevention strategies including active case finding and
      * contact tracing in high risk / vulnerable population
      * airborne infection control.
      * Multisectoral response to address social determinants.
      * Advocacy, Communication and Social Mobilization activities to promote awareness regarding TB among all the sections of the society.

    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), SmtAnupriya Patel stated this in a written reply in the LokSabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1524807) Visitor Counter : 943
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

7. 
   
*