      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      A 24 x 7 National Toll Free Drug De-addiction Helpline Number 1800-11-0031set up to help the victims of drug abuse
      Posted On: 13 MAR 2018 6:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment is now undertaking a National level Survey in collaboration with National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre, AIIMS, New Delhi. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed in August, 2016. The survey will provide national and state-level estimates of proportion and absolute number of individuals using various drugs and suffering from substance use disorders.


    The Ministry has issued an Advisory on 11.08.2016 to all the States/UTs on combating drug abuse which advises them to prepare an Action Plan which, inter-alia, includes conducting sensitization and preventive education programmes in schools and colleges throughout the year.


    Till now, during the year 2017-18, National Institute of Social Defence (NISD) has conducted 127 capacity building programme imparting training to 4488 persons. They have also conducted 247 awareness generation programmes in various Schools and Universities/Colleges covering 23006 beneficiaries.


    The last National Survey on the extent, pattern and trend of drug abuse was sponsored by Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment and conducted by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in the year 2000-2001. The report was published in 2004. The Survey estimated that about 7.32 Crore persons in India were users of alcohol and drugs. Of these 87 lakh used Cannabis, 20 lakh used opiates and 6.25 Crore were users of Alcohol. The survey covered 40,697 individuals. Only males within the age group of 12-60 years were part of the Survey.


    National Institute of Social Defence (NISD), an autonomous organization under this Ministry, conducts capacity building programmes, sensitization and preventive education programmes in schools and colleges on regular basis. During the year 2016-17, they conducted 54 capacity building & skill development programmes imparting training to 1332 persons. During the year 2016-17, they have also conducted 207 awareness generation programme covering 15516 beneficiaries.


    Besides, the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has undertaken the following initiatives:-


    The Ministry has, in the year 2016, conducted an awareness generation programme, in collaboration with Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music and Culture Amongst Youth (SPIC MACAY), to create awareness in children and youth about the harmful effects of substance abuse in 156 schools in 22 districts of Punjab covering about 52,800 students.


    The Ministry organized two Regional Workshops during the year 2015-16, in collaboration with National Service Scheme (NSS), at Shillong and Indore. The Coordinators of NSS from all the North Eastern States, Odisha and West Bengal attended the Workshop at Shillong and NSS Coordinators from Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan attended the Workshop at Indore. The Programme was also attended by a large number of students.


    The Ministry also uses print, electronic and social media for creating awareness. Information regarding ill-effects of alcoholism and drug abuse is also disseminated in regional languages through the All India Radio programme “Sanwarti Jayen Jeevan Ki Rahen” and also through advertisements in newspapers.


    The Ministry celebrates the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking on 26th June every year by holding functions and organizing exhibitions to sensitize the people about the ill effects of drug abuse. National Awards are also conferred to individuals and institutions in order to recognize the efforts and encourage excellence in the field of prevention of substance abuse.


    The Ministry has set up a National Toll Free Drug De-addiction Helpline Number 1800-11-0031 w.e.f. 07.01.2015 to help the victims of drug abuse, their family and society at large. The Helpline has been made functional on 24 x 7 basis w.e.f. March, 2017.


    This Ministry implements a “Central Sector Scheme of Assistance for Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) Abuse” under which financial assistance is provided to eligible Non-Governmental Organizations, Panchayati Raj Institutions, Urban Local Bodies etc. for, inter-alia, running and maintenance of Integrated Rehabilitation Centres for Addicts.


    The de-addiction centres financially assisted by the Central Government in a State/UT depend on the number of proposals received from the State Government/UT Administration. As per the existing guidelines of the Scheme, the proposal for new projects recommended through online portal of this Ministry by the State Governments/UT Administrations are placed before the Screening Committee constituted in the Ministry for consideration. The Committee considers the proposal of those de-addiction centres which are in existence for the last three years vis-à-vis their expenditure on de-addiction activities, their memorandum of association/article of association etc. Other parameters, inter-alia, include ensuring equal geographical spread and the centres mainly concentrating on de-addiction activities etc. Cases complete in all respects as per norms of the Scheme are recommended for consideration of Grant-in-aid.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Vijay Sampla in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E-2/13-03-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1524161) Visitor Counter : 290