      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh presents Certificates of Appreciation to 34 ministries/departments for implementation of e-office programme
      Posted On: 14 MAR 2018 6:42PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh presented the Certificates of Appreciation to 34 Ministries/departments for implementation of e-office programme in their respective ministries/departments, here today. The awards have been given by the Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances (DARPG), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Government of India.


    The Secretary, M/o Housing and Urban Affairs, Shri D S Mishra, Secretary, M/o Shipping, Shri Gopal Krishna, Secretary M/o Power, Shri Ajay Kumar Bhalla, Secretary, Ministry of New and Renewable Energy Shri Anand Kumar, Secretary, M/o Textiles Shri Anant Kumar Singh, Secretary, M/o Parliamentary Affairs, Shri S. N. Tripathi, Secretary, DARPG and Pensions Shri K. V. Eapen and Secretary, Ministry of Women and Child Development, Shri Rakesh Srivastava received the awards on behalf of their ministries among other senior officers from other ministries/departments.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr Jitendra Singh said that implementation of e-office programme is a remarkable achievement for which the awardee ministries/departments needs to be complemented for their efforts. He said that this is in line with the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s programme of ‘Digital India’ and digital way of working. He said that the Government has always worked with the motive of ‘maximum governance, minimum government’ with citizen-centric approach. Appreciating the officers for their efforts, he said that they are an essential tool in achieving good governance.


    The Minister appealed to the state governments to adopt the practices of good governance. He said that now the DARPG is organizing regional conferences on good governance and best practices in various parts of country, so that the good practices can be replicated in other parts of the country. These efforts have started showing results, he said. He also appealed to the other departments and ministries to follow the same practices and shift to e-office.


    Secretary, DARPG Shri K. V. Eapen said that the ministries which were awarded today have implemented e-office upto 80% and above. He said that in the long-run shifting to e-office makes the functioning in the offices smooth. Other ministries will also follow this practice, he added.


    E-Office is one of the Mission Mode Projects under Digital India Programme. The e-Office solution enables core operations of the Government at all levels to be performed in a virtual ‘paper-less’ environment. This application is, thus, a major step in realizing the objective of an open and responsive Government. The Government intends to make all its’ Ministries/Departments paper-free in the near future. The Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DAR&PG) is the nodal Department for implementation of e-Office project. National Informatics Centre (NIC) is the technical partner in this project. DARPG is committed to implement e-Office across all Central Ministries/Departments.


    Since August 2016, DAR&PG is coordinating with all Central Ministries/Departments through rigorous review meetings on the status of implementation of e-Office and is also submitting a fortnightly status report to Cabinet Secretariat. DAR&PG has also set up a Project Management Unit (PMU) to monitor the progress of implementation of e-Office by Central Ministries/Departments. As the result of this continuous and proactive monitoring, the level of Ministries/ Departments on e-Office has risen from 6 to 34. The number of active e-files has increased from 7,848 to 7,33,374 during the period. The following Ministries/Departments have been presented certificates of appreciation today:-

     1. Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change
     2. Department of Rural Development
     3. Ministry of Women & Child Development
     4. Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs
     5. Ministry of Shipping
     6. Ministry of Coal
     7. Ministry of Panchayati Raj
     8. Department of Science & Technology
     9. Department of Legal Affairs
    10. Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises
    11. Department of Consumer Affairs
    12. Ministry of Power
    13. Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation
    14. Ministry of Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation
    15. Ministry of New & Renewable Energy
    16. Department of Defence Production
    17. Ministry of Textiles
    18. Department of Public Enterprises
    19. Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances
    20. Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs
    21. Ministry of Steel
    22. Department of Justice
    23. Ministry of Minority Affairs
    24. Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region
    25. Department of Pharmaceuticals
    26. Department of Pensions & Pensioners' Welfare
    27. Department of Agricultural Research & Education
    28. Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship
    29. Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities
    30. Department of Commerce
    31. Department of Food and Public Distribution
    32. Department of Chemicals and Petrochemicals
    33. Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas
    34. Ministry of Earth Sciences

    Senior officers of various ministries were also present on the occasion.


    ***


    BB/NK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1524406) Visitor Counter : 385
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

34.