      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Children’s Science Congress inaugurated in Imphal
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2018 12:22PM by PIB Delhi


    Welcoming young students to the North East, Governor of Nagaland, Shri Padmanabha Balakrishna Acharya has said that learning new languages of other regions is a mark of respect to the people who speak those languages. Delivering the inaugural address at the Children’s Science Congress at the ongoing Indian Science Congress in Imphal today, Shri Acharya emphasised that the shifting of the venue of Indian Science Congress from Manipur to Imphal has proved to be a blessing in disguise. “Children Science Congress is to empower our children with science and technology”, the Governor pointed out.


    Emphasising that education is one of the most important instruments for men and women, Shri Acharya stated that India belongs to villages. “We are an integrated country and have come to the North East, but many of us may not know the 8 states of the North Eastern region”, he observed. Expanding the term “NAMASTE” appropriately with the names of the North Eastern States, the Governor expressed the view that N stands for Nagaland, A for Arunachal Pradesh, M for Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, A for Assam, S for Sikkim, T for Tripura and E for East.


    “We all should try to understand India and should preserve regional languages and its identity and diversity. Our first aim should be our national integrity. Every part of the country should be developed equally. If Mumbai, Delhi and other states could shine, then Manipur,Nagaland and the entire North Eastern state should also shine. ”, he said. Shri Acharya strongly emphasised that ‘Ema Keithel is the only market where more than 2000 women run a daily business, a parallel one cannot find in the world.


    Addressing the gathering, Vice-Chancellor of Manipur University, Prof. Adya Prasad Pandey said that it is a conference where young champs are being given a chance to be future scientists. He pointed out that it is time to protect the environment, control pollution, forest and nature. “If we continue to extort our nature, we shall suffer terribly in the future. Our young scientists should know how to co-exist with our nature”, the Vice Chancellor opined.


    A painting competition for children and a poster display exhibition were also conducted on the occasion. 27 participants from Telangana exhibited 7 projects, along with five projects 5 from Manipur. A science magic show was also showcased by Rajenkumar Huirem to the children. 12 states participated in the DST Exhibition Competition at Manipur University.


    About 7000 students attended the inaugural function of the Children’s Science Congress. School students from different states viz Telengana, Assam, Manipur presented a cultural programme on the occasion.


    ***


    HK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1525293) Visitor Counter : 159