      Ministry of Science & Technology

      106th Indian Science Congress to be held in Bhopal
      
      “Future India: Science and Technology” will be the theme for next Science Congress
      
      
      105th Indian Science Congress concludes at Imphal
      
      Posted On: 20 MAR 2018 7:53PM by PIB Delhi


    Exhorting the scientific fraternity to develop a scientific temper at the grassroots level, Governor of Manipur, Dr. Najma Heptullah has said that it is the responsibility of the scientific community to develop young minds to further research in our country. She averred that India is becoming a powerhouse of scientific thought. Expressing her thoughts on the theme of this year’s Indian Science Congress, she said, “The North-East and Manipur are still an unreached place for many Indians. Everyday a new flora, a new fauna is discovered here. Many varieties of plants with medicinal properties are found here,” She urged the scientists present in the gathering to adopt a place in an area and do research on the soil, the plants and water resources of that place to develop young minds and further research at the grassroots level. Strongly emphasising that the Science Congress should not be a one-time affair, the Governor urged the scientists to return to the state to conduct research in the field of science. Emphasising that the Indian Science Congress came to Manipur “by chance”, Dr. Heptullah pointed out that it was also the destiny of the state.


    Taking many a trip down the memory lane, the Governor recollected the days when she was a researcher in Zoology and was awarded a PhD at the age of 22 and later, also a job at NASA.


    General President-elect, 106 th Indian Science Congress Association, Prof. Manoj Kumar Chakrabarti announced that the 106 th edition of the Indian Science Congress will be held next year from 3 rd to 7 th January, 2019 at Barkatullah University Bhopal, with the theme, “Future India: Science & Technology”. “More innovative and out-of-the-box thinking is required. Smaller, smarter and cheaper technology is the need of the hour,” he opined. The traditional torch of knowledge, “Vigyan Jyot” was handed over to him.


    Speaker, Manipur Legislative Assembly, Sh Y. Khemchand Singh said that science is a moving agent. He expressed the hope that this year’s Science Congress must have discussed new ideas.


    Immediate Past President, Indian Science Congress Association, Prof D. Narayan Rao urged the youngsters to contribute to the scientific growth of the country. He averred that India is a donor of vaccines to 67 countries, with vaccines coming from India for almost every third child vaccinated the world over. Dr. Rao pointed out that India is the first country to achieve success in Mars Orbital Mission in the first attempt. President, ISCA, Prof. Achyuta Samanta delivered the presidential address on the occasion.


    Representing the National Youth Project, Delhi, Dr.S.N Subba Rao urged the scientists to develop a scientific spirituality in our personality and have as their goal the need to eradicate corruption, as well as every mouth to be fed and saving children from the menace of drugs.


    Later, the dignitaries distributed Young Scientists awards to Best Presentation in 14 different categories. The award consists of Rs 25,000/- and a certificate of merit. ISCA best poster awards for 2017-18 were also given away on the occasion.


    Pride of India Expo awards were also presented in seven categories, with the Department of Science & Technology (DST) bagging the award for the Most Innovative Stall and the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports being declared the Most Interactive Stall. The award for Best Design was given to Directorate of Advertising & Visual Publicity (DAVP) and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).


    The states of Gujarat and Odisha Government were awarded the Best State Participation. The stalls of Defence Research & Development Organisation & Indian Council of Medical Research were declared Most Informative, while Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) and Ministry of Earth Sciences were declared ‘Exhibitor of the Year’.


    The State of Manipur and National Small Industries Corporation were presented an award as Special Recognition.


    Vice Chancellor, Manipur University, Prof. Adya Prasad Pandey, former General president of ISCA, Shri Ashok Saxena, General Secretary, ISCA, Prof P. P Mathur and Prof Gangadhar, present and past office-bearers as well as executive members of ISCA, teaching faculty and students of Manipur University were among those present in the gathering.


    ***


    AH/HK/WU-ISC 8/2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1525456) Visitor Counter : 701
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Urdu