      Ministry of Culture

      Rs. 37 Crore allocated for “Scheme of Financial Assistance for Creation of Cultural Infrastructure” for 2018-19: Culture Minister
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2018 5:53PM by PIB Delhi


    Proposed Budgetary allocation in 2018-2019 for “Scheme of Financial Assistance for Creation of Cultural Infrastructure” is Rs.3700 lakh.


    The Scheme has the following two components:-


    Component-I : Financial Assistance for Building Grants including Studio Theatres.


    Component-II : Financial Assistance for Tagore Cultural Complexes (TCC).


    During financial year 2017-2018, as on 14-03-2018, total of Rs.2.34 Crores have been utilized under both the scheme components.


    All applications received under the Scheme have been processed as per guidelines of the scheme and no application is lying unattended.


    Central financial assistance under the Scheme is provided to reputed not-for-profit cultural organizations, State Governments/Union Territories, Central/State Govt. agencies/bodies, State Governments/Union Territories, Central/State Govt. agencies/bodies, Universities, Municipal Corporations etc. for creation of appropriately equipped training, rehearsal & performance spaces, various cultural spaces, studio theatres, Tagore Cultural Complexes etc. for artistes to propagate, disseminate arts and culture and foster multi-dimensional interest in creativity and cultural expressions in the country.


    The implementing agency of the projects under the Scheme at State/UT level is State Govt./UT Administration or the applicant not-for-profit cultural organizations etc.


    Ministry of Culture releases the grant to eligible projects recommended by the Expert Committee constituted under the Scheme.


    This information was given by Minister of State (IC) for Culture and Minister of State for Environment, Forest & Climate Change Dr. Mahesh Sharma in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1525178) Visitor Counter : 549