      Ministry of Education

      Elaborate monitoring mechanism at various levels to ensure quality food in Mid-Day Meal Scheme
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2018 5:39PM by PIB Delhi


    One of the objectives of the Mid-Day Meal Scheme (MDMS) is to improve the nutritional status of children studying in elementary classes in schools covered under the Scheme, by providing hot cooked meal. The Government of India has issued guidelines on quality, safety and hygiene on school level kitchens to all the States and UTs. These guidelines inter-alia provide for instruction to schools to procure Agmark quality and branded items for preparation of mid day meals, tasting of meals by 2-3 adult members including at least one teacher before serving to children and to put in place a system of testing of food samples by accredited laboratories. Further, the MDM Rules, 2015 provide for mandatory testing of food samples by Government recognized laboratories to ensure that the meals meet nutritional standards and quality.


    T he Government has also adopted an elaborate monitoring mechanism at Central, State and District levels to ensure quality food is served to children under the Scheme. At national level, an Empowered Committee, headed by Minister of Human Resource Development and also a National level Steering-cum-Monitoring Committee (NSMC) as well as Programme Approval Board (PAB) monitor the scheme and suggest measures for its smooth and effective implementation. At the


    State level, a State Level Steering–cum-Monitoring Committee headed by the State Chief Secretary and, at the District Level, a District Level Committee under the Chairpersonship of the senior-most Member of Parliament of Lok Sabha of the district monitors the implementation of the scheme in the concerned District. At local level Gram Panchayats/Gram Sabhas, members of Village Education Committees (VECs), Parent-Teacher Associations (PTAs) and the School Management Committees (SMCs) monitor the regularity and wholesomeness of the mid-day meal served to children, cleanliness in cooking and serving of the meal, timeliness in procurement of good quality ingredients, fuel, etc., implementation of variety in menu so as to make it attractive to children and ensuring social and gender equity on daily basis. In addition, the Centre constitutes Joint Review Missions (JRMs) consisting of educational and nutritional experts, which review the scheme through field visits from time to time. The reports of JRMs are shared with concerned States and UTs for taking suitable action on the findings.


    MDMS is a Centrally Sponsored Scheme implemented in partnership with all States and UTs. The overall responsibility for providing a cooked and nutritious mid-day meal to eligible children lies with the State Governments and Union Territory Administrations who shall fix the menu as per their local needs. Though milk is not one of the food articles prescribed under the MDMS, States and UTs may add milk or milk based recipe viz. kheer, dalia etc. in the mid- day meal under the scheme as per the interest of children. Some States and UTs e.g. Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Puducherry, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh provide milk, fruits etc as additional item from their own resources.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Shri Upendra Kushwaha today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/RK/MDMS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1525166) Visitor Counter : 276
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil