      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Science Communicators’ Meet Concludes at Imphal
      Posted On: 20 MAR 2018 6:51PM by PIB Delhi


    Emphasising that science should be the enabler in solving the problems in the society to make our lives easier, Education Minister of Manipur, Shri Th. Radheshyam Singh has said that holding such a mega event in Manipur will help the young minds in the state. Delivering the valedictory address at the Science Communicators’ Meet at the 105 th Indian Science Congress in Imphal today, the Education Minister appealed to the scientists and mentors to guide young minds in the field of scientific research.


    Addressing the gathering, General Secretary (Scientific Activities), Indian Science Congress Association, Prof. P.P. Mathur pointed out that the objectives of the Science Communicators’ Meet was to understand what has been achieved through science communication and to communicate science to the grassroots level, as well as problems solved by scientists of the western world and their innovations which helped the common people in the society.


    Delivering the presidential speech, Scientist ‘D’, National Council for Science & Technology Communication, Dr. Rajinder Singh said that there has been an improvement in the lives of common people with the help of science communication.


    Presenting the Summary Report of Science Communicators Meet, Convenor, Prof. N. Rajmuhon Singh said that out of 25 papers, 16 papers were presented in the technical session of the oral deliveries. Some of the important areas of science presented by the communicators include medicine, bioremediation, bioinformatics, wetland management, role of communication media, ethno-medicine, eco-technology, etc. Technical sessions were attended by about 150 participants, including delegates, lecturers, researchers and students from universities and colleges from across the country.


    ***


    HK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1525436) Visitor Counter : 308