      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Government gives financial support to senior citizens through various schemes
      Posted On: 20 MAR 2018 5:11PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment is implementing a Central Sector Scheme of Integrated Programme for Older Persons (IPOP) since 1992 with the objective of improving the quality of life of senior citizens by providing basic amenities like shelter, food, medical case and entertainment opportunities and by encouraging productive and active ageing. Under this Scheme, financial assistance is provided to Non-Governmental/Voluntary Organisations, Panchayati Raj Institutions etc. for running and maintenance of projects like Old Age Homes, Physiotherapy Centres, Day Care Centres, etc.


    The Scheme of IPOP is a demand driven Scheme, wherein financial assistance in the form of grant in aid is released to NGOs after receiving proposals online through the State Governments concerned, complete in all respects.


    As per information received from the Ministry of Rural Development, Old Age Pension is provided under the “Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme (IGNOAPS)” to the persons belonging to Below Poverty Line (BPL) households of age of 60 years or more.


    State-wise funds are being released by the Ministry of Rural Development under the Scheme of IGNOAPS. Identification of beneficiaries, sanction and disbursement of benefit is done by the State Governments.


    The performance of the NGOs under the Scheme of Integrated Programme for Older Persons (IPOP) is monitored from time to time through, inter alia , periodic field visits by the nodal officers of this Ministry, Inspection of projects by Regional Resources Training Centres (RRTCs), inspection of the projects under the Scheme by the Distt. Social Welfare Officer of the State Govt.


    Grants to NGOs is also released only on receipt of satisfactory Inspection Report Utilization Certificate in respect of grants released during the previous year’s etc.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Vijay Sampla in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E-2/20-03-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1525382) Visitor Counter : 1144
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil