      Ministry of Science & Technology

      7th Women’s Science Congress Concludes at Indian Science Congress in Imphal
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2018 10:54AM by PIB Delhi


    Underlining various achievements of women, particularly in the field of science and technology, Chairperson, Manipur State Commission for Women, Dr. K Sobita Devi has said that women have achieved all this despite the humongous amount of subjugation of women in the society. Addressing the valedictory session of the 7 th Women’s Science Congress at the 105 th Indian Science Congress in Imphal today, Dr. Sobita Devi asserted that women will try to pursue light even in the darkest of the night. “We all should realize that it requires for the sunshine and the rain to create a beautiful rainbow”, she quipped.


    Highlighting the importance of hosting the Women Science Congress as part of the 105 th Indian Science Congress, Ex-Member, Legislative Council, Uttar Pradesh, Dr. Veena Pandey, said that the Science Congress will enhance the interest of many younger women and girls in the field of science. Emphasising that in terms of women empowerment, Dr. Pandey added that Manipur is a great example, as the women of this state are empowered in various ways. “A nation will progress when its women takes the steps towards progress. Women scientist of India will help to bring progress and development to the nation”, she added.


    In his welcome speech, General Secretary, Indian Science Congress Association, Prof. P.P. Mathur congratulated the members and audience for promoting the potentialities of women population from all walks of life. He expressed the view that the Congress will formulate several beneficial action plans for the future.


    Former General Secretary of Indian Science Congress Association, Prof. Ashok Saxena expressed the need to pay more attention to empower women with scientific knowledge and skill in order to bring women into the mainstream and reduce gender disparity. While congratulating on the success of the congress, he also encouraged the young women scientist to celebrate their accomplishments and also look forward with an eye to be an inspiration themselves to others.


    The convener of the Congress, Prof. Memcha Loitongbam summarized the sessions of the 7 th Women Science Congress and highlighted the take away recommendations for the welfare of the women from the Congress.


    ***


    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1525278) Visitor Counter : 189