      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Conservation-cum-Development of Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2018 6:33PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government of India has identified following three Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTGs) in the State of Maharashtra:


     1. Katkaria (Kathodia)

     2. Kolam
     3. Maria Gond

    Ministry of Tribal Affairs is implementing a Central Sector Scheme, “Support to Tribal Research Institute (TRIs)”, under which financial assistance is provided to TRI’s to carry out various activities to preserve and promote tribal culture and heritage across the country through research and documentation, maintenance and preservation of art & artifacts, setting up of tribal museum, exchange visits for the tribals to other parts of the State, organizing tribal festivals etc.


    T he Ministry is administering the scheme namely “Development of PVTGs” for overall development of PVTGs. This scheme is flexible and enables the States to focus on areas that they consider is relevant to PVTGs and their socio-cultural environment. Activities including housing, land distribution, land development, agricultural development, animal husbandry, construction of link roads, installation of non-conventional sources of energy for lighting purpose, social security including Janshree Beema Yojana or any other innovative activity meant for the comprehensive socio-economic development of PVTGs are considered under it. While keeping habitat/hamlet development approach in view, most of the State Governments have formulated a “Conservation-cum-Development (CCD) Plan”. The CCD Plans indicate the annual provisions for each financial year. The State Governments shall ensure proportionate flow of financial resource for all PVTGs found in their State and the activities to be taken with a proper mix of interventions across the State. The funds are released to States in accordance with the annual programme for a particular financial year in the CCD Plan, approved by the Project Appraisal Committee in this Ministry.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Shri Jaswantsinh Bhabhor in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    NB/AP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1525199) Visitor Counter : 489
    
    
    
    
    

3.