      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Child Domestic Workers
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2018 3:19PM by PIB Delhi


    Government is implementing the National Child Labour Project (NCLP) Scheme for rehabilitation of child labour including domestic helps. Under this Scheme, survey is conducted on regular basis by the District Project Societies headed by District Magistrate/Collector to identify child labour including children working as domestic helps. Children in the age group of 9-14 years, rescued/withdrawn from work are enrolled in the NCLP Special Training Centres, where they are provided with bridge education, vocational training, mid day meal, stipend, health care, etc. before being mainstreamed into formal education system. Children in the age group of 5-8 years are directly linked to the formal education system through a close coordination with the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA). The Scheme also envisages awareness activities against the evil of child labour and enforcement of Child & Adolescent Labour (Prohibition & Regulation) Act, 1986.


    Consequent upon strengthening the legislative framework for complete prohibition of employment of children below 14 years through amendment in the Child Labour (Prohibition & Regulation) Act, 1986, Government has provided robust enforcement mechanism in the form of an online portal PENCIL (Platform for Effective Enforcement of No Child Labour). At the State Government level the monitoring is to be done by State Resource Centre established at State Labour Department. At district level District Nodal Officers (DNOs) are nominated to take action on the complaints of their respective districts. Ministry has also framed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) as a ready recknor for enforcing agencies and other stakeholders.


    This information was given by Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar Union Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employment in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    FH/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1525124) Visitor Counter : 585
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil