      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      First National Workshop on POSHAN Abhiyaan to be held tomorrow
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2018 4:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The first National workshop on POSHAN Abhiyaan involving all the states and union territories is being held tomorrow at PravasiBharatiya Kendra,New Delhi.The Ministry of Women and Child Development is organising the day long workshop with participation from all the states/UTs to provide a complete orientation on the POSHAN Abhiyaan, to explain the key components of the Abhiyaan, to provide handholding in using the softwares involved, and to augment the convergence with the different Ministries involved in implementing the Abhiyaan for improved Nutritional outcomes.


    The workshop will begin at 9:30 am tomorrow and will be divided into following six sessions:


    Session I: Launch of e-ILA & ECCE modules


    Session II: Key components of POSHAN Abhiyaan


    Session III: Convergence for Improved Nutritional Outcomes


    Session IV: Creating synergy to achievePOSHAN Abhiyaan goals


    Session V: Building partnerships


    Session VI: Moving forward


    The Ministry of WCD is also launching five e-ILA (e-Incremental Learning Approach) courses and two ECCE(Early Childhood Care and Education) software modules.e-ILA is an online system where programme functionaries will become more effective by learning to plan and execute each task correctly and consistently through methodical and ongoing capacity building. The purpose of the ECCE module is to guide trainers to train Anganwadi Workers so that they are able to plan and conduct appropriate ECE activities.


    Principal Secretaries/Secretaries/their representatives from all the States/UTs will be attending the workshop. Secretaries from the Ministries of Health and Family Welfare, Drinking Water and Sanitation, and Rural Development, Government of India are also scheduled to address the sessions on Convergence for Improved Nutritional Outcomes.


    POSHAN Abhiyaan was launched on 8 th March 2018 by the Prime Minister in Jhunjhunu. POSHAN Abhiyaan has been set up with a three year budget of Rs.9046.17 crore commencing from 2017-18. The Abhiyaan will be implemented in all States and Union Territories in a phased manner.


    For the financial year 2017-18, 315 districts in the descending order of prevalence of stunting, have been identified for executing the Abhiyaan. Video conferencing was held with these districts for orientation on 15th March 2018.


    The following activities are to be undertaken by States/UTs as part of POSHAN Abhiyaan:


      * Implementation of Convergence Action Plan at State/UT Level.


      * Procurement of Smartphones, Tablets and Growth Monitoring Devices by States/UTs.


      * Roll-Out of ICDS-CAS(Common Application Software).


      * Implementation of ILA(Incremental Learning Approach) and CBE(Community based events).


    On 14 th April on the occasion of AmbedkarJayanti, Gram Panchayats across the country will be holding meetings to discuss on nutritional aspects along with health and sanitation issues. A joint letter from Sh. Rakesh Srivastava, Secretary, WCD Ministry and Sh. Amarjeet Sinha, Secretary, Ministry of Panchayati Raj, has been sent on 16 th March 2018 to Chief Secretaries of all states/UTs for issuing necessary instructions for holding Gram Panchayat meetings on 14 th April 2018.


    The Ministry of WCD is organising this workshop to sensitise and handhold the States/UTs for implementing the POSHAN Abhiyaan in a fast track mode across the country.


    AKR/NG/SKK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1525134) Visitor Counter : 1242
    
    
    
    
    

*