      Ministry of Shipping

      Nitin Gadkari inaugurates Inland Ferry Services in Goa
      
      An integrated approach is the need for the hour for development and environment: Nitin Gadkari
      
      Posted On: 20 MAR 2018 6:31PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways, Shipping and Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Nitin Gadkari today inaugurated the Inland ferry services in the port city of Vasco in Goa.


    In his keynote address, the Minister said that while addressing the needs of the poor, environment and ecosystem must be given its due priority. To achieve this, all the stakeholders need to make a concerted decision and action. He said, India has about seven thousand five hundred kilometres of seashore which can help the development of the country while giving tourism the much-required boost. Goa owes its emergence as a tourism state due to its coastal belt. The tourism sector has very high potential for Investment and employment generation.


    The Minister said, use of waterways is economical, environmental friendly; and needs better utilization. Shri Gadkari pointed out that tourists traveling through the waterway can save time and money and avoid pollution and ease the road congestion.


    He said, the central government has so far provided Rs 15,000 crore for development of roads in Goa. He assured that Goa will receive all the funds required for the development projects under 'Sagarmala'. Shri Gadkari suggested that the hotels and airports in Goa can be connected with waterways. He said that Goa could become a 'Cruise destination' in the future, which shall generate huge employment.


    Union Minister of State forAYUSH (Independent Charge) ShripadNaik, South Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar, Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Tendulkar, Urban Development Minister, Goa state, Francis D'Souza, Chairman of Murgaon Port Trust, Jeyakumar were also present on the occasion.


    ***


    MS/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1525423) Visitor Counter : 510
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu