      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Desilting of Water Bodies
      Posted On: 22 MAR 2018 5:43PM by PIB Delhi


    De-siltation of water bodies and dams is prime responsibility of owners of water bodies and dam owners who are generally State Governments or Central PSUs like BBMB, NHPC etc. In order to supplement the efforts of the State Governments, Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation (MoWR, RD & GR) provides technical and financial assistance to encourage sustainable development and efficient management of water resources through various schemes and programmes such as Repair, Renovation and Restoration (RRR) of water bodies scheme and Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Programme (DRIP).


    Government of India has released Rs.55.29 crore as central assistance to various States under RRR of water bodies scheme of PMKSY (Har Khet ko Pani) during FY 2017-18 (till 10 th March 2018). Central Government has released central assistance of Rs.9.2235 crore to Tamil Nadu, during last 3 years, under the RRR of water bodies scheme.


    Government of India, with financial assistance from the World Bank, started Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (DRIP) in 2012 for rehabilitation of 223 dam projects, initially in 4 States (namely Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Tamil Nadu) and Central Water Commission (CWC). Later, Karnataka Water Resources Department, Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) and UJVN Limited joined the project.


    DRIP is a State sector scheme with two central components i.e. for CWC & DVC. All the expenditure is incurred by the DRIP Implementing Agencies (IAs) from their budget and reimbursed by the World Bank (to the tune of 80% of the total expenditure incurred).


    Under DRIP, de-siltation works of two dams of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Company (TANGEDCO), namely, Kundahapalam and Papanasam have been taken up at a cost of Rs.18.19 crores and Rs.13.26 crores respectively.


    Tamil Nadu Irrigated Agriculture Modernization and Water Bodies Restoration and Management Project Phase-I was received in 2007 for external funding of $ 335 million from World Bank. The project was completed on 15 th January 2016.


    Tamil Nadu Irrigated Agriculture Modernization and Water Resources Management Project Phase-2 was approved and recommended by MoWR, RD & GR . The project was sent to Department of Economic Affairs on 29 th June 2015 for external funding agency from the World Bank. The main objective of this project is to increase irrigated agriculture productivity in a sustainable water resource management framework for selected Cauvery sub-basin stakeholders. World Bank has accepted the project for loan assistance on 26 th October 2015.


    This information was given by Union Minister of State for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation & Parliamentary Affairs, Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    MS/MS/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1525947) Visitor Counter : 385