      Ministry of Home Affairs

      MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju held bilateral talks with Mr. Mamoru Maekawa, Vice Minister for Policy Coordination, Cabinet Office of Japan
      Posted On: 20 MAR 2018 3:13PM by PIB Delhi


    During the first bilateral talks between Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju and Mr. Mamoru Maekawa, Vice Minister for Policy Coordination, Cabinet Office of Japan, as a follow up of the Memorandum of Cooperation signed between India and Japan during the visit of Japanese Prime Minister Mr. Shinzo Abe to India in September 2017, the two sides expressed their satisfaction on the commitment for bilateral cooperation in different areas. The meeting, held here last evening before the dinner hosted by the MoS (Home) on the occasion of the First India-Japan Workshop on Disaster Risk Reduction 2018, witnessed warm exchange of ideas and strengthening of relations between the two countries. While fondly remembering the visit of Japanese Prime Minister to Ahmedabad in September 2017 and warm reception accorded by the public, Shri Rijiju emphasized that our shared values and high degree of convergence in the political, economic and strategic interests provide an enduring basis for a strong India-Japan partnership.


    While expressing gratitude for Japanese investment and cooperation in India for the flagship projects that include high speed train, Shri Rijiju touched upon the synergy between India’s Act East Policy and Japan’s Free and Open Indo-Pacific Strategy. Shri Rijiju assured to extend all possible cooperation in further strengthening the ties so that the strong bilateral relations can be leveraged to build partnership and collaboration in multifaceted dimensions.


    The two sides expressed happiness over start of discussions under the banner of India-Japan Act East Forum for developmental work in the North East States of India. Shri Rijiju solicited active support from Japan as a partner country for setting the disaster resilient infrastructure coalition and also the support for India’s bid for the Co-chair of “Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery” for 2020. The two sides also welcomed exchange of information, technology, and collaboration in the areas of Disaster Risk Reduction especially in early warning system, capacity building for earthquake risk management, Tsunami preparedness and Tsunami risk reduction. MoS (Home) also desired organisation of concrete activities, such as joint mock-drills at few places in India. Mr. Mamoru Maekawa, who is visiting India to participate in the Workshop on DRR, reaffirmed the commitment of Japan in extending full cooperation and active support in concrete activities as discussed in the bilateral meeting as well as those that will be discussed in the Workshop.


    Ambassador of Japan to India, officials of Govt. of Japan, Members NDMA, senior officers of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and Ministry of External Affairs were also present during the meeting.


    *****


    BB/NK/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1525340) Visitor Counter : 290
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi