      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Illegal Immigrants
      Posted On: 20 MAR 2018 4:02PM by PIB Delhi


    Central Government is vested with powers to deport a foreign national under section 3(2)(c) of the Foreigners Act, 1946. These powers to identify and deport illegally staying foreign nationals have also been delegated to the State Governments/ Union Territory Administrations and the Bureau of Immigration under the Foreigners Act, 1946. Detection and deportation of such illegal immigrants is a continuous process. Statistical data of cases regarding illegal immigrants is not centrally maintained.


    As per available information, approximately 330 Pakistani and approximately 1770 Bangladeshi nationals have been repatriated during the last three years.


    Illegal migrants enter into the country in clandestine and surreptitious manner. Therefore, accurate estimate of such illegal migrants is not available. Some instances of violation of the law and involvement in illegal activities by foreign nationals have been reported. Statistical data of this nature is not centrally maintained.


    Central Government is vested with powers to deport a foreign national under section 3(2)(c) of the Foreigners Act, 1946. These powers to identify and deport illegally staying foreign nationals have also been delegated to the State Governments/ Union Territory Administrations and the Bureau of Immigration under the Foreigners Act, 1946. Detection and deportation of such illegal immigrants is a continuous process. A revised procedure for detection and deportation of illegal Bangladeshi immigrants was communicated to the State Governments/UT Administrations in November, 2009, which was partially modified in February, 2011 and further modified in February, 2013.


    Law enforcement agencies also maintain a strict vigil on the activities of foreigners in the country and take appropriate action in cases of any illegal activities.


    The National Register of Citizen is being updated in a fair, objective and transparent manner as per the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003. The first part of Draft National Register of Citizen (NRC) covering 1.90 crore applicants out of 3.29 crore applicants has been published on the expiry of the midnight of 31 st December, 2017 including names of those applicants in respect of whom the entire process of verification has been completed. The remaining applicants are under various stages of scrutiny and after their verification is completed, another draft NRC will be published. After publication of complete draft NRC, every individual would get an opportunity to file claims or objections, if any, and only after disposal of such claims and objections final NRC will be published.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju in a written replies to questions in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/PK/SS/YS/4121

    
    
    (Release ID: 1525361) Visitor Counter : 492