      Ministry of Education

      GIAN launched to enable foreign faculty to teach specific courses in Higher Educational Institutions
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2018 7:23PM by PIB Delhi


    The recruitment of faculty is a continuous process and the vacancies keep arising due to retirement, resignation and additional requirements on account of enhanced students’ strength. The institutions publish a year round rolling advertisement to attract faculties. Some of the steps taken to fill up the vacancies are invitation to alumni, scientists/ experts and faculty from India and abroad, advertisements in international journals etc. In addition, institutes are engaging contract, adjunct and visiting faculty.


    The Government has also launched the Global Initiative for Academic Networks (GIAN) to help foreign faculty to teach some courses in the higher educational institutions. The Government has decided to allow faculty working under the Central Government or Central Autonomous Bodies, to join the newly set up Central Educational Institutions on long-term deputation, for a period of 10 years.


    The age of superannuation for teachers in Central Educational Institutions has already been enhanced to 65 years w.e.f 23.03.2007. 5 Visitor’s nominees have been provided to all Central Universities (CUs) for Selection Committees of teachers in order to expedite the recruitment process.


    Further, steps such as outstanding young faculty awards, appointment of Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) and Persons of Indian Origin (PIOs) to permanent faculty positions have been taken.


    The details of vacancies, positions and jobs filled during last five years and current year in IITs, NITs and CUs is being collected.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/YP/RK/Faculty Positions in IITs


    

    
    (Release ID: 1525231) Visitor Counter : 906
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil