      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      A group of students from North Kashmir calls on Dr Jitendra Singh
      
      Challenge in Kashmir for the government is to create enabling atmosphere for youth to fulfill their aspirations: Dr. Jitendra Singh
      
      Posted On: 20 MAR 2018 5:56PM by PIB Delhi


    A group of 50 school and college students from five districts of North Kashmir called on the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today. Interacting with the students, Dr. Jitendra Singh said the challenge in Kashmir for the government is to create enabling atmosphere for youth to fulfill their aspirations. He said that there is no dearth of talent among the youth of Jammu and Kashmir and gave out examples of several toppers from Kashmir in the Indian Administrative Services (IAS) and premium Institutions like the IIT over the last few years. The Minister advised them to assert their rights before authorities to avail of opportunities and facilities for realising their dreams. Dr. Jitendra Singh said that the militancy of over 25 years has hindered the progress of Jammu and Kashmir. He said, the third generation youth in the state today has an added responsibility to create such atmosphere in the state where all youngsters can progress. He said the state has bountiful natural resources and talent to make it at par with any developed state.


    The students from the districts of Baramullah, Kupwara, Handwara, Sopore and Bandipura in the North Kashmir Range are on an outreach programme “Mini Bharat Darshan” organized by the J & K Police. The students have been selected for their excellence in their academics and extra-curricular activities in their institutions. They will be touring various other states to get familiar with the vast and diverse culture of the country.


    ***


    BB/PK/KGS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1525404) Visitor Counter : 202