      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Multi-pronged strategy for overall development of tribal people
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2018 6:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Government has adopted a multi-pronged strategy for overall development of tribal people across the country, which includes support for education, health, sanitation, water supply, skill development, livelihood etc. Major part of infrastructure development and provision of basic amenities in tribal areas/regions in the country is carried out through various schemes/programmes of concerned Central Ministries and the State Governments concerned including North Eastern States, while the Ministry of Tribal Affairs provides additive to these initiatives by way of plugging critical gaps. The details of important existing schemes of the Ministry are given below:-


    (i) Scheme of Girls & Boys Hostels for STs: Under the scheme, Central assistance is given to States / UTs / Universities for construction of new hostel buildings and / or extension of existing hostels. State Governments are eligible for 100% central share for construction of all Girls’ hostel and also for construction of Boys’ hostel in naxal affected areas. The funding pattern for other Boys’ Hostel to State Governments is on 50:50 basis.


    (ii) Scheme of Ashram Schools in Tribal Areas: The objective of the scheme is to provide residential schools for STs to increase the literacy rate among the tribal students both boys & girls and to bring them at par with other population of the country. Under the scheme, State Governments are eligible for 100% central share for construction of all Girls’ Ashram Schools and also for construction of Boys’ Ashram Schools in naxal affected areas. The funding pattern for the other Boys’ Ashram Schools is on 50:50 basis.


    (iii ) Scheme of Vocational Training in Tribal Areas: It is aimed at upgrading the skills of the tribal youth in various traditional/modern vocations depending upon their educational qualification, present economic trends and the market potential, which would enable them to gain sustainable employment or enable them to become self dependent. Funds are released to State Governments as well as NGOs.


    (iv) Grants-in-Aid to Voluntary Organisations working for the Welfare of Scheduled Tribes : The prime objective of the scheme is to enhance the reach of welfare schemes of Government and fill the gaps in service deficient tribal areas, in the sectors such as education, health, drinking water, agro-horticultural productivity, social security net etc. through the efforts of voluntary organizations, and to provide environment for socio-economic upliftment and overall development of the Scheduled Tribes (STs). Any other innovative activity having direct impact on the socio-economic development or livelihood generation of STs may also be considered through voluntary efforts.


    (v) Scheme for Strengthening Education among ST Girls in Low Literacy Districts: This scheme is being implemented in 54 identified low literacy Districts where the ST population is 25% or more, and ST female literacy rate is below 35%, or its fractions, as per 2001 census. The scheme aims to bridge the gap in literacy level between the general female population and tribal women, through facilitating 100% enrolment of tribal girls in the identified Districts or Blocks and reducing drop-out rate at the elementary level.


    (vi) In addition to above, to maximize retention of ST students at various stages of school education and promoting higher learning, monetary incentives are provided by Ministry of Tribal Affairs in the form of scholarships such as Pre Matric Scholarship, Post Matric Scholarship, National Overseas Scholarship, Scholarship for Top Class Education and Rajiv Gandhi National Fellowship for ST students. The schemes (i) Pre-Matric Scholarship and (ii) Post Matric Scholarship for ST students are demand driven and funds are released to States/UT Administrations based on the proposal received from them. A total of 20 awards are given every year under National Overseas Scholarship for ST students. Under the scheme National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education for ST students, the number of fresh fellowships each year is 750, and the number of fresh Scholarship each year is 1000.


    (vii) Special Central Assistance to Tribal Sub Scheme (SCA to TSS) (hitherto known as SCA to Tribal Sub Plan (TSP) : It is 100% grant from Government of India. Its objective is to bridge the gap between Scheduled Tribes (ST) population including women and others by providing support for skill development, education, health, sanitation, water supply, livelihood, minor infrastructure etc. It is a flexible scheme and supplements the efforts of the line Ministries/Departments.


    (viii) Grants under Article 275(1) of the Constitution: It is 100% grant from Government of India. Funding under this programme is to enable the State to meet the cost of such schemes of development as may be undertaken by the State for the purpose of promoting the welfare of Scheduled Tribes including women in that State or raising the level of administration of Scheduled Areas therein to that of the rest of the areas of that State. Funds are released towards various sectors such as education, health, agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry, fisheries, dairy, other income generating schemes and skill development.


    (ix) Development of Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTGs): The scheme of Development of PVTGs covers 75 identified PVTGs among Scheduled Tribes in 18 States/UT of Andaman & Nicobar Islands for the activities like housing, land distribution, land development, agriculture development, animal husbandry, construction of link roads, installation of non-conventional sources of energy for lighting purpose, social security including Janshree Bhima Yojana or any other innovative activity meant for the comprehensive socio-economic development of PVTGs. Funds are released to States/UT in accordance with the annual programme proposed for a particular financial year in the Conservation-cum-Development Plan (CCD Plan).


    (x) Institutional Support for Marketing and Development of Tribal Products/Produce: Training is provided with the aim of developing the art and craft of tribals through inputs of introduction of craft and design development.


    (xi) Scheme of “Mechanism for Marketing of Minor Forest Produce (MFP) through Minimum Support Price (MSP) and Development of Value Chain for MFP : TRIFED provides training to the tribal beneficiaries involved in collection of MFP commodities on best collection practices of MFPs, storage and value addition of MFPs.


    (xii) Tribal Research Institute (TRI): The basic objective of the scheme is to strengthen the Tribal Research Institutes (i) Research & Documentation: - Documentation of tribal welfare. Preservation of tribal culture among others written medium, support to tribal artisans, exhibitions; (ii) Training and Capacity building: (I) Laws/constitutional provisions in respect of Scheduled areas/tribal rights; (II) Capacity building of functionaries and tribal representatives on socio-economic programs.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Shri Jaswantsinh Bhabhor in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    NB/AP/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1525197) Visitor Counter : 410