      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Mechanisms for effective monitoring and better supervision of the ongoing schemes for Scheduled Tribes
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2018 6:31PM by PIB Delhi


    Mechanisms for effective monitoring and better supervision of the ongoing schemes for Scheduled Tribes include the following:


    (i) The primary responsibility of monitoring and control over the performance of the schemes / programmes is that of the State Governments. However, meetings / conferences are convened at the Central level with State officials for ensuring timely submission of proposals, speeding up of implementation of the schemes / programmes, and reviewing the physical and financial progress. Officers while visiting States / UTs also ascertain the progress of implementation of various schemes / programmes of the Ministry of Tribal Affairs.


    (ii) Utilization Certificates are insisted upon as a pre-requisite for further release of funds.


    (iii) Progress reports regarding the status of implementation of schemes are obtained.


    (iv) For monitoring of Scheduled Tribe Component (STC) funds of Central Ministries based on the framework and mechanism designed by NITI Aayog, an online monitoring system has been put in place with web address stcmis.nic.in. The framework envisages monitoring of allocations for welfare of STs under the schemes, monitoring of expenditure vis-à-vis allocations, monitoring of physical performance and outcome monitoring. The framework also envisages to capture location wise details to ensure accountability and targeted spending. Further, nodal officer has been nominated in the line Ministries / Departments for coordination and monitoring.


    (v) All sanction orders are uploaded on the Ministry’s website.


    (vi) Mandatory Annual Inspection of NGO projects by District Authorities.


    (vii) Monitoring of the scheme “Mechanism for Marketing of Minor Forest Produce (MFP) through Minimum Support Price (MSP)” is done by two committees, one at State level under Chairmanship of Chief Secretary of the respective State and other at District Level under Chairmanship of respective District Collector. Besides this, Government of India also monitors the scheme through Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India Ltd. (TRIFED) at the Centre.


    (viii) The performance of TRIFED and National Scheduled Tribes Finance and Development Corporation (NSTFDC), apex organisations functioning under the administrative control of Ministry of Tribal Affairs, to whom the funds are released, is assessed in terms of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between Ministry and the TRIFED / NSTFDC.


    (ix) Some of the State Governments have enacted laws on Tribal Sub-Plan. In some States Chief Minister monitors the progress of work relating to tribal welfare and development.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Shri Jaswantsinh Bhabhor in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    NB/AP/UD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1525195) Visitor Counter : 318