      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Leakage of SSC exam papers
      Posted On: 21 MAR 2018 4:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The Staff Selection Commission (SSC) is mandated to make recruitment to Group 'B' (Non-Gazetted) posts and Group 'C' of (non-technical) posts under Government of India and their attached and subordinate offices.


    The Staff Selection Commission annually conducts the following examinations:


     1. Eight mandated All India Open Competitive Examinations for filling up regular vacancies.


     1. Recruitment to Selection Posts in various Ministries/Departments, attached and subordinate Offices, where the essential qualifications vary from Matriculation to Post Graduation specific to the job requirements of that Ministry/Department.


      * III. Three Limited Departmental Competitive Examinations for promotion from (i) Multi Tasking Staff to Lower Division Clerk, (ii) Lower Division Clerk to Upper Division Clerk (iii) Stenographer Grade ‘D’ to Stenographer Grade ‘C’.


      * IV. The Commission also conducts three non-mandated examinations, namely, (i) Constable (General Duty) Examination for Paramilitary Forces, (ii) Constable (Executive) Examination for Delhi Police and (iii) Recruitment to Scientific Assistants in India Meteorological Department (IMD) Examination.


    There was no leakage of question papers of Staff Selection Commission (SSC) Examination. In view of some sporadic incidents of alleged cheating by some candidates at a few venues and subsequent agitation by a section of the candidates, the Commission in order to reiterate and reaffirm the faith of the candidates in the examination process recommended for an impartial enquiry by CBI. Accepting the recommendation of the Commission, Government has referred the matter to CBI for a free and fair enquiry on 8/3/2018.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions and Prime Minister’s Office, Dr. Jitendra Singh in a written reply to question i n the Lok Sabha today.


    BB/NK/JM/4326


    

    
    (Release ID: 1525563) Visitor Counter : 2167
    
    
    
    
    

*