      Ministry of Education

      Government has taken several measures to increase employability among fresh graduates
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2018 7:03PM by PIB Delhi


    The employability of the fresh graduates has risen as a result of different measures taken by Government. As per the data maintained by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), the overall employability has increased from 34% to more than 45% in the last five years.


    The AICTE participated in a joint initiative of CII, Peoples Strong, Wheebox, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), AIE and Pearson in Publishing India Skill Report, 2018. The Skill Report is prepared on the basis of Wheebox Employability Skill Test (WEST) taken by 5,00,000 students and employment data from more than 130 corporates spread across 15 industries who participated in India Hiring Intent Survey. As per the survey, Engineering Graduates are most employable as compared to other domains with 52% of the Engineering Graduates having been found to be employable as per WEST.


    In order to revamp the engineering curriculum and to impart the requisite skill set to the students to enhance the employability of engineering students, AICTE has approved an action plan with the following objectives:


    i) Induction Training.


    ii) Revision of Curriculum.


    iii) Mandatory Internships.


    iv) Industry Readiness.


    v) Mandatory Accreditation.


    Further, AICTE is implementing schemes namely National Employment Enhancement Mission (NEEM) and Employability Enhancement Training Program (EETP) to enhance the employability of the students. In addition, AICTE has also partnered with Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), Govt of India, Internshala, NETiit and LinkedIn to provide internship opportunities and industry exposure to students for aligning their technical knowhow with industry requirements.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/RK/ Survey by AICTE

    
    
    (Release ID: 1525214) Visitor Counter : 438