      Ministry of Culture

      Around Rs. 97 Crore sanctioned for modernization and development of 102 museums across the country during 2014-15 to 2016-17 under Museum Grant Scheme: Dr. Mahesh Sharma
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2018 5:52PM by PIB Delhi


    There are six national level museums, namely National Museum (New Delhi), National Gallery of Modern Art (branches at Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai), Indian Museum (Kolkata), Victoria Memorial Hall (Kolkata), Salarjung Museum (Hyderabad) and Allahabad Museum (Allahabad), which are under the administrative control of the Ministry of Culture. These museums are providing visitor friendly facilities such as sitting arrangement, drinking water, cafeteria, toilets, lifts, ramp, wheel chairs for disabled persons etc. Ministry of Culture has no Children museum under its administrative control.


    Upgradation and modernization of the museums under the administrative control of Ministry of Culture is taken up on a continuous basis to maintain them in good condition. The government has taken a number of steps such as storage management, proper display, facilities for visitors, publicity, capacity building, security etc. to keep the museums at par with the museums across the world.


    Ministry of Culture operates “Museum Grant Scheme”, under which financial assistance is provided to State Governments, voluntary institutions, Societies and trusts registered as a society under the Indian Societies Act of 1860 (XXI) or a similar legislation of the state governments for modernization and development of existing museums. The details of funds sanctioned during last three years is given below:

                                                                                   
Year     Funds sanctioned (Rs. in crores)  No. of museums in which works undertaken
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
2014-15  21.50                             23                                      
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
2015-16  27.10                             41                                      
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
2016-17  48.90                             38                                      
                                                                                   
                                                                                   

    The public awareness campaign is being carried out by museums under the administrative control of Ministry of Culture to attract younger generation to visit museums through their website and Social Media like Facebook, Youtube, Twitter etc. The museums organize programmes for youth and children such as Summer Camps, Workshops, Seminars, Art appreciation courses, Special weeks etc. which are publicized.


    This information was given by Minister of State (IC) for Culture and Minister of State for Environment, Forest & Climate Change Dr. Mahesh Sharma in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/UD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1525176) Visitor Counter : 332
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil