      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi visitis Dargah Ajmer Sharif to offer ‘Chadar’ on behalf of Prime Minister
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2018 12:18PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today offered 'Chadar' on behalf of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi at dargah of Sufi Saint Hazrat Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti at Ajmer Sharif.


    In his message, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi conveyed greetings and best wishes to followers of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti in India and abroad on the occasion of 806 th annual Urs. He said, “It is said about India that it is not told in words but it should be felt. Peace, unity and harmony is at core of various philosophies in the country, Sufism is also one of them. When we talk of Sufi Saints in India, Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti appears as a symbol of great spiritual traditions. The service of humanity made by 'Gharib Nawaz' will continue to be an inspiration for future generations.”


    Prime Minister said, “On the occasion of the annual Urs of this great saint, I am offering “Chadar” and Khiraaj-E-Aqueedat (homage) to Dargah Ajmer Sharif and wish for a harmonious co-existence of our culture. Greetings and best wishes to the followers of Khawaja Moinuddin Chishti across the world on the annual Urs.”


    People from all sections of the society welcomed wholeheartedly the “Chadar” send by the Prime Minister.


    Addressing on the occasion, Shri Naqvi said that terrorism is the biggest enemy of both Islam and entire humanity. This message is at the core of principles and teachings of great Sufi Saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti. Principles and commitment of Khwaja Gharib Nawaz is a strong weapon to defeat those evil elements who are trying to weaken human values and disturb peace and prosperity of the world.


    Shri Naqvi said that India is an example of social and communal harmony for the entire world. We will have to strengthen this fabric of social harmony and unity. He said that the life of Gharib Nawaz inspires us to strengthen the commitment to communal and social harmony. This unity can defeat the forces, who are engaged in the conspiracy to create divide and conflict in the society. Shri Naqvi said that “development of the country and environment of trust” is the only agenda of the Government under the strong leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. Our mantra is “Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas”. He said that “effective commitment to world peace” is the message of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti.


    Shri Naqvi also inaugurated 100 toilets complex, constructed by Ministry of Minority Affairs at “Vishramsthali”, Kayad near the Dargah. Zaireen, coming in large number at Dargah, will be benefitted from the facility. Shri Naqvi also took stock of various ongoing development works related to Ajmer Dargah with the officials.


    ******


    JN/FH/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1525070) Visitor Counter : 430
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil