      President's Secretariat

      President of India attends concluding session of festival of innovations and entrepreneurship; says we must translate innovative ideas into accessible and affordable products and services for our people
      Posted On: 21 MAR 2018 8:35PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, attended the concluding session of the Festival of Innovations and Entrepreneurship (FINE) at Rashtrapati Bhavan today (March 21, 2018). He also witnessed presentations of recommendations of round tables held during the FINE - on Science and Technology led innovations for societal application; nurturing innovation ecosystem; role of government in scaling up and commercialization of innovations including start-ups; and innovations for sustainable agriculture with special focus on Bamboo and herbal medicine, aroma, fragrance and flavours.


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that the Exhibition of Innovations held at Rashtrapati Bhavan has demonstrated to industry, government and civil society how innovators are collaborating for a creative and compassionate India. But showcasing innovations is not the sole purpose of this Festival. We must translate innovative ideas into accessible and affordable products and services for our people. Otherwise ideas will remain only ideas – nice thoughts on paper and computer screens. It is important to connect the bottom of the innovation pyramid with the other layers. And to clear the path for grassroots innovations to be scaled up for mass adoption.


    The President said that an innovation culture is not limited to science and technology. It is a cross-cutting endeavour. Innovation Clubs in Central Institutions of Higher Education are expected to re-double efforts in discovering, spreading and celebrating innovation and in mapping unmet needs of urban and rural communities.


    The President said that regions in our country that grow bamboo, aromatic and medicinal plants are, generally speaking, regions with developmental gaps and challenges. This year FINE has focused on pooling innovations in the management and processing of such resources. The goal is to push development in these regions, by better using the natural resources available there. This will have a direct impact on livelihoods.


    The President congratulated all participants and innovators for giving a glimpse of their extraordinary minds. He said that their stories are inspiring. It is now for all us to use that inspiration as a catalyst and convert their innovations into enterprises.


    The Exhibition of Innovations is open for public viewing between 1200 hrs to 1700 hrs till March 23, 2018. Visitors can come through Gate number 35 of Rashtrapati Bhavan (near North Avenue).


    Click here for the President’s speech


    ***


    AKT/KP/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1525693) Visitor Counter : 696