      Ministry of Home Affairs

      MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju addresses Valedictory session of the First India-Japan Workshop on Disaster Risk Reduction
      
      Shri Kiren Rijiju says active involvement of all stakeholders crucial to achieve the seven global targets prescribed in the Sendai Framework for DRR

      Posted On: 20 MAR 2018 7:10PM by PIB Delhi

    The two-day India-Japan Workshop on Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) successfully concluded here today, setting the stage for concretization of the activities envisaged under the collaboration on DRR that has existed between India and Japan over a long time.


    The workshop brought together the best technical know-how from both the countries, with particular focus on earthquake detection and early warning and identified possible areas of cooperation with Japan in the field of DRR. The workshop was jointly organized by the Ministry of Home Affairs, National Disaster Management Authority, and Government of Japan.


    The Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju delivered the valedictory address. Speaking on the occasion, he recollected the seven global targets prescribed in the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction and emphasized that these targets cannot be achieved without the active involvement of all stakeholders. “It thus calls for a shift from stand-alone disaster / risk management, to a more holistic risk resilient development practice”, he said.


    Shri Kiren Rijiju talked about the role of Science and Technology in Disaster Risk Reduction and Disaster Risk Management including earthquake safety. He also thanked Japan for sharing their recent advancements in the area of earthquake detection and earthquake early warning systems and supporting India’s endeavour to making its infrastructure resilient to present and future disasters. He added that the workshop brought out a number of areas for technical cooperation with Japan, which would benefit the people of both countries.


    Mr. Mamoru Maekawa, Vice Minister for Policy Coordination in the Cabinet Office, Japan thanked the Government of India and all the participants for the success of the workshop. He underscored that India and Japan will work together to realize the outcome of the workshop for achieving disaster risk reduction. He invited experts from India to visit Japan and enhance our close partnership in the area of DRR.


    Additional Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister of India, Dr. P. K. Mishra said that “any workshop is only as successful as its follow up. Therefore, it is important that we maintain the momentum generated by this workshop and assiduously work towards giving concrete shape to the follow up initiatives emerging from this workshop”. He emphasized the need to pursue all the priorities enshrined in the Sendai Framework with a renewed sense of urgency. He suggested three specific action points for follow-up: developing specific initiatives – even if small – in each of the thematic areas of this workshop, developing capacities of disaster professionals through exchange of knowledge and developing a global coalition for disaster resilient infrastructure. He emphasized the need for strengthening collaboration with Japan as “When the planet is in peril, islands of success do not result in sustainable risk reduction”.


    Day 1 of the workshop had three technical sessions on themes of disaster management policy framework, disaster risk assessment and disaster resilient infrastructure. Day 2 of the Workshop commenced with deliberation on Early warning system, where experts from Japan and India shared the existing Early Warning System for Earthquake and Tsunami. It was followed by technical session on preparedness and response by sub-national governments. The last technical session was on approaches by private sector, where private sector companies from Japan and India discussed their products and technology on disaster risk reduction, particularly on earthquake and tsunami. In the closing ceremony, Shri Kamal Kishore, Member, NDMA summed up the deliberation of the two-day Workshop.


    On the sideline of the event, Shri Kiren Rijiju held bilateral talks with Mr. Mamoru Maekawalast evening. During bilateral talks, the two countries reaffirmed their commitment for bilateral cooperation in the areas of economic development, disaster management, infrastructure development, especially the disaster resilient infrastructure, Act East Policy, etc. Shri Kiren Rijiju solicited active support from Japan as a partner country for setting up the disaster resilient infrastructure coalition and also support for India’s bid for the Co-chair of “Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery” for 2020. The two sides also welcomed exchange of information, technology, and collaboration in the areas of Disaster Risk Reduction especially in early warning system, capacity building for earthquake risk management, Tsunami preparedness and Tsunami risk reduction. Shri Kiren Rijiju also proposed organizing concrete activities, such as joint mock-drills in few states in India. Mr. Mamoru Maekawa, Vice Minister of Japan assured to consider the suggestions put forward by India.


    The workshop was attended by about 120 delegates from Japan and India including experts from both the governments, educational institutes, specialized disaster management agencies, private sector and civil society organizations.


    ***


    BB/PK/KGS/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1525443) Visitor Counter : 445
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil