      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      NMCG Awarded Certificate of Appreciation for “Encouragement and Appreciation of the Efforts in Ganga Rejuvenation” During Water Digest Water Awards 2017-18
      
      Also Bags IJ Global Awards 2017 Asia-Pacific Water Deal of the Year

      Posted On: 22 MAR 2018 6:25PM by PIB Delhi

    Minister of State for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal has stressed upon the efficient use of finite water resources in the country. Emphasizing upon the importance of water in every walk of life, the Minister said it is central to all questions of life.


    The Minister was addressing the gathering while giving away the Certificate of Appreciation for ‘Encouragement and Appreciation of the Efforts in Ganga Rejuvenation” to the National Mission for Clean Ganga during the Water Digest Water Awards 2017-18 held yesterday.


    Addressing the gathering, Director General, NMCG, Sh. Rajiv Ranjan Mishra talked about the water situation in the country. He also talked about the ongoing projects under Namami Gange programme. Shri Mishra also participated as a panelist in Water Digest Conclave which was organized on 20 th March 2018 at New Delhi. The conclave was organized on the theme – “Restoring Water, Restoring Nature.”


    World Water Day, observed on 22 March every year, is about focusing attention on the importance of water. The theme for World Water Day 2018 is ‘ Nature for Water ’ – exploring nature-based solutions to the water challenges we face in the 21 st century. World Water Day is coordinated by UN-Water – the UN’s inter-agency collaboration mechanism for all freshwater related issues - in collaboration with governments and partners.


    NMCG bags IJ Global Awards 2017


    National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) was also awarded with IJ Global Awards 2017 Asia-Pacific Water Deal of the Year: Clean Ganga Varanasi Wastewater Project. A 50 MLD STP project in Varanasi under Hybrid Annuity based-PPP mode has been chosen as the “Water Deal of the Year”. ED (Projects), NMCG, Shri Hitesh Kumar S. Makwana received this award at a ceremony in Singapore on 21 st March 2018.


    Figure 1: DG, NMCG Sh. R.R. Mishra receiving Water Digest Water Awards for "Encouragement and Appreciation of the Efforts in Ganga Rejuvenation."


    Figure 2: DG, NMCG Sh. R.R. Mishra during Water Digest Conclave held on Tuesday


    Figure 3: ED (Projects), NMCG Shri Hitesh Kumar S. Makwana recieving IJ Global Awards 2017 in Singapore


    Figure 4: Tree plantation being done by locals during Ganga Swachhta Pakhwada event in Bijnor on the occasion of World Water Day


    Figure 5: Shram Daan organized at Ganga Barrage in Bijnor on the occasion of World Water Day

    
    
    (Release ID: 1525963) Visitor Counter : 336
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil