      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Paramparagat Krishi Vikash Yojana to promote organic farming: Radha Mohan Singh
      
      Organic farming Revolution in India on the lines of the Green Revolution
      
      Posted On: 21 MAR 2018 3:42PM by PIB Delhi


    Indiscriminate use of chemical fertilizers in Agriculture is a cause for concern and has drawn the attention of the government because of its implications on environment, socio-economic and production fronts. This was stated by the Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shri Radha Mohan Singh while addressing ASSOCHAM’s National Conference on Organic farming in New Delhi, today.


    He said India is traditionally the world's largest organic farming country. Organic farming is already being doneon the basis of traditional knowledgein several parts of India. The government is committed to take India on the path of modernity in agriculture and wants to introduce new techniques. For a sustainable increase in production, the government has been promoting organic farming on priority.


    He said it is the mission of Hon’ble Prime Minister to ensure a successful “Organic Farming Revolution” in India on the lines of “Green Revolution” so that the farming community benefits from it. Through government’s various schemes, approximately 23 lakh hectares of land has been made suitable for organic farming. In order to promote organic farming, the government has started the ParamparagatKrishiVikasYojana (PKVY), under which 2 lakh hectareshas been made suitable for organic farming thereby benefitting 5 lakh farmers.


    The Minister said the main objective of National Centre of Organic Farming is to promote organic farming in the country. Other government institutions like APEDA and Ministry of Commerce, while playing a leading role in improvement and control of certification system, are promoting the export of organic products. The government has initiated the Organic Value Chain Development for North Eastern region. The aim of the Ministry is to promote organic farming in hilly and tribal areas as the use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides in these areas is very low.


    The Minister said the government’s target is to cover 50,000 hectares under organic farming in the North Eastern states, out of which 45,918 hectares have been made suitable for organic farming and 2429 Farmers Interest Groups have been formed, thereby connecting 48949 farmers with the scheme. He said that in line with Hon’ble Prime Minister’s dream, India should move towards becoming a chemical free organic country.


    *****


    APS/AKA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1525547) Visitor Counter : 1237
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil