      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Non-Accreditation with NABH by hospitals
      Posted On: 27 MAR 2018 3:51PM by PIB Delhi


    As per the information made available by Quality Council of India, it is difficult to state the exact percentage of the hospitals/nursing homes in the country that have applied for NABH (National Accreditation Board for Hospitals) accreditation as there is no exact count of all the hospitals and nursing homes in the country. Current accredited healthcare organizations are over 2000.


    NABH Accreditation is a voluntary process and therefore it is entirely up to the healthcare organization whether to adopt it or not.


    Health is a State subject. The Government of India has, however, enacted the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 and notified Clinical Establishments (Central Government) Rules, 2012. These provide for registration and regulation of Clinical Establishments including those in the private sector. The Act is currently applicable in eleven States and all Union Territories except Delhi. Other States may adopt the Act under clause (1) of Article 252 of the Constitution.


    In accordance with the Clinical Establishments (Central Government) Rules, 2012 under the aforementioned Act, in the States/Union Territories where the said Act is in force, the clinical establishments are required to meet the norms such as minimum standards of facilities and services, minimum requirement of personnel, maintenance of records and reports and displaying of rates at a conspicuous place. The clinical establishments are also required to follow Standard Treatment Guidelines issued by the Central/State Governments and charge rates for each type of procedure and service within the range of rates determined from time to time in consultation with the State Governments. The implementation and enforcement of the said Act fall within the ambit of the States/Union territories.


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Smt Anupriya Patel stated this in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1526571) Visitor Counter : 390