      Ministry of Railways

      Enhanced Safety Measures for Women in Railway
      Posted On: 27 MAR 2018 6:56PM by PIB Delhi


    Policing on Railways being a State subject, prevention of crime, registration of cases, their investigation and maintenance of law and order in Railway premises as well as on running trains are the statutory responsibility of the State Governments, which they discharge through Government Railway Police (GRP)/District Police. However, Railway Protection Force (RPF) supplements the efforts of GRP in providing better protection and security of passenger area and passengers and for matters connected therewith.


    Following measures are being taken by the Railways to ensure security of passengers including women passengers:

     1. On vulnerable and identified routes/sections, 2500 trains (on an average) are escorted by Railway Protection Force daily, in addition to 2200 trains escorted by Government Railway Police of different States daily.
     2. Ladies Special trains running in Metropolitan cities are being escorted by lady RPF personnel. In other trains, where escorts are provided, the train escorting parties have been briefed to keep extra vigil on the ladies coaches en-route and at halting stations in long distance trains.
     3. Through various social media platforms viz. Twitter, Facebook, etc., Railways are in regular touch with passengers including women passengers to enhance security of passengers and to address their security concern.
     4. Security Help Line number 182 is operational over Indian Railways for security related assistance to women and other needy passengers in distress. It is being automated to ensure speedy assistance.
     5. Regular drives are conducted to prevent entry of male passengers in compartments reserved for ladies, and if found, they are prosecuted under the provisions of Railways Act.
     6. Liaison is made by RPF with the State Police/GRP authorities at all levels to ensure security of women passengers and for prevention of crime, registration of cases, their investigation and maintenance of law and order in Railway premises as well as on running trains.
     7. Surveillance is kept through CCTV cameras, provided at about 394 stations over Indian Railways, to ensure safety and security of passengers including women passengers.
     8. Ministry of Railways has decided to provide CCTV based surveillance system at all Railway Stations and train coaches.
     9. An Integrated Security System (ISS) consisting of surveillance of vulnerable stations through Close Circuit Television Camera Network, Access Control etc. has been sanctioned to improve surveillance mechanism over 202 railway stations.

    This information was made available in reply to a question in Rajya Sabha.


    ****


    SBS/MKV/PM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1526665) Visitor Counter : 256
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

9.