      Ministry of Education

      Number of Graduates
      Posted On: 27 MAR 2018 5:24PM by PIB Delhi


    As per All India Survey on Higher Education(AISHE) 2016-17, the total number of Enrolment at Graduate level is 28348197 whereas number of students enrolled under Science stream is 4730209 and in Engineering stream is 4161252. No specific data is available for comparing number of students pursuing Engineering & Technology and Science stream in India with that of students pursuing Engineering & Technology and Science stream worldwide.


    The Ministry has launched the Rashtriya Avishkar Abhiyan (RAA), a convergent framework across School Education and Higher Education aiming to encourage children towards learning Sciences and Mathematics and to develop their interest through activities related to Science and Mathematics. One of the interventions under RAA is strengthening of school Science and Mathematics; laboratories, through the Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA). Further, under RMSA, important interventions i.e. Science Fair/Exhibition and Talent Search at district level; mathematics and science kits to schools, visit of students to higher educational intuitions and learning enhancement of students have been approved.


    “Innovation in Science pursuit for Inspired Research (INSPIRE)” is an innovative programme sponsored and managed by the Department of Science and Technology for attraction of talent to Science. The basic objective of INSPIRE is to communicate to the youth of the country the excitements of creative pursuit of Science, attract talent to the study of science at an early age and thus build the required critical human resource pool for strengthening and expanding the Science and Technology system and R&D base.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/YP/RK/ Number of Graduates

    
    
    (Release ID: 1526616) Visitor Counter : 345