      Vice President's Secretariat

      Develop into managerial leaders who can foresee the future trends and shape the world: Vice President
      
      Institutes must provide excellent education and promote research for the benefit of the society;
      
      Addresses the 7th Convocation of IIM Rohtak
      
      
      
      Posted On: 25 MAR 2018 5:53PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has advised the students IIM Rohtak to develop into managerial leaders who can foresee the future trends and shape the world in the best possible way. He was addressing the gathering at the 7th Convocation of Indian Institute of Management at Rohtak in Haryana today. The Governor of Haryana, Shri Kaptan Singh Solanki and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President advised the students to not be content with merely ‘managing’ well but must learn to lead. He further said that institutes like IIM Rohtak produce Business Managers, Leaders who have the wisdom and courage to reform the institutions, business corporations and government. With this enabling policy framework, I am sure the IIMs will strive to innovate and grow even further, he added.


    The Vice President said that institutes like, IIM Rohtak should work with businesses and policy makers to provide excellent education and promote research for the benefit of the society. He further said that students must adapt to new situations in the corporate world as they evolve and emerge. The world of learning and the world of work are changing very rapidly and you need to be ever alert, ever agile, he added.


    Remembering Mahatma Gandhiji, the Vice President asked students to shun: “Knowledge without character, commerce without morality, science without humanity.” Your actions in private and public life must be guided by a moral and ethical compass, he added.


    Following is the text of Vice President's address :


    "I am happy to be here today at Indian Institute of Management Rohtak at the 7 th Convocation of the institute. I congratulate all the students who are graduating today from India’s one of the most prestigious management institutions, IIM Rohtak.


    I am glad that IIMs established to provide managerial leadership mainly to a number of public sector enterprises that were started after independence, have emerged over the last sixty years as centres of excellence.


    IIM Rohtak was started in 2009 with a view to shape the future of our nation by producing Business Managers and Leaders who have the wisdom and courage to reform the institutions, business corporations and government.


    You are all aware that the Indian Institute of Management Act, 2017 has declared IIMs as Institutes of national importance and has given them greater autonomy than before. With this enabling policy framework, I am sure the IIMs will strive to innovate and grow even further.


    I am happy to note that IIM Rohtak, strategically located in the National Capital Region, has taken forward the legacy of the IIMs, and grown significantly in such a short span of time. It is commendable that the management and faculty of the Institute continue to make their mark and are continuously updating their knowledge and skills to equip the students to face the fast changing global environment.


    I hope that IIM Rohtak will work diligently in association with businesses and policy makers to provide excellent education, enhance the knowledge base and promote relevant research for the benefit of the society.


    The IIM Act 2017 has envisaged that each IIM should carry out research, publication, consultancy and advisory work to advance new knowledge and innovation and to provide global leadership in management theory and practice.


    It is heartening to note that the faculty of IIM Rohtak has been diligently working to create high quality research and knowledge base in close association with its students and industry that will have a positive impact on various segments of society.


    I am glad to note that IIM Rohtak is among top 3 institutes in research publications and that the faculty of IIM Rohtak has more than 70 high quality research papers published in leading national and international journals and more than 60 papers presented at various international conferences.


    I have been informed that the Institute has also initiated research collaborations with the faculty of various international universities like University of Namur, Lancaster University, University of Alabama, and CEIBS, Shanghai University of Missouri, USA. I am hopeful, that with these diligent efforts, IIM Rohtak will soon become one of the best Management Research Institutes.


    I am pleased that the Institute is deeply involved in public policy work. During the last one year the institute has trained nearly 1000 personnel from industry and government in various aspects of management. Specifically, it has trained personnel from LIC, IRCTC, Prasar Bharti, Power Grid, IOCL, Asian Paints, Yes Bank, LNG Petronet, CRPF officials, Coal India Ltd, among others. Additionally, institute faculty is consulting with J&K government, India Post, Ministry of Consumer Affairs (Food and Public Distribution).


    I am glad that the Institute has forged a strong link with the corporate world and the students are able to secure 100% Final Placements and Summer Placements. I am told that the Institute has been creating benchmarks year on year with the tremendous growth in its highest and average salary. This is a testimony to the institute’s committed leadership and efforts of one and all involved in shaping the future of the students.


    I am happy to inaugurate the new buildings for this Institute. In this new campus with the state of the art facilities, this institute should be able to provide an even more nurturing environment to their students under the able leadership of the Director, Prof. Dheeraj Sharma.


    I congratulate the visionary leadership of IIM Rohtak for the extensive efforts in promoting the girl child education and various other social initiatives taken by the institute with the motive to bring harmony, equality and empathy among the people of the region.


    Institute has been extensively involved in organising various cultural, management and sports events like Udaan, Mini Marathon, Infusion, TEDx Talk, Aluminate, etc. There has been boundless effort in bringing industry in correlation with the academics by conducting management summits across the cities and leadership lecture series for intensive mentoring of the students. This reflects the progressive approach taken by the institute in giving its students a sense of excellence, strong social consciousness and a commitment for core values.


    I convey my best wishes to all the students, management, faculty and others associated with the institute. I appreciate the untiring efforts of one and all in continuing their mission of shaping the future of management education in our country.


    Dear Students, you are among the brightest young minds in our country. You have had a unique educational experience in this reputed institution. After graduation, some of you will be taking up dream jobs in the industry. Others will dream of becoming young entrepreneurs who will lead the change process in the country’s development landscape.


    This is the beginning of a long and interesting journey for you. Education is a lifelong learning process. You will be learning at every stage, acquiring new skills.


    The world of learning and the world of work are changing very rapidly. You need to be ever alert, ever agile. You have to adapt to new situations in the corporate world as they evolve and emerge.


    My advice to all my young friends is to not be content with merely ‘managing’ well. You must learn to lead. You must develop into managerial leaders who can foresee the future trends and shape the world in the best possible way.


    The practice of the science of management has to have an ethical basis and a human core.


    You must remember what Gandhiji had asked us to shun: “Knowledge without character, commerce without morality, science without humanity.”


    Your actions in private and public life must be guided by a moral and ethical compass.


    Dear friends,


    You must remember that the knowledge and skills we acquire are transformative tools.


    They transform us and our way of thinking and acting.


    They can also help us in transforming the world around us and changing the lives of people on this planet.


    This is the transformative leadership I am looking forward to in the years to come.


    I hope each one of your will be able to groom yourself to become the forward looking proactive, change agent the world needs today.


    India and the world needs young and dynamic leaders who will strengthen existing institutions and create new ones in future.


    I wish you all the very best in all your future endeavours.


    I compliment the Director and the faculty for their extraordinary zeal and passion to build this Institute and shape it as one of the best IIMs and as a centre of excellence.


    Jai Hind."


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1526355) Visitor Counter : 500
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil