      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi's speech at the Krishi Unnati Mela
      Posted On: 17 MAR 2018 5:14PM by PIB Delhi


    My colleague among the Council of Ministers, Mr. Radha Mohan Singh, Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, Mr. Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Chief Minister of Meghalaya, Conrad Sangma ji, my colleague Shree Parshottam Rupala ji, Mr. Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Mrs. Krishna Raj, Scientists, and the focus of this event i.e. my farmer brothers and sisters who have come here from across the country.


    You all are welcome to the Rashtriya krishi Unnati Mela. Such fairs play a big role in strengthening the path of New India.


    Through this fair, I have got this opportunity to talk to two watchdogs of New India simultaneously. One of them is our farmer, who works hard to feed the nation. The other is our scientist, who is making the life of the farmers easier by developing new technologies.


    I have also been told that thousands of farmers in the Krishi Vigyan Kendras across the country are directly connected to us through technology at this time. I also congratulate them on this occasion.


    Brothers and sisters, before coming here, I went to that grand fair. I talked to several scientists and farmers and became acquainted with new technologies related to agriculture. The information provided on new technologies with live demonstration is definitely going to help everyone.


    Today, I have had the opportunity to honour the farmers, who have done a commendable job in the field of agriculture. I congratulate all the states and people being honoured with Krishi Karman and Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Krishi Protsahan Award.


    These awards are recognition of and respect for your hard work and also a medium of encouraging crores of farmers.


    Today many states have been honored for record grain production. I would like to talk particularly about Meghalaya which has been awarded separately. Friends, the small state in terms of area has done a great job. The farmers of Meghalaya had a record-breaking production in five years during the year 2015-16. The young Chief Minister of Meghalaya is present on the stage. I request him to organize a similar programme for honoring the farmers in Meghalaya.


    Friends, today my belief has become stronger that when the goal is clear, it is not impossible to achieve the goal if we intend to work day in and day out . The farmers of our country are confident enough to achieve even those goals that are strenuous. We should not forget the condition of grain production that was prevalent in the country after independence. Our food producers have pulled us out from that difficult condition. Today we are witnessing record production of pulses, fruits and vegetables, as well as milk in the country.


    Therefore, I salute every farmer of the country, every mother and sister engaged in the progress of agriculture.


    Friends, the agricultural sector of our country has shown the direction to the whole world in many cases. But over time, farming is facing several challenges in today's era. These challenges are reducing the income of the farmer and increasing his expenditure on farming.


    Our government is constantly working towards dealing with these challenges with integrity in a holistic manner. The direction of these different actions is same i.e. doubling the income of the farmers and there is a single goal of making the lives of farmers easier. We are moving forward with this resolution rapidly.


    Today more than 11 crore Soil Health Cards have been distributed in the country. Based on the information received from the Soil Health Card, the farmers are able to increase their yields while decreasing their expenditure on fertilizers.


    Even 100% Neem coating of urea has reduced manure consumption and the production of grains has increased per hectare.


    Brothers and sisters, our government has provided crop insurance to farmers at the lowest premium rates through Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana. We have removed the capping on insurance, allowing the entire amount to be insured. After this scheme, the claim amount received per farmer has more than doubled. This has been a big step by our government for the welfare of the farmers.


    Under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana, we are working with the vision of 'Har Khet Ko Pani'. The irrigation projects which were incomplete for decades have been completed by spending more than Rs. 80 thousand crores.


    Through the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana, our government is strengthening the entire supply chain from the farm to the market, creating modern agricultural infrastructure. Operation Greens, which has been announced in this budget, is also connected to the new supply chain system. It will be beneficial for the farmers producing fruits and vegetables and especially the TOP, that is, Tomato, Onion and Potato growers.


    The state governments have also been requested to implement the Model Act, in interest of the farmers. These laws will help in empowering the farmers after implemented by the states.


    Farmers should get access to modern seeds and the required electricity. They should not face any problem while carrying their produce to the market and should get fair price for their crops. Thus, our government is toiling day and night.


    Friends, a major decision have been announced in this budget to give farmers a fair price for their crops.


    The Government has decided that for the notified crops, the minimum support price - i.e., MSP, will be declared as at least 1.5 times their cost. I want to explain it in a detailed manner to my farmer brothers. Brothers and sisters, the value of the labor, the cost of cattle or rent of the machines, the cost of the seeds, the value of all types of fertilizers and irrigation, the expenditure on the land revenue that had to be given to the state government, the interest on the working capital, the expenditure on the leased land and other expenses included will be added while calculating MSP.


    Moreover, the contribution of the farmer and his family members will also be added to the production cost.


    This is a very important step related to the income of hard-working farmers of the country. We are working closely with state governments to ensure that the benefits of the Minimum Support Price reach the farmers.


    Friends, we are also working on Agriculture Marketing Reforms for ensuring fair price for the crops of the farmers.


    It is very important to adjust the local wholesale markets according to the global market.


    The government is making efforts to ensure that farmers do not have to go far-off places to sell their produce. The Garmin Retail Agriculture Market - i.e. GRAM concept is the result of this effort. Under this, 22,000 rural hats of the country will be upgraded with the necessary infrastructure and will be integrated with APMC and e-Nam platforms. That is, in a way, the farmer will have such a system within 5-6 kilometer distance from his farm, which will connect him to any market in the country.


    Farmers will be able to sell their produce directly to these consumers through these rural hats. In the coming days, these centers will be able to increase employment and the income of farmers and will become new centers of agriculture-based rural and agricultural economy.


    The government is encouraging the Farmer Producer Organization- FPO to further strengthen this situation. Farmers can also join rural hats and connect to larger Mandis in their area, by creating small organizations.


    Friends, there is an old saying that unity has power. This also applies to Farmer Producer Organizations. Imagine, when a large group of farmers of a village buys fertilizer, and get it transported, a lot of money can be saved. Similarly, you will be able to get a huge discount while purchasing pesticides and seeds. Besides, when the same group collects its yield in the village, helps in packaging and sells it in the market, income will automatically increase. Farmers will be more benefited this way because it will cut the cost between the farm and the consumers.


    Brothers and sisters, the government has also announced in this budget that the 'Farmer Producer Organizations' will be exempted from paying income tax just as the cooperative societies. 'We are trying to link the women Self-Help Groups with organic, aromatic and herbal cultivation with the help of 'Farmer Producer Organizations, which will also prove to be an important step in increasing the income of the farmers.


    A friend, a new chapter has been added with this programme to help the farmers sell their produce easily.


    Last month, I had placed my idea regarding the E-Marketing Portal for marketing of Organic Products at the National Agricultural Conference. I am extremely delighted about its launch today.


    E-Marketing Portal will play a big role in delivering organic products from farm to market and to the doorstep of the consumer. Information about the products and market and supply chain will now be easily available to farmers and consumers.


    Brothers and sisters, i am emphasizing on Organic Products because they are the both traditional and modern at the same time. It is true that we are one of the oldest organic farming countries in the world. Today, more than 22 lakh hectares of land is devoted to organic farming. Secondly, the next step after organic farming is the Value Addition and marketing. We are lagging behind in it. E-Marketing Portal will be of great help to overcome this shortcoming.


    Friends, the Government are engaged in promoting organic farming throughout the country under the Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana. The Northeast in particular is being developed as a hub of organic farming.


    Friends, the advancement of such new sectors in the field of agriculture will be helpful in the advancement of the farmers in the future. Along with Green and White Revolution, the more we focus on Organic Revolution, Water Revolution, Blue Revolution and Sweet Revolution, the more the farmers' income will increase.


    Our Krishi Vigyan Kendras, spread across the country, will play a crucial role in this direction. Today, 25 new Krishi Vigyan Kendras have been started and now there are almost 700 in our country.


    I consider these Krishi Vigyan Kendras as the lighthouse of modern agriculture. Light from these centers will illuminate the agriculture of the country. The most important work of Krishi Vigyan Kendras is to deliver new technologies and new information to farmers. I hope that all of you will continue to work with complete dedication.


    Friends, many of the Krishi Vigyan Kendras being awarded here today, are also playing important roles in bee-keeping. Bee-keeping is not only about earning, but also about humanity. The great scientist Albert Einstein had once said that "If the bees disappear from the earth, mankind will survive only for 4 years"


    This idea tells us the importance of bees in agriculture and horticulture. According to experts, 70 percent of the 100 species of crops are such that cannot be produced without bees. A bee not only help in pollination but also provides us honey from nectar.


    So this path will not only increase the yield of the farmer, but also provide a means of earning additional income in the form of honey. This leads us towards Sweet Revolution. According to an estimate, farmers engaged in bee-keeping can earn up to 2 to 2.5 Lakh rupees by selling only 50 boxes of honey.


    Similarly, another medium of additional income is solar farming. This is a technique of farming which not only helps in irrigation but also in conserving the environment. The solar panels on the edge of the farms will provide electricity required for pumping water, and the additional power can be sold to the government. This will give him freedom from petrol and diesel. This will also protect the environment. The money spent by the government in procurement of petrol and diesel will also be saved.


    In the last three years, the government has provided around 3 lakh solar pumps to the farmers and for this the amount of about 2.5 thousand crore rupees has been approved.


    My farmer brothers and sisters, our government is also making a meaningful effort in the direction of Waste To Wealth. In this budget, we have announced the Gobar Dhan Yojana. Go-Bar Dhan means Galvanizing Organic Bio-Agro Resource Dhan Scheme. A large quantity of bio-waste is generated in the villages, which is a major cause of pollution. Under this scheme, this waste will now be turned into compost, bio gas and bio-CNG. I hope this scheme will also help in increasing the income of the farmers.


    Crop residue, which is a cause of worry for the farmers, can also help them to earn money. Efforts are being made to help utilize Coir Waste, Coconut Shells, Bamboo Waste or the residue left in the field after harvest, in increasing the farmers' income.


    Friends, a wrong tradition of burning the Crop Residues are being followed in some areas. It is also called burning 'Paraali' by some people. Actually what is a crop? It is the composition of the nutrients taken from the soil, air, water, sunlight, and the power of seeds. When we burn the Crop Residue, then all these vital elements burn and are lost in the air. It only leads to pollution and the damage of the farmers' soil.


    If the farmers stop burning the Paraali and mix it with the fields with the help of machine, they will be highly benefitted. It has been observed that there has been a tremendous improvement in soil health due to the mixing of Paraali in the field; the need for fertilizer reduces and yield also increases. Overall, it increases the income of the farmer.


    So today I will urge my farmer brothers from this platform to stop the practice of burning crop residue. Now the government is giving more financial help to the farmers to buy the machine. When the soil is healthy, the field will be green.


    Friends, the government is trying to ensure that the farmers who are adopting new options to increase their income are not short of funds. We are constantly making efforts so that that farmers do not face problems while taking loans. Therefore, this year, the government has increased the loan for farming from Rs 10 lakh crore to more than Rs 11 lakh crore.


    In this year's budget, Infrastructure Development Fund has been set up for animal husbandry and fisheries and the government has made a provision of Rs. 10 thousand crores. The government has also allocated around Rs. 1300 crores for the National Bamboo Mission.


    We are also making efforts for farmers who cultivate by renting land, also known as share-cropping in some areas. The Central Government is working closely with the states ensure that these farmers get access to hassle-free loans.


    It has often been seen that small farmers have trouble getting loans from cooperative societies. For this, computerization of all primary agricultural cooperative societies of the country is being done on an urgent basis.


    Friends, agriculture has been at the core of our civilization and culture. This is the most important part of our social and economic life. But it is also true that we are not sure if the paths we have walked over the centuries will help us to reach the new goals or not. Technology will help us to walk on these new paths. I hope that the farmer brothers who have seen new experiments in the Unnati mela will try to use them too.


    Efforts should also be made to take these experiments to the other parts of the country.


    I have one more request. Friends, such events are often being organized in Delhi. I want to increase the number of such programmes in the far-flung areas of the country and in the areas where livelihoods are solely based on agriculture. Your efforts and technology will reach the people through these programmes.


    Besides, Impact Analysis of such fairs should also be undertaken. Thousands of people have been attending such fairs but we need to study the changes that these fairs have brought in their lives, the kind of technology that is preferred in these fairs, and whether the lives of the farmers have become easier with its adoption. I believe this study will help us in future preparations.


    Friends, we have been told in the scriptures-


    गच्छन् पिपिलिकः योजनानां शतानि अपि याति ।


    अगच्छन् वैनतेयः एकं पदं न गच्छति ।


    That is, the moving ant can gradually cover a distance of hundreds of kilometers, but the halted eagle cannot move even one step ahead. In other words, we can achieve success even by making very small efforts.


    Friends, although I have given this example of an ant, I missed one more thing related to it. I have read somewhere that among the living organisms, cultivation is not only done by human beings exclusively. Apart from humans there are two to three species more which produce food for themselves and the ant is also one of them.


    In some forests of the world, the ants cultivate fungus in a very systematic manner. They make a farm, remove the wastes, arrange water, and even use antibiotics.


    Brothers and Sisters, for lakhs of years, these ants have still survived, the reason being their will-power. The world's oldest and the smallest agriculturist teaches us that no goal is impossible to achieve.


    Come, let us all take a pledge to further improve Indian farming and to bring back the glory of Indian agriculture.


    Once again with good wishes to you all, I conclude my speech.


    Thanks a lot !!!


    ***


    AKT/SH/IG/RSB/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1526035) Visitor Counter : 286
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil