      AYUSH

      Bridge Course for Ayush Doctors
      Posted On: 23 MAR 2018 5:55PM by PIB Delhi


    Under National Health Mission (NHM), a Bridge Programme in Community Health for Nurses was designed and developed with Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU). Subsequently, a common Bridge Programme for Nurses and Ayurveda practitioners was approved by IGNOU. The Bridge Course has already been rolled out in States as per proposal received from States.


    The Ayurveda practitioners and Staff Nurses after being trained in primary care and public Health competencies through the bridge course are envisaged to be placed as Mid-Level care providers in Sub Health Centres to be strengthened as Health and wellness Centres.


    AYUSH and modern systems of medicine have distinct approaches and methods of practice. However, there are areas in public health where these systems of medicine can function in mutual co-existence in an integrated manner. The National Policy on Indian Systems of Medicine & Homoeopathy - 2002, envisages integration of AYUSH with the Healthcare Delivery System including Ayurveda. Mainstreaming of AYUSH is one of the strategies in National Health Mission (NHM) as well which seeks to provide accessible, affordable and quality health care in order to improve the existing health care delivery system. Accordingly, the Central Government adopted a strategy of co-location of AYUSH facilities at Primary Health Centres (PHCs), Community Health Centres (CHCs) and District Hospitals (DHs), thus enabling choice to the patients for different systems of medicines under single window. The engagement of AYUSH Doctors/paramedics and their training are supported by the Department of Health & Family Welfare, while the support for AYUSH infrastructure, equipment/furniture and medicines are provided by Ministry of AYUSH under shared responsibilities.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    RJ/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1526197) Visitor Counter : 416