      Ministry of Defence

      Veterans’ Empowerment Rally at Darjeeling and Udaipur
      Posted On: 26 MAR 2018 5:44PM by PIB Delhi


    As a mark of gratitude and recognition for the selfless service and sacrifices by the veterans towards nation building, a Veterans’ Empowerment Rally was organized at Darjeeling and Udaipur Military Station on 25 Mar 2018. The Year 2018 is being celebrated by the Indian Army as the ‘Year of Disabled Soldiers in the Line of Duty’ and keeping with the traditions of the Indian Army, special emphasis is on disabled soldiers as well as facilitating job opportunities for the Veterans, Veer Naaris and their dependents.


    The Darjeeling Rally was attended by over 8500 ex-servicemen & their families. After the inauguration by Major General MK Sagoch, GOC, Striking Lion Division, the war disabled soldiers were honoured by distribution of modified scooters, wheel chairs & other mobility equipment. The event also witnessed felicitations of war veterans & veer naaris and education grant for children of disabled soldiers. Grievance redressal of the veterans was done through representatives of Army Placement Node, Kolkata, Central Pension Cell, PCDA, Allahabad, Gorkha Record Office and officials of Civil Administration.


    The Rally at Udaipur was enthusiastically attended by over 800 veterans, veer naaris, widows and their dependents. The event provided an apt platform for their interaction with senior officials from Army and civil administration. Lt Gen RK Jagga, GOC, Konark Corps and Mr VC Malik, District Magistrate, Udaipur were present in the rally. On the occasion, a number of disabled veterans, gallantry awardees, veer naaris and widows were felicitated. Disabled soldiers were felicitated with distribution of five modified scooters. A number of awareness and assistance stalls were established by representatives of the Zila Sainik Board, Rajasthan Ex-servicemen Corporation, Veterans’ Pension Cell, Records Offices as also by various corporate houses.


    At both the rally locations, adequate arrangements were also made for transport, meals and even entertainment. Such events enhance mutual confidence and respect for veterans and veer naaris. Indian Army is committed towards veterans for their Swasthya (Health), Sahayata (Assistance), Sahuliyat (Convenience), Sambandh (Relationship).


    War Disabled soldiers being honoured by distributing modified scooters at Veterans' Empowerment Rally at Darjeeling on 25 Mar 18.


    Lt Gen RK Jagga, GOC Konark Corps meeting disabled veterans at the Veterans' Empowerment Rally at Udaipur on 25 Mar 18.


    Manoj Tuli


    APRO (Army)


    

    
    (Release ID: 1526432) Visitor Counter : 280
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil