      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Online Tracking System for Pension
      Posted On: 28 MAR 2018 3:21PM by PIB Delhi


    Department of Pension & Pensioners’ Welfare has implemented an online system called ‘BHAVISHYA’ for retiring central government civil employees. The system provides for on-line tracking of pension sanction and payment process. Tracking can be done by the individual as well as the administrative authorities for all actions preparatory to grant of pension and other retirement benefits. This is in line with the priorities of Government to ensure transparency and accountability in systems and processes.


    At present, Bhavishya is implemented in main secretariat of 89 Ministries/ Departments except Ministry of Railways, Ministry of Defence, Department of Post, Department of Atomic Energy, Department of Telecommunication and some security related sensitive organizations.


    There is no proposal to revamp the payment of pension through Public Sector Banks. However, the data base for the existing pensioners is being updated by the Authorized Banks for pensions’ payment once in a year through master data reconciliation with Central Pension Accounting Office (CPAO) and from time to time based on the Special Seal Authority (SSA) issued by CPAO to Central Pension Processing Centers (CPPCs) of Banks.


    The Authorized Banks submit the report of payment of pension through e-scrolls to CPAO after making the payment of pension. Life Certificate is submitted by the Central Civil Pensioners/ Family Pensioners in the month of November every year and excess payment of pension may happen if the pensioner dies before the coming November, i.e., the next due date of submission of Life Certificate. If excess/ wrong payment of pension is paid to the pensioner by Public Sector Banks then entire amount is recovered by the Banks from the pensioners/ family pensioners as per the guidelines of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in this regard. During the financial year 2016-17, an amount of about Rs. 73 crore was received/ recovered from the Authorized Banks by the Central Pension Accounting Office in respect of central civil pensioners/family pensioners.


    This information was provided by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/PK/SS/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1526753) Visitor Counter : 259