      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      On World TB Day, Health Ministry launches new initiatives to combat TB
      Health Secretary Highlights need for community participation for combating TB

      Posted On: 24 MAR 2018 1:32PM by PIB Delhi

    "We are already aligned with world TB treatment protocols. It has to a mission to End TB by 2025, through community participation, involving civil societies and other stakeholders.” This was stated by Smt. Preeti Sudan, Secretary (Health) at a function on the occasion of ‘World TB Day’, here today.


    She further stated that the global target to end TB is 2030 but we will end it by 2025. “This is a tall order but I am confident that if we all work together, if all the partners combine together and we ensure full treatment is given on regular basis we can show the world this can be achieved. I am confident of this and my confidence is backed by our success in eradicating Polio,” she added.


    At the function, the Health Secretary also released the TB INDIA 2018 Report and National Drug Resistance Survey Report. She also launched the NikshayAushadi Portal and shorter regimen for Drug Resistant TB.


    Smt. Preeti Sudancommended the TB warrior, Shri Suman, a graduate student who narrated his experience living with TB. The Health Secretary stated that early identification and complete treatment of TB is a key to achieving our goal of TB elimination. We need many TB warriors like Suman to fight against this disease and spread positive message across the communities to burst the myths and misconceptions around TB, she stated.


    Addressing the participants, the Health Secretary further stated that Hon’ble Prime Minister has called for ‘TB Mukth Bharat’ which can only possible if we ensure our panchayat and blocks are declared TB free. “For that Government has adequately provisioned drugs and diagnostic in every part of the country,” she added.


    Also present at the event were Dr B D Athani, DGHS, Shri Sanjeeva Kumar, Additional Secretary (Health), Shri A. K. Jha, Economic Advisor, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Shri VikasSheel, Joint Secreatry, Dr. Sunil Khaparde, DDG(TB), and other senior officers of the Health Ministry, representatives of WHO and other development partners.


    ***


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1526303) Visitor Counter : 1802