      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Social audit of Welfare Schemes of Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment
      Posted On: 27 MAR 2018 1:55PM by PIB Delhi


    While the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment does not conduct social audits for its welfare schemes, the Ministry and its Corporations have a robust mechanism for monitoring the progress of the schemes/programmes being implemented through the various agencies viz. (i) State Governments/UT Administrations (ii) Non-Governmental Organisations and (iii) its own organisations viz. National Institute, Corporations etc. The monitoring framework includes inter alia (i) Monitoring performance of schemes through the quarterly/annual progress reports furnished by the State Governments/UT Administrations; (ii) Review of Financial and physical performance regularly to ensure that the allocations provided for the schemes of the Department of SJ&E are fully utilized; (iii) Organizing Conferences of State Social Welfare Ministers and the State Welfare Secretaries wherein all the schemes get reviewed. States/ UTs are also advised to strengthen their monitoring mechanism; (iv) The Ministry and its Corporations also sponsor evaluation studies from time to time through independent third party evaluation agencies to check the effectiveness of the Schemes; and (v) The Finance and Development Corporations have also evolved the monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of the schemes implemented by them and have put in place internal as well as external monitoring mechanisms.


    The Ministry awarded third party evaluation studies in respect of some of its major schemes during 2018-19. The studies completed are as follows: (i) Functioning of Old Age Homes/Day Care Centres and Integrated Rehabilitation Centres for Drug Addicts (ii) Venture Capital Fund for Scheduled Castes Entrepreneurs (iii) Self Employment Scheme for Rehabilitation of Manual Scavengers (iv) Outcome Based Evaluation of Babu Jagjivan Ram Chhattravas Yojana for SC and Construction of Hostels for OBC Boys and Girls (v) Outcome Based Evaluation of Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme for Scheduled Castes (SCs) & Other Backward Classes (OBCs). The evaluation studies affirmed the effectiveness and usefulness of these programmes with suggestions for their improvement.


    Social organizations have been involved in the implementation of some of the central sector welfare schemes of the Ministry. These includes central sector schemes of Voluntary Organizations working for SCs, OBCs, senior citizens, de-addiction centers and the divyangjan. Scheme details are available on website of the Ministry – http://socialjustice.inic.in and http://disbilityaffairs.gov.in .


    Social organizations are currently not involved in the implementation of centrally sponsored welfare schemes of the Ministry.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Vijay Sampla in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E-2/27-03-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1526538) Visitor Counter : 583
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil