      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Rashtrapati Bhavan Harvests Its First Crop of Honey From KVIC’s Apiary
      Posted On: 28 MAR 2018 5:12PM by PIB Delhi


    Honey being harvested at Rashtrapati Bhavan on Tuesday under Honey Mission of KVIC


    The apiary of Rashtrapati Bhavan has started giving the yields; on Tuesday, from the gardens of the Presidential House around 186 kilograms of honey was extracted. Rashtrapati Bhavan has abundant flora and fauna, including lush trees of mangoes, Indian blackberries (jamun), neem and drumsticks. Chairman Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) Shri Vinai Kumar Saxena and Secretary to the President Sanjay Kothari were present during the first phase of extraction of honey.


    Earlier, the frames of bee-boxes were removed in the presence of the dignitaries and honey was extracted and it was packed in bottles displaying the name of Rashtrapati Bhavan. The dignitaries also tasted the extracted honey as well as lemonade made from it.


    KVIC had earlier conducted an apiculture training course for the gardeners of Rashtrapati Bhavan, in which they wereprovided tips to care and value of beekeeping in maintaining the flora and fauna. They were also apprised of the comprehensive scope and significance of apiculture and important considerations. KVIC also installed many bee-boxes in different phases in the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Shri Sanjay Kothari, Secretary to President informed that Rashtrapati Bhavan have plans to use this honey and related products as gift items for the visiting foreign dignitaries.


    KVIC Chairman Mr Saxena said the beekeeping program would be covering the 16,000 flowers and plants in the Rashtrapati Bhavan premises which remained untapped till now. He added that with abundant trees, the premise is suitable for pollination which will massively increase the yield of the crops in the neighbouring areas. He also underlined the importance of apiary by saying honey has rich minerals and proteins along with best quality of antioxidants, there is a need that people should adopt cultivation of honey as their hobby in their farmhouses and bungalows. He saidthat he is feeling proud that Prime Minister’s ‘Sweet Revolution’ in Delhi and NCR is starting from the house of First Citizen of the Nation.


    The apiary in the Rashtrapati Bhavan garden was set up under Honey Mission of KVIC.


    ***


    MM/PS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1526827) Visitor Counter : 448