      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Leakage of Examination Papers
      Posted On: 28 MAR 2018 3:24PM by PIB Delhi


    Centralised data with regard to the incidents of paper leaks associated with various Government examinations is not maintained. However, there have been some incidents of reported leakage of question papers in recruitment examinations which have attended by cancellation of said examination and re-conduct thereof. To avoid any untoward incident in the conduct of recruitment examinations, the Government Recruitment Agencies have taken various steps including the following:

     1. Conduct of examinations on Computer based mode for securing the examination paper and avoiding incidents of paper leakage.
     2. Deployment of low powered jammers in the examination venues to block CDMA, GSM, 3G, 4G, Wi-fi and Bluetooth devices.
     3. CERT-IN certification for examination process and use of CCTV cameras.

    There was no leakage of question papers in the Combined Graduate Level (CGL) Examination, 2017. In view of some sporadic incidents of alleged cheating by some candidates at a few venues and subsequent agitation by a section of the candidates, SSC in order to reiterate and reaffirm the faith of the candidates in the examination process recommended for an impartial enquiry by CBI. Accepting the recommendation of the SSC, Government has referred the matter to CBI for a free and fair enquiry. CBI has registered a Preliminary Enquiry case on 08.03.2018.


    The said examination has not been cancelled, therefore, question of re-conduct does not arise.


    
    This information was provided by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/PK/SS/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1526756) Visitor Counter : 896
    
    
    
    
    

3.