      AYUSH

      International Yoga Fest concludes on an enthusiastic note
      Posted On: 23 MAR 2018 8:27PM by PIB Delhi


    The International Yoga Fest ended on an enthusiastic note in New Delhi today. The Yoga Fest was a Curtain Raiser for this year’s International Day of Yoga celebrations (IDY-2018). Lok Sabha Speaker Smt. Sumitra Mahajan was the Chief Guest of valedictory function of the three day International Yoga Fest. The Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH Shri Shripad Yesso Naik presided over the function. In her valedictory address Smt. Sumitra Mahajan said that just like the end of any festival fills us with a positive energy, in the same way, the positive energy gained from this fest by the people from different corners of the country who have gathered here will reach not just every corner India but across the world. She also said that Yoga is “ Apne Swayam Ke Madhyam Se Swayam Ko Jaanna Aur Swayam Ko Saksham Banana .”


    On this occasion Shri Shripad Naik said that with the active initiative taken by our Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi Yoga has reached almost every doorstep not only in India but overseas also. He said that People practise Yoga in one form or the other for maintaining good health or even to overcoming many lifestyle related disorders. The Minister further said that Yoga is useful in combating these disorders and shows that science and spirituality need not always be treated as separate entities. Shri Naik informed the audience that it is appreciable that many medical Institutions have also adopted Yoga in their curriculum and treatment methods. The AYUSH Minister said his Ministry has taken many initiatives to promote Yoga and AYUSH systems and this will definitely help to reduce the health budget in the years to come.


    The valedictory function of International Yoga Fest-2018 witnessed the auspicious presence of Acharya Sri Balkrishna, General Secretary, PatanjaliYogapeeth, Dr. H R Nagendra, Chancellor, SVYASA University, Swami Chidanand Saraswati, founder Parmarth Niketan, Dr. MV Bhole, researcher & Yoga Scholar, Lonavala, Pune and Sh.Naresh Kumar, NDMC chairman and many others well known personalities of the Yoga Fraternity. All the Yoga gurus stressed upon the fact that Yoga is beyond religion and no particular religion can claim an ownership on Yoga. They also expressed that we not only have to propagate the knowledge of Yoga to the entire world but also have to experience that knowledge ourselves.


    Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY), Ministry of AYUSH organized the International Yoga Fest, a Curtain Raiser for International Day of Yoga-2018, from 21-23 March, 2018 at Talkatora Indoor Stadium, New Delhi and Pre Fest Yoga Workshops by eminent Yoga Masters from 19-20 March, 2018 at MDNIY& Yoga Centers at SAI Stadia. MDNIY has successfully organized two International Yoga Fest in 2016 & 2017.


    The International Yoga Fest-2018 also witnessed a day seminar on life sketch and contributions of Dr. JayadevaYogendra for the promotion and development of Yoga. The event also experienced Lectures, Yoga Demonstrations, Special Yoga Techniques, Satsang, Discourses, Isha Music, Cultural programmes, Quiz and Elocution Competitions, Poster Presentation Competition, Best Research Paper Presentation, Exhibition & Display including Parallel Yoga Workshops.


    More than 5, 700 delegates from across the country and abroad participated in the Fest.


    *******


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1526269) Visitor Counter : 469