      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Significant improvement in Healthcare Systems of States
      Posted On: 23 MAR 2018 3:55PM by PIB Delhi


    Various independent surveys, including results of National Family Health Survey over a decade indicate significant improvement in healthcare systems of States as reflected in performance in key health indicators.


    A performance Audit of Reproductive and Child Health under NRHM for the period 2011-12 to 2015-16 was conducted by CAG and findings (Report no.25 of 2017) are available in public domain at http://www.cag.gov.in/content/report-no25-2017-performance-audit-union-government-reproductive-and-child- health-under.


    The Government also conducts annual Common Review Mission (CRM) to review the implementation of NHM. The CRM reports including of last three years are available in public domain at http://nhm.gov.in/monitoring/common-review-mission.html


    Aspirational districts identified by NITI Aayog are being prioritized for all key health interventions under NHM including operationalization of Health and wellness Centres.


    In financial year, 2017-18, against a target of 4000 Health and Wellness Centres, as on date, approval has been given for 4689 Health and Wellness Centres.


    The Government has developed web based Health Management Information System (HMIS) to monitor the implementation of NHM. Presently, approx. 2 lakh health facilities (across all districts of the country) are uploading facility wise data on monthly basis and infrastructure data annually on HMIS web portal. Data are presently being made available to various stakeholders in the form of standard, customized and analytical reports etc. The StateGovernments from time to time are being requested to verify the veracity of data being uploaded on HMIS and monitor the performance of districts through HMIS.


    Under the National Health Mission (NHM), the Central Government is supporting States/UTs to strengthen their healthcare systems including for provision of a host of free services including for maternal health, child health, adolescent health, family planning, universal immunisationprogramme, and for major diseases such as Tuberculosis, HIV/ AIDS, vector borne diseases such as Malaria, Dengue and Kala Azar, Leprosy etc. Other major initiatives for which states are being supported include JananiShishuSurakshaKaryakram (JSSK), RashtriyaBalSwasthyaKaryakram (RBSK), Rashtriya KishorSwasthyaKaryakram (RKSK), implementation of NHM Free Drugs and Free Diagnostics Service Initiatives, PM National Dialysis Programme, free patient emergency transport, mobile Medical Units and National Quality Assurance Framework. However, public health and hospitals being a State subject, under NHM it is the prerogative of State Governments to prioritize interventions as per their needs and disease burden.


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), ShAshwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply in the LokSabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1526108) Visitor Counter : 287