      Ministry of Defence

      Veterans’ Empowerment Rally at Darjeeling and Udaipur on 25 mar 18
      Posted On: 23 MAR 2018 5:26PM by PIB Delhi


    As a mark of gratitude and recognition for the selfless service and sacrifices by the veterans towards nation building, Veterans’ Empowerment Rally is planned to be organized at Darjeeling and Udaipur Military Station on 25 Mar 2018. The Year 2018 is being celebrated by the Indian Army as the ‘Year of Disabled Soldiers in the Line of Duty’ and keeping with the traditions of the Indian Army, special emphasis will be on disabled soldiers as well as facilitating job opportunities for the Veterans, Veer Naaris and their Dependents.


    Darjeeling has the unique distinction of having approximately 13000 veterans. The Rally at Darjeeling is likely to be attended by over ten thousand veterans. The event will witness presentation of modified scooters, wheel chairs and other equipment. Felicitations of war veterans & veer naaris and education grant for children of disabled soldiers have been planned in the most dignified manner. Various grievances of the veterans will be addressed by representatives of Army Placement Node, Kolkata, Central Pension Cell, PCDA, Allahabad, Gorkha Record Office and officials of Civil Administration. M edical camp with specialists from Army and civilian doctors has been planned.


    Rajasthan has traditionally been a major contributor towards recruitment into the Armed Forces and has been a home to a large number of veterans. The Rally at Udaipur will cover Udaipur, Sirohi, Dungarpur, Banswara, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Bhilwara and Chittorgarh districts of Rajasthan. Approximately one thousand veterans, veer naaris and their dependents are expected to attend. The Rally will have representatives from the Zila Sainik Board, Ex-servicemen Corporation, Records Offices alongwith officials from the State Administration. Assistance will also be provided in preparation of Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) and CSD smart cards. Medical Camp will also be organized with specialists who will attend to the health related problems of attendees.


    At both the rally locations, adequate arrangements have been made for transport, meals and even entertainment.


    Col Aman Anand


    Pro (Army)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1526175) Visitor Counter : 244