      AYUSH

      Yoga Teachers in Indian Missions
      Posted On: 23 MAR 2018 5:55PM by PIB Delhi


    The Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) has intimated that they have appointed Teachers of Indian Culture (TICs) to Indian Missions & Posts abroad to teach Yoga, Sanskrit and Vedas. The budgetary provision of Rs. 4.27 crores was made in 2017-18. They have also informed that ICCR has been promoting the teaching of Yoga overseas through its Cultural Centres since 1980 by deploying yoga teachers in Indian Cultural Centres. Total 112 TICs have been posted and 50 out of them have already joined their respective Missions/Posts. ICCR empanels teachers through a selection process involving demonstration and interviews. ICCR has conducted orientation for the yoga teachers deployed as TICs


    Under Central Sector Scheme of International Cooperation (IC), the Ministry of AYUSH undertakes various measures for global promotion and popularization of AYUSH systems of Medicine including Yoga. The Ministry deputes Yoga experts to participate in fairs/ workshops organized by the Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Commerce, etc. and Indian Missions abroad for Yoga demonstration and lectures. The Ministry sets up AYUSH Information Cells in the premises of the Indian Missions/ICCR Cultural Centres for dissemination of authentic information. As of now, 28 AYUSH Information Cells have been set up in 25 Countries. The Ministry also organizes/ participates in International exhibitions/ conferences/ workshops/ seminars/ road shows/ trade fairs, etc. to have wider reach for international propagation of AYUSH including Yoga.


    To ensure credibility of knowledge and skills of yoga experts, the Ministry of AYUSH has initiated a scheme for Voluntary Certification of Yoga Professionals. The scheme aims at certifying the competence level of the Yoga professionals to help their deployment within and outside the country.


    A Yoga college named “India-China College of Yoga” has been established in the Yunnan Minzu University, China under the MoU signed between the University and the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR). Ministry of AYUSH has deputed one out of two experts.


    ICCR with the support of Ministry of AYUSH, facilitate celebration of the International Day of Yoga through Indian Missions/Posts abroad by providing financial assistance for various activities including demonstrations, workshops, conferences, exhibitions etc.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1526198) Visitor Counter : 490