      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      23 Minor Forest Produces (MFPs) currently being covered under the Scheme of Minimum Support Price (MSP) all over the country.
      Posted On: 23 MAR 2018 6:24PM by PIB Delhi


    Minimum Support Price for Minor Forest Produce scheme )MSP for MFP Scheme), started by Ministry of Tribal Affairs in the year 2013-14, was the first step in the direction of providing fair price to tribals .Initially, the scheme included 10 MFPs in 9 States. It was later expanded to 24 MFPs and in all States. The Scheme is implemented through State level agency (SLA) appointed by the State Government. Ministry of Tribal Affairs provides a revolving fund to the SLA. Loss, if any, is shared by Centre and State in the ratio of 75:25. Presently, the scheme has coverage of 23 MFPs and applicability to all States.


    National Scheduled Tribes Finance and Development Corporation (NSTFDC), under the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, extend financial assistance at concessional rates of interest to Scheduled Tribes for undertaking income generation activities. NSTFDC implements following schemes for self-employment of Scheduled Tribes who are unemployed or underemployed:


    Term Loan scheme: NSTFDC provides Term Loan for any income generation scheme costing upto ₹25.00 lakhs per unit. The financial assistance is extended upto 90% of the cost of the scheme and the balance is met by way of subsidy/ promoter’s contribution/ margin money. The interest rate chargeable is 6% p.a. for loan upto ₹ 5 lakhs, 8% p.a. for loans ranging between ₹ 5 lakhs to ₹ 10 lakhs and 10% p.a. for loan exceeding ₹10 lakhs on the entire amount of loan.


    Adivasi Mahila Sashaktikaran Yojana (AMSY): Under the scheme, Scheduled Tribes women can undertake any income generation activity. Loans upto 90% for scheme costing upto ₹1 lakh are provided at a concessional rate of interest of 4% p.a.


    Micro Credit Scheme for Self Help Groups : The Corporation provides loans upto ₹50,000/- per member and ₹ 5 Lakhs per Self Help Group (SHG). The interest rate chargeable is 6% p.a.


    Adivasi Shiksha Rrinn Yojana : Under this scheme, financial assistance upto ₹5.00 lakh at concessional rate of interest of 6% per annum is provided to ST students for pursuing professional/ technical education including Ph.D. in India.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Tribal Affairs Shri. Jaswantsinh Bhabhor in Rajya Sabha today.


    NB/RN ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1526217) Visitor Counter : 418