      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      The Grand Finale of the Smart India Hackathon to be held on 30th and 31st March, 2018
      
      Minister of State for Tribal Affairs to inaugurate Hachakthon on behalf of Ministry of Tribal Affairs at GIMT, Guwahati
      Posted On: 28 MAR 2018 6:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The“Smart India Hackathon 2018 – Software edition” Grand Finale to be held on March 30 th & 31 st , 2018. The Minister of State for Tribal Affairs, Shri Jaswantsinh Sumanbhai Bhabhor will inaugurate Smart India Hackathon for the Ministry of Tribal Affairs at Girijananda Chowdhury Institute of Management & Technology (GIMT), Guwahati. GIMT is nodal centre for the Ministry of Tribal Affairs. This program is also being simultaneously held at 28 different nodal centers across the country. Smart India Hackathon is the World’s largest Nation-Building Digital Initiative of the HRD Ministry which conceptualized to harness the creativity and energy of bright young students for the development of our nation.


    As part of this initiative Ministry of Tribal Affairs is also a ‘Premier Partner’ in this filed. It was launched on Oct 16, 2017 in Pune, with an aim to harnesses creativity & expertise of students, builds funnel for ‘Startup India, Standup India’ campaign, crowd sources solutions for improving governance and quality of life, and provides opportunity to citizens to provide innovative solutions to India’s daunting problems.


    Details pertaining to the Ministry of Tribal Affairs are as follows:

                                                                                                                                               
               Software                      Shortlisted             No. of Youngsters competing in Grand Finale  Nodal Center for Grand Finale
                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                               
               Problems Statements proposed  Teams for Grand Finale                                                                            
                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                               
Our Ministry   10                            41                      328                                          Guwahati                     
                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                               
Overall event  340                           1282                    10250+                                       NA                           
                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                               

    There are few problem areas are being given below.


    Union Tribal Development Minister, Shri. Jual Oram said during the software edition grand finale, teams technology students will build innovative digital solutions for problems posed by different central government ministries/departments. Smart India Hackathon 2018 would be the second massive scale hackathon initiative in India following Smart India Hackathon 2017, he added. Winners stand to get cash prizes and a chance to be part of the NASSCOM’s 10,000 Startups program.


    The Joint Secretary to the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Shri. Rajesh Aggarwal said Smart India Hackathon is an opportunity for the youngsters to engage with the government on issues related to tribal development. He said that many students from different parts of the country evinced keen interest on our problem statements and offered very innovative solutions and the Ministry looks forward to the grand finale scheduled at Guwahati .


    Some of the problem statements given by Ministry of Tribal Affairs include requirement of an app to identify benefits from the schemes of MoTA, e-solution to link the local tribal artisans with the agencies of MoTA, e-solution to increase awareness about other schemes among FRA (Forest Rights Act) title holders, to promote tourism in tribal areas, how to combine data related to STs from multiple sources and present in an easy-to-use format.


    The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) under the aegis of Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) and in collaboration with i4c, MyGov, Persistent Systems, and Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini is organizing Smart India Hackathon 2018 . With 27 union ministries and departments and 17 state governments having joined this grand initiative, SIH2018 is much bigger than its previous edition. It includes 2 sub-editions – Software edition, which is a 36-hr software product development competition and scheduled to be held on Mar 30 & 31, 2018.


    *****


    NB/RN/UD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1526859) Visitor Counter : 454