      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Tribal Affairs Minister, Shri Jual Oram to launch “E-Tribes India” in New Delhi tomorrow
      
      ‘Tribes India’ to be launched on Snapdeal and Amazon

      Posted On: 26 MAR 2018 4:47PM by PIB Delhi

    The Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India, (TRIFED), under the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, is going Digital as per the vision document of the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Government of India. The “e-Tribes India” would be launched tomorrow by the Union Tribal Affairs Minister, Shri Jual Oram. The Minister of State for Tribal Affairs, Shri Jaswantsinh Sumanbhai Bhabhor and the Minister of State for Tribal Affairs, Shri Sudarshan Bhagat will also grace the occasion.


    The Launch of e-Tribes , TRIFED’s websites includes www.tribesindia.com , www.trifed.in and Retail Inventory Software and M-commerce app. Besides, the occasion will also mark the l aunch of ‘Tribes India’ Banners at Amazon, Snapdeal, Paytm & GeM . TRIFED’s Handbook for Retail Trade and TRIFED’s quarterly magazine ‘Tribes Haat’ will also be inaugurated.


    TRIFED has developed its own e-commerce (electronic commerce) website i.e., tribesindia.com for sale of all its products and to tap m-commerce (mobile commerce) too. An Android App is also in place as well on Google store (Tribes India) which can be downloaded on any Android enabled smart phone and sale can happen from this mobile app through android smart phone.


    Going Digital will lead to expansion of tribal commerce and the availability of tribal products over large area, reaping greater benefits for tribal artisans. Retail Trade of tribal products would expand all over the country and the world.


    TRIFED has entered into agreements with e-commerce platforms like Snapdeal and Amazon who will offer their customers various tribal products and produce through their portals www.snapdeal.com and www.amazon.com respectively to facilitate online sale. On the request of the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Ministry of Commerce has also made provision for sale of tribal products through TRIFED on www.gem.gov.in . Also, Tribes India products are available on Flipkart and Paytm too.


    TIEFED has been working on several aspects of marketing of tribal products like online sale of tribal products through mobile android application, participation in Exhibitions,Skill upgradation trainings, Preparation of promotion material on activities of TRIFED among others.


    The Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India Limited (TRIFED), a multi-State Cooperative Society under the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, is promoting and marketing tribal products, tribal art and crafts within the country and abroad by providing marketing support to tribal products through its network of 31 retail outlets “TRIBES INDIA”, 37 consignment outlets of various State Emporia and 16 franchisee outlets. It also organizes exhibitions like National Tribal Craft Expo called “Aadi Mahotsav” etc. in which it promotes and markets tribal products. It also facilitates the participation of tribal artisans to enable them to interact directly with art lovers to assess the market needs. In the last three years, it has begun providing e-commerce platforms to the tribal artisans to sell their products.


    *****


    NB/RN/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1526409) Visitor Counter : 1345
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil