      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      ‘National Conference on Down Syndrome’ held
      Posted On: 26 MAR 2018 1:11PM by PIB Delhi


    A’ National Conference on Down Syndrome’ was organised by the National Trust under Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment here today. Dr. Kamlesh Kumar Pandey, Chairman, National Trust inaugurated it in the presence of Shri Mukesh Jain, JS & CEO, National Trust, Dr. Surekha Ramachandran, Chairperson, Down Syndrome Federation of India and various stakeholders associated with Down Syndrome. A book entitled “Twilights Children” based on the lives of person suffering from Down Syndrome was released on the occasion. The conference brought intellectuals from all walks of life on one platform to spur ideas and channelized knowledge on Down Syndrome which was very beneficial to enable a positive change in the people with Down Syndrome. People with Down Syndrome and their parents were invited to share their inspirational stories.


    Down Syndrome is a chromosomal condition associated with intellectual and learning disabilities. Delayed development and behavioural problems are often reported in children with it. For seeking commitments of various stakeholders and increasing their awareness about Down Syndrome, National Trust organised this National Conference on Down Syndrome.


    On 19th December 2011, the United Nations General Assembly declared to observe 21st March as World Down Syndrome Day (WDSD) and since then every year, this day is officially observed by UN to create awareness about people with Down Syndrome. The objective of this conference was to provide excellent opportunities to the parents to obtain information about latest development in education and skilling and inclusive living of persons with Down Syndrome. Moreover, Assessment/Screening sessions were also conducted for the children with Down Syndrome.


    After inaugural session, the 1 st Session on “Down Syndrome-Health issues” held with the Panel Discussion and Question-Answer Session with the renowned Doctors from AIIMS, Dr. RML Hospital and Safdarjung Hospital. The 2 nd Session on “Down Syndrome- Possibilities and Growth & Development” held with the Panel Discussion and Question-Answer Session with the renowned Experts working in the field of Down Syndrome. The Concluding 3 rd Session on “Down Syndrome-Queries on Disability Certificate” held with the Panel Discussion and Question-Answer Session with the Senior Doctors of reputed hospitals.


    The National Trust is a statutory body set up by an Act of Parliament for the Welfare of Persons with Autism, Cerebral Palsy, Mental Retardation and Multiple Disabilities under the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD), Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment. Since, the inception, the National Trust has been running various schemes and programmes for the welfare of these persons with disabilities. Amongst these one of the major activities is creating awareness amongst the general public by organizing various workshops, seminars and conferences on these disabilities and the capabilities of such persons.


    Click here to know about Down Syndrome


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/MoSJ&E/26.03.20

    
    
    (Release ID: 1526380) Visitor Counter : 1457
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil