      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      “E-Waste Management Rules amended for effective management of E-Waste in the country”: Union Environment Minister
      Posted On: 23 MAR 2018 5:26PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan has said that the Government has amended the E-waste (Management) Rules in a move to facilitate and effectively implement the environmentally sound management of e-waste in India. Dr. Vardhan highlighted that the amendment in rules has been done with the objective of channelizing the E-waste generated in the country towards authorized dismantlers and recyclers in order to formalize the e-waste recycling sector. He pointed out that the collection targets under the provision of Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) in the Rules have been revised and targets have been introduced for new producers who have started their sales operations recently.


    Some of the salient features of the E-waste (Management) Amendment Rules, 2018 are as follows:


     1. The e-waste collection targets under EPR have been revised and will be applicable from 1 October 2017. The phase-wise collection targets for e-waste in weight shall be 10% of the quantity of waste generation as indicated in the EPR Plan during 2017-18, with a 10% increase every year until 2023. After 2023 onwards, the target has been made 70% of the quantity of waste generation as indicated in the EPR Plan.

     2. The quantity of e-waste collected by producers from the 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017 shall be accounted for in the revised EPR targets until March 2018.
     3. Separate e-waste collection targets have been drafted for new producers, i.e. those producers whose number of years of sales operation is less than the average lives of their products. The average lives of the products will be as per the guidelines issued by CPCB from time to time.
     4. Producer Responsibility Organizations (PROs) shall apply to the Central Pollution Control board (CPCB) for registration to undertake activities prescribed in the Rules.
     5. Under the Reduction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) provisions, cost for sampling and testing shall be borne by the government for conducting the RoHS test. If the product does not comply with RoHS provisions, then the cost of the test will be borne by the Producers.

    The E-Waste Management Rules 2016 have been amended vide notification G.S.R. 261(E), dated March 22, 2018.


    ***


    HK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1526177) Visitor Counter : 1934
    
    
    
    
    

5.