      Ministry of Education

      No need to submit original certificate at the time of College Admissions
      Posted On: 27 MAR 2018 5:23PM by PIB Delhi


    The University Grants Commission had issued a notification dated 6 th December, 2016 on “Remittance and Refund of Fees and other Student Centric Issues” wherein Vice-Chancellors of all Universities were requested to issue necessary instructions to University Departments and affiliated Colleges for compliance of various student welfare centric measures at the time of admission into such Universities/Colleges. As per the notification, no Higher Educational Institution (HEI) shall insist upon a student to submit original academic and personal certificates and testimonials like mark-sheets, school leaving certificates and other such documents at the time of submitting admission form (Clause 4.1 of notification available at http://www.ugc.ac.in/pdfnews/5681274_Fee-Refund-Notification.pdf ). Further, as per the notification, institution of higher education shall physically verify the originals at the time of admission of the student in his/her presence and return them immediately after satisfying themselves about their authenticity and veracity, keeping their copies self-attested by student for record. This provision in the notification along with others would benefit a number of students who are unable to withdraw admission from the institutes for better prospects due to the retention of their original certificates. As per the provisions made in the notification, no HEI shall make it mandatory for applicants to purchase institutional prospectus any time during the course of the program of study. Purchasing prospectus shall be the personal choice of the student and he/she will have rights to decide against it in case he/she wishes to access the same information from institutional website. The notification prescribes adoption of standard operating procedures in the matters relating to the verification of certificates and testimonials with a view to prohibit coercive and profiteering institutional practices, if any, at the time of admission. This move will also enable students to explore multiple opportunities and choices in terms of their academic career.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/RK/College Admissions

    
    
    (Release ID: 1526615) Visitor Counter : 316
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil