      Ministry of Education

      Vocational education in schools is being promoted in various ways by the government
      Posted On: 23 MAR 2018 5:04PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government is implementing the scheme of Vocationalisation of secondary and higher secondary education as a component of Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan from Class IX onwards. This scheme integrates vocational education with general academic education. Under the scheme, financial assistance is provided to the states/UTs based on the viability of proposals received and availability of funds. The major aim of the scheme is to prepare educated, employable and competitive human resource for various sectors of the economy. Till date, 8227 government schools in 33 States/UTs have been approved for introduction of the scheme including 200 schools of Uttar Pradesh. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) offers 40 vocational courses at senior secondary level and 15 courses at secondary level in its affiliated schools. The National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) also runs 103 vocational courses up to higher secondary level.


    All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has recently introduced Degree/Diploma programs leading to Degree or Diploma in Vocational Education under National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) in 13 Specializations for AICTE approved Institutions. Under this scheme, Education Component is taught by the institute and the skill component is covered by Industry Partner or Skill Knowledge Provider (SKP) approved by AICTE or NSDC or any Government Agency.


    The University Grants Commission (UGC), is implementing three schemes namely Community Colleges, B.Voc Degree Programme and Deen Dayal Upadhay KAUSHAL Kendras in Universities and Colleges for imparting skill development based vocational courses offering Certificate/Diploma/Advance Diploma/B.Voc/M.Voc and Research level programme. The skill components of courses are imparted in collaboration with the industry partners based on National Occupational Standards for the concerned job roles.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Shri Upendra Kushwaha today in a written reply to a Rajya Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/YP/AK/RK/ Vocational education in schools

    
    
    (Release ID: 1526149) Visitor Counter : 216