      Ministry of Education

      Survey on Higher Education
      Posted On: 27 MAR 2018 5:26PM by PIB Delhi


    To portray the status of higher education in the country, Ministry of Human Resource Development has started an annual web-based All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE) with the objectives of strengthening official statistical system to produce Education Statistics periodically with timeliness and quality so as to assess and review the performance of education sector and regional divergences across the country, to review the actual results over time and identifying data-gaps and to Strengthening Institutional Coordination with the Ministry and other data producing agencies such as University Grants Commission, All India Council for Technical Education and other regulatory bodies of higher education. The first survey was conducted in the year 2011 for the survey year 2010-11. Since then the survey is continuously being conducted annually by the Ministry through web based portal www.aishe-gov.in .


    The survey covers all the Institutions in the country engaged in imparting of higher education. Data is being collected on several parameters such as teachers, student enrolment, number of programmes, examination results, and infrastructure. Indicators of educational development such as Institution Density, Gross Enrolment Ratio, Pupil Teacher Ratio, Gender Parity Index etc. are calculated from the data collected through AISHE. These are useful in making informed policy decisions and research for development of education sector. All the reports of All India Survey on Higher Education are placed on the web site of the Ministry. The results of important parameters of the survey such as Institution Density, Gross Enrolment Ratio, Pupil-Teacher Ratio, Gender Parity Index for the last three years of the survey is given as under:

                                                              
Important Results of the Survey      2014-15  2015-16  2016-17
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER)          24.3     24.5     25.2   
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
No. of Colleges per lakh population  27       28       28     
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
Gender Parity Index                  0.92     0.92     0.94   
                                                              
                                                              
                                                              
Pupil Teacher Ratio                  21       21       22     
                                                              
                                                              

    The data collected in the survey is used for generating education statistics which is useful for evidence - based policy and plan formulation and research purpose.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/RK/ Survey on Higher Education


    

    
    (Release ID: 1526619) Visitor Counter : 609