      Ministry of Education

      Female enrolment in IITs to be increased to 20% by 2020-21 by creating supernumerary seats
      Posted On: 27 MAR 2018 5:22PM by PIB Delhi


    The University Grants Commission (UGC) has informed that it has undertaken several schemes for the benefit of girls and women to enhance their accessibility and provide more opportunities such as provisions of various scholarships and fellowships exclusively for single girl child and women. The UGC is also implementing schemes for development of Women’s Studies in Indian Universities and Colleges, setting up of Women Hostels for Colleges and Universities, Capacity Building of Women Managers in Higher Education, Establishment of Day Care Centre in Central and State Universities.


    Further, in order to encourage girl education, a Sub-Committee under Central Advisory Board of Education (CABE) has been constituted to look into the issues related to Girls’ Education. The interim recommendations of the Sub-Committee inter-alia, include setting up of Residential Degree Colleges and Polytechnics for Women in the District Head Quarters, Exclusive Women University in each State and providing free education to girls upto PG level etc.


    Also under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA), Central support is offered to increase access, equity and quality of higher education. Till date, the scheme has approved central assistance for 232 women colleges across States and Union Territories under various components such as through various components, such as creation of Model Degree Colleges (MDCs), new colleges (professional & technical), Equity Initiatives, Upgradation of Colleges to MDCs, Infrastructure Grants to Colleges, etc. Approval under the scheme is dependent upon submission of each State Higher Education Plan (SHEP) which is submitted by the State after analyzing its higher education requirements in terms of access, equity and quality.


    As informed by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), the council has taken pro-active measures to attract girls in technical education through measures such as providing relaxation in land norms, FDR and Processing Fee for setting up of technical institutions specially for girls. Additionally, the Pragati scholarship scheme provides scholarship for girls in AICTE approved Institutions.


    Further, the low representation of female enrollment in Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) was reviewed by a Committee constituted by the Joint Admission Board (JAB) and on the recommendations of the Committee, it has been decided to increase female enrollment in IITs from 8% in 2016 to 14% in 2018-19, 17% in 2019-20 and 20% in 2020-21 by creating supernumerary seats.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/YP/RK/Higher Education

    
    
    (Release ID: 1526614) Visitor Counter : 239