      Special Service and Features

      EK BHARAT SHRESTA BHARAT PROGRAMME INTEGRATING NATION CULTURALLY
      TAMIL NADU PAIRED WITH JAMMU, KASHMIR &LADAKH

      Posted On: 02 SEP 2020 7:07PM by PIB Chennai

    India,world’s largest democracy also signifies the univeral theme of unity in diversity . No wonder the nation stands united in fighting the covid 19 pandemic. Farmers rose to the occasion with a bumper harvest to ensure food security and earned the applause of honourable Prime Minister. Shramik Rails transported lakhs of migrant workforce scattered all over the country to their hometowns and villages during lockdown. Fertilizers were transported to Trichy from other states for delta farmers by trains and food grains transported to other states. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that cultural diversity is a joy that ought to be celebrated through mutual interaction and reciprocity between people of different States so that a common spirit of understanding resonates throughout the country. Ek Bharat Shresta Bharat was announced by PM on 31st October 2015, the 140th birth anniversary of the Iron Man of India Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel who united the modern day Bharat, India. As per EBSB, every state and union territory would be paired with another State/UT for a year, during which they would carry out engagements with one another in the spheres of language, literature, cuisine, festivals, cultural events, tourism etc..


    Tamil Nadu is paired with Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh under Ek Bharat Shresta Bharat. Cultural exchanges of youth were held so that youngsters get exposed to the cultures. Jammu Kashmir the northernmost state was linked with Tamil Nadu the southern most state to really indicate the diversified culture and customs . There are more differences than similarities between the two states with climates reaching extreme proportions. Kashmir has its own tourist destinations like Gulmarg, Srinagar, Sonamarg while Tamil Nadu has Ootty, Kodaikanal and Yercaud. There are enchanting waterfalls like Aharbal, Noori Chamb, Zabarvan in Jammu Kashmir while Kuttalam, Thriparappu, Hogenakkal, attract tourists in Tamil Nadu. Jammu Kashmir and Ladakh has uniqueness of snow and ice while Tamil Nadu has its long coastline. Perhaps the climate has brought in entirely diversified way of dressing. However the love for dance and music is common for both the states. Tamil Nadu is rich in classical dance with Bharatanatyam topping the list. The Maharajas of Chola Pallava and Pandya have encouraged dance forms with temples like Chidambaram Nataraja temple and Thanjavur Brihadeeswara temple are standing testimonies of dance art forms. . Folk dances like Karakattam, Kolattam, Mayil Aattam , Poikkal Kuthirai Aattam, Thappatam, Koothu dance are popular in each areas of the state.


    Jammu Kashmir also has its unique form of dances like Dumhal dance where people dress up wearing vibrant colours. Rouf dance is performed on on festive occasions like Eid and Ramzan days. Bachha Nagma is performed during weddings and performed by boys. Wugi Nachun dance is performed after the wedding rituals and when bride is about to leave her home. Kashmiri shawls, Kashmiri mirchi, Kashmiri saffron are quite popular down south while pepper and other spices from south is popular in north. Rice is common for both the states and tea is popular drink. People from south go on pilgrimage to Vaishno devi temple, Amarnath yatra in Jammu Kashmir while people from south visit Ramewsaram and other temples in Madurai Kanchi, Trichy and Thanjavur for pilgrimage. Kannya Kumari is the tourist attraction to see sunrise and sunset while Dal Lake in Srinagar is famous for its houseboats.


    Covid 19 pandemic has affected tourism industry as transportation of people is curtailed to control spread of disease. Webinars are conducted by Field outreach Bureau units of Union government and various colleges in Tamil Nadu and Jammu Kashmir to exchange cultural views. Apart from Tamil Nadu and Jammu Kashmir, Punjab is paired with Andhra Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh with Kerala, Uttarakhand with Karnataka, Haryana with Telangana, Puducherry with Daman & Diu and Lakshadweep with Andaman & Nicobar.Covid 19 pandemic has to be fought united to make the nation overcome the crisis and attain greatness reflecting resilience and resurgence.


    *********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1650743) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil