      Special Service and Features

      POSHAN ABHIYAN- NUTRITION MONTH OBSERVED IN SEPTEMBER SETTING UP OF KITCHEN GARDENS ENCOURAGED FOR GROWING PLANTS OF NUTRITIONAL VALUE
      Posted On: 04 SEP 2020 4:55PM by PIB Chennai


    Covid 19 pandemic has reiterated the importance of health and self immunity to fight life threatening diseases. The nation is observing this September month as Nutrition Month as per the call given by Prime Minister in Mann Ki Baat address. Poshan Abhiyan –nutrition mission was started in March 2018 as PM’s Overarching Scheme for Holistic Nourishment. This year Nutrition month awareness is being created among public through digital mode like webinars and online interactions.


    Union Ministry of women and child development has targeted identification of children with severe acute malnutrition and promoting kitchen garden this year as Nutrition month activities. Prime Minister stressed importance of nutritious food for mental and intellectual development quoting ' yatha annam thatha manam' . Doctors and medical experts are pointing out the importance of breastfeeding for the health of child and increase immunity. Smt P. Usha Ramani, Trichy district mother and child health officer says that chances of postpartum hemorrhage will be less if breastfeeding is done. She said that 22 per cent infant mortality rate will come down if breast milk is given to the baby within one hour of child birth. Colostrum should be given to the baby as it is rich in vitamin A and antibodies. Smt T Bhuvaneswari, District Programme Officer, Integrated Child development scheme says that nutritious food for mother is also important as breast milk is crucial for immunity and growth of child. Smt Priya from Trichy says that she is growing vegetables like ladies finger, brinjal, drumstick, green chillies, spinach keerais and even tomatoes in her kitchen garden . During the lockdown period kitchen garden was very useful as essential vegetables were available without the need to venture out. Moringa leaves are of very high nutritious value says dieticians.


    Regional Outreach Bureau Chennai and other units including Field Outreach Bureau Tiruchirapalli are conducting webinars on Nutrition this month to create awareness about importance of nutrition. Normally during September for the past two years awareness campaigns were organised by Field outreach Bureaus in coordination with Integrated child development Scheme officials and Anganwadi workers especially in rural areas. Like all central government schemes. Poshan Abhiyan has become people’s movement to create awareness about nutrition. During this Nutrition Month, a food and nutrition quiz is being organized on the MyGov portal, and there will also be a meme competition on the theme of nutrition.


    Good nutritious food is very important to combat diseases as it helps to strengthen immunity. Awareness should be created about the importance of leafy vegetables which are easily available in our garden and backyard. The spices and herbs that are part of our daily diet in a way boosts the immunity in us and make us fight the pandemics , thanks to the centuries old Indian system of medicines like siddha, ayurveda etc


    Moringa tree


    

    
    (Release ID: 1651312) Visitor Counter : 12
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil