      Special Service and Features

      ONLINE COURSE ON BUTTERFLY CONSERVATION BY FOREST DEPARTMENT
      
      
      TROPICAL BUTTERFLY CONSERVATORY IN SRIRANGAM IS ASIA’S LARGEST

      Posted On: 11 SEP 2020 5:29PM by PIB Chennai

    Covid 19 pandemic lockdown had restricted people from visiting ecoparks to prevent the spread of disease. With unlock relaxations announced, slowly people are allowed to enter temples and some public places. However to avoid sudden surge of people entering public places, restrictions are made especially in parks and zoos. Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi had stressed the importance of conservation of nature saying that it is part of our cultural ethos. Last year on his birthday on September 17, Prime Minister had released butterflies at the Kevadia butterfly Park in Gujarat.


    The Tropical Butterfly Conservatory, Tiruchirapalli under Tamil Nadu forest department alongwith an NGO -Act for Butterflies are launching an online course on butterflies on September 12. The one-day certificate course will be on butterfly identification habitats and conservation of butterflies, said Shri P Mohan Prasath, founder of Act For Butterflies. He said that the online course is aimed at those interested in identifying butterflies, and focuses on species identification, behaviour habitats and feeding habits of caterpillars. The one day course will have two theoretical sessions and a practical session. The course will be conducted on second and fourth Saturday of every month. First Session will concentrate on introduction to butterflies and family wise species identification. It will cover more than 100 species of butterflies found in South India. The second session will focus on habitat of butterflies, behaviour feeder and nectar plants. Importance will also be given to butterfly conservation, he added.


    The butterfly conservatory Park in SrirangamTiruchirapalli was inaugurated by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister in November 2015. The Tropical Butterfly Conservatory said to be largest in Asia was set up in 25 acres of land in the Upper Anicut reserve forest in Melur tip of Srirangamisland between Cauvery and Kollidam river. Red, yellow, orange, rose flowers attract the butterflies in plenty and they taste honey and carry the pollens wherever it perch. Specimen of huge butterflies, caterpillars, breeding laboratory for butterflies, Green House, ponds humidifiers, tribal appreciation, aroma gardens, nectar plants, floral nectar patches, pathways are there to attract children. Amphitheatre interpretation centre will be utilized to explain about the butterflies and their lifecycle from eggs to caterpillar to pupa and then to enchanting butterfly. Nakshatravanam tree plants in connection with 27 stars of Hindu almanac and 12 zodiac signs has been setup in this conservatory. Red Sandalwood for Aries, Saptparni for Taurus, Jackfruit for Gemini, Palsh for cancer, Golden yellow bamboo for Leo, Mango tree for Virgo,Acacia for Scorpio, Pipal for Saggitarius, Shisham for Capricorn, Maulsari for Libra, Kegar for Aquarius and Banyan for Pisces are being grown.


    The ultimate aim of the Butterfly conservatory is to create awareness about environment especially among children. Tamil Nadu has already declared Tamil Yeoman- Tami l Maravan as its state butterfly. Already Maharashtra -Blue Mormon, Uttarakhand -Common peacock, Karnataka -Southern birdwings and Kerala -Malabar banded peacock have declared their state butterflies. Butterflies are also friends of farmers as they act as pollination agents.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1653361) Visitor Counter : 140