      Special Service and Features

      UNLOCK 4 RELAXATIONS HAVE INCREASED THE RESPONSIBILITY OF PUBLIC MULTIFOLD IN SAFEGUARDING THEMSELVES AGAINST CORONA VIRUS
      UNLOCK 4 RELAXATIONS HAVE INCREASED THE RESPONSIBILITY OF PUBLIC MULTIFOLD IN SAFEGUARDING THEMSELVES AGAINST CORONA VIRUS

      Posted On: 11 SEP 2020 5:30PM by PIB Chennai

    Unlock 4 relaxations have increased the responsibility of the public multifold in safeguarding themselves against corona virus, says Shri J Kamaraj, Joint Director, regional Outreach Bureau Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Rendering presidential address in a webinar on Poshan Abhiyan, National Nutrition Month and prevention of Covid 19 conducted by Field Outreach Bureau Thanjavur, he said that the increased relaxations by union and state governments should not be misunderstood as a licence to roam around carelessly, as the measures are aimed at boosting economic activity while observing strict safety precautions while venturing out. He further added that September month is observed as nutrition month to create awareness. He praised the Integrated Child Development Scheme workers of Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts for working in coordination with health officials in ensuring wholesome nutrition to pregnant and lactating women and children while spreading awareness about containing covid 19 as well. He pointed out that severely acute malnourished SAM children should be identified and kitchen gardens with nutritional plants should be set up as part of nutrition month Poshan Abhiyan.


    Shri K Devi Padmanabhan Field Publicity Officer Tiruchirapalli in his introductory address said Covid 19 pandemic has reiterated the significance of good quality food to strengthen immunity to combat diseases. Easily available leafy vegetables by setting up kitchen garden and following the tradional recipes would greatly boost the immunity , he added.


    Shri D Rajkumar Project officer ICDS, Thanjavur in his special address spoke about importance of good nutritious food to women and children apart from adolescent girls. He said that 1000 days of a child from womb upto three years are crucial. Anganwadi workers are directly interacting with pregnant women and counselling them during this period. He said colostrum should be compulsorily given within one hour of birth to the baby for boosting immunity naturally . He said that sathumavu packets supplement food is given through ICDS for pregnant and lactating women. He spoke about samudaya valakappu to instil confidence in women and variuos awareness campaigns are held to sensitize people on increasing immunity and giving nutrient rich food to child.


    Smt P Renugadevi, Project Officer and District Social welfare officer Pudukottai in her special address said that mothers should be aware of the importance of nutrition. She spoke about iron rich food and vitamin intake to strengthen immunity. She applauded the coordinated work of different agencies of government in creating awareness and implementing various schemes.


    Dr Pon. Saravanan, Block Medical Officer Pudukottai Govt Public Health centre in his address said that fear about covid 19 is coming down among public . He advised people to compulsorily wear face masks while coming out and advised frequent hand washing and maintaining safe distance norms. He said that covid 19 patients are separated in different categories including asymptomatic, co-morbid, severe category and treated accordingly. He pointed out that compared with urban centres, there is less number of covid 19 patients in villages as there is no overcrowding in rural areas. He advised that zinc and vitamin C tablets can be taken to increase immunity.


    Shri S Arunkumar Field Publicity Assistant Field Outreach Bureau Thanjavur moderated the webinar and rendered vote of thanks. The webinar was attended by full capacity of 100 participants from various places including Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts. The participants were given ecertificates through online link. The webinar was streamed live in youtube of Regional Outreach Bureau Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and over 100 watched the programme premiered live.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1653362) Visitor Counter : 83