      Special Service and Features

      RURAL TRANSFORMATION PROJECT REVIVING THE LIVELIHOOD OF RURAL POOR
      Rs 300 crorecovid 19 assistance package implemented to benefit 1.39 lakh persons in Tamil Nadu

      Posted On: 13 SEP 2020 6:40PM by PIB Chennai

    Covid 19 pandemic lockdown has affected rural economy badly as most of the villagers are dependent on daily wages and agriculture. PM Atmanirbhar schemes worth Rs 20 lakh crore are being implemented to revive the livelihood of people affected by lockdown. Prime Minister had said that villages should become the pillars of Aatmanirbhar Bharat while launching e-Gopala App and other schemes for farmers.


    In Tamil Nadu, Covid 19 assistance package scheme worth Rs 300 crore is implemented to benefit 1.39 lakh beneficiaries including self help group members, farm producer group members, differently abled persons, youth who have returned to hometown after losing jobs in other states due to lock down. In Tiruchirapalli district, covid assistance package scheme worth Rs 9.92 crore is being implemented by Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project benefiting 4500 persons. This scheme is being implemented in 135 village Panchayats of Musiri, Manikandam, Manaparai, Anthanalalur and Thurayur unions in Trichy district. As part of the scheme, two Farm Producer groups were given Rs 7 lakh each by district collector. Moreover seven Farm Producer groups were given Rs 1.5 lakh each under covid assistance package. This will be one-time capital grant to existing producer groups up to a maximum of Rs.1,50,000 per group. In Tiruchirapalli, 1995 Self help group members were given Rs 50000 each totalling Rs 5.4 crore assistance under the special scheme.


    Moreover 1900 differently abled and affected persons were given Rs 20000 loan assistance totalling Rs 1.69 crore. Many persons have been affected by covid 19 lockdown and returned to home town after losing jobs in other states. 88 youth who returned to hometown Trichy from other states/ countries and even other districts after losing job due to covid 19 lockdown were given Rs one lakh each credit assistance under the package. The credit assistance is given to SHG group members to start enterprises like grocery retail shop ,vegetable retail shop, tea shops, Small eateries , Bakeries Dairy, goat, poultry, meat & fish retail shop/vendors goat, poultry, pig & fish traders, Tailoring etc., The entrepreneur should repay the amount to the Self help group in maximum 39 monthly instalments including 3 months moratorium period. The Self help group will repay the amount to the Panchayat level federation with an additional grace of 2 months - full repayment in 41 months.


    Unlock 4 is the time to rehabilitate and resurge from lockdown inflicted losses due to covid 19. Government is helping economy to bounce back and help people to come out of the crisis.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1653846) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil