      Special Service and Features

      Applications invited for grant of Financial Assistance for education to the children of Beedi / Lime Stone & Dolomite Mines / Cine workers for the year 2020-21
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2020 3:48PM by PIB Chennai


    Online applications are invited for grant of Financial Assistance for education to the children of Beedi / Lime Stone & Dolomite Mines / Cine workers for the year 2020-21, studying in Class I to Professional Degree ranging from Rs.250/- to Rs.15,000/- depending upon class, the student is studying / Course the student is pursuing.


    1. Applications may be submitted through online in National Scholarship Portal: http://scholarships.gov.in for grant of financial assistance to Scholarship .


    2. Every student must have individual Savings Bank Account in any Nationalized / Scheduled Bank having Core banking System (CBS) and National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT) facilities.


    3. Applicants with Aadhar card and Savings Bank Account linked with Aadhar number only will be considered for the grant of Financial Assistance.


    4. Applicants must give consent online for use of Aadhar number for availing the benefits under the Scholarship Scheme.


    5. Active contribution of the Head of Educational Institutions is requested to carry out this benevolent task. They are to register (if not registered) their school / College in National Scholarship portal: http://scholarships.gov.in , view the guidelines, scrutinise the applications submitted by the students, approve it and submit it online through their registered id. Unless the Institution verifies the online application received in their login id and submits the application for the next level of verification, the application of the beneficiaries, cannot be further processed for granting of scholarship.


    Last date for submission application through online is 31/10/2020 . For further clarifications and assistance please contact:


    Office of Welfare & Cess Commissioner (C)


    Labour Welfare Organisation,


    Ground Floor, SIDCO Administrative Branch Office Building,


    Thiru.Vi.Ka. Industrial Estate, Guindy, Chennai - 600032


    Email: scholarship201718tvl@gmail.com


    Contact No: 044-29530169


    This is stated in a press release issued by the Shri. P L Rajendran, Welfare & Cess Commissioner (C) Tamil Nadu & Pondicherry.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654028) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil