      Special Service and Features

      Awareness campaign in Tamil Nadu for Siddha Medicine solutions for health promotion and disease prevention
      Posted On: 15 SEP 2020 2:33PM by PIB Chennai


    Taking note of the increased concern among the public for maintaining good health and preventing diseases in the pandemic scenario, the Central Council for Research in Siddha (CCRS), Chennai has come up a series of activities to generate awareness about various health and well-being measures from the Siddha system of medicine. The activities will be carried out mostly in Tamil Nadu, during the months of September, October and November, 2020.


    These activities will form part of the country-wide AYUSH for Immunity Campaign launched by the Ministry of AYUSH on 14 August 2020.


    The potential of digital platforms will be utilised in the campaign, taking note of the increased activity of the public on social media in the post-lockdown phase. Accordingly, CCRS is launching a poster contest on Facebook, later this month. Contestants will be required to design posters highlighting simple health solutions based on Siddha practices that help to prevent infections and diseases, and post them on the Facebook handle of the Council


    Two important Webinarswill be held Live on FaceBook, in the third and fourth weeksrespectively of September 2020. The first Webinar will cater to the public as well as Siddha fraternity, and Dr.V. Vikram Kumar, Assistant Medical Officer (Siddha) will be the key resource person. The topic will be “Experience sharing of Siddha Covid centre at Tirupathur and role of Siddha in disease prevention”. The second Webinar will be for school teachers and will be held in association with Velammal group of institutions. The key resource person for this will be Dr. G. Sivaraman, Managing Director, Arogya Health Care Pvt. Ltd., Chennai. The topic “Siddha functional foods for prevention of diseases” will be discussed in this Webinar.


    As part of this three-month campaign, various promotion material including posters covering simple and every day solutions are being prepared. These will be displayed and distributed across the State by the peripheral institutes and units of CCRS.


    A series of awareness lectures in the peripheral institutes and units of CCRS for OPD patients and lectures in Siddha Covid care centres functioning in Tamil Nadu have also been planned.Educational videos, awareness speeches and radio spots through community radio have also been included in the campaign.


    This is stated in a press release issued by Shri.P.N. Ranjit Kumar, Joint Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH, New Delhi.


    

    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654436) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil