      Special Service and Features

      YOUTH SHOULD UTILISE THE BANK LOANS OFFERED THROUGH AATMA NIRBHAR AND OTHER SCHEMES FOR REVIVING THEIR LIVELIHOOD
      WEBINAR ON PM JAN DHAN, AATMA NIRBHAR BHARAT, EK BHARAT SHRESTA BHARAT BY FOB TIRUCHIRAPALLI

      Posted On: 16 SEP 2020 5:00PM by PIB Chennai

    Unemployed youth should utilise the loans provided by banks under various government schemes to revive their livelihood and make themselves self-reliant. This was stressed in a webinar on PM Jan Dhan, AatmaNirbhar Bharat, bank credit assistance and Ek Bharat Shresta Bharat organised by Field Outreach Bureau Government of India Tiruchirapalli, in coordination with Nehru Yuva Kendra Trichy and Perambalur.


    Shri J Kamaraj Joint Director Regional Outreach Bureau Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in his presidential address said that central government is implementing AatmaNirbhar Bharat scheme worth Rs 20 lakh crore to make people self reliant and resurge from lockdown inflicted difficulties. He pointed out that vocational training is important before utilising bank loans properly. He said that in the past six months nearly 3crore persons all over the world and over fifty lakh persons in India were infected by Covid 19 virus. Government has announced Unlock 1,2,3 and 4 relaxations phasewise just to ensure livelihood of people is safeguarded.Realising this people should take extra caution and follow all safety norms while going out, he added.


    Shri K Devi Padmanabhan, Field Publicity Officer Tiruchirapalli in his introductory address said that PM Jan Dhan accounts have been opened for 40.52 crore beneficiaries till now. He said that PM Jan Dhan completed six years on 28th of August and it has helped to give banking access to all especially women and rural people. He pointed out that Rs 500 was deposited in more than 20 crore women Jan Dhan accounts under Covid 19 package by Union government. He said that Ek Bharat Shresta Bharat was announced by PM on 31st October 2015, the 140th birth anniversary of the Iron Man of India SardarVallabhbhai Patel. He pointed out that each state is paired with another state for exchange of cultural, linguistic, literary festivals and ideas as part of Ek Bharat Shresta Bharat scheme. Tamil Nadu is linked with Jammu Kashmir and Ladakh under the scheme.


    Ms Sruthi S, Tiruchirapalli District Youth Coordinator of Nehru Yuva Kendra in her felicitation address said that AatmaNirbhar Bharat schemes will help us to be self reliant and PM Jan DhanYojana schemes will give financial empowerment.


    Shri G Raveendran, General Manager, District Industries Centre Tiruchirapalli in his special address talked about Prime Minister Employment generation programme -PMEGP, Unemployed Youth Employment Generation Programme- UYEGP and New Entrepreneurs cum Enterprises development Scheme -NEEDS. He said that under PMEGP, for service industry project cost uptoRs 10 lakh loan is available and for production industry project , uptoRs 25 lakhs loan is allowed. Loans can be applied through www.kviconline.gov.in website and exemption is given for training till this month end. He said under NEEDS, loans can be applied for projects cost uptoRs 5 crore with capital subsidy of 25 per cent of project cost and 3 per cent interest subvention. Shri A Senthil Kumar, General Manager, District Industries Centre, Perambalur also interacted with participants on credit assistance for youth to start production industries or service business. Shri M Velusamy, Financial Literacy Counsellor, IOB Tiruchirapalli said that PM Jan Dhan accounts can be started even without minimum balance in banks. He pointed out that with this scheme, banking facilities are given to persons from rural areas.


    Earlier Shri R Maheswaran of Nehru Yuva Kendra Tiruchirapalli welcomed the participants and Shri N Tamilarasan NYK Perambalur rendered vote of thanks. Shri K RavIndran Field Publicity Assistant Field Outreach Bureau Tiruchirapalli moderated and coordinated the webinar. The webinar was organised in coordination with Nehru Yuva Kendra Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports Trichy and Perambalur. The w e binar was streamed live in YoutubeChannel of Regional Outreach Bureau, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry .


    Webinar collage


    ***


    

    
    (Release ID: 1655106) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil