      Special Service and Features

      PM EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROGRAMME HELPING YOUTH CRAFT THEIR FUTURE
      Rs 5634 crore released for 2 lakh projects under PMEGP

      Posted On: 18 SEP 2020 5:39PM by PIB Chennai

    Covid 19 pandemic Unlock 4 is the time to fight back and revive the economy affected by the lockdown . Daily wagers have lost jobs, traders have lost business, and people have suffered financially because of the covid 19 lockdown. Union Government is implementing AatmaNirbhar schemes worth Rs 20 lakh crore to rejuvenate the economy and livelihood of affected persons. Be self reliant is the clarion call by our Prime Minister and for that schemes like Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP) should be properly utilised.


    Shri G Raveendran General Manager, District Industries Centre Tiruchirapalli said that PMEGP scheme is implemented by Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) which is the nodal agency at the national level and by State Khadi and Village Industries Boards (KVIBs) and District Industries Centres (DICs) at the state level. He said loans can be applied through DIC offices, KVIC website and exemption is given for training till this month end. The beneficiaries can also submit their application online at https://www.kviconline.gov.in and take the printout of the application and submit the same to respective offices along with Detailed Project Report and other required documents. Till now 16.82 lakh applications are received under PMEGP scheme and margin money of Rs 5634 crore released so far for 2 lakh projects all over the country.


    Union Micro Small Medium Enterprises Ministry has given exemption from Entrepreneurship development training EDP training till September 30 for claiming margin money considering covid 19 pandemic related restrictions. However, EDP training has to be completed in the next quarter upto December 31, 2020. Normally before margin money claim through PMEGP eportal ,EDP training of 10 working days for Project cost more than Rs 5 lakhs and 6 Working days training for upto Project Cost Rs 5 lakhs to the beneficiary is compulsory.


    The maximum cost of the project/unit admissible in manufacturing sector is ₹ 25 lakhs and in the business/service sector, it is ₹ 10 lakhs. Rate of subsidy under PMEGP (of project cost) for General category is 15% for urban and 25% for rural, special category 25% for Urban and, 35% for Rural. The special category includes SC/ ST/ OBC/ Minorities/Women, Ex-servicemen, Physically handicapped, NER, Hill and Border areas. The balance amount of the total project cost will be provided by the banks in the form of term loan and working capital. Any individual, above 18 years of age with at least VIII standard pass is eligible to apply for projects costing above Rs.10 lakh in the manufacturing sector and above Rs. 5 lakh in the business / service sector. Only new projects are considered for sanction under PMEGP. Self Help Groups, Institutions registered under Societies Registration Act,1860, Production Co-operative Societies, and Charitable Trusts are also eligible.


    Unemployed youth should utilise the government schemes to stand on their own feet to realise the vision of a secured livelihood and also the vision of AatmaNirbhar -Self reliant Bharat. G Raveendran Gen Manager DIC Trichy


    

    
    (Release ID: 1656289) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil