      Special Service and Features

      AIR BUBBLE AGREEMENTS TO SUPPORT VANDE BHARAT MISSION IN BRINGING BACK STRANDED INDIANS ABROAD
      
      17 lakh Indians brought home from abroad under Vande Bharat Mission

      Posted On: 20 SEP 2020 7:31PM by PIB Chennai

    K DEVI PADMANABHAN FIELD PUBLICITY OFFICER TIRUCHIRAPALLI


    Covid 19 pandemic lockdown had led to stranding of lakhs of Indians abroad due to cancellation of flights. Vande Bharat Mission has been a boon to Indians in foreign countries who wanted to return back to be with their family. Union Civil aviation Minister Shri Hardeep Singh Puri has said that more than 17 lakh people have been brought back to India under different phases of Vande Bharat Mission.


    In addition to Vande Bharat Mission, India has also entered into air bubble agreement with 13 countries including USA, Canada, France, Germany, UK, Maldives, UAE, Qatar, Afghanistan and Bahrain. In addition to existing countries, people can also fly between India & Afghanistan, Bahrain, Canada, France, Germany, Iraq, Maldives, Nigeria & Qatar. Air bubble is a temporary agreement between two countries aimed at restarting commercial passenger services when regular international flights are suspended as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Airlines from both countries enjoy similar benefits under the agreement. Under the air bubble agreement flight service will be operated between Tiruchirapalli and Bahrain on September 29. Under Vande Bharat Mission, there will be an additional flight between Tiruchirappalli & Dubai on 24th along with the existing available flights on 22, 25 & 27th September by Air India Express. IX1249 will leave Trichy at 4.40 PM and will reach Dubai at 7.30 PM. Vande Bharat Mission was started on May 7 by Union Government to repatriate Indians stranded abroad and to transport people from other countries stranded in India due to covid 19 lockdown . The Sixth Phase of Vande Bharat Mission started from September 1 will continue till October 24 with more than 1626 flights.


    Shri Sudhi , an engineer working in Dubai said that many Indians have utilised the Vande Bharat Mission flights to return home with their family. He said that Indians working abroad find it difficult because of 14 day quarantine restrictions on reaching India. They hope that there will be more relaxations under Unlock 4 so that on an emergency, they can visit their ailing relatives and return back to their workplace.


    Passengers who come from abroad to Tamil Nadu by international flights should undergo 14 days home quarantine. RT-PCR test report should be submitted. Symptomatic and covid 19 tested positive passengers will be admitted in hospital and treated in isolation. Business trip and return within 72 hours will get exemption from quarantine.


    Vande Bharat Mission flights along with air bubble agreement flights will indeed help bring back stranded Indians from abroad and unite them with their families.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1657042) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil