      Ministry of Mines

      Prime Minister Narendra Modi led government will benefit all states including Goa: Pralhad Joshi
      Posted On: 09 SEP 2019 6:06PM by PIB Mumbai


    The abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, criminalisation of instant triple talaq and amendment in a law to allow an individual to be designated as ‘terrorist’ are some of the major path-breaking decisive actions of the government in last 100 days tenure, said Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Shri Pralhad Joshi while addressing the Media persons in Panaji today.


    Minister highlighted the achievements of the NDA government in the last 100 days said that these bold initiatives and decisive actions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi led government will benefit all states including Goa.


    "Government is following a zero-tolerance policy towards terrorism and had come with an amendment in law to have a provision to declare an individual as a terrorist", said Joshi.


    Investigation agencies like NIA is now empowered in terror-related cases to conduct search and investigations in the countries like Srilanka which have an agreement with India, added Joshi.


    While highlighting on benefits abrogation of special status to Kashmir Joshi said that laws pertaining to education, Right to Information, empowerment of SCs and STs, minorities and others will be applicable in Jammu and Kashmir now.


    "The world community has supported New Delhi’s move and it is an achievement of foreign diplomacy of the Modi led government", he added.


    Highlighting the work done by Government in empowering women Minister said that Government has brought in an amendment in POSCO Act which has a provision for the death penalty for sexual assaults crimes.


    40 thousand teachers are being trained to create awareness in students about bad and good touch, he added.


    Joshi said the government has also unveiled a roadmap to make India a USD-5 trillion economy by 2024.


    He highlighted the establishment of Jal Shakti Ministry, the National Medical Commission and merger of banks.


    "70, 000 crore rupees will be released to Public sector banks to facilitate them to lend more loans to the needy", he said.


    Many initiatives are taken by the government in several fields including agriculture, power, health, social justice and empowerment, health, power among other areas to make the economy stronger.


    The minister said every single rural house will have electricity and clean cooking gas connection by 2022. He said 1.94 crore houses are proposed to be provided to eligible beneficiaries under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana - Gramin by 2021-22 and 4.2 crore under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Urban.


    The minister said PM Kisan scheme has been extended to another 3.44 crore farmers in the last 100 days. He said the government has decided to give pension to 5 crore marginal farmers under PM Kisan Maan Dhan Yojana.


    Stating that out of 18 crore families in rural areas, just 3.52 crore families are getting tap water Minister said that to ensure availability of portable water Jal Shakti Ministry has been set up and Jal Shakti Abhiyan has been launched by the government. He said the target is to complete 2.11 lakh Jal Shakti Abhiyan related works in the selected rural blocks this year.


    Minister said that the government has decided to develop infrastructure worth rupees 100 lakh crores in the country with almost 50 lakh crores investment in Railways.


    Stating that PM Narendra Modi Government has made a record in passing the maximum number of Bills in a single session of Parliament He said altogether 35 Bills were passed in the Monsoon Session this year.


    Stating that there were only 13 crore LPG connections in last 60 years minister highlighted that in 5 years government has completed the target of 8 crore new LPG connections.


    “Some of districts we have made smoke free”, Minister said.


    Minister also said that under UDAN Yojana the frequency of intrastate domestic flights has gone high.


    While speaking on the initiative to boost to protect environment Minister said that government has reduced GST on electric vehicles from 18 per cent to 5 per cent.


    Government is also having an agreement with other nations to import lithium which will help in Solar energy plants in the country, he added.


    ***


    ED/SP/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584566) Visitor Counter : 191
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi