      Ministry of External Affairs

      Poles in India delegation pay tributes to the soil of Kolhapur
      
      Overwhelmed by the warm welcome in Kolhapur city
      Posted On: 12 SEP 2019 6:47PM by PIB Mumbai


    Kolhapur


    A 27-member Poles in India delegation comprising Polish citizens who took refuge at Valivade in Kolhapur district during World War II, arrived in India today along with their family members. They were accorded a warm welcome in Kolhapur, the city where they lived during wartime. All these citizens arrived at Kolhapur this afternoon and paid tributes to the soil and recalled their memories at Valivade refugee camp.


    Vaibhav Nawadkar, sub-divisional officer, Karveer, Sheetal Mule, Tahsildar, Kamal Katariya, Director, Airport Authority and Sachin Jadhav welcomed the Polish citizens. All these Poles spent their childhood in refugee camp at Valivade village of Kolhapur district during 1942-1948. Some of them visited the place today and recalled their memories.


    Sambhaji Raje Chhatrapati, Member of Parliament; Sanyogita Raje Chhatrapati, Yajnyaseni Fatehsingh Sawant, Sumitra Devi Suresh Mane, Krutika Sangram Singh Chavan and Reema Ravindra Patil welcomed the contingent in traditional way.


    The high level delegation led by Marcin Przydacz, Deputy Foreign Minister of Poland will arrive in Kolhapur on Friday night. He will interact with the industrialists and businessmen in Kolhapur the next morning.


    The 27 citizens, the deputy foreign minister and the members of high level committee will visit Valivade. The contingent includes 13 Polish citizens who spent their childhood at Valivade during 1942 to 1948. Various programmes have been organised on September 14 at Valivade, where these people lived during the Second World War. The memorial built in the area where the five thousand citizens lived as refugees from 1942 to 194, will be inaguarated at the hands of Marcin Przydacz. A museum will also be built in this area with the objective of helping the coming generations to know about the times and life at camp Valivade. Paintings, photographs, documents and other important articles will be displayed in the museum. The museum will be ready within a year.


    “Lutha’s 72 year old memory of the bangles from Walivade”


    “Lutha Maria stayed as a small girl with her mother at Valivade during 1942 to 1948. Her mother had put a bangle on her hand during the stay. She has preserved the bangle for the last 72 years. She says she continues to treasure the bangle as a memory from the land of Shahu Maharaj.


    ***


    DJM/Radhika Agor

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584933) Visitor Counter : 194
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi