      Ministry of Shipping

      “At home Function” organized by the Director General of Shipping on the occasion of 70th Foundation Day of the Directorate General of Shipping, Govt. of India
      
      India to build Maritime heritage complex at Lothal with the cost of about ₹ 500 crore: Union Minister of State for Shipping (I/C)
      Posted On: 03 SEP 2019 9:47PM by PIB Mumbai


    Union Shipping Minister, Shri Mansukh L. Mandaviya while celebrating 70 th foundation day of Director General of Shipping (DGS) in Mumbai today, told that Government of India would build Maritime heritage complex at Lothal with the cost of about 500 rupees crore. He told that Maritime sector will see new heights and have overall development. Maritime sector has great potential and opportunities and the focus of this government will be on developing -


    1) Coastal shipping


    2) Inland waterways


    3) Ship building


    4) Ship breaking and


    5) Digitalization in Ministry


    At this occasion, he said that, Maritime is not new sector for India and since ancient times India has long history of developed Maritime sector. Added, that starting from Harappa to right up to Chanakya, India has a rich history of maritime engagements. The treaty of Arthashastra speaks about Maritime chief and elaborates on his duties. Ours is probably the only country which has an ocean named after it that is Indian Ocean. Minister further said that we have to learn from experience of Philippines and develop our potential in our in some unique way over next 5 years.


    At the event, Shri Mansukh. L. Mandaviya inaugurated the Logo & Caption of Director General Shipping. The DGS has come a long way from its early days. In fact in the last few years, DGS has taken several initiatives to ease the working of the Shipping industry including revamping of old Acts, easing of norms for Coastal Shipping, quality training & employment of seafarers and complete revamp of e-Governance modules. There have been reforms in Training and Seafarer’s welfare systems, introduction of e- migrant and ISPL module in e-governance system ensuring maritime administration to be in the loop. The steps taken in the recent years have had significant impact on seafarers' employment whose numbers have gone up substantially touching a figure of 2,08,000. Ship registration in India has gone up by around 200 in the last 4 years and coastal traffic is expected to rise significantly.


    These initiatives are a part of the much larger ‘Sagarmala Project’ envisaged by the government under leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and rolled out by Shri. Mansukh. L. Mandaviya , Hon’ble Minister of State for Shipping (Independent Charge), Chemical and Fertilizers, Government of India, and former Shipping Minister Shri Nitin Gadkari.


    Former Director General Shipping were felicitated at the event while reflecting over the commitment, resilience and dedication, they displayed to see the progress of the Directorate.


    Director General of Shipping (DGS) and Additional Secretary, Government of India, Mr. Amitabh Kumar highlighted number of reforms undertaken. He expressed his deepest gratitude to the stakeholders of maritime industry for the support they extended in making it possible to achieve some difficult tasks in record time. Further, he said that the commemoration of 70 th year foundation day is a day to reflect on the journey of Directorate from 1949 till today. It is a day to connect together and celebrate growth and development in the Indian Shipping since independence and introspect on way ahead. We have a future perspective in mind. As far as Indian shipping is concerned, it is the day where we will not only celebrate but we will also meet to discuss to chart out course of action for future.


    ***


    RT/MC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584052) Visitor Counter : 118