      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Dr. Mahendra Nath Pandey, Union Minister for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, lays Foundation Stone for Indian Institute of Skills, Mumbai
      
      IISs in line with Institutes of Eminence including IITs and IIMs
      
      Tata Group to invest Rs. 300 crore in setting up the 4.5 acres campus at Sion

      Posted On: 11 SEP 2019 6:38PM by PIB Mumbai

    Mumbai, September 11, 2019


    Union Minister for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE), Dr. Mahendra Nath Pandey, laid foundation stone for Indian Institute of Skills in Mumbai today. On the occasion, the Minister recalled, “the concept of Indian Institute of Skills (IIS) was envisaged by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi himself when he had visited the Vocational Education and Training Center in Singapore. It will aspire to earn a similar reputation, stature and world-class infrastructure to cater to the demands of the international market and modern requirements’’.


    The Union Cabinet had given its nod to set up Indian Institute of Skills (IISs) in three locations of the country — Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Kanpur, to give wings to the Skill India Mission. These institutes will be constructed & operated on a PPP (Public-Private Partnership) model and in not-for-profit basis. The vision behind setting up IIS was to build world-class skill training centres in line with reputed educational institutes like Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) and Indian Institution of Management (IIM), with first-hand learning facilities from internationally renowned existing skill institutions.


    “Just like how we are now being known for ‘Make in India’, soon we will be known for ‘Skilled in India’ as well. The driving force behind setting up a state-of-the-art training institution like the Indian Institute of Skills (IISs) is to help candidates equip themselves with marketable skills. There is a need to build a skilled workforce equipped with the required skillsets to meet the demand of Industry 4.0, powered by technology like automation, Artificial Intelligence and machine learning, cyber technology, energy conservation etc. The skill scenario is changing world over, and these institutes will keep us competitive. The setting up of the institute in Mumbai will also cater to aspirations of the youth of Maharashtra eager to become a part of the new-age industrial economy,” he added.


    The Indian Institute of Skills is aimed to provide skill training in highly specialized areas to students who want to pursue technical education after completing Class X and Class XII, making them employable and industry ready for the New India and the global market.


    Chairman, Tata Sons , Shri Natarajan Chandrasekaran, extended his best wishes on the foundation ceremony and said that Tata is privileged to be a part of a project conceptualized by the Prime Minister, himself. He said that jobs are critical for economic growth and with the current demographic dividend, skill development is the appropriate solution to get the youth productively employed. He said that we need to ensure that latest market relevant skills are imparted to make the youth ready for jobs of the future.


    Tata Education Development Trust (TEDT) was selected as the private partner for setting up IIS at NSTI campus in Mumbai through a competitive bidding process. The Government has provided land to the private partner for a period of 25 years for the institute, with comprehensive project reviews every 5 years mapping performance outcome. The Tata Group is investing about Rs. 300 crore in the 4.5 acres campus that aims to bring best-in-class infrastructure facilities to students. The aim of the Institute is to ensure that 5000 trainees will be passing out every year with 70% placement opportunities.


    Envisaged as world-class skill training center imbibing best practices from internationally renowned existing skill institutions, the institute will facilitate learnings and trainings through strong industry connect in both public and private sectors. The courses in this institute will include modern training methodologies using digital and augmented learning platforms. It is also an important step towards promoting apprenticeship-embedded courses and offering higher order qualifications leading up to certificates, diplomas and even degrees in conjunction with universities.


    Vice-Chairman of Maharashtra Film, Stage & Cultural Development Corporation Ltd (MFSCDCL), Shri Amarjeet Mishra, MLA Shri Mangesh M Kudalkar, Chairman, National Skill Development Corporation & Group Chairman, Larsen & Toubro Limited, Mr. A.M. Naik, Secretary, MSDE, Shri KP Krishnan, and other dignitaries were also present.


    Along with the foundation laying ceremony, the dignitaries also undertook tree plantation during the occasion at the National Skill Training Institute campus in Mumbai.


    ***


    R.Tidke/P.Dhanalakshmi/P.Kor

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584770) Visitor Counter : 187