      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Nine Lakh Youth from Pune have benefitted from MUDRA Scheme: Union Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2019 4:33PM by PIB Mumbai


    Pune, 14 September 2019


    Nine Lakh Youth from Pune have benefitted from Mudra Scheme, schemes like Bharatnet, Ayushman Bharat, Pradhan Mantri Matrutv Vandana Yojana too are making rapid progress, said Union Minister for Environment, Forest & Climate Change and Information & Broadcasting, Shri Prakash Javadekar. He was speaking after the first meeting of District Development Co-ordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) in Pune, which took place today under the chairmanship of Shri Javadekar.


    The Minister said, “Meetings of Disha are held to plan for the schemes, and monitor their execution. Mudra scheme is making rapid progress in the district and 9 lakh youths from district have been allotted loans worth Rs 8000 crore under it. Out of 58 railways stations in Pune division, 46 have been equipped with wifi facility. 5 Escalators too have been installed."


    “The Passport Seva Kendra in Baramati has distributed 5000 passports so far and has made the life of layman easier. Passport seva kendras have been started at 50 places in 5 districts. Bharatnet has given optical fibre connections to 790 Gram Panchayats in district and among them 155 have wifi facility, with average daily use of 20 GB. The schools are being provided with sports material and sports hour too will be made compulsory in schools”, Shri Javadekar added.


    The Minister further said that National Health Mission comprising Ayushman Yojana and othe schemes has succeeded in reducing the Infant Mortality rate, Maternal Mortality rate, birth rate and death rate in Pune. "60,000 women in Pune have so far benefitted from Pradhan Mantri Matrutva Yojana.The target for building of toilets has also been achieved and the ranking of Pune in Swachhta has jumped from 10th place to 2nd place. The anganwadis are making rapid progress due to participation of people”.


    While wishing the people on the occasion of Hindi Divas, Shri Javadekar reiterated the government policy of promoting all regional languages. He allayed the fear of local languages dying out and cited the increasing use of Hindi on the internet. He further said, rarely ever is such linguistic diversity seen in any other country.


    Members of Parliament Shri Girish Bapat and Smt Supriya Sule were also present on the occasion.


    DM/MC/DR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585077) Visitor Counter : 783
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Punjabi