      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      Data will be gathered from Own account enterprises like Ola and Uber drivers: National Statistical Office
      
      Regional Training Camp (RTC) on Annual Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises (1st Round) inaugurated
      Posted On: 23 SEP 2019 1:51PM by PIB Mumbai


    “Transition from paper schedule to digital form, usage of Artificial Intelligence and Machine learning as well as lack of regular manpower are key challenges in front of NSO and we will overcome them”. This was stated by Additional Director General, National Statistical Office (FOD) Head Quarters New Delhi, Shri Ashok Kumar Toprani while inaugurating the Regional Training Camp on Annual Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises (1st Round).


    The camp is being held at Regional Office, C.G.O Complex, CBD Belapur, Navi Mumbai during September 23 – 25, 2019. The training camp is aimed at imparting training to officials and field functionaries in the Maharashtra (West) Region. It will also provide a platform to discuss the various intricacies regarding the upcoming survey. Around 100 delegates/officials are expected to attend the Regional Training Camp.


    Data from Own Account enterprises like @Uber and @Olacabs drivers will be collected which won't be shared with any government department : ADG, NSO, Shri Toprani
    
    Regional Training Camp on Annual Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises (1st Round) inaugurated.
    @GoIStats pic.twitter.com/FRCibX2D1H

    — PIB in Maharashtra (@PIBMumbai) September 23, 2019

    “The Annual Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises will gather data from the sector which contributes 11.52 lakh crore worth of Net Value addition and has potential to generate 11.13 crore employment; this shows the importance of this sector. Collecting data from Own Account enterprises (enterprises run from houses or enterprises like hawkers which do not have fixed establishment and which do not hire any worker) will be a challenge. Uber and Ola drivers also come in this category; we will collect data from all of them which will not be shared in raw form with any government department”, the Additional Director General added.


    The survey will be for six month duration and subsequent surveys will be of one year duration. The survey will be devoted to collecting operational and economic statistics of the unincorporated non-agricultural establishments in manufacturing, trade and other service sectors. The survey will be conducted digitally using tablets etc., said Deputy Director General, NSO (FOD) Regional Office Mumbai, Ms. Supriya Roy on this occasion.


    The National Statistical Office (NSO) earlier known as National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) - is a premier field survey office under the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, Government of India. It is going to launch 1st Round of Annual Survey of "Unincorporated Sector Enterprises" from October 2019 to 31 March 2020.


    The objective of this survey is collection of Operational and Financial aspects from Unincorporated Sector Enterprises. This is important due to the large number of enterprises which exist in this sector and due to the magnitude of employment it provides to unskilled / semi-skilled / skilled persons and due to its contribution to the national GDP.


    The statistical indicators derived on the basis of the survey are required for planning and policy making. The results of the survey will help Government to compute important components of National Accounts.


    Backgrounder about the NSO


    The National Statistical Office (NSO) earlier known as National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) has been in the service of the nation since 1950. It has been instrumental in developing a strong database on various Socio-Economic parameters through its countrywide sample surveys, which have helped the Central as well as State Governments in development of planning and policy formulation. Various agencies in India and abroad are utilizing the NSO data for estimation of poverty, construction of price indices and assessing impact of various programmes on pattern and level of household consumption expenditure, employment-unemployment situation, condition of agricultural households, migration, utilization of health and education services, domestic tourism, etc. The data made available by NSO regarding unorganized manufacturing /services sector is widely used by planners and policy makers.


    ***


    DJM/MC/SP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1585849) Visitor Counter : 256
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi