      Ministry of Culture

      ‘National conference on India in Space and Nuclear Energy’ will be organised on 16th Sep 2019, to commemorate the birth anniversary of Dr. Vikram Sarabhai.
      
      ISRO’s Exhibition will be open for visitors from 15th to 17th September, 2019 at Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai.

      Posted On: 13 SEP 2019 6:33PM by PIB Mumbai

    Mumbai, 13 th September 2019


    Nehru Science Centre Mumbai, National centre for Science Communicators and National Education Society are planning to organise a ‘National conference on India in Space and Nuclear Energy’ on16th Sep 2019 at Nehru Science Centre to commemorate the 100th birth anniversary of Dr. Vikram A Sarabhai, the father of Indian Space Program and the founder of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO).


    Chairman - National Centre for Science Communicators, Shri. A P Jayaraman, General Secretary, Shri. Suhas B Naik –Satam and Director- Nehru Science Centre, Shri Shivaprasad Khened, jointly announced this at a Press Conference in Mumbai today.


    During the conference, Director- Nehru Science Centre, Shri Shivaprasad Khened mentioned “ It is very encouraging to see the attention Chandrayaan 2 is receiving in India, like it used to be for cinema and cricket in our country. A few days ago, the whole nation was glued to the screens to witness the launch of Chandrayaan 2, the second lunar exploration mission developed by the ISRO. The lander of the lunar mission was named Vikram lander, in the honour of Dr. Vikram Sarabhai”.


    While talking about the contributions of Dr. Sarabhai in the fields of space and nuclear research, Chairman - National Centre for Science Communicators, Shri. A P Jayaraman said “Dr. Sarabhai always believed Space is for the benefit of people. He indeed proved it by bringing advancements in remote sensing that helped the fishermen of our coastal regions by large. Infact, Dr. Sarabhai is the first person to bring management into science. His focus was not just science but to help the economy and create jobs too ”.


    “Vikram Sarabhai believed firmly in the need for communication and education, especially of those living in rural areas. In 1966, his contribution towards communication and technology, gave India, the Satellite Instructional Television Experiment(SITE). The initiative was aimed to make television and other informational programmes available to rural India which covered around 2400 villages between 1987-89.That was a period when 181 transmitters were installed in just183 days. It was possible only because of the visionary”, he added, as he recalled working with Dr. Sarabhai.


    The eminent speakers and invitees of the National Conference are those who have either worked with Dr. Sarabhai and those who knew him personally. Mallika Sarabhai, Dr. Sarabhai’s daughter, will also share her personal reminiscence about her father, in the conference to be held on 16 th September 2019.


    In addition to the conference, Nehru Science Centre in Mumbai, Ministry of Culture have joined hands with Space Applications Centre(SAC) and Vikram Sarabhai Space Exhibition (VSSE) by providing venue for the Mobile exhibition of ISRO.


    The exhibition will have various exhibits like statis panels, dynamic displays, scaled down models of rockets, launch vehicles, earth Observation Satellites, Communication satellites and their application, inter-planetory mission, Human Space Program, Kids Section, Quiz Section etc.


    A film on the life of Dr. Vikram Sarabhai will also be screened after the conference.


    Exhibition will be open for public on 15 th , 16 th and 17 th September,2019 at Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai, from 09:30 am to 6:00 pm.


    About Vikram Sarabhai Space Exhibition (VSSE):


    Vikram Sarabhai Space Exhibition (VSSE) located in the premises of Space Applications Centre, Ahmedabad is a non commercial exhibition and is open for public viewing and societal use. One who visits the exhibition gets a glimpse of entire range of ISRO activities covering satellites, launch vehicles and applications of the satellites. Since the rural population is unable to benefit from such a permanent exhibition setup, VSSE is planning to conduct numerous state of the art mobile exhibiton in the rural areas of Gujarat and its neighbouring states. As a result of this, the mobile exhibition will be open to the target audience encompassing masses from all age groups coming from various walks o life, including students, teachers, professionals as well as the general public. The exhibition will cover the entire range of ISRO activities from conceptualization of ISRO, its history to social benefits of space programs and future ISRO programs.


    B.Gokhale/Dhanlaxmi/P.Kor

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585021) Visitor Counter : 830
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi