      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Veteran actress Tanuja to grace the closing ceremony of 14th Marathi Film Appreciation Course
      
      A special screening of Marathi film Pitruroon, to celebrate her 75th birthday

      Posted On: 23 SEP 2019 12:38PM by PIB Mumbai

      Veteran actress Tanuja, a popular face of the 60s and 70s Indian cinema will grace the closing ceremony of the 14th Marathi Film Appreciation Course “Chitrapat Rasaswad Shibir” as chief guest. The course will conclude on 24th September, at 4.30 PM at NFAI, Law College Road, Pune.


      In another highlight, Tanuja will donate a personal collection of photographs of her family and friends to NFAI for the purpose of preservation. The major peak of the acquisition is the rare original poster of the film ‘Chhabili’ (1960), directed by Shobhna Samarth starring Tanuja and Nutan in the leading roles.


      A week-long course from 19th to 24th September is organized by NFAI in association with Federation of Film Society of India (FFSI) at the National Film Archive of India.


      The celebrated actress will award certificates to the course participants in the successful completion of this intensive week long course. Her daughter and actress Tanisha Mukerji is also going to be present during the function.


      To celebrate Tanuja’s 75th birthday (23rd September), a special screening of the acclaimed Marathi film Pitruroon, starring Tanuja and Sachin Khedekar is also organized following the closing ceremony. Director of the film Nitish Bharadwaj will also attend the screening with a few other members of the cast to introduce the film.


      ‘Pitruroon’, a moving, an emotional family drama based on Sudha Murthy’s novel narrates the journey of a son to fulfill his father’s unfulfilled wish.


      Screening of ‘Pitruroon’ is open to all.


      Tuesday 24th September at 4.30 PM


      NFAI, Law College Road, Pune

          ***
          BG
    
    
    (Release ID: 1585838) Visitor Counter : 193
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi