      Ministry of Culture

      National conference to observe birth centenary of Dr. Vikram A. Sarabhai organized at Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai
      
      Former ISRO Chairman Dr A S Kiran Kumar recalls Dr Vikram Sarabhai’s statement: “We should be second to none in application of advanced technology to meet the problems of man and society"
      Posted On: 16 SEP 2019 5:37PM by PIB Mumbai


    A national conference on “India in Space and Nuclear Energy: Achievements and Challenges” was held as a mark of tribute to Dr. Vikram A Sarabhai, the father of Indian Space Program and the founder of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) at Nehru Science Centre in Mumbai on his birth centenary today. The dignitaries present on the occasion included Dr. R. Chidambaram, Former Principal Scientific Advisor to the Union Government; Shri A.S. Kiran Kumar, Former Chairman, ISRO; Shri Shivprasad Khened, Director, Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai; Shri Srikumar Banerjee, Chancellor, Homi Bhabha National Institute; Dr. Ashok Dalwai, CEO, National Rainfed Authority and Dr. Mallika Sarabhai, daughter of Dr. Vikram A. Sarabhai. A magazine titled “Science Now” was also released today. This conference has been jointly organized by Nehru Science Centre (NSC) under National Council of Science Museums, Union Ministry of Culture, National Centre for Science Communicators and National Science Society along with Saraswathi Vidya Bhavan.


    The conference was inaugurated by Dr. S.M. Chitre, Professor in Centre for Excellence in Basic Sciences, Mumbai. Speaking on the theme “The Many Dimensions of Nuclear Energy”, Dr. R. Chidambaram elucidated as to how nuclear and space technology plays a vital role in transforming India into a knowledge economy and the pioneering contribution made by stalwarts like Dr Homi Bhabha and Dr. Vikram Sarabhai in this sphere.


    Former Chairman of ISRO, Dr A S Kiran Kumar quoted Dr Vikram Sarabhai’s vision statement - “We should be second to none in application of advanced technology to meet the problems of man and society”. It is one dictum on which ISRO has been continuously putting its efforts and trying to make a difference in the country, he said. Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS), communication and digital revolution, navigation and positional information system, disaster risk prediction and governance are some of the core areas of ISRO’s success, he mentioned.


    A travelling exhibition was also put up by ISRO on the sidelines of the conference.


    ‘National conference on India in Space and Nuclear Energy’ will be organised on 16th Sep 2019, to commemorate the birth anniversary of Dr. Vikram Sarabhai.


    ***


    DJM/SC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1585211) Visitor Counter : 342