      Election Commission

      Election Commission reviews Poll Preparedness for Maharashtra Assembly elections.
      EVMs cannot be tampered with; it is a standalone machine, different from other machines: CEC
      
      Chief Election Commissioner Shri Sunil Arora flags off mega Voter Awareness Campaign of Regional Outreach Bureau in Mumbai

      Posted On: 18 SEP 2019 8:53PM by PIB Mumbai

    Mumbai, 18th September 2019


    CEC Shri Sunil Arora accompanied by Election Commissioners Shri Ashok Lavasa and Shri Sushil Chandra along with the team of officers from Election Commission of India, conducted a two day review of Poll Preparedness of the State of Maharashtra on 17th and 18th September 2019. Addressing at the press conference in Mumbai today, Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Shri Sunil Arora reiterated that EVMs cannot be tampered with; it is a standalone machine, different from other machines.


    Shri Arora also flagged off a mega voter awareness campaign of Regional Outreach Bureau, Maharashtra. The SVEEP campaign comprises of 9 travelling exhibition vehicles & live performances at 1500 locations in 20 districts, in 125 Vidan Sabha constituencies of the state to achieve an aim & objective of ‘Greater Participation for a Stronger Democracy’.


    During the visit, the Commission met with representatives of various political parties and noted their issues and concerns. The Commission took note of their concerns for holding free, fair and peaceful and ethical elections. The Commission reviewed the poll preparedness work of District Election Officers, /SPs/ Commissioner of Police, Divisional Commissioners and IGs and also discussed election preparedness with Chief Secretary, DGP, Home Secretary and other senior Officials of the State. Commission reviewed overall poll preparedness with Chief Electoral officer, Police Nodal officers and also the CAPF nodal officers. The Commission also met with Nodal officers of Income Tax, Excise, Railways, Airports and with State Level Bankers Committee convener to review in detail the strategy to curb misuse of money/drugs/liquor & freebies distribution during the election.


    Shri Arora highlighted issues discussed during the meetings and instructions of the Commission, as follows - Polling stations that need to be located on ground floor to facilitate senior citizens and PWD voters particularly; concerns about duplicate entries in Electoral Rolls at a few places; Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) efforts would be stepped up to involve the younger voters between 18-35 years.


    Newspaper advertisements by political parties in the last 48 hour period should be avoided – the ECI laid down norms should be honoured. Accordingly, no Electronic media advertisement should be allowed during silence period in the Constituency.


    Some parties demanded to increase existing expenditure limit of 28 lakhs, some parties requested that expenditure related to publicizing the mandatory advertisement rates for criminal antecedents should be based on DIPR rates and /or expenditure debited to party head. Some parties highlighted variation in the official rates of election related items. They said, laid down norms for access near Polling Stations - use of vehicles by candidates, seating of Party Agents etc. should be honoured – polling duty officers should be sensitized; Voters slip distribution should be started early enough to be able to reach all and Polling date should keep in mind the Diwali holidays and the fact that quite a few potential voters could be going back to their hometowns and thus optimal voter turnout may get adversely affected.


    The Commission noted that all efforts have been made by CEO’s team to relocate polling stations at ground level. Wherever it’s unavoidable, it has been ensured that Polling stations are located in buildings with functional lifts and volunteers deputed to help particularly the senior citizens and Persons with Disabilities. SVEEP efforts will be intensified to reach out to more voters. Assured Minimum Facilities will be ensured at polling stations. Commission reiterated that use of ballot paper is history. Even Hon’ble Supreme Court has upheld the use of EVM, so there is no question of a rethink on the issue.


    The Commission attaches maximum importance to ensuring conducive environment for free and fair elections in the State. Commission has directed the electoral machinery of the State to gear up with due logistics arrangements. Effective monitoring and vigilance should be ensured. Concerns as highlighted by political parties at each level should be addressed. Officers have been asked to make comprehensive action plans so as to instill absolute confidence in all stakeholders. The aim is to enable the voters to exercise their franchise without any fear, pressure or allurement. Commission has directed effective use of IT applications to attend to complaints promptly –Suvidha, cVigil Apps have time-stamping facility to ensure transparency. Commission directed to ensure speedy execution of Non Bailable Warrants (NBWs); and speedy disposal of pending cases of the electoral offences from last elections. They were also asked to ensure 100% deposition of arms unless exempted under specific category. Strict vigil on liquor seizure and freebies, cash transfer movements was also emphasized. Central Armed Police Forces will be deployed in adequate number wherever such necessity is assessed. General and police observers will be deployed after the announcement of Election by the Commission in the State to monitor all the activities and ensure compliance of ECI’s directions. The contact numbers of all of these Observers will be made available to public. The Commission has directed the officers to make special security arrangements in sensitive areas. The Police Force has been instructed to identify anti-social elements and take action against them so that the election process is not vitiated. Special security arrangements will be provided to facilitate proper participation for weaker and vulnerable sections.


    

    Election Commission has directed the officials to make Electoral Rolls error-free and afford opportunities for registration to residual voters in a speedy manner and should take place until last date of nomination. The Commission’s motto is ‘No Voter to Be Left Behind’ and our officers will make all efforts to register all eligible voters. One can also search through nvsp.in site or dial number 1950 or get desired details from SMS service on 1950.


    As regards, Expenditure Monitoring, Comprehensive arrangement for GPS enabled squads, Static Surveillance teams and checking at Border check-posts will be done. All DEOs will constitute the Election Expenditure Monitoring Teams as per ECI Instructions. Income Tax officials will also be deputed in each and every district for expenditure monitoring. Air Intelligence Units would be set up at all the Airports in the state. Flying Squads and Static Surveillance Teams will be constituted to check distribution of cash, liquor, drugs and freebies in sensitive pockets and border areas. Transaction of money through banking channels will be monitored and fool-proof arrangements would be made to monitor suspicious banking transactions


    On the issue of EVM/VVPAT, it was informed that VVPATs will be used at all Polling Booths along with the EVM machines as done in Lok Sabha Elections 2019. EVM votes of five randomly selected polling stations of every Assembly segment will be matched with VVPAT slips. It has been reiterated to CEO and DEOs to ensure due awareness to all stakeholders about proper usage of the machines. The officers were also asked to strictly adhere to the laid down procedures and Standard Operating Procedures about use, storage and Transportation of the machines in all the constituencies. Commission has directed to continue the awareness drive for at least 2 to 3 rounds. DEOs were asked to organize hands-on experience on EVM VVPAT a time-bound manner and prepare schedule for such demonstration and publicize through media and provide information to Political Parties and voters at large.


    The Commission has also directed the Chief Secretary of the State to ensure that all Transfers are effected by per the Commission's policy regarding the transfers of the officers. Every effort to be made to ensure strict compliance of the Model Code of Conduct and expenditure monitoring so that the political parties and the general voters can be assured for the free and fair elections.


    The Commission considers media as its invaluable ally for election management and for implementation of election related laws, instructions and for monitoring the orders. The Commission has directed CEOs and DEOs to use social media for the benefits of voters and polling.


    The Commission is committed to deliver free, fair, peaceful, transparent, ethical and inclusive elections. Effective mechanism is being fine-tuned for smooth conduct of the electoral process. The Commission has directed the State level and District Level Election Machinery to be fearless, objective, neutral and independent from any influence whatsoever. The Commission solicits proactive support of all political parties, media organisations, civil society, youth and community organisations and all voters to join hands with the Commission and wholeheartedly participate in poll process.


    ****


    SBS/ RT/DJM/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585526) Visitor Counter : 448
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi