      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Col Rajyavardhan Rathore felicitates winners of AIBA Youth World Boxing Championship
      Posted On: 08 DEC 2017 3:58PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs & Sports Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore has asked the National Sports Federations (NSFs) to bring transparency in their activities. He was Speaking at a function here organised to felicitate the Indian medal winners of the recently concluded AIBA Youth World Women Boxing Championship at Guwahati. The Minister said, federations should display on their websites their funding, utilisation of funds and selection process of players for different events and result of such selection immediately after the selection is over.
    
    Col. Rathore announced that a cash award of Rs.6.7 lakh each will be given by his Ministry to Gold medal winners of the Youth World Women Boxing Championship. The 5 winners in this category are Nitu, Jyoti, Sakshi, Shashi Chopra and Ankushita Boro. The 2 Winners of Bronze Medal namely Anupma and Neha Yadav will receive a cash award of Rs. 2.70 Lakh each.
    
    On this Occasion, the sports Minister also felicitated Gaurav Bidhuri who won Bronze medal at AIBA Elite Men World Championship held in Germany in September 2017.
    
    Congratulating all the winners of Youth Championship, Col. Rathore said despite odds and challenges all these girls have shown the world what can be achieved by women with grit and determination in a tough game like Boxing. He said the government will provide all possible help and facilities to these young girls so that they can focus on Boxing to bring laurels to the country in future Olympic games. He said, his ministry has stated implementing recommendations of the Committee of the Task Force constituted by the Prime Minister for the next three Olympics so that medal prospects for India further brightens. Col Rathore said, CEOs and High Performance Directors will be appointed to strengthen professionalism in providing training and logistic facilities to the players so that they should fully concentrate only on their own field performance enhancement to achieve desired results.
    
    Boxer Mary C. Kom also made a brief speech on the occasion and lauded the performance of all boxers present at different championship.
    
    India won 5 Gold and 2 Bronze at Guwahati and was declared Team Champion. Russia was 1st Runner Up followed by Kazakhstan.

    ***


    
    
    AD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1512075) Visitor Counter : 84