      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Sports Minister Col Rajyavardhan Rathore inaugurates SAICON 2017 in New Delhi
      Posted On: 07 DEC 2017 5:31PM by PIB Delhi


    The First International Conference on Sports Medicine and Sports Sciences SAICON 2017 was inaugurated here today by the Minister of State (I/C) Youth Affairs and Sports Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore. Speaking on the occasion he said India has made significant progress in Sports by winning medals in many international events and standing behind each athlete is an expert team of coaches, physiologists, doctors, scientists and technical staff who aided in journey of this success of Indian players. Col. Rathore said Sports Science and Sports medicine has increasingly becoming important as it plays an integral role in improving the performance of the sportspersons and also in facilitating rehabilitation and recovery. He said, sports medicine doctors and scientists contribute significantly to athletes’’ performance as they provide an edge to their talent and skills. He said contribution of Sports Science will become important under the Khelo India Programme launched by his ministry. He said in accordance with the intentions of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi of empowering youths, ‘Khelo India' programme has been chalked out to tap talent at the school and college level.
    
    He said under the Khelo India national school games would be organised from January 31 to February 8 next year for the under 17 age group. These school games will act as a springboard. He said for the first time a sports broadcaster will broadcast live the national school games.
    
    Col.Rathore said that the top 1,000 athletes from this event will be entitled to Rs 5 lakh scholarships for eight years. He said that every year, his Ministry will keep adding 1,000 more athletes for creating a pool of young talent. He said School Games will be followed by College Games for under the age group of 21 years.
    
    Sports Minister said, necessary attention would be given to training of coaches as well and athletes would be helped with national and international training. He said his ministry is working to create a Bank of Coaches in different disciplines of Sports., He said a provision is being made to recognise all the coaches in an athlete’s career who wins medal at international level. He said a provision has been made so that the amount given to the coaches of national athletes is shared by 20% by the grass root coach and 30% of it would go to the developmental coaches at academies.
    
    The Minister expressed the hope that SAICON 2017 will promote scientific temperament in the country and inspire students, researchers and educationists alike to take up sports science and research to the next level. Organized by Sports Authority of India, the 3-day conference is being attended by about 1000 national and international delegates. Eminent Olympians Shri Gurbax Singh , Dr Paes, V. Bhaskaran, Shri Leander Paes, K. Malleshwari and Shri Yogeshwar Dutt were also present at the inaugural session of the conference.

    *****


    
    
    AD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1512029) Visitor Counter : 361