      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Indian Institute of Entrepreneurship starts new combined course in Fashion & Textile Technology in Guwahati
      Posted On: 08 MAY 2019 3:39PM by PIB Guwahati


    The Indian Institute of Entrepreneurship (IIE) is introducing a new course, ‘Diploma in Fashion & Textile Technology’ from July this year. It is a unique one year course where textile and fashion training will be provided from the yarn level to the finished product to the students. This is the only course in the entire North East where both textile and fashion technology will be taught together in one year course. The last date of enrolment is 15 th June, 2019.


    Students will learn from fibre to fabrics to dyeing and surface ornamentation, and then carrying forward to creating garments and lifestyle products, finishing and finally costing and marketing of the products. This course will help create a complete entrepreneur who will acquire comprehensive knowledge of the textile and fashion sector to independently handle any fashion or textile related project or start on their own. They will also be able to handle any handloom cluster or design house. The eligibility level for enrolment into this course will be graduate in any stream from a reputed university (exceptions will be made if the student has prior training in fashion or textiles) and the batch size for the first batch will be twenty two students.


    Indian Institute of Entrepreneurship (IIE) is an autonomous organization under the Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship. The main aim of the institute is to provide training, research, and consultancy activities in Small & Micro Enterprises (SME), with special focus on entrepreneurship development. It is registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860. The headquarter of IIE is at Lalmati, BasisthaChariali, 37 NH bypass in Guwahati.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571904) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese