      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      National Nutrition Month (Poshan Maah) witnesses overwhelming People’s participation
      
      More than 23 lakh activities taken up and around 27 Crore people reached across the country during the National Nutrition Month under Poshan Abhiyan.
      
      Poshan Maah Awards to be presented to best performers on October 10th in New Delhi
      Posted On: 05 OCT 2018 6:53PM by PIB Delhi


    Under POSHAN Abhiyaan, September was celebrated as the Rashtriya Poshan Maah across the country to address the malnutrition challenges and sensitize our countrymen regarding the importance of holistic nutrition. Poshan Maah aimed at making people aware of the importance of nutrition & giving individual access to government services to support supplement nutrition for their children & pregnant women /lactating mothers.


    Ministry of Women & Child Development as the nodal agency, launched Rashtriya Poshan Maah or National Nutrition Month, across the length and breadth of the country on the 01 st of Sep 2018. Wit h wide range of activities focussing on antenatal care, anaemia, growth monitoring, girl’s education, diet, right age of marriage, hygiene and sanitation, eating healthy as themes were organised during the Poshan Maah. Entire range of themes were exhibited and showcased in form of food melas , rallies, school level campaigns, anaemia tests camps, recipe demonstration, radio & TV talk shows, seminars all across country. As per latest reports, 23 lakhs activities across the country were recorded on Jan Andolan Dashboar d wherein approximately 27 crore people were reached through these activities t in this nationwide exercise, out of which one third were men. Briefing mediaperson in New Delhi today, Secretary, Ministry of Women and Child Development said that Poshan Maah witnessed an unexpected reach and was a successful exercise in Convergence of efforts of various ministries at various levels-National, State and districts- to reach out to the grassroots beneficiaries. The large number of Jan andholan or community based events/activities uploaded on the dashboard is a remarkable example of what convergence efforts could achieve, he said. In order to keep the momentum of the awareness being generated country wide, the Ministry will be awarding Exemplary performers with Poshan Awards on the 10 th of this October. He also added that National Institute on Nutrition will come out with Status of India Nutrition report next year . This report , dealing with various parameters of nutrition will now be compiled annually to give more frequent feedback on status of nutrition in the country. The secretary also disclosed that the ICDS-CAS rollout is also moving at a good pace and more than 4 lakh Anganwadis will be covered by this IT tool by December this year.


    NB/PS


    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548767) Visitor Counter : 873