      NITI Aayog

      Atal Innovation Mission & SIRIUS sign MoU for promotion of innovative cooperation between students of India & Russia
      Posted On: 06 OCT 2018 10:43AM by PIB Delhi


    To promote innovative cooperation between students of India and Russia, a Memorandum of Understanding was exchanged between India’s Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) and the Russian Federation’s SIRIUS Educational Foundation in the presence of the Prime Minister of India Shri. Narendra Modi and the President of Russia H.E. Vladimir Putin, in New Delhi on 5th October 2018. The AIM and SIRUS Education Foundation were represented by Mission Director Shri. R Ramanan and Ms. Elena Shmeleva respectively.


    The MoU hopes to remove cultural and language barriers between students of Russia and India, share the best practices in the promotion of educational, scientific, innovative achievements, promote innovative cooperation, and s earch and develop talented youth of both countries fostering a knowledge driven innovation ecosystem in both the countries.


    “The Atal Innovation Mission continues to grow steadily in its effort to spread the joy of innovation throughout the country. This MoU with SIRIUS Educational Foundation is a step in the right direction. International collaboration will broaden our students’ minds, deepen curiosities, and sharpen their intellect”, said Mr. Ramanan.


    About AIM-SIRIUS Innovation Festival 2018


    To promote a spirit of collaborative innovation, young innovators of Atal Tinkering Labs and SIRIUS Educational Foundation came together at a four-day Indo-Russian ATL innovation boot-camp from October 1st to October 4th. The boot-camp was organized by Atal Tinkering Labs, Atal Innovation Mission, with support from Department of Design, IIT Delhi. The innovations developed across space technology, healthcare, smart mobility, clean energy and agricultural technology were showcased to Prime Minister of India and President of Russia on October 5th.


    About Atal Innovation Mission


    Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) is NITI Aayog’s flagship initiative to promote a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in India. AIM has been established to create and promote an ecosystem of innovation and entrepreneurship in a holistic manner through various initiatives at school, university and industry levels. AIM also serves as a platform for promotion of world-class Innovation Hubs, Grand Challenges, Start-up businesses and other self-employment activities in India, leveraging state of the art, advanced and affordable emerging technologies.


    The Atal Innovation Mission has thus two core functions:


    1. Innovation promotion: to provide a platform where innovative ideas are generated.


    2. Entrepreneurship promotion: Wherein innovators would be supported and mentored to become successful entrepreneurs at Incubation Centres.


    About SIRIUS Educational Foundation


    Fund “Talent and success” is an unitary, non-profit, non-standard educational organization. The activities of the Foundation are aimed to identify and support children and young people who have shown outstanding abilities. Providing assistance in obtaining general and additional education for such personalities, including education in the fields of arts, natural sciences, physical culture and sports.


    *****


    AKT/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548796) Visitor Counter : 3340