      Ministry of Defence

      High level meeting between Indian and Vietnamese Coast Guards
      Posted On: 01 OCT 2018 3:53PM by PIB Delhi


    A High Level Meeting between Coast Guards of India and Vietnam was held at Coast Guard Headquarters here today under the provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed in 2015. Director General Indian Coast Guard (ICG) Shri Rajendra Singhled the Indian side while Commandant, Vietnam Coast Guard (VCG) Major General Nguyen VanSonled a six member Vietnamese side.


    During the meeting both sides agreed to strengthen mutual cooperation in accordance with the provisions of MoU. Sharing of best management practices and augmenting operational level interaction were also agreed upon.


    Relations between the two Coast Guards go back a long way with ICG ships visiting Vietnam for professional interactions since 2001.This meeting is in continuation of the efforts by the governments of the two countries to enhance cooperation between the Coast Guards in the field of maritime safety and security at sea.


    The Commandant along with delegation will be travelling to Chennai to take part in the welcome ceremony of the first Vietnam Coast Guard Ship to India and also participate in the joint exercise scheduled off Chennai on October 04, 2018. The VCG ship CSB 8001 is scheduled to arrive Chennai tomorrow for professional interaction and participating in the joint exercise.


    The meeting was significant in providing added impetus to the already existing professional relationship between the Coast Guard of India and Vietnam.


    SRR/Nampi/DK


    Director General Indian Coast Guard (ICG) Shri Rajendra Singh welcoming Commandant, Vietnam Coast Guard (VCG) Major General Nguyen VanSon before the High Level meeting between the two Coast Guards in New Delhi on Monday, 01 October 2018.


    Director General Indian Coast Guard (ICG) Shri Rajendra Singhwith Commandant, Vietnam Coast Guard (VCG) Major General Nguyen VanSonduring the High Level meeting between the two Coast Guards in New Delhi on Monday, 01 October 2018.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1548076) Visitor Counter : 853
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Tamil