      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot Flags off ‘Walkthon’ for Senior Citizens on International Day of Older Persons
      Posted On: 01 OCT 2018 2:43PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Union Minister for Social Justice & Empowerment flagged off a “Walkthon” for older persons and senior citizens to celebrate the International Day of Older Persons at Commonwealth Games Village Stadium, near Akshardham Mandir here this morning. The Walkthon was organised by the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, National Institute of Social Defence (NISD) in collaboration with Anugraha Organisation. Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar, Minister of State for Social Justice & Empowerment, Smt. Neelam Sawhney, Secretary, SJ&E and many dignitaries were present. Senior citizens in a large number from all parts of Delhi took part in the Walkthon. The event consisted of Police Band performance, Cultural and musical programmes by Senior citizens and fitness session by Ms. Sunita Godara with Police Band.


    Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot in his address said the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment is committed to the overall welfare of older persons and senior citizens. His Ministry has initiatived many new programmes and schemes for the welfare of senior citizens. The Ministry felicitates senior citizens and older persons by conferring ‘ VayoshreshthaSamman’every year on the eminent senior citizens and institutions in many categories in recognition of their services towards the cause of the elderly persons . In the year 2017 the Ministry has started “RashtriyaVayoshriYojana” under which physical aids and assistive living devices viz wheel chair, hearing aids, spectacles, support sticks etcare distributed to the older persons of below poverty line category . So far, more than 55000 senior citizens have been benefited under this yojana.


    In his address, Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar said t hat his Ministry is doing a lot for the welfare of senior citizens, who are an asset for our nation. He opined that the senior citizens should always be happy and healthy and they can stay healthy by regular morning walk and other means.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E-01/01-10-2018


    

    
    (Release ID: 1548064) Visitor Counter : 685
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil