      President's Secretariat

      Secretary General of United Nations calls on the President
      Posted On: 03 OCT 2018 5:45PM by PIB Delhi


    Mr Antonio Guterres, the Secretary General of United Nations, called on the President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, at Rashtrapati Bhavan today (October 3, 2018).


    Welcoming Mr Guterres on his first visit to India as Secretary General of the United Nations, the President said that India deeply values his participation in the Mahatma Gandhi International Sanitation Convention and the 4 th anniversary of the Swachh Bharat campaign. The President thanked him for all the support has given to spread the legacy of Mahatma Gandhi.


    The President said that in the past few years, India has witnessed transformative changes powered by digital technology and inclusive development policies, be it in gender empowerment; sanitation; financial inclusion; provision of clean cooking fuel to over 250 million people; making available health insurance to over 500 million people; or giving access to electricity to millions across the country. We remain fully committed to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). And our commitment is not limited to our country. Our development cooperation programmes are helping others to meet these Goals as well.


    The President said that India believes that in a globalising world, multilateralism is indispensible. India remains committed to it. However, to our understanding multilateralism and global governance in their present form are not working effectively. The UN must adapt itself to the changing times. It should be more responsive to the needs of all countries.


    The President said that no reform of the UN would be complete without the reform of the UN Security Council. The current permanent membership of the Security Council does not reflect contemporary global realities. He emphasised that the Security Council’s membership and work methods need to be updated to equip it to face the challenges of the 21 st century.


    *****


    AKT/SH/SBP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548373) Visitor Counter : 1039
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil