      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Monitoring of Zika Virus Disease cases in Rajasthan
      Posted On: 08 OCT 2018 5:51PM by PIB Delhi


    Few cases of Zika virus disease have been reported in Jaipur, Rajasthan. The present outbreak in Jaipur, Rajasthan was detected through the ICMR surveillance system. As directed by Sh. J. P. Nadda, Union Health Minister, a 7-member high level Central team was deputed to Jaipur immediately following detection of first case to assist State Government in control and containment measures.


    The situation is being reviewed at the level of Union Minister of Health and monitored on a daily basis by the Secretary, Health. A high level Joint Monitoring Group of Technical Experts headed by DGHS has met twice to monitor the preparedness and response measures.Another High Level Central Team is already placed in Jaipur (since 5 th October, 2018) to further oversee and assist containment operations on the field. Till date a total of 22 positive laboratory confirmed cases have been detected. A Control Room has been activated at the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to undertake regular monitoring of the situation.


    All suspect cases in the defined area and mosquito samples from this area are being tested. Additional testing kits are provided to the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratories. The State Government has been supplied with IEC material prepared to create awareness about Zika virus disease and its prevention strategies. All pregnant mothers in the area are being monitored through NHM. Extensive surveillance and vector control measures are being taken up in the area as per protocol by the state government. The State Government has been supplied with IEC material prepared to create awareness about Zika Virus diseases and its prevention strategies.


    Zika virus disease is an emerging disease currently being reported by 86 countries worldwide. Symptoms of Zika virus disease are similar to other viral infections such as dengue, and include fever, skin rashes, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise, and headache.


    In India, the first outbreak was reported in Ahmedabad in January/February 2017 and second outbreak in July,2017 from Krishnagiri District in Tamilnadu. Both these outbreaks were successfully contained through intensive surveillance and vector management.


    The disease continues to be on disease surveillance radars of Union Health Ministry although it is no longer a Public Health Emergency of International Concern vide WHO notification since 18 th November, 2016.


    The situation continues to be monitored regularly.


    ****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548946) Visitor Counter : 2707