      Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

      21 IORA Countries adopt the Delhi Declaration on Renewable Energy; To Collaborate with ISA Member Countries
      Posted On: 04 OCT 2018 10:20PM by PIB Delhi


    As many as 21 countries in the Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA) today adopted the Delhi Declaration on Renewable Energy in the Indian Ocean Region, post the 2 nd IORA Renewable Energy Ministerial Meeting held at the 2 nd Global Re-Invest India-ISA Partnership Renewable Energy Investor’s Meet & Expo in Greater Noida.


    The Delhi Declaration on Renewable Energy in the Indian Ocean Region calls for collaboration among IORA member states in meeting the growing demand for renewable energy in the Indian Ocean littorals, development of a common renewable energy agenda for the Indian Ocean region and promote regional capacity building.


    The declaration also calls for promotion of technology development and transfer, strengthening of public private partnerships in renewable energy and collaboration among IORA member states and the member nations of the International Solar Alliance (ISA). IORA member countries also resolved to collaborate with the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA).


    Minister of State (IC) Power and New & Renewable Energy, Government of India Shri R.K. Singh, Secretary General, Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA) Dr. Nomvuyo N Nokwe, Deputy Minister of Energy, Ministry of Energy, South Africa Ms.Thembisile Majola, State Minister for Foreign Affairs, Bangladesh Md. Shahriar Alam M.P. participated in the ministerial meeting. Ministerial representatives from Iran, Mauritius, Seychelles, Sri Lanka and Yemen also spoke at the meeting.


    As per the declaration adopted, IORA member nations will collaborate with the ISA member nations to exchange knowledge and share views and potential interests in the renewable energy sector; paved by the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between IORA and ISA on 3 October 2018, with a focus on joint capacity-building programs, research & development activities in solar energy and exchange of best practices.


    Additionally, IORA member nations and IRENA will undertake the expansion of the Global Renewable Energy Atlas, the world’s largest-ever joint renewable resource data project, coordinated by IRENA, thereby creating the Indian Ocean region's first and most comprehensive map and database which can then be used to tap the sizable renewable energy potential of the region; and to collaborate on opportunities available under the International Renewable Energy Learning Platform (IRELP).


    The Indian Ocean Rim Association was set up with the objective of strengthening regional cooperation and sustainable development within the Indian Ocean Region with 21 Member States and 7 Dialogue Partners. The last Renewable Energy Ministerial Meeting was held on 21 st January, 2014 in Abu Dhabi, UAE. Subsequently, during the meeting of IORA Council of Ministers, held in October, 2016 in Bali, Indonesia, it was decided that the next conference will be held in India. In line with the commitment made, India hostedthe 2 nd IORA Renewable Energy Ministerial meet today.


    India, Australia, Iran IR, Indonesia Thailand, Malaysia, South Africa, Mozambique, Kenya, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, Bangladesh, Singapore, Mauritius, Madagascar, UAE, Yemen, Seychelles, Somalia, Comoros and Oman are members of IORA.


    For more details :


    Website: https://re-invest.in/


    Twitter: @REInvestIndia


    Facebook: @REInvestIndia


    *****


    FH / RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548667) Visitor Counter : 923
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu