      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Polio vaccines are safe and effective
      
      All parents must get their children vaccinated against polio

      Posted On: 04 OCT 2018 7:53PM by PIB Delhi

    Recently there are rumors being spread stating not to give polio drops to children upto 5 years as some virus has been found in them.


    This rumour was spread in response to some reports in sections of media that bivalent Oral Polio Vaccine supplied by a particular company were found “not of standard quality”.


    Use of bivalent Oral Polio Vaccine manufactured by this particular manufacturer has been stopped in the programme. All the stocks of the said manufacturer have been withdrawn.


    There are other bivalent Oral Polio Vaccine manufacturers who have also been providing the polio vaccine. The polio vaccines supplied by these other manufacturers have been tested and conform to all the recommended standards. In order to ensure that children receive safe and effective vaccines, the vaccines from these manufacturers are being used under the programme.


    Polio vaccines are absolutely safe and have saved millions of children from disabling effects of polio. All parents must get their children vaccinated against polio to provide protection against polio. Government of India in consultation with WHO has taken all measures to ensure that all vaccines used under the programme are totally safe and effective.


    India continues to be polio-free since for past more than 7 years. However, since polio cases are still occurring in a few neighboring countries, India needs to maintain population immunity against polio to mitigate risk of importation. Government of India is providing Inactivated Polio Vaccine in addition to the bivalent Oral Polio Vaccine under its Universal Immunization Programme to provide double protection against polio.


    ***


    SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548658) Visitor Counter : 1794
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi