      Ministry of Railways

      Ministry of Railways observes ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa Pakhwada’ across Indian Railways network
      During ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa Pakhwada’, various activities undertaken make it a Grand Success

      Posted On: 02 OCT 2018 11:21AM by PIB Delhi

    Ministry of Railways is observing ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa Pakhwada’ across its entire network from 15th September to 2 nd October 2018 to commemorate the 150 th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the father of the Nation.


    The Pakhwada commenced with the administration of Swachhta pledge to all Railway personnel. Then onwards, each date of the ‘Pakhwada’ was associated with a particular theme pertaining to cleanliness. Two days each were proposed to be devoted to Swachh Station, Swachh Train, Swachh Neer, Swachh Parisar, Swachh Samwad, Swachh Awareness across the entire network of Indian Railways.


    Detailed guidelines for the ‘Pakhwada’ were formulated and circulated to each unit of Indian Railways and the entire network observed the ‘Pakhwada’ in the most effective manner.


    During the Swachchta Pakhwada, tree plantation on over 100 kms on railway track was done. Cleaning of approaches to 43 stations associated with Mahatma Gandhi & 28 stations near iconic places & golden triangle Delhi, Agra, Jaipur was undertaken during this fortnight. Railway stations associated with Mahatma Gandhi were painted thematically. Swachhta Logo & National Flag was displayed on all coaches by 2 nd October, 2018.


    To make “Swachta Hi Seva” initiative a grand success, intensive awareness campaign were organised using social media, Nukkad Natak, audio/video clips to motivate and involve passengers, students, families, pensioners, SHGs and other stake holders to also participate in the various activities of the “Swachhta-Hi-Sewa Pakhwada”.


    In Northern Railway , Minister of Railways & Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal launched Swachhta- Hi- Sewa Pakhwada at Old Delhi Railway Station on 15 th September, 2018 by administering the Swachhta pledge to the Railway officials, staff and others present on the occasion. He also participated in Shramdan at the venue . Later, the Minister also visited Hazrat Nizamuddin Railway Station & New Delhi Railway Station and participated in the Swachhta Hi Sewa Program organised there. On the other days of Swachhta Pakhwada, Shramdaan and Cleanliness Drive in Railway Stations, Offices and premises of Northern Railway was also observed.


    In Central Railway , teacher and students of KYN Railway School, Kalva Car Shed, had painted complete 12 coach EMU rake in tri color and theme of Mahatma Gandhi where quotes, messages and Swachhta logo has been displayed for Public awareness regarding cleanliness. Central Railway has also organized different competitions at Zonal and Divisional level to promote Swachhta and housekeeping awards for best maintained Workshops, Sheds, Coaching Depot, Hospitals, HQ offices, Mail/Express rakes, Control Offices and Railway Colonies etc.


    In Western Railway , on 28th September, 2018 of the “Swachhta Hi Sewa” Pakhwada, the theme was “Swachh Neer” wherein intensive inspection of all water installations including filter plants, sources of water supply, water taps for drinking water, water vending machines, water coolers at stations and for availability of water in trains as well as in offices, railway colonies, hospitals, health units and schools were carried out. Efforts were made for setting up of rain harvesting plants and recycling plants were strengthened. Nukkad Natak was conducted and organized by volunteers and artists of Swachhta Band for spreading cleanliness awareness among the commuters. Paper soaps were distributed by railways at Churchgate & Mumbai Central stations to emphasize the importance of personal hygiene.


    Western Railway also celebrated 'Swachh Aahar' day, a theme which aimed to provide clean and hygienic environment at catering units under the special drive on this theme. Intensive cleaning of all canteens and pantry cars of trains was suitably ensured. Samples of food were taken for checking and feedback of passengers were obtained on the quality of food served.


    In Eastern Railway , a massive Swachhta Awareness campaign was organised at all the Railway stations, colonies, hospitals , health units etc., through the Prabhat Pheri , Nukkad Natak, Video Walls, Public Address Systems. Around 20,000 saplings were planted in the Eastern Railway during the entire period of Swachhta Pakhwara.


    In South Central Railway , The cleanliness campaign, got a big boost with the use of an innovative publicity medium for the first time on Indian Railways, as a Mobile Digital Movie Theatre which will showcase railway films on social / public awareness for creating awareness among the public was inaugurated as part of the Pakhwada activities.


    In Southern Railway, In a landmark achievement the heritage building of the iconic Chennai Central station, has been accredited with Green Railway Station Certification by Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). The certification was presented on evaluation of various parameters, mainly energy conservation and generation, water recycling and waste disposal.


    In East Central Railway, At the commencement of the Swachhta Pakhwada, Plastic Bottle Crushing Machine was installed at Patna Jn. to get rid of empty bottles of water & soft drinks. Patna Jn, thus became the first station of Bihar where bottle crushing machine was installed. Further during Swachhta Pakhwada, this machine was also installed in Rajender Nagar, Patna Sahib, Mughalsarai and Darbhanga. A Wi-Fi based portal “Toilet Feedback System” has also been devised to get feedback from passengers on cleanliness on toilets at stations. Proper steps will be taken on feedback received from passengers.


    Metro Railway, Kolkata, inaugurated toilets (one for Ladies and one for Gents) at Shahid Khudiram and Noapara Metro Stations as part of the observation of “Swachch Prasadhan Day”. This will be of great help to passengers in general and the aged commuters in particular. Toilets at other two stations viz. Belgachia, Sovabazar-Sutanuare are almost ready and will be opened for the commuters very soon.


    Apart from this, Swachhta Pakhwada is being celebrated across Indian Railways network including all Zones, Divisions, Production Units & Workshops and Railway PSUs. ‘Swachh Bharat’ is a continuous mission focusing on strengthening efforts to bring systemic transformation in cleanliness. The campaign will progress with various activities aimed at improving cleanliness in trains, at railway stations, yards, workshops, office premises and railway colonies all over Indian Railway.


    ***


    SVS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548215) Visitor Counter : 699
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil