      President's Secretariat

      President Kovind delivers lecture on ‘Countering Radicalisation: Challenges in Modern Societies’ at the University of Tajikistan; India and Tajikistan announce nine agreements
      Posted On: 08 OCT 2018 6:50PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, delivered a lecture on the theme of ‘Countering Radicalisation: Challenges in Modern Societies’ at the University of Tajikistan in Dushanbe today (October 8, 2018).


    Addressing the gathering, the President said that he had chosen to speak on the subject for two reasons. First, Tajikistan has done commendable work to tackle this global menace, and the world must recognise its efforts and success. Second, the battle against terrorism, extremism and radicalism must be fought, primarily, in the minds of people – between those who believe in peace and humanity and those who feed on death and destruction. It is a battle of opposing ideas. Talking to the youth as well as to our scholars and pathfinders therefore becomes essential.


    The President said that terrorism does not believe in borders. India, like Tajikistan, is taking on terrorism and extremism. We too face the problem of radicalisation but our inclusive society, where socio-economic partnerships and participatory politics provide everybody with an inherent sense of belonging, has been our most effective bulwark. Plural and democratic India is a land of equal opportunity and equal respect for all. And a growing economy lifts one and lifts all.


    Earlier this morning (October 8, 2018), the President commenced his engagements with a visit to the Palace of Nation in Dushanbe. He was received by his Tajik counterpart, President Emamoli Rahmon, and accorded a ceremonial welcome. He also paid his respects at the Ismail Somani Memorial.


    During the discussions the President thanked President Rahmon for the warm reception. He said India is proud of its Strategic Partnership and age-old friendship with Tajikistan. He appreciated the lead Tajikistan has taken in fighting terrorism and said that we need to strengthen our cooperation in combating terrorism, including cross-border terrorism.


    Subsequently, the two Presidents led delegation-level talks. Speaking on the occasion, President Kovind stressed the importance of defence and connectivity projects to advance Indo-Tajik relations for the benefit of the people of both countries. The two Presidents also discussed the common challenge of terrorism, particularly in the context of Afghanistan. India announced a grant of US$ 20 million for developmental assistance projects identified by Tajikistan.


    Immediately after the delegation-level talks, India and Tajikistan announced nine agreements. These are:

     1. An agreement on cooperation in the field of disaster management
     2. An agreement between the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and the Tajik Academy of Agriculture Sciences
     3. An agreement on peaceful use of space technology for developmental purposes
     4. An agreement between the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India, and the Committee of Youth, Sports and Tourism, Government of Tajikistan
     5. An agreement between the Centre Council for Research in Unani Medicine, Ministry of AYUSH, Government of India, and the Tajik State Medical University Abualibh Sino
     6. A programme of cooperation between the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Government of Tajikistan, for the period 2018-21
     7. An agreement between the India’s Ministry of New and Renewable Energy and Ministry of Energy and Water Resources of Tajikistan for cooperation in renewable energy
     8. A cultural exchange programme between the Ministries of Culture of India and Tajikistan for the period 2019-23
     9. An agreement for academic and research exchanges between the Vivekananda International Foundation, India, and the Centre for Strategic Researches, Tajikistan

    The President issued a media statement on his visit to Tajikistan (attached). Later in the day, he paid his respects to Mahatma Gandhi and Rabindranath Tagore at their memorials in Dushanbe.


    Tomorrow (October 9, 2018), the President will hold separate bilateral meetings with Mr Shukurjon Zuhurov, Chairman, Majlisi Namoyandagon of the Majlisi Oli (Lower House of the Parliament of Tajikistan), and with Mr Kohir Rasulzoda, the Prime Minister of Tajikistan. He will also visit the Ayni Air Force Base, before returning to Delhi.


    *****


    AKT/SH/SBP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548970) Visitor Counter : 731
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

9.