      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railways rolls out Committed Programs to bring about meaningful changes under the Swachh Bharat Mission
      
      Noteworthy massive Tree Plantation Program undertaken with planting of 13.27 Lakh saplings under a Mission Mode to extend Green Cover on Railways premises during fortnight-long Swachhta Hi Sewa National Cleanliness Program
      
      1800 New/Improved Toilets provided at 1400 stations during current year and progress ahead to achieve targeted construction of 2700 Toilets at 2700 stations under Swachh Bharat Mission Program
      
      Improvements carried out to existing toilets besides construction of Divyang friendly toilets
      Posted On: 05 OCT 2018 11:58AM by PIB Delhi


    Dovetailing its steadfast cleanliness campaign with ecological priorities, Indian Railway has undertaken a committed program to increase the green cover in all public utility spaces like railway stations and mass contact offices besides other working premises and railway colonies. Laudatory participation in Shramdaan by Railways officers & employees in connection with recently organized Swacchta Hi Sewa national cleanliness campaign has been one of the strong impactful measures by the Railways and the planting of 13.27 lakh saplings during the fortnight program alongside 1300 km route kilometre of track, near station areas and on vacant land plots has been one of the noteworthy efforts to create green public spaces.


    Provision of Toilet as part of Swachh Bharat Mission Program


    In keeping with its mission mode to improve sanitation on its premises, the Indian Railways has allocated Rs. 300 crore to renovation of existing toilets, construction of new toilets. The Railway has constructed/ improved1800 toilets at 1400 stations including the construction of around 200 Divyang friendly toilets. Apart from this, the railway has undertaken provision of toilets in circulating areas at railway stations for local community and surrounding area inhabitants as well as for general public visiting railway stations under the CSR initiative.


    Swachhta Hi Sewa program on the Railways has been a forceful communication platform that the Railways have managed to achieve in recent years. Awareness activities were stepped up to ensure greater level of hygiene and sanitation at stations, at workplaces, at workshops as well as at the railway colonies. Public participation and accountability building are being increasingly acknowledged as intrinsic factors in transforming the cleanliness profile of railway stations. User-friendly and well-designed toilets are part of the broader vision of cleanliness programs on the Railways.


    ……….


    SVS/ENS


    Plantation beside Railway Tracks


    

    
    (Release ID: 1548696) Visitor Counter : 788
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Hindi , Marathi , Tamil