      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Environment Ministry Sanctions River Pollution Abatement Project in Udhampur in Jammu & Kashmir
      Posted On: 01 OCT 2018 6:45PM by PIB Delhi


    In an effort to supplement the efforts of State Governments in pollution abatement in identified stretches of various rivers through National River Conservation Plan (NRCP) for implementation of projects on cost-sharing basis between the Centre and State Governments, the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has sanctioned a project for ‘Pollution abatement of rivers Devika and Tawi in Udhampur, Jammu & Kashmir. The project is scheduled for completion by March 2021.


    Upon completion, the project will have a significant and direct beneficial impact in terms of reduction of pollution load in the two rivers and improvement in their water quality. As full sewerage system will be laid in the town and its entire sewage will be treated, the project will improve the aesthetics and sanitation conditions in Udhampur and support the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan towards ensuring cleanliness in the town.


    The total sanctioned cost of the project is Rs. 186.74 crore, will be shared between the Government of India and Government of J&K on 90:10 cost-sharing basis respectively. The share of Central Government in the project will be Rs. 166.86 crore and the share of the State Government will be Rs. 18.08 crore. The Urban Engineering and Environment Department (UEED) is the implementing agency of the project.


    The major components under the project include laying of 129.27 kms of sewer lines (which will ensure full sewerage system in Udhampur town), setting up of 3 Sewage Pumping stations and construction of 3 Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) of 13.60 million litres per day (mld) capacity. The project will also cover non-sewerage works relating to river front development in a length of around 340 metres at 3 bathing ghats, including Mela Ghat (where there is mass gathering during religious festivals/events), construction of 2 improved wood crematoria to minimise wood consumption and ash disposal, as well as public awareness activities.


    The main reason for the pollution of Devika and Tawi rivers in Udhampur is discharge of untreated sewage from the town. Presently, no sewerage system and Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) exist in Udhampur. The project for ‘Pollution abatement of rivers Devika and Tawi rivers in Udhampur under NRCP has been sanctioned by the Ministry on September 28, 2018.


    ***


    RDS/HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548155) Visitor Counter : 888