      Ministry of Home Affairs

      First Regional Conference on 'Women in Detention and Access to Justice' in Shimla (4-5 October, 2018)
      Posted On: 03 OCT 2018 5:24PM by PIB Delhi


    The Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D), Ministry of Home Affairs is organising the First ever Regional Conference at Shimla on 'Women in Detention and Access to Justice' in collaboration with the Prison Department, Himachal Pradesh on October 4-5, 2018. The Conference will be inaugurated by Shri Acharya Devvrat, the Governor of Himachal Pradesh.


    The BPR&D organises the conferences on newly emerged issues. The Parliamentary Committee on Empowerment of Women on the subject “Women in Detention and Access to Justice” has made several recommendations. There is a need to deliberate upon some of the recommendations to devise strategies and programs for bettering conditions of Women Prisoners and upholding their Fundamental Rights.


    The following themes have been identified for discussions and deliberations:


     1. Reproductive Health Rights of Women Prisoners: National and International Legal Norms

     2. Health Needs of Women Prisoners
     3. Health, Skill, Rehabilitation and Reintegration of Women Inmates and Their Children
     4. Prison Reforms, Structural Managerial and Legal Issues with Focus on Women Inmates & Comparison to Global Norms
     5. Neuro-Criminology Program for the Offender
     6. Transforming Prisons

    This conference is organised with a view to provide a platform for the prison personnel of all ranks at the national level to share their candid views on various operational as well as administrative issues not only with their counterparts, but also with other experts of national repute in this field and also to identify best practices and standards in the working of Correctional Administration to meet new challenges in the present day’s context to bring out prison reforms in objective terms. This event would also promote research and developmental activities on the functioning of the Correctional Administration across the country on the one hand and nudge to develop a scientific approach among the various Correctional Administration in a professional manner. This 2 days’ Conference will have 6 working sessions along with panel discussions on the 06 selected themes.


    The Conference will be in the form of panel discussions with key note speakers who are experts in the domain areas. Conference will be attended by Prison Officials, representative from Universities/ Institutions, NGOs, Health Professionals, Social Workers, Counsellors working in the field of Correctional Administration and Rehabilitation of Prisoners.


    The Valedictory Address will be given by Shri Hans Raj, Deputy Speaker, 13th Legislative Assembly (Vidhan Sabha), Himachal Pradesh on Friday.


    Expected Outcome of the Congress will be to help in ensuring better implementation of Prison Reform and Rehabilitation Program in order to improve the conditions of Women Inmates and their Access to Justice.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1548370) Visitor Counter : 1151
    
    
    
    
    

6.