      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Smt Anupriya Patel inaugurates a symposium cum exhibition on ‘Dialogue with Organs for Allied Health Force – A step to Enhance Cognitive Skills’
      Posted On: 04 OCT 2018 5:15PM by PIB Delhi


    Smt Anupriya Patel, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare inaugurated a symposium cum exhibition on ‘Dialogue with Organs for Allied Health Force – A step to enhance cognitive skills,’ organized by the Department of Anatomy at Vardhman Mahavir Medical College and Safdarjung Hospital, here today. Speaking at the function, Smt Anupriya Patel stated that it is imperative to maintain a healthy lifestyle and avoid habits which in the long run will pose as a health hazard. “Only when all the members of our society will be aware of a healthy lifestyle and of the necessity of avoiding unhealthy practices, can we achieve ‘Health for All’, she said. Smt Anupriya Patel also administered the oath to the students and participants for adopting health lifestyle. Dr S Venkatesh, Director General of Health Services (DGHS) and Smt Gayatri Mishra, Joint Secretary were also present at the event.


    Smt Anupriya Patel further stated that organ donation and body donation is one of the noblest things that one can do. She added that healthy lifestyle and organ donation are infact interconnected. “Only when one has healthy organs, can he or she lead a healthy life, and can be eligible for organ donation,” she emphasized. She also reiterated the need for empowering oneself with knowledge to attain professional competency and appreciated the unique initiative of the Department. “This platform of interaction of the eager learners with renowned experts in different fields will go a long way to create awareness and clear certain concepts in their mind,” she added.


    The Symposium brought together about 350 students and allied health workers from institutions in Delhi and focused on healthy lifestyle and organ donation. The highlight of the Symposium was the exhibition on pathological effect on human organs which displayed normal, preserved human organs and pathological specimen of human liver, lungs, large and small intestine to lay specific emphasis on the effects of smoking, alcoholism, drug abuse, drink-and-drive and unhealthy lifestyle displayed through scientific posters. The participants were informed on the importance of healthy organs for organ donation. This is the second time that such a Symposium has been organized by Department of Anatomy at VMMC and Safdarjung Hospital for the allied health workers. The event was supported by the Defense Research and Development Organization (DRDO)


    Also present at the event were, DrRajendra Sharma Medical Superintendent of VMMC and Safdarjung Hospital, Dr Mangala Kohli, the Head of the Department of Anatomy along with other senior officers of the Health Ministry.


    ***


    SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548605) Visitor Counter : 438