      Ministry of Railways

      Shri Piyush Goyal inaugurates International Conference on Technological Advancements in Railway and Metro Projects (IC-TRAM 2018)
      Posted On: 04 OCT 2018 6:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Railways & Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal inaugurated International Conference on Technological Advancements in Railway and Metro Projects (IC-TRAM 2018) in New Delhi today. Shri V.K.Saraswat, Member, Niti Aayog, Shri Keshav Chandra, Chairman , Organizing Committee and former Member Railway Board & senior Railway officials were present on the occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Piyush Goyal said, “Railways is always open to embrace technological innovations to provide best services to the commuters. The introduction of Shinkansen from Ahmedabad to Mumbai wasn’t only about speed but about introducing the latest technology in the country. The need of the hour is to figure out technological innovations which can make Railways safer & more efficient. The top management of Railways is open to new ideas & willing to take up new assignments for creating a ‘New Railways’. Shri Goyal talked about the remarkable progress made in elimination of Unmanned Level Crossings across Indian Railways & the convoy system in freight train movement adopted by South Central Railway recently. Forty freight trains in this convoy were able to run at higher speeds due to lack of interference from passenger trains. This concept will increase efficiency and revenues for the railway.


    Earlier, Shri Keshav Chandra, Chairman, Organizing Committee and former Member Railway Board, welcomed the delegates and elaborated the focus areas of each session of the conference. He asked all those in the business of railways and metro transportation, as well as the larger transportation community, operators, engineers to upgrade their technical skills and knowledge, interact with specialists from various engineering disciplines, hear from the experts from India and abroad on the fine ‘art and science’ of metro building and railway modernization.


    The second edition of the International Conference on Technological Advancements in Railways & Metro Projects is being organized on 4-5 October 2018 by DIPM Council (India). The aim is to take stock of the consolidation taking place in Railways & Metros world-wide with special focus on India, the inflow of new technologies effecting sweeping changes in manufacturing processes and operations and review of the multiple business opportunities for ‘Make in India’. Experts from various fields of Railway and Metro Operations and Infrastructure from all over the world will be participating in this International Conference being held at New Delhi.


    ***


    SVS/ENS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1548695) Visitor Counter : 408