      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Sustainable production can be achieved through organic farming by way of improvement in soil health and fertility: Radha Mohan Singh
      
      Through the multi-action waste decomposer technology, farmers can produce large quantities of organic fertilizer
      
      Posted On: 08 OCT 2018 11:31AM by PIB Delhi


    Union Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Minister Shri Radha Mohan Singh has said that organic farming has the potential to provide livelihood to farmers and create employment opportunities for rural and urban people. Addressing Jaivik Krishi Sammelan organised by the National Centre of Organic Farming in Pandit Deen Dayal Dham, Mathura yesterday, he said that Sustainable production can be achieved through organic farming by way of improvement in soil health and fertility. The Minister said that the Modi government launched a new initiative the Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY) in 2015-16. From 2015-16 to 2018-19, Rs 1307 crore has been allocated to promote organic farming on cluster mode in the country. With the successful implementation of PKVY, Mission Organic Value Chain Development (MOVCD) and APEDA, more than 23.02 lakh hectares have been brought under certified organic farming till date in the country.


    He added that the demand for Indian organic produce is high in the global market. During 2016-17, India produced 15 lakh tonne organic produce, where in, the export volume was 3.64 lakh tonne with value of Rs 2478 crore whereas the domestic market size is estimated at Rs 2000 crore which is expected to touch Rs 10000 crore in the next three years. The Minister called for adoption of organic farming and reducing dependence on chemical fertiliser and pesticide. He asserted it is imperative that we protect our environment, soil health and fertility, mitigate climate change & global warming and achieve sustainable & nutritional security. He expressed happiness over NCOF developing multi-action waste decomposer and its simple mass multiplication technology for farmers.


    Shri Singh said that the Modi government is committed to promoting organic farming and is providing every possible help to farmers for the development of organic farming in the country. For an Organic Farming Revolution , he called upon farmers groups, NGOs and other stake holders to adopt organic farming in order to free the soil and environment from deadly chemicals.


    *****


    APS/RCS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548867) Visitor Counter : 1242
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Tamil , Malayalam