      Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

      Softbank group’s CEO Mr. Masayoshi Son offers free Electricity after 25 years
      Posted On: 04 OCT 2018 7:05PM by PIB Delhi


    Chief Executive Officer, Soft Bank Group, Mr Masayoshi Son, addressed the plenary session of the 2 nd Global Renewable Energy Investment Meeting and Expo, (REINVEST- 2018), organised by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, Government of India.


    The First Assembly of International Solar Alliance (ISA); the 2 nd IORA Renewable Energy Ministerial Meeting and the 2 nd Global Renewable Energy Investment Meeting and Expo, (REINVEST- 2018) is being held at India Expo Mart, Greater Noida, UP, from 3 rd to 5 th October 2018.The plenary session called ‘#RENNOVATE’, held a special series of inspirational conversations with global leaders who believe passionately on renewing the planet through new ideas and technologies.


    Making a presentation at the occasion Chief Executive Officer, SoftBank Group Mr. Masayoshi Son, said “ISA has been a very important part of Prime Minister Modi’s leadership. PM Modi wants 100% electrification, it’s a great mission, with great vision, for villages and for households (Saubhagya)”. Commending the efforts of the ISA, he said “We are no more one nation in this mission, but 121 nations involved in bringing a change. I get involved as the chairman of task force, sharing three outcomes- solar innovation platforms, solar technology centres and finally connecting people with power. We fully support the vision 2020 set by PM Modi. Cost of Solar power generation is much cheaper in India compared to rest of the world. I will give free power from solar power projects after 25 years of PPA to all ISA member countries. We're investing in tech & innovation so that we can harness solar energy efficiently to provide free power to children, mothers, communities across the world. It's not a dream, we now have the resources to make this happen”


    The conference was inaugurated in a common function by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India Shri Narendra Modi, in the presence of Mr Antonio Guterres, Secretary General, United Nations on 2 nd October 2018 in Vigyan Bhavan, New Delhi.


    The 2 nd REINVEST aims at accelerating the worldwide effort to scale up renewable energy and connect the global investment community with Indian energy stakeholders. 2 nd REINVEST is a three-day conference on renewables, cleantech and future energy choices, and an Expo of renewables-related manufacturers, developers, investors

      * 7 country sessions, 8 state sessions: showcase policy initiatives & achievements in renewable energy
      * Ministerial Delegations from across the world, including ISA and IORA member countries, to participate
      * Over 600 global industry leaders and 1,000+ delegates to attend

    About 2nd Global RE-Invest India-ISA Partnership Renewable Energy Investors Meet & Expo:


    RE-Invest is a global platform to explore strategies for development and deployment of renewables. It showcases India’s clean energy market and the Government’s efforts to scale up capacity to meet the national energy demand in socially, economically and ecologically sustainable ways. The 2nd Global RE-Invest will build upon the success of RE-Invest 2015 and provide an international forum to established players as well as new segments of investors and entrepreneurs to engage, ideate and innovate.


    About ISA:


    Vision and mission of the International Solar Alliance is to provide a dedicated platform for cooperation among solar resource rich countries where the global community, including bilateral and multilateral organizations, corporates, industry, and other stakeholders, can make a positive contribution to assist and help achieve the common goals of increasing the use of solar energy in meeting energy needs of prospective ISA member countries in a safe, convenient, affordable, equitable and sustainable manner.


    *****


    FH / RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548647) Visitor Counter : 1106
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

*