      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Vice President inaugurates NHRC’s International Human Rights Conclave
      
      Says, India is committed to preserve and protect human rights

      Posted On: 01 OCT 2018 7:02PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that India has been unequivocal in its commitment to the preservation and protection of human rights globally as well as within the country. He was addressing the gathering after inaugurating the National Human Rights Conclave being organized as a part of the Silver Jubilee Celebrations of the National Human Rights Commission, here today.


    The Vice President reaffirmed that human rights were the most natural rights, inherent to all human beings without discrimination. He also asked the state with the primary responsibility of upholding, respecting, protecting and fulfilling these inalienable rights and he applauded India’s robust human rights protection framework comprising of a fiercely independent and fair judiciary, media, civil society and a number of proactive and independent human right bodies, such as the National Human Rights Commission. India is also a signatory to several of the core UN Human Rights and International Labour Organization’s conventions, he added.


    The Vice President appreciated the good work done by NHRC as a diligent watchdog of human rights protection and said that the massive rise in the number of complaints received by the NHRC from 496 in 1993 to 79,612 cases in 2018 were a testament to the faith that the people of India placed on the NHRC. He lauded the efforts of NHRC towards eradication of the abhorrent practices of bonded labor child labor and manual scavenging.


    The Vice President insisted that special focus should be placed on protecting the rights of the vulnerable sections of the society, especially women and children. He reserved a few proud words to speak of India’s strong track record of affirmative action, especially women’s reservation in Local Self governing bodies. He said that the contribution of women, who are ‘Shaktiswarupinis’, was indispensable to nation building and added that the principle of gender equality was enshrined in the constitution. He placed the onus on parents and teachers to inculcate the principles of gender equality in children. He declared that no civilized society would tolerate or accept any form of violence or discrimination against women and children.


    The Vice President highlighted several challenges that lay in the path towards securing human rights. He warned that Indian democracy allows space for everyone to express their opinions. He welcomed ‘dissent’ but warned that ‘disintegration’ would not be tolerated.


    The Vice President argued that human rights did not confer unfettered liberty on anyone to speak against the state or nation and added that human rights are best upheld if they are in harmony with the interests of the nation and fellow citizens. He lamented that the misuse of provisions of the human rights emerged as recent phenomenon. He observed that Human Rights are for everyone, in equal measure and therefore the rights of one person could not transgress the rights of another. In this context, he condemned acts of terrorism and said that India had lost several of its luminary leaders including Shri Rajiv Gandhi, Smt. Indira Gandhi and a number of MLAs and MPs to mindless acts of terror.


    He extended a warm welcome to delegates from all over the world and told them that their presence in the Conclave reflected the deep concerns they had for the protection of human rights in their countries. He expressed hope that the conclave would act as a platform for dwelling upon diverse challenges to protection of human rights. He hoped that we would soon be able to ensure that the dignity and rights of all people, without exception are protected and a respect for human life and natural environment is fostered.


    In his address, Justice Shri H.L. Dattu, Chairperson, NHRC deliberated upon creating widespread awareness, sensitisation of the public and strengthening constitutional and legal provisions which thereby provide extensive system of checks and balances. By monitoring human rights situations through camp sittings, open hearings, setting up of a bonded labour cell, appointment of special rapporteurs, constituting core and expert groups, NHRC is acting as a focal point for human right defenders. Justice Dattu identified poverty, gender inequalities, bonded labour, trafficking, displacement of refugees as some of the challenges to human rights protection.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba cautioned that certain groups wedded to terrorism take advantage of our commitments to uphold Human Rights. Stating that we should not lose sight of stark realities and appreciate the constraints under which the Security Forces operate, Shri Gauba said we must also protect the legal rights of the Security Forces.


    Shri Gauba said on its part the Ministry of Home Affairs has taken several steps to safeguard Human Rights. A new Division dealing with the Safety of Women and Children has been set up and the National Database on Sexual Offenders (NDSO) created. The MHA has also been reviewing the terrorism and insurgency situation in affected states and has either withdrawn the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) from the entire state or lifted in certain parts of the state.


    He said that the NHRC is a central figure in the institutional architecture of the country. India has always worked towards protection of socio economic rights of the backward persons of the society through a robust legal regulatory framework establishing rule of law and protecting civil political and fundamental rights of the people. The NHRC along with National Commissions for Women, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and Minorities, is helping the Government to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030, he added.


    The International Conclave is aimed at providing the platform to the national human rights institutions of various countries, global networks of NHRIs, government and non-governmental organisations and other stakeholders to share their views and to deliberate on the road ahead on important human rights concerns.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1548167) Visitor Counter : 569
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi