      Ministry of Defence

      ANC celebrates 18th Raising Day: CINCAN reviews Parade
      Posted On: 08 OCT 2018 5:18PM by PIB Delhi


    Andaman & Nicobar Command celebrated its 18 th Raising Day today on 08 Oct 2018. The only joint-services operational command of the Indian Armed Forces, commemorated its raising, by conducting several events over the last two days and included Barakhana with troops, Run for Fun, and media interaction. The Commander-in-Chief Andaman and Nicobar Command, Vice Admiral Bimal Verma, AVSM, reviewed the parade at INS UTKROSH and awarded Unit Citations for outstanding performance in last one year to Indian Coast Guard, Naval Ship Repair Yard, and 15 ASSAM. In his address, the Commander-in-Chief commended all personnel on their professionalism and alacrity shown in pursuance of the goals of the command. The Admiral informed that the several important projects of strategic significance are underway and the induction of additional assets like an Engineer Regiment, LCUs, FDN-2, BMPs and TA Bn has further added teeth to operational capabilities of the Command. He commended all ranks for successful conduct of DANX and other events like MILAN and CORPATs with Navies of the Indian Ocean Region during the year.


    The Commander-in-Chief made a special mention of aid to civil authorities by all components, where 18 medical evacuations were carried out and highlighted the role played by Coast Guard Ship Aruna Asif Ali in saving 348 lives at sea during flooding of MV Swaraj Dweep. He appreciated the efforts towards community outreach by INS Kardip and Coast Guard at Campbell Bay in operating Schools for tribal and local children. The other activities towards social outreach include multi-specialty medical camps in remote areas and Spirit of Freedom Run wherein 19 schools enroute were motivated to contribute towards ‘Adopt a Tree’ program and were sensitized about ‘Plastic Free Islands’. He shared that in the coming year INS Shibpur will be made available for UDAN scheme to connect remote areas of the Islands. Efforts made by the Command towards safeguarding our environment by way of Segregated Waste Management at all the residential areas of the Command was also appreciated by the CINCAN.


    DKS/GG/AC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1548940) Visitor Counter : 599
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Tamil