      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Col Rajyavardhan Rathore Inaugurates Multimedia Exhibition on 150 years of Celebrating Mahatma Gandhi’s Birth Anniversary
      
      New Technologies Used in the Exhibition Have Brought Life of Mahatma Gandhi Closer to the People: Col. Rathore

      Posted On: 02 OCT 2018 7:35PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Information & Broadcasting and Sports & Youth Affairs Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore (Retd.) inaugurated Multimedia Exhibition on 150 years of Celebrating Mahatma Gandhi’s Birth Anniversary. Secretary Information & Broadcasting Shri Amit Khare, Principal Director General Press Information Bureau Shri Sitanshu Kar, Press Registrar RNI Shri Ganesan, Director General Bureau of Outreach Communication Shri Satyendra Prakash, Director General of Publications Division Dr. Sadhana Rout and other senior officials of the Ministry were also present at the event.


    Speaking on the occasion, Col Rathore said that new technologies used in this exhibition have brought the life of Mahatma Gandhi much closer to the people. This multimedia exhibition is more interactive and engaging. He wished that this multimedia exhibition be conducted in various cities across the country to take this idea to much larger audience. He said that life of Gandhi is an example for all. He is a global citizen which is a pride for every citizen. He dedicated his life for Swachhata Seva. Prime Minister of India has taken this as a challenge and now change is visible through Jan Andolan.


    Shri Amit Khare said that the response from the public for the Multimedia Exhibition was overwhelming. He also said that new technologies have been used to take the idea of Mahatma Gandhi even to the last person in the country.


    Shri Satyendra Prakash said that this is the first time new technologies are being used in the exhibition and didn't expect such an overwhelming response from the public.


    Col Rathore released 11 Books by various authors on the life of Mahatma Gandhi brought out by Publications Division. He also released three short films on Mahatma Gandhi produced by Bureau of Outreach Communications, Doordarshan and Films Division respectively. He released a magazine “Jan Connect” with the theme on Development of Kisan’s livelihood which was the dream of Mahatma Gandhi.


    Background:


    Multimedia Exhibition on 150 years of Celebrating Mahatma Gandhi’s Birth Anniversary is organized by Bureau of Outreach Communication. The Exhibition has many engaging features like Quiz on the life of Mahatma, Interactive timeline depicting life of Mahatma Gandhi, Photo Booth with various backgrounds to choose from, 3D Video Wall, etc. The Exhibition also showcased various books on the Life of Mahatma Gandhi.


    ***


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548280) Visitor Counter : 532
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi