      Ministry of Science & Technology

      4 day long India International Science Festival (IISF-2018) concludes in Lucknow.
      
      IISF witnessed more than twenty thousand registrations and a footfall of more than ten lakh people making it the biggest festival of this kind in Asia.
      
      The motto of New India henceforth can be “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan , Jai Vigyan and Jai Anusandhan” : Union Minister Dr.HarshVardhan.
      
      Union Minister Shri. Nitin Gadkari launches a dedicated website on Science in India.
      Posted On: 08 OCT 2018 8:34PM by PIB Delhi


    The four day long mega science expo, India International Science Festival (IISF) concluded in Lucknow today. IISF-2018 witnessed a footfall of more than 10 lakh people and more than 22 thousand registrations, the highest in its four year history making it the largest festival of its kind in Asia.


    IISF which was inaugurated by the President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind , saw a confluence of Scientists, researchers, students, farmers and people from a wide spectrum discussing, debating, and witnessing how science and technology is shaping New India. Congratulating all the stakeholders the Union Minster informed the gathering that the four day long festival saw a presentation of more than twelve hundred research papers, participation of nearly


    Speaking at the valedictory function Union Science and Technology Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan said that after witnessing the huge participation in this four day long science festival , it will not be wrong to add Jai Anusandhan to the quote “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan, Jai Vigyan” given by former Prime Ministers of India. “More than 1200 research papers were presented, participation of more than 1500 farmers was witnessed apart from a sea of young enthusiasts of science making this festival unique of its kind in the world” said Dr.Vardhan congratulating all the stakeholders and further adding that such science festivals should now be a regular feature of not only Central but state government as well.


    Union Minister Shri Nitin Gadkari who was the chief guest at the valedictory function launched a website dedicated exclusively to science in India( http://scienceindia.in/ ).Highlighting the pervasive role of Science & Technology across all the major schemes of Government of India Shri Gadkari said that today is the time to make India a super economic power. “Innovation, Entrepreneurship, Technology, Research and Science; we name it as knowledge and conversion of knowledge into wealth is the future of our country”, said the Union Minister. Sh. Gadkari also elucidated how research and technology in alternative fuel(esp. biofuel) is swiftly changing the transport industry.


    IISF 2018 also saw two major Guiness World Records being made one of which wasa World Record successful attempt to “isolate DNA” by 550 students from class 8th to 10th standard.


    IISF-2018 with its focal theme “Science for Transformation” had more than23 special events in its 4 th edition. The fifth edition of the science festival will be held in eastern India.


    ***


    RDS/GK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548992) Visitor Counter : 878