      President's Secretariat

      President hosts President of Uzbekistan; Emphasises connectivity projects and economic relations
      Posted On: 01 OCT 2018 9:00PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, received His Excellency Mr Shavkat Mirziyoyev, the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan , at Rashtrapati Bhavan today (October 1, 2018). He also hosted a banquet in his honour.


    Welcoming the Uzbek President on his first state visit to India , the President said that he has provided exemplary leadership to Uzbek people. His initiatives in external relations are commendable. There is a new dynamism in Central Asia today and the spirit of cooperation across the region is flourishing. As a friend, India takes great pride of Uzbekistan’s achievements.


    The President said that cross-border terrorism poses a grave challenge to our region. Regional peace and stability are critical for fostering progress and prosperity of our peoples. He was happy to note that India and Uzbekistan have agreed to step-up security and counter-terrorism cooperation.


    The President appreciated Uzbekistan’s efforts to bring peace and reconciliation in Afghanistan. He said that India stands ready to cooperate with all like-minded countries to work towards peace and stability in Afghanistan.


    The President said that India takes pride in its development cooperation partnership with Uzbekistan. He was happy to note that India has offered a line of credit of US $ 200 million to support social sector projects in Uzbekistan. He said that connectivity is critical to building an economic partnership. He thanked Uzbekistan for supporting India’s membership of the Ashgabat Agreement.


    Subsequently, in his banquet speech, President Kovind said that as old friends and strategic partners, India and Uzbekistan possess a strong foundation of historical ties to build contemporary relations. Our bilateral ties are doing well. But we want to, not just grow, but gallop. And for this, we have to connect better - through airports, sea-ports, highways and i-ways.


    ***


    AKT/SH/VK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548219) Visitor Counter : 893