      Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

      India brings the world together to discuss Renewable Energy; global community applauds India’s Role
      
      2nd Global Re-invest 2018 a resounding success
      
      Posted On: 05 OCT 2018 10:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy hosted the First Assembly of International Solar Alliance (ISA), 2 nd Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA) Energy Ministerial Meet, 2 nd Global RE-Invest Meet & Expo that concluded today at the India Expo Mart in the National Capital Region. The three events were inaugurated by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, in the presence of Secretary General, United Nations Mr Antonio Guterres, on 2nd October 2018 in Vigyan Bhavan, New Delhi.


    The three-day event of 2 nd Global Re-Invest India-ISA Partnership Renewable Energy Investors Meet & Expo saw participation of over 20,000 delegates including representatives of over 77 countries out of which 40 were at ministerial level. Over 50 plenary and technical sessions were held at the event in which 150 speakers (including 55 international speakers) participated. There were nine different country sessions, eight state sessions and over 500 business to business bilateral meetings.


    The valedictory session was attended by Minister of State (IC), Power and New and Renewable Energy Shri R K Singh, Minister of Railways and Coal Shri Piyush Goyal, Energy Minister of Peru Mr. Francisco Ismodes Mezzano, Secretary, Ministry of New & Renewable Energy Shri Anand Kumar, among others. Speaking at the session, Minister of State (IC), Power and New and Renewable Energy Shri R K Singh, said, “The Re-Invest allowed the policy makers, speakers, scientists, businessmen to meet and interact with each other. I think this is the perfect model to bring all of them together. This conglomeration conveys that the world wants to do something about the environment by taking the renewable route. Our Prime Minister has given us another challenge of one world, one sun, and one grid. It is feasible and we will also achieve it.”


    Minister of Railways and Coal Shri Piyush Goyal, said, “I am sure a conference of this scale will recharge the sector. This is the take off point for the next phase of renewable energy. I look forward to a day when sun, wind and biogas becomes the main source of energy. Let us lead the world to the next level of clean energy.”


    Praising India for taking the lead in hosting the 2 nd RE-Invest, Energy Minister, Peru Mr. Francisco Ismodes Mezzano, said,“I would like to thank the Government of India for the hospitality and support. I look forward to welcome all of you to the Peru World and Sun Expo next year in November.”


    The business proceedings of the First Assembly of ISA were held on October 3, followed by its two technical sessions on October 4 and 5 respectively. Apart from this, ISA’s 5th program on Scaling-up Solar E-Mobility and Storage was also launched during the assembly and 2 MoUs were signed – one with IORA and the other with United Nations Environment. The ISA’s 5 th program on Scaling-up Solar E-Mobility and Storage aims to promote, assess potential, harmonize demand and pool resources for rapid deployment of and scaling up solar e-mobility and associated Storage infrastructure in urban and rural areas of ISA member countries.


    The Assembly witnessed participation from ISA prospective countries, partner countries, dignitaries from the United Nations, Presidents of Multilateral Development Banks, global funds, international financial institutions, representatives from the corporate sector and civil society. Several senior officials of ISA Member Nations, as well as industry, investors, multilateral agencies and civil society representatives attended the technical sessions. During the assembly, ISA’s corporate partners, Coal India Limited (CIL), Power Finance Corporation (PFC) contributed US $ 1 million and India Trade Promotion Organisation (ITPO) contributed US $ 2 million to the Corpus Fund of ISA.


    As many as 21 countries adopted the Delhi Declaration on Renewable Energy, post the 2 nd IORA Renewable Energy Ministerial Meeting held at the 2 nd Global Re-Invest India-ISA Partnership Renewable Energy Investors’ Meet & Expo.The Delhi Declaration calls for collaboration among IORA member states in meeting the growing demand for renewable energy in the Indian Ocean littorals, development of a common renewable energy agenda for the Indian ocean region and promote regional capacity building.


    The declaration also calls for promotion of technology development and transfer, strengthening of public private partnerships in renewable energy and collaboration among IORA member states and the member nations of the International Solar Alliance (ISA). IORA member countries also resolved to collaborate with the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA).


    The three day 2nd Global RE-Invest Meet & Expo witnessed power-packed sessions like the Chief Ministerial Plenary that was attended by Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Uttar Pradesh sharing the renewable energy policy initiatives implemented by these states. Between 3 rd to 5 th October, states like Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab showcased their policy initiatives to attract investors in their state specific sessions.


    During the three day Re-Invest 2018, nine country sessions were organised by leading RE countries such as France, USA, European Union, Australia, UK, Finland.


    For more details :


    Website: https://re-invest.in/


    Twitter: @REInvestIndia


    Facebook: @REInvestIndia


    *****


    FH / RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548795) Visitor Counter : 691