      Ministry of Culture

      Minister of Textiles, Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani Inaugurates exhibition “Revisiting Gandhi: The Art of Shelly Jyoti” at IGNCA, New Delhi.
      Posted On: 07 OCT 2018 2:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Textiles, Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani Inaugurated the exhibition “Revisiting Gandhi: The Art of Shelly Jyoti” at IGNCA, New Delhi, yesterday the 06 th of October, 2018. Smt. Tara Gandhi Bhattacharjee, granddaughter of Mahatma Gandhi and Trustee, Kasturba Gandhi National Museum Memorial, Dr. Sachidananda Joshi, Member Secretary, IGNA, Rajmata Shubhanginiraje Gaekwad, Chancellor, M.S. University, Vadodara were the guests of Honour at the Event.


    Speaking at the event, the Minister for Textiles, Smt. SmritiIrani appreciated the efforts of IGNCA for making such an excellent exhibition possible. Appreciating the exemplary Art work by Shelly Jyoti she said that the exhibition translated the artist’s concepts and designs through India’s unique craft techniques and traditions. ­­


    The exhibition organised as part of Gandhi Parv, 150 years birth anniversary celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi, realises what Gandhi inspired and put into action, self-transformation, with the ultimate goal of the total transformation of society, is an ongoing and ever-present process. The artworks have focussed on Gandhi’s idea of nation-building, to create moral and peaceful societies.These exhibits, feature ten years of the artist’s works on SWARAJ (2018), KHADI(2016), SALT(2013), INDIGO (2009).


    The Artist draws on intellectual, historical, spiritual and artistic ideas and traditions that although rooted in the past, still flourish, ferment and bear fruit today. Through exquisite textile works created between 2009 and 2018, the artist has found material form for key themes in Gandhian thought entwined with Indian history and identity – Swaraj, Khadi, Salt and Indigo. The Artist’s collaborative spirit and creative processes pays tribute to both Gandhi and the country. The exhibition is available for public viewing till the 21 st of October, 2018, on all days except Mondays, from 10.30 am to 7.00 PM.

    GG/PS


    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548838) Visitor Counter : 894