      Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

      States invite investors; promise full support to meet renewable targets
      Posted On: 04 OCT 2018 1:47PM by PIB Delhi


    The Chief Minsters’ Plenary Session at the 2nd Global RE-INVEST India-ISA Partnership Renewable Energy Investors Meet & Expo saw representatives of Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Uttar Pradesh sharing the renewable energy policy initiatives implemented by these states and their vision for capacity expansion.


    The session was moderated on October, 3, 2018 by Shri Chandrajit Banerjee, Director General, Confederation of Indian Industries.


    Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh, Shri Jai Ram Thakur shared that Himachal Pradesh is planning to allot a solar power project of 1000 MW in Lahaul Spiti, and has taken several steps to attract investments in renewable energy. “Himachal Pradesh is offering land at Re 1 per square meter for renewable energy projects. The state has deferred royalty payments from renewable energy projects. Additionally, Himachal Pradesh has also taken another step to encourage the investors by declaring that for renewable energy projects of up to 25MW, state electricity board will buy power directly.”


    Chief Minister of Puducherry, Shri V Narayanasamy said, “The government must support innovation in renewable energy to achieve India’s ambitious targets. The government should protect domestic investors from foreign investors. It must provide subsidy, tax holiday for domestic players to set up solar panel manufacturing facilities in India.” He added, “Puducherry is a Union Territory and needs the government’s support to develop its renewable energy sector. The government’s renewable energy policy should be implementable, feasible and acceptable.”


    Briefing about the renewable energy initiatives of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lt Governor of Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Admiral (Retd) Devendra Kumar Joshi said, “Andaman & Nicobar is witnessing the development of world class infrastructure and tourism projects. There will therefore be increased demand for energy and an opportunity to invest in the renewable energy sector. Projects of 45 MW of solar energy in and around Port Blair alone are planned to be set up. All new buildings in cities will mandatorily have provision for roof-top solar and this policy will be extended to rural areas.”


    Minister of Additional Energy Sources in the Government of Uttar Pradesh Shri BrajeshPathak, said, “The UP government has provided for single window online clearance of rooftop solar. We have also provided 100% stamp duty exemption on land bought for setting up solar energy plants. Additionally, UP is providing 50% concession on charges on solar electricity sold within the state and 100% concession on solar electricity sold outside the state.”


    Shri Pathak called for a solar revolution akin to the country’s telecom revolution. “Every house should install a 5KW roof top panel and reap the returns.We shall extend all our support to institutional investors as well as to individual households to adopt solar energy. Lucknow alone has 700 km of rooftops, which can be used for solar energy generation”, he added.


    For more details :


    Website: https://re-invest.in/


    Twitter: @REInvestIndia


    Facebook: @REInvestIndia


    ***


    FH/RP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1548543) Visitor Counter : 437
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi