      Ministry of Science & Technology

      CSIR develops affordable Water Disinfection System “OneerTM”
      
      The device will go a long way in meeting the requirements of potable water in rural and urban areas : Dr. Harsh Vardhan

      Posted On: 17 OCT 2018 8:38PM by PIB Delhi

    Council of Scientific and Industrial Research ,Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (CSIR-IITR), Lucknow has developed an innovative technology for “Drinking Water Disinfection System” with Trade name “Oneer TM ” which was transferred to M/s Bluebird Water Purifiers, New Delhi in the presence of Union Minister of Science & Technology and Vice-President, CSIR, Dr. Harsh Vardhan today. It is useful for continuous treatment of water and eliminates all disease causing pathogens such as virus, bacteria, fungi, protozoa and cyst to provide safe drinking water to domestic and communities settings as per National and International standards prescribed for potable water (BIS, WHO etc.).


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Harsh Vardhan said that it is well known that infection through drinking water results in an increase in morbidity and mortality particularly amongst children and Oneer developed by CSIR-IITR ,will provide access to safe and clean drinking water at a cost of just 2 Paise / Ltr. Dr. Harsh Vardhan further added that the Community level model is of 450 LPH capacity which can be scaled up to 5000 to 1 lakh L/day; and is also maintenance and membrane free. “The technology will be helpful especially for rural people since it can be solar powered and this development is in line with the ‘Make in India’ Mission”, added the Union Minister.


    Dr. Shkekar C Mande, Director General, CSIR and Secretary, DSIR lauded the efforts of CSIR-IITR Scientists in developing Oneer-a safe drinking water device especially for rural areas. He said that currently, a large proportion of India's rural community is consuming water that does not meet the WHO drinking water quality standards. According to the World Health Organization, "access to safe drinking-water is essential to health, a basic human right and a component of effective policy for health protection”.


    CSIR is continuously focusing on translational research through Mission Projects and Fast Track Translational Research Projects to develop technologies and products focussed at unmet needs. One of the components of the programme is to enhance the quality of life of common people and remove drudgery.


    The smaller unit of Oneer is particularly suitable for homes, street food vendors, and small establishments.


    ***


    RDS/GK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1549992) Visitor Counter : 2145
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu