      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      CIC Annunal Convention 2018
      Posted On: 12 OCT 2018 8:54PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Information Commission (CIC) organised 13th Annual Convention here today. The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the Convention of Central Information Commission. The seminar was attended by Chief Information Commissioner, Information Commissioners, former information Commissioners, State Information Commissioners, Central Public information officer, NGOs and other stake holders. The Convention began with welcome address by Chief Information Commissioner Shri Radha Krishan Mathur, Central Information Commission. Shri Radha Krishan Mathur, Central information Commission, said that two significant changes have taken place since, last Convention, Firstly CIC moved into its own building and Secondly, we have fully equipped us for e-hearing. Now registrations are also online, and the case files are digitized.


    The First Session on “Implementation of RTI Act” was chaired by Information Commissioner Shri Amitava Bhattacharya. Shri Bimal Julka, Information Commissioner, CIC, spoke on the Implementation of RTI Act. Shri Suresh Chaudhary, State Chief Information Commissioner, Rajasthan, highlighted the issues on Implementation of Right to Information in letter and spirit. Shri Nikhil Dey, Social Activist, focused on the Institutionalizing a culture of transparency. Shri P. Janakiram, Sr. Knowledge Manager, Centre for good Governance, Hyderabad, highlighted the issues on RTI Implementation-Stakeholders and Competency based training.


    The Second Session on “Amendment to the RTI Act” was chaired by Information Commissioner Shri Divya Prakash Sinha. Shri Prashant Sadashiv Prabhu Tendolkar, State Chief Information Commissioner, Goa, highlighted the issues on a need for effective implementation. Prof. Vijay Kumar, Law University, also focused on the Amendment to the RTI Act. Ms Anjali Bhardwaj, Social Activist, spoke on RTI Amendment bill, 2008 and attempts to amend the RTI Act. Shri Subhash Chandra Agarwal, Social Activist, focused on the RTI rules for better implementation of the sunshine Act.


    The Third Session on “Data privacy and Right to Information” was chaired by Information Commissioner Shri Sudhir Bhargava. Prof. M.S Acharyulu, Information Commissioner, CIC, spoke on the Data privacy and Right to Information. Prof. Upendra Baxi, Former Vice-Chancellor, University of Delhi, highlighted the issues on Data privacy and Right to Information. Shri Venkatesh Nayak, also shared his views on Data privacy and Right to Information. Ms. Deepa Deshpande, Director, Yashada, Pune, highlighted the issues on Right to privacy and Justice Shrikrishana Committee on Data Protection Framework of India.


    The session concluded with vote of thanks by Information Commissioner Shri Sudhir Bhargava.


    ***************


    BB/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1549630) Visitor Counter : 613