      Ministry of Culture

      A “Museum on Prime Ministers of India” to be set up in Delhi.
      Posted On: 15 OCT 2018 6:44PM by PIB Delhi


    A “Museum on Prime Ministers of India” is to be set up in Delhi. Union Minister for Culture Dr. Mahesh and Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Shri Hardeep Singh Puri laid the Foundation stone for proposed Museumat Teen Murti Estate, in New Delhi, today.


    Later speaking to media persons Dr. Mahesh Sharma said that “The Teen Murti Estate” has a total area of 25.50 acres out of which Nehru Memorial Museum Building is occupying an area of 4286 sqm and the Library Building has an area of 4552 sqm, roughly around 2 acres both put together. It was decided to set up the “Museum on Prime Ministers of India” in the remaining area of 23 acres of Teen Murti Estate which is under the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs of the Government of India. The Museum Building Complex shall be constructed with a built up area of 10975.36 sqm comprising of basement, ground and first floor with galleries at all the three levels at a cost of Rs.271 crores.”.


    Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Ministerfor Housing and Urban Affairs said that the proposed Museum is dedicated to all the Prime Ministers of India and is envisaged to give visitors a holistic understanding of the continued thread of leadership, initiatives and sacrifice that have helped shape our nation since independence.”


    The proposed Museum is to depict Modern India through collections relating to each of the Prime Ministers of India, their lives, works and significant contributions made towards nation building. It will bring India’s democratic experience alive to the visitors. It will also encourage curiosity and research about the role of PM and his office. The proposed Museum will include an orientation space, souvenir shop, space for organizing talks/lectures and discussions, seminar halls, auditorium, workshop areas, library, documentation room, laboratory and archive areas.


    The museum would be a single institution where the visitors can learn about the Prime Minister’s Office, its evolution, role & centrality to governance at the Union level, and also about the individual Prime Ministers. It will provide an interactive and informative experience to the visitors and youth of India through state of the art audio-visual technology and effective modes of communication. The design of the proposed Museum shall be symbolic of an emergent and rising India, shaped over the years by its eminent leaders and would focus on collecting, documenting, researching and disseminating information in respect of all the Prime Ministers of India on aspects of their leadership and service to the nation and preserving the legacy of their lives.


    KSP/PS


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1549769) Visitor Counter : 608
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi