      Ministry of Textiles

      Ajay Tamta inaugurates 46th edition of IHGF-Delhi Fair Autumn-2018
      Posted On: 14 OCT 2018 6:31PM by PIB Delhi


      MoS for Textiles inaugurating IHGF-Delhi Fair


      Union Minister of State for Textiles, Ajay Tamta, inaugurated the 46 th edition of world’s largest IHGF-Delhi Fair at India Expo Centre & Mart at Greater Noida today. Speaking on the occasion, he said that this Fair has played a vital role in increasing exports of handicrafts from the country and has acquired a special importance for handicrafts sector as overseas buyers find this fair as the most effective sourcing medium for their requirements and that the Indian exporting community considers this as the most effective marketing medium for their merchandise. Participation by over 3200 exhibitors in this fair and visit of overseas buyers from over 110 countries shows its popularity amongst Indian handicrafts exporters and importers.


      Ajay Tamta urged the handicrafts exporters to take care of the artisans and craftsmen who are the backbone of this sector. He further said that Government of India is not only providing assistance to these craftsmen in the form of subsidies through various schemes in minimising their expenditure on health and educational needs of their families but also on transport for bringing their products to the common facility centres. He also said that a portal of Government and handicrafts exporters is being created to provide more assistance to these artisans for healthcare and education of their children. Ajay Tamta also urged the EPCH and exporters to gear up for the Ambiente 2019 to be held in Frankfurt, Germany, in which India is a partner country.


      Overseas buyers from more than 110 countries are expected to participate in IHGF-Delhi Fair and source home, lifestyle, fashion and textiles products. The Fair has the most extensive range of handcrafted products like home textiles, furnishings, carpets, decoratives, tableware, furniture, garden & outdoor, bathroom accessories, spa and wellness, lamps & lighting, Christmas & festive décor, handmade paper items, fashion jewellery and accessories. The fair will remain open till 18th October, 2018.


      *****


      MM/SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1549664) Visitor Counter : 1035
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu