      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Shri Pradhan says strong linkage between agriculture and entrepreneurship will benefit the society
      Posted On: 16 OCT 2018 4:55PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas & Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, on the occasion of World Food Day, attended the Agri-Startup and Entrepreneurship Conclave, organised by Indian Council of Agricultural Research(ICAR). The theme of the conclave was "Unleashing Potentials in Agriculture for Young Entrepreneurs (UPAYA)". The conclave brought together entrepreneurs, investors, policymakers,scientists, farmers, technology developers to create desired awareness and help build a robust entrepreneurial ecosystem, particularly in the Agriculture sector.


    
    As the Minister of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Shri Pradhan assured full support in ensuring skilling in the agri entrepreneurship area. He expressed the hope that entrepreneurship in agriculture will reach every district of the country. The Minister said that our lifestyle is changing rapidly, and Technology, innovation are driving this change. Technology is also going to play a greater role in agriculture. Innovative products coming out of technological research in agriculture should reach the markets and should achieve scale to benefit the society. He said that strong linkage between agriculture and entrepreneurship will ensure this.


    Shri Pradhan addressing the conclave applauded the ICAR for giving a new dimension to the World Food Day by organising this conclave on agri entrepreneurship. .He said that this has provided an opportunity to the entrepreneurs who have come up with innovative food products and solutions in the agriculture sector, to showcase their innovations and deliberate on this important area. He said that Agriculture in India is seeing fundamental shifts, and we have moved from a paradigm of food deficit to food surplus.


    ***********


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1549850) Visitor Counter : 493
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil