      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Malaysian delegation led by Human Resources Minister Mr. M. Kulasegaran meets MoS Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 09 OCT 2018 5:29PM by PIB Delhi


    A Malaysian delegation led by the Human Resources Minister Mr. M. Kulasegaran met the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today. This visit is the follow up of the visit of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s visit to Malaysia in May 2018.


    During the meeting, various issues related to bilateral cooperation in the field of recruitment, training and other aspects of public services came up for discussion. Mr. M. Kulasegaran called for strengthening of mutual cooperation between Malaysia and India in the area of public service.


    Dr Jitendra Singh informed Malaysian delegation about the recruitment and training process for civil services in India. He elaborated on the role of civil services including Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Police Service (IPS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Indian Revenue Service (IRS), among others. He said that selection process consists of three-tier process including preliminary, mains and interview stage. The Minister said that many steps have been taken by the Government to make it more oriented towards citizens such as provision for self-attestation by citizens, ease of procedures etc. Dr Jitendra Singh also discussed about the Public Grievance Cell and Pensions department. He said that the focus of the Government is upon the implementation of flagship programmes. Talking about Gandhiji, the MoS Dr Jitendra Singh expressed his gratitude towards Malaysia for participating in the commemorative event to mark the 150 th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. They also discussed the similarities between the two countries based on Tamil culture.


    The Secretary, DoPT, Dr C . Chandramouli also elaborated upon the functioning of Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), Central Vigilance Commission (CVC), Central Information Commission (CIC) and Public Enterprises Selection Board (PESB). He also briefed the delegation about the Public Service Commissions in the states and their role in recruiting the officers of State civil services.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1549060) Visitor Counter : 300