      Ministry of Finance

      Clarification on Sanction of GST Refunds
      Posted On: 12 OCT 2018 7:53PM by PIB Delhi


    It has been noticed that unverified reports of pending GST refunds on account of exports are published in the print media by trade bodies. These figures being put out in the public domain are exaggerated and thus inaccurate. It is a fact that a large number of exporters have been granted refunds so far while a few claims are still pending owing to deficiencies found in the claims.


    In this regard, it is clarified that about 92.68% (Rs 38,824 crore) of the total IGST refund claims (Rs. 41,889 crore) transmitted to Customs from GSTN as on date have already been disposed. The remaining claims amounting to Rs. 3065 crores are held up on account of various deficiencies which have been communicated to exporters for remedial action.


    In the case of RFD-01A (ITC Refund) claims with Centre and States, the pendency as on date is only Rs 2,077 Crore. Out of the refund claims of Rs. 39,372 Crore received, provisional/final order has been issued in case of refunds amounting to Rs. 32,345 Crore. In claims amounting to Rs. 4,951 Crore, deficiency memos have been issued. Thus, actual pendency is far less than is being put out for the knowledge of the public. The overall disposal of GST refunds is Rs 71,169 Crore till date. Refund claims without any deficiency are being cleared expeditiously.


    Efforts are being made continuously to clear all the dues on account of pending refund claims. Co-operation of the exporter community is solicited to ensure that they exercise due diligence while filing GSTR 1 and GSTR 3B returns as well as Shipping Bills.


    Extensive outreach programmes have been conducted along with issuance of guidance circulars, advisories, FAQs, advertisements etc and also an alternative procedure involving manual interface has been provided where the errors could not be corrected online. The efforts are beginning to show positive results. The exporting community is assured that all their eligible refund claims will be sanctioned without any delay. Further, the export bodies are also requested to put out only verified figures in their press communication as unsubstantiated reports cause needless alarm amongst the exporters.


    ***********


    DSM/RM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1549615) Visitor Counter : 1250
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi