      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      45 Indian companies participating in Expo Cihac in Mexico City
      Posted On: 17 OCT 2018 4:26PM by PIB Delhi


    Trade Promotion Council of India (TPCI) is leading a contingent of 45 exhibitors, representing various sectors of the construction industry like building materials, construction equipment, interior furnishing, manufacturing and marketing of ceramic vitrified tiles to Expo Cihacin Mexico City.


    Expo Cihac is the leading event for the construction industry being held in Citibanamex Center, Mexico from today till October 20, 2018. This event is expected to bring together the best products, technologies and innovations in construction from all over the world.More than 570 exhibitors from the field of architecture, engineering, interior design, lighting, home automation and machinery are participating in the expo.


    The main objective of participating countries is to increase their brand exposure, attract more prospects and strengthen their relationship with the participants of the growing construction industry.


    The ceramic industry of India does business of $1.243 billion worth of export from ceramic products in a year. There is great scope for business in Mexico as the ceramic products export to Mexico presently is only $73.8 million from India. With a good number of business visitors coming from other Latin American companies as well, the overall scope for business is much larger for those participating in this expo.


    Chairman, TPCI, MohitSingla said thatthe TPCI’s flagship export promotion event Source India Mexico is being held along with Expo CIHAC in Mexico City. Indian companies representing various sectors including building materials, construction equipment, interior furnishing, and technology for building construction will be showcasing a wide range of Indian products in the exhibition.


    Underling the importance of ExpoCihac, Chairman, TPCI said that this exhibition is an ideal platform for the participants to explore the business opportunities for exports, joint ventures, technology transfers and marketing tie-ups with their Mexican counterparts and other participating countries.


    ***


    MM/SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1549950) Visitor Counter : 577
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi