      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      102 MPs contribute Rs. 43.67 crore from MPLADS fund for rehabilitation works in affected areas of Kerala.
      Posted On: 11 OCT 2018 7:07PM by PIB Delhi


    The data from the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme, MPLADS division under the Ministry of Statistics & Program Implementation data shows that 102 MPs have contributed Rs. 43.67 crore from MPLADS fund for rehabilitation works in the flood affected areas of Kerala till 8 th October, 2018. Among the MPs, Rs. 29.57 crore has been contributed by 56 Rajya Sabha Members while Rs. 14.10 crore has been the contribution by the 46 Lok Sabha Members. 30 MPs have contributed Rs. One crore each which is the maximum that an MP can contribute. 11 MPs have contributed Rs. 50 Lakh or more while 14 MPs have contributed Rs. 25 lakh. Rest of the MPs have contributed between Rs. 1 lakh to less than Rs. 25 lakh. As per guideline of the Scheme, an MP can contribute upto one crore from their MPLADS fund for the area affected by severe calamity.


    According to the details, 14 MPs of Uttar Pradesh, 11 MPs of Maharashtra, 9 MPs of Bihar, 7 MPs of Gujarat, 4 MPs each of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan, 3 MPs each of Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, 2 MPs each of Chhattisgarh, Goa, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal; 1 MP each of Chandigarh, Dadar & Nagar Haveli, Daman & Diu, Jammu & Kashmir, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura have contributed for the rehabilitation works.


    The details can be accessed at the following Link.


    Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) has a provision for Members to contribute funds for rehabilitation and reconstruction works in the areas affected by severe calamity. After declaration of the Kerala floods as calamity of severe nature was made by the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Union Minister of Statistics Program Implementation, D. V. Sadananda Gowda issued an appeal to all Members of Parliament on 24 th August, 2018 to contribute from their MPLADS fund for rehabilitation works in affected areas of Kerala.


    The guidelines have also been simplified so that the work can be undertaken without much delay. The amended guidelines provide for administrative approval for the rehabilitation works under MPLADS at the level of Chief Secretary, Kerala in the flood affected areas / districts. The State Nodal Department overseeing the MPLAD scheme would maintain details on work selected, amount spent, etc and furnish the same to Ministry on quarterly basis which would be utilized for overall reconciliation. A separate Bank Account has been already opened by Government of Kerala to receive this amount. The account has received three crore rupees till now. The Ministry is following up with the concerned Nodal District Authorities of the consenting Members to effect smooth transfer of the funds at the earliest.


    *****


    AKT/SH/SKS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1549471) Visitor Counter : 413
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali