      Ministry of Earth Science

      Much awaited Rani-Jhansi Flyover inaugurated in Delhi.
      
      Free flow of traffic would help in reducing pollution and nearly 5 lakh commuters will be benefitted: Dr. Harsh Vardhan
      
      All pending projects in Delhi to be completed by March 2019: Union Urban Affairs Minister
      Posted On: 16 OCT 2018 2:55PM by PIB Delhi


    Rani Jhansi Grade separator, the ambitious flyover project in north Delhi was thrown open to public by Union Environment Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan. The six-lane, 1.8-km grade separator will provide connectivity to St Stephen’s Hospital near the Tiz Hazari Courts complex with Filmstan Cinema and also it will provide a link with the intersections for Baraf Khana, DCM Chowk, Azad Market and Subzi Mandi areas of Delhi.


    Speaking at the inauguration Dr. Harsh Vardhan said that despite missing multiple deadlines since laying of its foundation stone nearly a decade ago, the Union government ensured that funding should not come in the way of completion of this much needed flyover.“Nearly 43 percent of the construction work was done in the last one year and though we faced lot of challenges in construction of this separator, we kept working on the project and finally it is ready for citizens. Not only it will benefit nearly 5 lakh commuters daily but a free flow of traffic would help in reducing pollution and save fuel as well”, added Dr. Vardhan


    Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Shri. Hardeep Singh Puri who was also present at the inauguration said that when finances became a bottleneck in completion of this project the ministry decided that 80 percent of the fund will be through Urban Development Fund(UDF) and 20% of the fund will be borne by Delhi Development Authority (DDA).”The Union Government is aggressively spearheading a series of pending projects in Delhi and all such projects will be completed by March 2019”, added Shri. Puri.


    ***


    RDS/GK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1549832) Visitor Counter : 627
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi