      Ministry of Earth Science

      Very Severe Cyclonic Storm ‘TITLI’ over west central Bay of Bengal: Cyclone Warning for districts of north Andhra Pradesh & Odisha coasts. Red Alert Issued
      
      Titli being monitored by the coastal Doppler Weather Radars at Visakhapatnam, Gopalpur and Paradip

      Posted On: 10 OCT 2018 4:51PM by PIB Delhi

    A) Very Severe Cyclonic Storm ‘TITLI’ over westcentral Bay of Bengal: Cyclone Warning for districts of north Andhra Pradesh & Odisha coasts: Red Message .


    Yesterday’s cyclonic storm over west central Bay of Bengal (BoB) moved west-north-westwards, intensified into a severe cyclonic storm in the early morning and into a very severe cyclonic storm around noon of today, the 10 th October, 2018.


    The very severe cyclonic storm, Titli is being monitored by the coastal Doppler Weather Radars at Visakhapatnam, Gopalpur and Paradip. The latest observations indicate that the Severe Cyclonic Storm ‘TITLI’ over west central Bay of Bengal moved north-westwards with a speed of about 15 kmph during past 06 hours, intensified into a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm and lay cantered at 1130 hrs IST of today, the 10 th October 2018 over West central Bay of Bengal near latitude 16.8°N and longitude 85.6°E, about 280 km south-southeast of Gopalpur (Odisha) and 230 km southeast of Kalingapatnam (Andhra Pradesh).


    It is very likely to intensify further during next 12 hours. It is very likely to move north-north-westwards and cross Odisha & adjoining north Andhra Pradesh coasts between Gopalpur & Kalingapatnam around morning of 11 th October.


    Thereafter, it is very likely to re-curve north-eastwards, move towards Gangetic West Bengal across Odisha and weaken gradually.


    (B) Very Severe Cyclonic Storm, ‘LUBAN’ over west central & adjoining southwest Arabian Sea:


    Yesterday’s Cyclonic Storm “LUBAN” over west central & adjoining southwest Arabian Sea moved west-north-westwards and intensified into a severe cyclonic storm in the same evening. It further intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm over west central Arabian Sea and lay centered at 1130 hrs IST 10th October 2018 near latitude 14.2°N and longitude 58.9°E, about 600 km east-southeast of Salalah (Oman), 560 km east-northeast of Socotra Islands (Yemen) and 760 km east-southeast of Al-Ghaidah (Yemen). It is very likely to intensify further and move west-north-westwards towards Yemen & South Oman Coasts during next 4 days.


    ***


    RDS/GK/YK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1549241) Visitor Counter : 381