      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Union Minister Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal inaugurates PMKK Patiala,
      
      1000 students will get training in skill Development every year
      
      Posted On: 13 OCT 2018 6:39PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister for Food Processing Industries, Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal inaugurated Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendra (PMKK) Patiala today where 1000 students will get free training in skill Development every year in the multiple courses like Hair Stylist, Manual Arc Welding, Plumber, Field Technician – Other Home Appliances and Mobile Phone Hardware Repair Technician.


    In her inaugural address Union Minister Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal said that Youth are an asset for our country and they will be trained in Skill Development all over the country to make them self reliant and more employable. She said that such skill Development centers will be set up in each identified district throughout the country for quality training in skill development. She also said that opening of this skill development centre is a solid step towards achieving the dream of Honorable Prime Minister of “making India the skill capital of the world”. She said that vocational training opportunities given to youth in the scale and manner will definitely generate skilled workforce for the country. Youth will be able to transform their lives and the entire economy of the region will witness exponential growth.


    PMKK is the flagship scheme of Union Ministry of Skill Development and Enterpreurship under Government of India is setting up 600 PMKK’s in identified districts. From these 480 have been set up and operational. In Punjab there are 25 sanctioned PMKK’s, out of which 16 are operational. In Haryana there are 21 sanctioned PMKKs are operational and in Himachal Pradesh 4 are operational out of 8 sanctioned PMKKs. UT Chandigarh is having 1 PMKK Centre.


    Shri Gurpreet Singh, Manager of the PMKK Centre, Patiala said that it is a state of the art 10000 sq.ft centre is situated at Stadium Road, Opposite YPS School. This centre is being run by a leading partner of National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) called EMPOWER PRAGATI, a Training Partner of National Skill Development since 2010, under the aegis of Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship. Empower Pragati as a Training Provider is already running four such centers in one each in Bathinda, Barnala, Mansa and Sangrur.


    Welcoming the chief guest and other dignitaries, Sh. K.B Rajendran, Director Empower Pragati said that the key to success of the centre is providing this opportunity to the right and deserving candidates. This initiative will also result in transformation of the lives of the youth through wage employment and self employment by gaining access to Mudra Loans.


    Former Cabinet Minister of Punjab, Shri Surjit Singh Rakhra in his speech said that the opening of such a centre is a landmark in the history of Patiala. Having such a vocational and skilling centre in the vicinity will enable youth of the region to take benefit of the courses being offered here and earn a livelihood


    ****


    SS/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1549644) Visitor Counter : 652