      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Shri J P Nadda chairs high level review meeting on Zika Virus and Seasonal Influenza
      Posted On: 16 OCT 2018 4:03PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri J P Nadda, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare held a high level meeting to review the activities for prevention and control of Zika virus and Seasonal Influenza, here today.


    Smt Preeti Sudan, Secretary (Health), Prof. Balram Bhargava, Secretary, DHR & Director General ICMR, Dr S Venkatesh, DGHS, and Shri Sanjeeva Kumar (AS), Shri Manoj Jhalani (AS & MD), and senior officers of the Union Health Ministry, National Vector-Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP), National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Emergency Medical Response division were also present in the meeting.


    In the meeting, Shri Nadda reassured the states for all support from the Union Government. For control of Zika virus in Rajasthan, the Health Minister emphasized on the need for continuous monitoring. He stated that the Union Health Ministry is in regular contact with the State officials. Shri Nadda spoke to the Chief Minister of Rajasthan today. Secretary (Health) is monitoring the situation on a daily basis in regular coordination with the State Health Secretary.


    Shri Nadda stressed on the need for undertaking exhaustive control measures including intensive fogging for next month in order to ensure vector control in the area. He also stressed on strengthening surveillance to facilitate the early identification of cases. The Union Health Minister urged the people to not panic and cooperate with the health officials in controlling the breeding of the vectors. He further said that there was no shortage of medicines and testing kits and required support will be provided to the State.


    Shri Nadda further directed for mounting aggressive communication campaigns in the state. He stated that awareness is the key in controlling the vector borne diseases and no stone should be left unturned to reach out to the people. Noting that community participation is a crucial area in prevention, the Union Health Minister urged all the stakeholders to start rigorous awareness campaigns regarding the preventive steps to be taken at the community level. He stated that the Union Health Ministry is working along with the State government, the local authorities and the Municipal Corporation for augmenting and strengthening their efforts in vector control, surveillance and awareness activities.


    The Union Health Minister was also briefed about the activities undertaken by the Ministry to control Zika Virus in Rajasthan. He was informed that 80 cases have been reported from the State. 330 teams have already been deployed in affected wards of Shastri Nagar (Jaipur) and about 434515 population has been brought under surveillance as of today. 86903 houses have been surveyed. 204875 breeding sites were checked for larvae breeding and 74483 were found to have larvae breeding. The health workers undertook on-spot source reduction and containers were treated with temiphose during the survey. The health workers have also carried out focal spray and fogging in affected areas which were recommended by team supervisors.


    Considering the seasonality of the Seasonal Influenza, Shri Nadda has directed the officials to ensure continuous monitoring and vigil on all cases. He specifically instructed that early detection, reporting and proper categorization of patients is critical for Seasonal Influenza management. Minister has instructed National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to monitor the cases on a daily basis. He suggested that States shall ensure that proper awareness is created regarding the prevention and management of Seasonal Influenza. All States shall also ensure that sufficient supplies of drugs and testing kits are maintained at the State level. Further, all cases which require hospitalization shall be monitored intensively both at district and State level so as to ensure that fatalities can be avoided. Availability of sufficient functional ventilators for critical case management is important and States shall be advised accordingly. NCDC& EMR shall coordinate with the States to provide training for ventilator management, if need be.


    *****


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1549843) Visitor Counter : 744
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Malayalam