      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      President to inaugurate the 13th Annual Convention of Central Information Commission
      Posted On: 11 OCT 2018 12:48PM by PIB Delhi


    President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind will inaugurate the 13 th Annual Convention of Central Information Commission (CIC) here on Friday on October 12, 2018. The Annual Convention on the topic “ Data privacy and Right to information, Amendment in the RTI Act and Implementation of the RTI Act” is aimed at recommending measures for improving the transparency and accountability with a view to improve governance. The Convention shall deliberate on three specific subjects viz. “Data privacy and Right to Information”, “Amendment in the RTI Act” and “Implementation of the RTI Act.”


    Welcome speech will be delivered by Chief Information Commissioner Shri RK Mathur. Prof. M.S Acharyulu, Information Commissioner, CIC, Prof. Upendra Baxi, Former Vice-Chancellor, University of Delhi, Shri Venkatesh Nayak, Shri Bimal Julka, Information Commissioner, CIC, Shri Suresh Chaudhary, State Chief Information Commissioner, Rajasthan, Shri Nikhil Dey, Social Activist, Shri Prashant Sadashiv Prabhu Tendolkar, State Chief Information Commissioner, Goa, Prof. Vijay Kumar, Law University, Ms Anjali Bhardwaj, Social Activist, Shri Subhash Chandra Agarwal, Social Activist, Shri Anand Limaye, Director General, Yashda, Shri Rajendra Nimje, Director General, Centre for Good Governance, Shri P. Janakiram, Sr. Knowledge Manager, Centre for Good Governance, Hyderabad will participate in the Annual Convention and make presentations.


    All the present and former Chief Information Commissioners and Information Commissioners of the Central Information Commission (CIC), State Information Commission, Central public information officers as well as the other government officers will participate. RTI Activists and NGOs associated with implementation of RTI Act will also attend the Convention.


    *********


    BB/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1549355) Visitor Counter : 829
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Tamil , Malayalam