      Ministry of Defence

      DRDO pays tribute to Dr APJ Abdul Kalam on his Birth Anniversary
      Posted On: 15 OCT 2018 4:35PM by PIB Delhi


    Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) celebrated the 87th Birth Anniversary of Bharat Ratna Dr A P J Abdul Kalam, the former President of India and DRDO chief at a function in DRDO Bhawan here today. Raksha Mantri Smt Nirmala Sitharaman graced the occasion as the Chief Guest which also had the presence of Raksha Rajya Mantri, Dr Subhash Ramrao Bhamre, and Prof K Vijay Raghavan Principal Scientific Advisor (PSA) to the Government of India, along with other dignitaries.


    Speaking on the occasion Smt. Sitharaman shared her experience of meeting with Dr Kalam. She said, he was not only a good scientist but also an excellent administrator who could spot and nurture talent among his team members. That among others made this ‘missile man’ a great team leader.


    Addressing the gathering, Raksha Rajya Mantri said, Dr Kalam believed in a strong nation – one that is scientifically superior and always used to inspire people for putting their total commitment towards the mission in hand. This can be gauged in his words, “If you want to shine like sun, first burn like sun.”


    Raksha Mantri Smt Sitharaman also launched a DRDO website dedicated to the theme ‘The Kalam Vision – Dare to Dream’ for engaging young minds in emerging technologies namely Artificial intelligence, Cyber security, Robotics, Automonous Systems, etc. The website will facilitate open competition for students and Startups. It is available at the address: https://drdo.gov.in/drdo/kalam/kalam.html .


    Hindi version of the book “Incredible Kalam” was released by RRM Dr Bhamre in today’s function so that message of Dr Kalam can reach to the masses of the country. The book is the compilation of personal experiences of some distinguished scientists about their association with Kalam.


    The function was attended by Students of three Delhi based schools. These schools have set up Atal Tinkering Lab in their schools under Atal innovation mission of Government of India. Students and researchers from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi also attended the function. The aim of inviting young minds was to motivate them with diverse and great qualities of Dr A P J Abdul Kalam, who had special affinity for students and youth of the country. Young scientists from DRDO laboratories delivered presentations at the function regarding the innovative projects they have undertaken.


    The students were taken to visit the Kalam Gallery at DRDO Bhawan to get a glimpse of defence systems and technologies displayed. Students took keen interest in the life and work of Dr Kalam depicted in the gallery.


    SRR/Nampi/DK/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1549732) Visitor Counter : 886
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali , Tamil