      Ministry of Earth Science

      Dr. Harsh Vardhan takes an urgent review over intensifying cyclonic storm ‘TITLI’ and ‘LUBAN’.
      
      Situation monitored at the highest level.

      Posted On: 09 OCT 2018 8:53PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of Earth Sciences , Dr. Harsh Vardhan has taken an urgent review of the developing scenario of cyclonic storm ‘TITLI’ over the Bay of Bengal and another cyclonic storm ‘LUBAN’over the Arabian sea. The Union Minister took stock of all associated warnings issued to various state government authorities, coastal authorities and fishermen by the Indian Meteorological Department.


    Cyclone ‘TITLI’ is expected to intensify further into a Severe Cyclonic Storm and cross east coast of India between Kalingapatnam (north Andhra Pradesh) and Gopalpur (south Odisha) in the morning of 11 th October. Squally wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph is very likely to commence along & off along north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal coast from tonight. It is very likely to increase gradually becoming 100-110 kmph gusting to 125 kmph from 10th October evening onwards along & off south Odisha & adjoining districts of north Andhra Pradesh coasts.


    Cyclonic storm ‘LUBAN’ is very likely to intensify into a Severe Cyclonic Storm by tonight. It is very likely to move west-north-westwards towards Yemen & South Oman Coasts during next 5 days. Gale wind speed reaching 85-95 kmph gusting to 105 kmph is prevailing over west central & adjoining southwest Arabian Sea. It is very likely to increase gradually becoming 110-120 kmph gusting to 135 kmph during 10 th to 12 th October ,over westcentral Arabian Sea around the system centre.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan has directed all senior officials to closely monitor the developing situation and all precautions to be taken and necessary communications be done to ensure that the damage is minimal. The situation is currently being monitored at the highest level.


    ***


    RDS/GK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1549105) Visitor Counter : 1393
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu