      Ministry of Defence

      Army Organises Ex-Servicemen Rally at Khed:13 October 2018
      Posted On: 13 OCT 2018 6:29PM by PIB Delhi


    An ‘Ex-servicemen Rally’ was organised by the Army at Siddheshwara Trust Karyalaya Hall and adjoining sports ground of Hutatma Rajguru Mahavidayalay at Khed. The rally received an overwhelming response and was attended by approximately 250 Veterans and Veer Naris hailing from Tehsil Khed (Rajgurunagar) of Pune District. The rally was addressed by Brigadier OP Vaishnav, VSM, Station Commander of Dehu Road Cantonment, who re-assured the Veterans and Veer Naris that they would always remain an inseparable part of the Armed Forces fraternity and their welfare would always be accorded importance and priority.


    The rally was held in close coordination with the State Administration and Zila Sainik Board. The main focus of the rally was to update records of Ex-servicemen held with Veteran Node of Dakshin Maharashtra Sub Area along with addressing problem issues like anomalies in disbursement of pension, land and legal cases being confronted by the Veterans and Veer Naris. A number of stalls from various welfare agencies and organisations of the Army and Civil administration were set up at the venue to facilitate and educate the Veterans on various new welfare schemes and initiatives. A Medical Camp with doctors from MH Kirkee as well as local Public Health Centres were also organised on the occasion, with complete medical staff and disbursement of medicines to the attendees. The event was hailed as an excellent initiative by the Veterans and Veer Naris, who were extremely appreciative of the efforts by the Army in reaching out to them.


    The rally was a major step forward in ameliorating the day to day problems faced by the Veterans and Veer Naris. It also provided a platform to the Veer Naris and Veterans to express their concerns directly to the concerned officials.


    Col Aman Anand


    PRO (Army)


    

    
    (Release ID: 1549643) Visitor Counter : 234