      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Prime Minister to address NHRC Silver Jubilee function tomorrow
      Posted On: 11 OCT 2018 6:15PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Human Rights Commission, NHRC, India is completing 25 years of its existence with its 26 th Foundation Day tomorrow, October 12, 2018. The Commission was set up on the 12 th October, 1993 under the Protection of Human Rights Act, passed by Parliament.


    Extended Silver Jubilee celebrations, spilling over three days, are being organized to mark the occasion. This begins with a special function at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi tomorrow which will be addressed by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi as the Chief Guest in the august presence of the Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh and the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Communications, Shri Manoj Sinha.


    A commemorative first day postal cover and stamp will be released besides the launching of a new version of the NHRC website on the occasion.


    On Saturday, the 13 th October, 2018 from 04.00 pm to 08.15 pm, the Commission is organizing a ‘Human Rights Mela’ and ‘Human Rights Street Theatre Festival’ at the amphitheatre arena of Central Park, Rajiv Chowk (Connaught Place), New Delhi. The cultural extravaganza, open for public, will be inaugurated by NHRC Chairperson, Shri Justice H.L. Dattu. The street theatre festival will begin from 6.00 pm. Seven street plays by seven shortlisted theatre groups will be performed. Each will be of 10-15 minutes duration.


    Out of these seven plays, the three best will be given the first, second and third prizes of Rs. 1,00,000/, 60,000/- and 40,000/-. It is going to be an evening of fun, entertainment, education and information with a focus on motivating people to stand up for the promotion and protection of human rights. Stalls will be set up around the amphitheatre by leading NGOs, like Help Age India, Bachpan Bachao Andolan, Delhi Police, Paramilitary Forces, Tihar Central Jail besides the NHRC showcasing their work. Some books, literature and articles will also be available for sale at the stalls.


    On Sunday, the 14 th October, 2018, the Commission is organizing a Human Rights Walk to generate awareness about various aspects of human rights. It is open for participation for all. The walk will be flagged by Olympic and Commonwealth medal winners including Member of Parliament, Smt. Mary Kom (Boxer), Shri Sushil Kumar (Wrestler) and Shri Vijay Kumar (Shooter) from 07.00 am at Nehru Park, Gate No. 1, Niti Marg, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi.


    The mandate of the NHRC is to work for the promotion and protection of human rights and take cognizance of such complaints wherein the actions, inactions and omissions of government functionaries, prima facie or allegedly, cause human rights violation. It is a recommendatory quasi-judicial body, having powers of a civil court to call for any documents and summon any public authority in a case of human rights violation. In a case of human rights violation, its recommendations are twofold: relief to the victim and punishment to the guilty. The Commission is also for creating an enabling atmosphere as a preventive mechanism to check incidents of human rights violations.


    Disposal of more than 17 lakh cases, payment of more than one billion rupees to the victims of human rights violations by various state agencies on the recommendations of the Commission, more than 750 spot enquiries, 20 open hearings and 25 camp sittings covering the length and breadth of the country, reviews and comments on over 40 bills and legislations, conduct of more than 200 seminars, conferences and workshops, 27 month-long internships, 1,300 attachment programmes, more than a thousand sponsored awareness trainings through various institutions and NGOs, more than 50 publications besides about 25 volumes of nearly 300 monthly Newsletters in English and Hindi, hundreds of media reports etc bear a testimony to the NHRC, India’s multi-dimensional work for the cause of human rights during its first 25 years.


    ******


    BB/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1549449) Visitor Counter : 822