      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shri Radha Mohan Singh meets Ambassador of USA in India Mr. Kenneth I. Juster,
      
      Main objective of the meeting was to create new opportunities for mutually beneficial trade and economic partnership with USA so that Indian economy could be strengthened: Shri Radha Mohan Singh

      Posted On: 17 OCT 2018 6:37PM by PIB Delhi

    The US Ambassador in India Mr. Kenneth I. Juster called on the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare Shri Radha Mohan Singh today at Krishi Bhawan in New Delhi. During the course of the meeting, both the dignitaries discussed ways and means to reinforce trade and bilateral relations in agriculture.


    The Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare stated that the main objective of this meeting was to create new opportunities for mutually beneficial trade and economic partnership with USA so that Indian economy could be strengthened.


    Shri Singh stated that USA expressed its satisfaction towards the systematic approach adopted by India for production of grapes and assured to expeditiously finalize the legislation related to the access of Indian commodities in USA markets so as to be able to export Indian table grapes to USA by November 2018 season.


    Union Agriculture Minister pointed out that during the course of discussion, the issue of the sanction imposed on the import of Indian pomegranate arils by USA was brought up. Shri Singh requested US Ambassador for immediate removal of this ban assuring him that India has made necessary improvement in the production system related to these exports.


    Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare stated that these discussions will reinforce the bilateral relations resulting in the enhancement of the trade in agriculture and allied commodities between the two sides for improved outcomes in the future.


    ****


    APS/RCS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1549980) Visitor Counter : 493