      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Union Minister Smt Harsimrat Badal calls for cleanliness to be given utmost importance across food processing sector
      
      Smt Badal releases booklet on Waste to Wealth Technology to launch Swachhta Pakhwada

      Posted On: 16 OCT 2018 4:14PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Food Processing Industries Smt Harsimrat Kaur Badal today launched Swachhta Pakhwada, a 15-day observance of cleanliness campaign by the ministry. The campaign will run from 16 th to 31 st October. On the occasion the Minister also launched a booklet titled “Waste to Wealth Technology” prepared by Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology, Thanjavur, Tamilnadu.


    Inaugurating the booklet, the Minister said Ministry of Food Processing Industry holds cleanliness with utmost importance. She called on industry chambers present on the occasion to participate in the campaign and promote the idea of Swachhta becoming a way of life. Smt Badal requested industry leaders present at the event to apprise their units of the importance of Swachhta.


    During the 15-day campaign nodal officers of the Ministry will visit Mega Food Parks, Abattoirs, Cold Chains and other assisted projects to review cleanliness measures at the sites. On 18 th October officials of the Ministry will take out a cleanliness drive in and around the office premises. Industry bodies like ASSOCHAM, FICCI, DICCI, PHDCCI, AIFPA and CII will organise Swachhta Awareness Programme in selected Municipal schools across Delhi. Awareness events and training camps for street vendors on food safety will also be organized across various locations in the city.


    Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology will hold an essay competition on Swachhta Mission at the institute, the winner of which will be awarded a cash prize of Rs 10,000. National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management will organise an intensive cleanliness drive in its campus and its adopted villages.


    Dr. Rakesh Sarwal, Additional Secretary and other senior officers of the Ministry, Dr. Chindi Vasudevappa, Vice Chancellor, NIFTEM, Dr. C. Anandharamakrishnan, Director, IIFPT along with senior officials representing various Industry Chambers were present during the occasion.


    ***


    Saurabh Singh

    
    
    (Release ID: 1549844) Visitor Counter : 411
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi