      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Eco-Friendly Green & Energy Efficient Features to be Used in Construction for 120 Type-VII Flats in Pocket-I at DDU Marg, New Delhi-- Hardeep Puri Lays Foundation Stone
      
      Grade Separator at Rani Jhansi Road Also Inaugurated--Project to Ensure Easier Movement of Traffic & Reduction in Commuting Time

      Posted On: 16 OCT 2018 5:53PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs(I/C) has appreciated the Engineers involved in the construction project of 120 General Pool Residential Type-VII Flats for overcoming the engineering complexities and the plan to use Eco friendly Green and energy Efficient features in this project. The project is to be executed by Central Public Works Department at Pocket-I, DDU Marg, New Delhi. While addressing those present after he laid the foundation stone of the project here today, Shri Puri said he was happy to note that 15,000 sq. meters of area developed is green with provision for rain harvesting. Care has been taken to provide enough parking spaces, public amenities like community toilets, etc. Noting that all the projects put on a fast track by the Ministry have achieved substantial progress, he said, “we are determined to complete other projects as well.” Smt. Meenakshi Lekhi, MP presided over the function.


    The Proposed 120 Type-VII multi storeyed flats shall be constructed in a plot area of 26,500 sqm. There shall be four ‘State of the Art’ Towers - two towers shall be 13 storeyed and remaining two towers 17 storeyed with basements and stilt for parking. The project costing Rs. 197 crores shall be completed within a period of 21 months by June 2020. On site solar power units shall be installed on roof top with capacity of 300 KW. The campus would have provisions of sewage treatment plant for recycling waste water, rain water harvesting, and de-composter for handling of waste material. These flats shall be a magnificent blend of Architecture and Engineering.


    Another project of Grade Separator at Rani Jhansi Road to improve mobility for the citizens of Delhi was opened for public use in the presence of the Minister earlier in the day. The project will ensure easier movement of traffic and reduction in the commuting time. The Minister had inaugurated the Sky Walk and Foot Over Bridge at ITO yesterday as one more initiative for ease of living for Delhi citizens.


    Mentioning the initiatives of the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry in making life easier and reducing various bottlenecks, he outlined several projects funded by his ministry which have either been completed or are at an advanced stage of completion. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs had issued sanction for funding of following six projects worth Rs. 1,826.40 crore under the Urban Development Fund, which aimed at reducing traffic congestion, pollution and accidents, and improve traffic flow in Delhi.


    i) Construction of skywalk and FOB at the Junction of Sikandra Road, Mathura Road, Tilak Marg and Bahadur Shah Marg at ‘W’ Point near Hans Bhawan.


    ii) Construction of Grade Separator at Rani Jhansi Road.


    iii) Construction of flyover passes between Northern Mahipalpur by pass road and Airport road near Hanuman Mandir, New Delhi.


    iv) Construction of Flyover-cum-ROB on UER-I at Narela.


    v) Construction of Integrated Transit Corridor Development Plan along Mathura Road, Bhairon Marg, Mahatma Gandhi Marg and connecting Mathura Road to Mahatma Gandhi Marg via Underground Tunnel below Pragati Maidan.


    vi) Road corridor improvement of Ring Road from ISBT Kashmiri Gate to Shalimar Bypass including construction of up-ramp for U-turn to join with existing elevated loop at ISBT Kashmiri Gate, widening of road by shifting entry/exit subway near Nigam Bodh Ghat.


    Shri Hardeep Puri said that in view of slow progress in these projects, it was decided in October 2017 by the Ministry inter-alia, that the projects where balance funding of the project cost was not forthcoming from Delhi government, the same may be funded by the DDA/ITPO i.e., 100% funding by the Central Government and implementing agencies be changed to CPWD except in Skywalk project where PWD had called for tender. Accordingly, for four projects relating to (i) Construction of Skywalk (ii) Construction of flyover at Mahipalpur (iii) Road Corridor improvement at ISBT and (iv) Integrated Transit Corridor Development at Pragati Maidan, it was decided to meet the entire cost through UDF/DDA/ITPO.


    He pointed out that project of Road Corridor improvement at ISBT, for which Delhi government had decided to do as its own has still not been started. “Apart from this two other projects on Ring Road i.e., Construction of flyovers at Metcalfe House and Majnu Ka Tila at the cost of Rs 320 crore for all three are still not yet sanctioned by Delhi Government”, he added


    The construction of flyover passes between Northern Mahipalpur by pass road and Airport road near Hanuman Mandir, New Delhi at a cost of Rs 188 crore, will be completed by February, 2019. Similarly, construction of Flyover-cum-ROB on UER-I at Narela at a cost of Rs 437.21 crore, will be completed by March, 2019. As far as construction of Integrated Transit Corridor Development Plan along Mathura Road, Bhairon Marg, Mahatma Gandhi Marg and connecting Mathura Road to Mahatma Gandhi Marg via Underground Tunnel below Pragati Maidan at a cost of Rs 928.17 crore, is concerned, the Project will be completed co-terminus with completion of new world class ITPO facilities in October, 2019.


    ***


    RJ/KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1549864) Visitor Counter : 421