      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      The 5-days extravaganza ‘Experiencing North East’ festival to begin from tomorrow
      
      Unique aspects of North Eastern culture to be showcased during the 5-day long event

      Posted On: 26 OCT 2018 6:58PM by PIB Delhi

    The ‘Experiencing North East’ festival depicting the uniqueness of North Eastern culture is being organised at India International Centre (IIC), New Delhi from 27 th -31 st October, 2018. The festival, a part of Destination North East series, is being organised by North Eastern Council (NEC), Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) in collaboration with India International Centre. The festival will showcase the vibrant strengths of North East India and display its art, handicraft, handlooms, tourism, food, culture etc. There will be special performances daily by eminent cultural troupes, bands and artistes from North East, including Nise Meruno, classical pianist and vocalist.


    The festival will be inaugurated by Shri N.N. Vohra, Former Governor and President, IIC, at 6.30 PM on 27 th October 2018, to be followed by the Shillong Chamber Choir Concert.


    Addressing a press briefing , Joint Secretary, Ministry of DoNER, Shri S. N. Pradhan said that the event which is a part of ‘Destination North East’ series aims at showcasing the diverse culture and heritage of North East all under one roof. It will highlight the strengths of North East, he said.


    Giving details about the workshops being held during the festival, Economic Advisor, M/O DoNER, Smt. Mamata Shankar said that there will be 5 workshops focusing on various themes like Adventure Tourism in NER, Science & Technology Interventions in North East Region (STINER), Act East & NER will provide opportunities for discussions and brainstorming sessions.


    There will be special displays by North Eastern Region Community Resource Management Project (NERCORMP), North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation Limited. (NERAMAC), Cane and Bamboo Technology Centre (CBTC), North East Rural Livelihood Project (NERLP), North Eastern Handicrafts and Handlooms Development Corporation Ltd ( NEHHDC), organisations under the Ministry of DoNER. In addition, There will be an exhibition of photographs including Photographs of Dr. Verrier Elwin , noted anthropologist.


    The event will have weavers from across the North East Region who will display their skill and wonderful creations. Handlooms of the region which has caught the attention of many will be displayed along with the exotic and organic local produce, processed food, multi-cultural and diverse cuisine of the region.


    Apart from this, the rich heritage of North East will be showcased through its art and literature, films and the rich musical talent from the region. The internationally acclaimed The Shillong Chamber Choir, Vinyle Records, Mayukh Hazarika and many more talents will be keeping the spirits of Delhiites upbeat during the 5-day event.


    The literary event called “These hills we come from’… Voices from North East India” , will focus on the linguistic and literary world of North East India through talks, readings, presentations, discussions and interactive sessions with authors from the North East. A Festival of Films from the North East will also happen on the occasion.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh, Minister of State (IC) for the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (MDoNER) will grace the closing ceremony on 31 st October 2018, followed by performance of Ras Leela of Manipur by the Jawaharlal Nehru Manipur Dance Academy.


    The venues of workshops/B2B, cultural performances, Film screenings & Literary festival and Cuisine are Kamla Devi Block, Front/Fountain Lawns, C.D. Deshmukh Auditorium and Rose Garden respectively.


    The entry to the festival is free.


    *****


    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1550926) Visitor Counter : 825
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi