      Ministry of Communications

      Cooperation on Digital communications & economy discussed between India and European Commission.
      Posted On: 26 OCT 2018 3:27PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Communications (Independent Charge) Government of India, Mr Manoj Sinha and the H.E. Mr Andrus Ansip, European Commissioner for Digital Single Market and Vice President of the European Commission have met in New Delhi to discuss cooperation on Digital communications, Digital economy and society. India and European Union (EU) stressed that Digital Communications and Technologies are of vital importance for all spheres of society, business and government. The development and widespread adoption of new ICT services and networks have powerful effects on economic and social development, supporting sustainable growth and competitiveness and contributing to addressing global societal challenges. Both sides noted the importance of supporting global standards and welcomed the close technical cooperation between the Indian and European Telecom Standardization Development Organizations - TSDSI (India) and ETSI (European Union).


    Both sides confirmed their commitment to further strengthen and broaden the cooperation in the field of Digital Communications and Emerging Technologies. India and the EU will work together to develop joint plans of action in the agreed areas of cooperation such as-future networks and emerging technologies, including 5G,IoT/M2Metc.,promotingR&D and innovation, network security, spectrum management, enhanced capacity development as well as policy and regulatory requirements among others.


    EU expressed interest in strengthening cooperation in the area of testing and certification by supporting the visit of Indian Government experts to the European testing and certification laboratories for telecom equipment, with a view to exploring the possibility of India recognizing EU certifications. EU side also discussed about basic custom duties on some ICT products.


    The two sides reaffirmed that regular bilateral dialogue with focused and dedicated approach is essential for steering constructive engagements and promoting future cooperation in the field of Digital Communications.


    The India-EUco-operation dialogue on Digital Communications will take place annually through appropriate mechanism within the existing framework of the India-EU Joint Working Group on ICTs which was set up in 2011.Both sides agreed to hold the next India-EU dialogue on cooperation in the field of Digital Communications in the first half of 2019.


    <><><><><>


    SNC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1550870) Visitor Counter : 586
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi