      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Rajnath Singh attends 57th Raising Day Parade of Indo-Tibetan Border Police
      
      Inaugurates a 200 bedded Multi Specialty Hospital for CAPF personnel

      Posted On: 25 OCT 2018 6:01PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh attended the 57th Raising Day Parade of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) at 39th Bn, ITBP, Lakhnawali Camp, Surajpur, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh today. The Director General, ITBP Shri R K Pachnanda and senior officers were also present on the occasion. Shri Rajnath Singh took the salute and inspected the Raising Day Parade. Led by Mahila contingent, Commando, Skiing, Mountaineering, Anti-Naxal Operation, paratroopers, mounted column, and different frontier contingents, the parade showcased all aspects of the Force. Recently inducted Snow Scooters, different types of All Terrain Vehicles and high end SUVs, Pol Net etc were included in the march past.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Union Home Minister said that the ITBP jawans have made supreme sacrifices while protecting the border in difficult circumstances at altitudes ranging from 9,000 feet to 18,000 feet. He said that ITBP not only protects Indo-China Border, but also plays responsible role in country’s internal security. The ITBP jawans are deployed in North East and Left Wing Extremism affected areas also, he added.


    Shri Rajnath Singh said that he has visited the BoPs at Indo-China Border and seen first hand the ITBP jawans perform their duties in difficult situations and low temperatures of -45 degree Celsius and scarcity of oxygen. He said that is why they are described as “Himalya Putra” or “Him Veer”.


    The Home Minister said that after his visits to BOPs it was decided to give better infrastructure facilities at Border out Posts (BoPs) . For this the ITBP was provided with the High powered SUVs, All Terrain Vehicles, Snow Scooters and this has brought a lot of improvement in their operational efficiency.


    Speaking on the connectivity issues in these areas and the costs involved, he said that on the occasion of Diwali, the soldiers were given a gift in this regard and the telephone call charges of Rs.6.50/- per minute have been reduced to Re.1/- per minute. He also said that the soldiers posted above the height of 11,000 feet are provided with Light Weight Special Clothing. In this regard, he said that same will soon be implemented for the soldiers posted above 9,000 feet and mountaineering equipment will also be provided to them.


    Shri Rajnath Singh said that the supreme sacrifice made by the martyred soldier cannot be fully compensated with money but the martyr’s families should get at least Rs. One crore compensation and that too in time.


    On this occasion, 1 Uttam Jeevan Raksha Padak, 05 President’s Police Medals for Distinguished Service, 23 Police medals for meritorious service and 1 Jeevan Raksha Padak were awarded.


    In the special medal category for serving animals of the Force, Horse ‘Mayur’ from Basic Training Centre, Bhanu and Dog ‘Bagira’, from 27th Battalion deployed in Anti-Naxal Operations in Chhattisgarh were conferred with Best Horse and Best Canine Medals by the Home Minister. Battalion in Ludhiana (Punjab) was adjudged as ‘Best non-border Battalion’ whereas 19th Battalion as ‘Overall Best Battalion’ for the year 2018 and presented with trophies.


    Different demonstrations were presented after the Parade. Demonstration by ‘Janbaaz’ motor cyclists and a “Rifle Magic” Show by ITBP personnel were introduced for the first time. Another show of vehicle disassembling and assembling Drill was also conducted in a record time of less than six minutes.


    Later on, a 200 bed CAPFs Referral Hospital was also inaugurated by the Union Home Minister in Greater Noida.Under the administrative control of the ITBP, the Hospital will be the biggest and first of its kind in the CAPFs which will be having state of the art equipment and treatment facilities for the patients. The Hospital has been constructed at a cost of Rs 121 Crores. Tele medicine in ITBP was launched by the Union Home Minister from Referral Hospital, Greater Noida. With this technique and help of ISRO, the ITBP Border Out Posts will be able to get medical advice and treatment methodology from specialist doctors on telephone/ video conferencing.


    Raised in 1962, the ITBP guards 3488 KMs long borders in the Himalayas on the BOPs at altitudes ranging from 9K to 18.7 K ft. Apart from border guarding, the Force is also deployed for Anti-Naxal Operations and other Internal Security duties.


    ******


    BB/NK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1550783) Visitor Counter : 630