      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Rs 5008 Crore Housing Loan subsidy Disbursed to 2.3 Lakh CLSS beneficiaries till now under EWS/LIG & MIG Categories
      
      Bankers’ help needed for potential beneficiaries to realize their dream of having a house of their own: Durga Shankar Mishra
      
      consultation cum strategy meet on credit linked subsidy scheme vertical of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) held with banks & housing finance companies
      Posted On: 26 OCT 2018 6:50PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Durga Shanker Mishra, Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has stated that a total of Rs 5008 crores of housing loan subsidy has been disbursed to 2.3 Lakh CLSS beneficiaries till now under EWS/LIG and MIG categories. Delivering the keynote address at a Consultation cum Strategy Meet on Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme vertical of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) held with Banks & Housing Finance Companies here last evening, he updated them on the progress made under the PMAY(U) and emphasized the need for giving fillip to the vision of “Housing for All’ by 2022. Smt. Dakshita Das, Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer of National Housing Bank(NHB), Shri Amrit Abhijat, Joint Secretary & Mission Director (HFA), MoHUA, Dr. Chandramani Sharma, Director(HFA), MoHUA and Dr. Ashwani Tripathi, Executive Director, NHB besides other officials from MoHUA, HUDCO and NHB participated in the meet. Shri Amrit Abhijat emphasized on the critical role the bankers are playing in fulfilling the aspirations of people by providing loans for housing under PMAY(U)-CLSS as well as through providing loans under various verticals of the scheme.


    The Meet discussed the issues in the implementation of PMAY(U)-CLSS, the solutions and the way forward to meet the objectives of the Mission. The participants shared their experiences in implementing the PMAY(U), thereby contributing to cross-learning experiences. The participants agreed to contribute in “Housing for All” Mission.


    Sh Mishra assured the participants that sufficient funding for PMAY (U)-CLSS is available. He also apprised that an arrangement of Rs 60,000 cores under National Urban Housing Fund (NUHF) has been provided as Extra Budgetary Resources (EBR) especially for PMAY (U) in addition to the budgetary grants to meet the housing demand. He also urged the bankers and the CNAs to proactively come forward in helping the potential beneficiaries realize their dream of having a house of their own.


    ***


    RJ/KGS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1550924) Visitor Counter : 329