      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      India wins Commonwealth Association for Public Administration and Management Award, 2018
      Posted On: 25 OCT 2018 6:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions is an institutional member of Commonwealth Association for Public Administration and Management (CAPAM) which is a non-profit association representing an international network of over 1100 senior public servants, Heads of Government, leading academics and researchers located in over 50 different countries across the Commonwealth.


    
    The association is guided by international leaders who believe in the value of networking, knowledge exchange and the promotion of good governance for the betterment of citizens in the Commonwealth countries. CAPAM has been announcing its International Innovations Awards (IIA) Programme bi-annually, since 1998.


    
    Shri K. V. Eapen, Secretary, Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances(DARPG) has been elected to the Board of Commonwealth Association of Public Administration & Management(CAPAM) at the Annual General Members Meet held on 23rd October, 2018 at Georgetown, Guyana. During the Conference, CAPAM Innovation Awards were announced. Government of India had sent entries for CAPAM International Innovations Awards, 2018 under various categories


    The CAPAM Awards celebrate the spirit of innovation in the public service by recognizing organizations that have made significant contributions to improve governance and services in the public sector.


    
    The initiative entitled “Unnayan Banka- Reinventing Education Using Technology of Banka District, State of Bihar has been awarded under the Category “Innovation Incubation”. “Unnayan Banka” is an initiative which envisages “Quality education for all’ especially for those at the bottom of the Pyramid, using latest technologies. It’s a holistic model of overall development of youths from Education to Employability. One of the most important Millennium Development Goals, “Education” is the great social Mobiliser & must be everyone’s Birthright and it is Government of India’s endeavour to provide this to all its children.


    Another initiative entitled “Unified Agriculture Markets” of Co-operation Department of Government of Karnataka has also been selected under the Category ‘Innovation in Public Service Management’. This initiative has also been awarded the overall Gold Award for CAPAM Awards, 2018.


    
    *********


    
    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1550787) Visitor Counter : 1236
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu