      Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs

      Prizes for 52nd Youth Parliament Competition, 2017-18 for Delhi Schools distributed by Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs
      Posted On: 23 OCT 2018 5:35PM by PIB Delhi


    The Prize Distribution Function of the 52 nd Youth Parliament Competition, 2017-18 for schools under Directorate of Education, Government of NCT of Delhi and New Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC), organized by Union Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs, was held here today.


    The Youth Parliament Scheme aims at familiarizing the students with the practice and procedures of Parliament, techniques of discussion and debate; develop leadership qualities, spirit of self-discipline and tolerance of diverse opinions and healthy competition in them— all of which are the hallmark of a democracy.


    Prof.Ramesh Chand, Member, NITI Aayogdistributed prizes to schools and students for their meritorious performance in the competition, which was held during the academic year. On this occasion, the Bharti Public School, SwasthyaVihar Delhi, received the Pandit Motilal Nehru Running Parliamentary Shield for standing first in the competition. Further, the following schools were awarded Merit trophies for their meritorious performance in the competition:


    1. RPVV, NaiBasti, KishanGanj, Delhi


    2. DTEA, SSS, Laxmibai Nagar, New Delhi


    3. Happy School, Padam Chand Marg, Daryaganj, New Delhi


    4. Rukmani Devi Public School, CD Block, Pitampura, Delhi


    5. SB Mills Sr. Sec. School, Shivaji Marg, Karampura, Delhi


    6. Vishal Bharti Public School, PaschimVihar, New Delhi


    7. SV Jaffarpur Kalan, New Delhi


    8. Government Co-Ed SSS, Sector - 2, Dwarka, New Delhi


    From a humble beginning in 1966, when the first Competition was organized by the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs in 16 schools of the Delhi Administration, the Youth Parliament Scheme now covers 1200 schools in NCT of Delhi, 1200 KendriyaVidyalayas, 600 Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas and 300 Universities/Colleges throughout the country.


    Other dignitaries present on the occasion were Dr. Satya Prakash, Joint Secretary Parliamentary Affairs and other senior officers from the Ministry and NDMC, along with Principals, teachers, students and their parents.


    *****


    KSP/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1550349) Visitor Counter : 494
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi