      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Vigilance Awareness Week 2018 to be observed from 29th Oct-3rd Nov
      
      Theme for this year is ‘Eradicate Corruption-Build a New India’
      
      Posted On: 26 OCT 2018 11:55AM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) observes the Vigilance Awareness Week every year during the week in which the birthday of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel (31 st October) falls.


    This week, through its various outreach activities, it seeks to motivate stakeholders to collectively participate in the fight against corruption and also aims at raising public awareness regarding the detrimental consequences of corruption. This year, the Vigilance Awareness Week is being observed from 29 th October to 3 rd November, 2018 on the theme “ Eradicate Corruption-Build a New India (भ्रष्टाचार मिटाओ- नया भारत बनाओ)”.


    The Commission has requested all Central Government Ministries/Organisations to conduct activities relevant to the theme both within their organization, and outreach activities for public/citizens inter alia detailed as follows :


     1. Activities to be conducted within the organization may include taking of the Integrity Pledge by all employees, distribution of pamphlets/handouts on preventive vigilance activities, whistle blower mechanism and other anti-corruption measures, conducting workshops and sensitization programmes for employees and other stake holders on policies/procedures of the organization and preventive vigilance measures. Other activities may include publication of journals/newsletters on vigilance issues, systemic improvements and good practices adopted for wider dissemination and awareness, conducting various competitions such as debates, quiz etc. for the employees and their families on issues relating to anti-corruption and the use of organizational websites for dissemination of employees/customer oriented information.

     2. Outreach activities for public/citizens may include the display of hoardings, banners, posters and distribution of handouts etc. at prominent locations/places in offices/field units and also at places with public interface , organization of grievance redressal camps for citizens/customers by organizations having customer oriented services/activities and the taking of the online “Integrity Pledge” developed by the Commission.
     3. Laying stress for creation of awareness on the ill-effects of corruption amongst school and college students, special efforts may be being made by each field unit/branch of every CPSE/ to reach out to students in schools and colleges. In this regard, various activities such as lectures, panel discussions, debates, quiz, essay writing, slogans/elocution/cartoon/poster competitions on moral values, ethics, good governance practices etc. are to be organized across the country. In 2017, such activities were organized in over 15,000 schools and over 3200 colleges with the participation of more than 14.70 lakh children across the country.

    A new feature is the establishment of ‘Integrity Clubs’ in schools and colleges to cultivate ethical values in the leaders of tomorrow.


    “Awareness Gram Sabhas” are also organized for dissemination of awareness in Gram Panchayats (in rural and semi-urban areas) to sensitize the rural citizens about the ill-effects of corruption. In 2017, 67,131 such Gram Sabhas were organized during the Vigilance Awareness Week.


    Seminars, discussions and other outreach events are also organized involving the private sector, professional associations, trade unions and associations for wide participation of all sections of civil society.


    Organizations also conduct activities with high visibility and public appeal such as walkathons, marathons, cycle rallies, human chains, street plays and other public functions in various cities and towns across the country.


    Many organizations would be extensively using social media platforms , bulk SMS/E-mail, Whatsapp, electronic and print media etc. for spreading awareness.


    ******


    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1550839) Visitor Counter : 2193
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Hindi , Marathi , Malayalam
    
    
    

3.