      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Shri Jaswantsinh Bhabhor Reviewed Implementation of Tribal Affairs Schemes in Sikkim
      Posted On: 25 OCT 2018 10:23AM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Shri Jaswantsinh Bhabhor chaired a review meeting with the officials of the State Social Justice Department and Principals of EMRS Schools at New Raj Bhawan, Gangtok today. He is on a two-day visit to the State to review the activities being carried out by the State in the sphere of welfare of the tribal population.


    A brief presentation was made on the schemes implemented by the State Government under the aegis of the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Government of India. A presentation was also made by the Engineering Cell of the department highlighting the infrastructural developments for implementation of schemes and programmes related to tribal affairs.


    Shri Jaswantsinh Bhabhor in his address lauded the progress made by Sikkim in the implementation of tribal welfare schemes. He expressed his profound thanks to the Chief Minister of Sikkim on behalf of the Government of India for uplifting and empowering the tribal community in the State and the welfare measures being implemented under his leadership.


    He further added that the State Government and Central Government should collaboratively work to ensure that the weaker sections of the society are uplifted. He said that the Prime Minister has laid huge emphasis on the development of the North East Region of the Country. Tribal community is spread across almost all the States and the Government of India is committed to bring development to their doorsteps through the support of the State Governments. “I feel proud to mention here that Sikkim has really implemented the EMRS schools scheme well and are empowering the tribal children with education, he added.


    “I have heard a lot about Sikkim but today after coming here for the first time in the lap of Mount Khangchendzonga, I feel fortunate. I am highly impressed with the work being done by the State Government,” he concluded.


    Special Secretary, Department of Social Justice, Welfare & Empowerment, Government of Sikkim, Smt Dhanjyoti Mukhia in her welcome address briefed about the activities being carried out in the State for the development and uplift of the tribal community. She outlined the emphasis laid by the State Government on inclusive development to ensure equal social justice and economic empowerment of all.


    The meeting had the presence of District Collector East Shri Kapil Meena, senior officers of the Social Justice Department, officers from the Ministry, Principals of EMRS schools in the State and members of NGOs working for tribal welfare.


    ****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/MoTA/25-10-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1550820) Visitor Counter : 307
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi