      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Department of Consumer Affairs reviewsprice & availability of Onion; Horticulture Commissioner assures that arrival will increase substantially within a week
      
      Supply from buffer stock of Onions under Price Stabilisation Fund to be increased by 2-3 times to improve availability & moderate prices
      
      Mother Dairy to roll back prices of Onions by 2 Rupees at all its stores

      Posted On: 19 OCT 2018 1:45PM by PIB Delhi

    Department of Consumer Affairs (DoCA) reviewed the price and availability situation of Onion with all the concerned stakeholders in a High Level meeting chaired by the Secretary, Department of Consumer Affairs, ShriAvinash K. Srivastava.It was indicated by Horticulture Commissioner (DAC&FW) that sown area under the Kharif Onion Crop is higher than last year and its arrival has commenced from Karnataka. Arrivals of Kharif crop is expected to increase significantly within a week. This would improve availability in consuming areas, thereby, helping moderate prices.


    Meanwhile, in the meeting it was decided that the supply of Onion to Delhi from the buffer stock under the Price Stabilisation Fund (PSF)should be increased by 2-3 timesfrom the current level so as to tide over any constraint in the interim supply ofOnions in the market.The implementing agency for the purpose i.e. NAFED has been directed to increase the quantity supplied from PSF stock accordingly. The situation of Onion Prices and its availability will be constantly reviewed by the committee and appropriate& immediate interventions will be made as required.


    Department of Consumer Affairs advised Mother Dairy to roll back the prices of Onions by 2 rupees across all variants. Mother Dairy agreed to reduce these ratesfrom Rs. 25.90 to Rs. 23.90 for the loose variant and from Rs. 27.90 to Rs. 25.90 for the packed variant at all its stores in Delhi.


    *****


    APS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1550062) Visitor Counter : 544