      Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA)

      Cabinet approves the New Railway Line between Bahraich and Khalilabad, Uttar Pradesh
      
      The new line serves 5 districts of Uttar Pradesh including 4 aspirational districts (Bahraich, Balrampur, Shravasti and Siddharth Nagar) and Sant Kabirnagar
      
      This project will generate direct employment during construction for about 57.67 lakh man-days
      
      The total estimated cost of this project is Rs. 4939.78 crore and will be completed by 2024-25
      
      The line will promote tourism in the region
      
      This Line passes through Shravasti which is closely associated with the life of Gautam Buddha
      
      Shravasti is also an important tourist centre for Jains
      
      Provide better connectivity to Devi Patan temple, which is one of the famous 51 Shakti Peethas of Maa Durga
      Posted On: 24 OCT 2018 1:17PM by PIB Delhi


    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved new Railway Line between Bahraich and Khalilabad via Bhinga, Shravasti, Balrampur, Utraula, Domariyaganj, Mehdawal, Bansi. The total length of the new Broad Gauge line will be 240.26 kilometers.


    The total estimated cost of the project is Rs. 4939.78 crore. The project will be completed by 2024-25 and will lie in North Eastern Railway. This project will generate direct employment during construction for about 57.67 lakh man-days.


    The new line will provide basic infrastructure support for industrial development having large socio-economic ramification. It will provide a direct broad gauge route to the project area which may boost the economic development of the region. This will also provide an alternative route of Bahraich-Khalilabad and connect border districts to each other.


    The approved line is passing through the district Shravasti (Bhinga) which is an important tourist place and closely associated with the life of Gautam Buddha. Shravasti is also an important tourist centre for Jains as the Sobhanath temple is believed to be the birthplace of the Tirthankara Sambhavanath. The Devi Patan temple in Tulsipur which is close to Balrampur town, is one of the famous 51 Shakti Peethas of Maa Durga. The line will promote tourism in the region.


    The project will provide rail facility to the people of the area falling under the project line and will help to grow small scale industries in the area. Four districts falling in this project length i.e. Bahraich, Balrampur, Shravasti and Siddharth Nagar are among the 115 aspirational districts identified by NITI Aayog. Hence, this project is needed for better socio economic development of the hinterland of this area with the help of rail network.


    *************


    NW/AKT/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1550447) Visitor Counter : 906
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali , Tamil