      Department of Atomic Energy

      New Chairman of Atomic Energy Commission & Secretary DAE calls on MoS, Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 23 OCT 2018 7:05PM by PIB Delhi


    New Chairman of Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) and Secretary Department of Atomic Energy, Govt of India, Dr K.N. Vyas called on Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today.


    Dr Vyas was the Director of the prestigious Bhaba Atomic Research Centre (BARC) before being elevated to the present position.


    While congratulating Dr Vyas on taking over his new assignment, Dr Jitendra Singh hailed the Modi Government's initiatives over the last four years for having made functional new Reactor Units in the existing Atomic Energy Plants and at the same time, seeking to explore the possibility of setting up new Atomic Energy Plants in other parts of the country. This, he said, will certainly help India's Nuclear programme assume a pan-India presence and will be a befitting tribute to the founding father Dr Homi Bhabha.


    Dr Jitendra Singh also discussed the current status of the upcoming Atomic Energy plant in Haryana in a town called Gorakhpur. He was informed that the work was in full progress and the Plant may become functional in the next few years. The Minister was also briefed about the efforts to explore possibility of setting up new Atomic Energy Plants in other States.


    In a fast developing country like India, Dr Jitendra Singh said, Atomic Energy will, in future, serve as a major source to fulfill the growing energy needs of the country. In addition, he observed, it will have the advantage of providing clean and pollution-free source of energy.


    Dr Vyas also updated Dr Jitendra Singh about the various ongoing projects in the Department of Atomic Energy. He also discussed details of some of the important upcoming events and academic seminars relating to Nuclear Energy.


    *****


    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1550388) Visitor Counter : 627