      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Women of India Organic Festival to be held at IGNCA, New Delhi from 26th October to 4th November, 2018
      Posted On: 22 OCT 2018 1:07PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development is organizing the 5th edition of the Women of India Organic Festival from 26 th October to 4 th November, 2018 at Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, Janpath Road, New Delhi. This is aimed to boost organic culture and promote Women Organic Farmers and Entrepreneurs. Being the country's largest organic festival, it bears witness to the fact that women are the torchbearers of the nation's organic movement.


    "The WOI Festival has given a successful platform to empower women farmers and entrepreneurs in a festive and fruitful manner for the past 4 years. It is a matter of great satisfaction for me that the Ministry’s efforts ultimately boost these illustrious rural women’s local communities and economy by creating jobs and keeping farmers thriving in addition to spreading awareness about the benefits of organic products,” said The Minister of Women & Child Development, Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi.


    With over 500 women entrepreneurs coming together from across the country with their organic products such as cereals, rice, pulses, skin-care products, fabric, jewellery, etc, this is the perfect example of how the festival is creating a revolution and making women self-reliant. For the first time, ‘The Vegan Project’ and Food Court with cooked-on-site delicacies will also be available.


    Participants from the remotest parts of the country travel and stay in Delhi for the entire duration of the Festival, while having the opportunity of selling their healthy and wholesome produce to the people of Delhi and surrounding areas.


    To make the organic movement more accessible to public, the Ministry has changed the venue for the 2018 edition to IGNCA and has kept Entry and Parking Free for All.


    *****


    NB/PS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1550188) Visitor Counter : 1334
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Malayalam