      Ministry of Shipping

      Gogha- Dahej Ro-Pax Ferry service ready to start In a Successful trial run, 12 Trucks carried from Dahej to Gogha via sea route across Gulf of Cambay
      Posted On: 24 OCT 2018 6:33PM by PIB Delhi


      The Prime Minister’s dream project of Gogha- Dahej Ro-Pax Ferry service is all readyto start under the Sagarmala programme of the Ministry of Shipping. In a successful trial run conducted recently, 12 loaded trucks were transported by the Ro- Pax ferry from Dahej to Goghaacross the Gulf of Cambay, via the sea route. The land route between the two places involves a 294 km or 8 hour drive.The Ro-Pax service reduces this distance to just 31 km through the sea route by crossing the Gulf in Cambay in 17 Nautical Miles. The travel time gets reduced to just 1.5 hours. This is an important development for diamond and textiles traders & workers in Surat to travel via coastal shipping and save the travel time by almost half.


      The fully operational Ro Pax service with carrying capacity of 100 vehicles and 500passengers will be opened on 27 October 2018.


      Speaking after the trail run Shri Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister of Shipping, Road Transport & Highwaysand Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation said, “The Sagarmala programme is touching the lives of people. Gogha-DahejRo-Pax Ferry service is all set toconnect Saurashtra and South Gujarat.”


      The total cost of the project is estimated to be Rs 615 Crore of which Rs.117 Crore has been funded by Central Government under the Sagarmala programme with the main objective of promoting coastal shipping and reducing logistics costs.


      The initiative would not only reduce the travel time but also result in savings in fuel, reduction in CO2 emission and reduction in road congestion.
      The project is first of its kinds in India as it is being executed in the area of world’s 2nd highest tidal range. The project would open up new avenues in coastal shipping & tourism and help in socio-economic development of proximate areas.


      ****


      NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1550618) Visitor Counter : 743
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu