      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      17.86 km long Trilokpuri Sanjay Lake - Shiv Viharsection of Delhi Metro Pink Line opens for public---boon for Eastern & Northern Fringes of National Capital
      
      Delhi Metro Network has now become 314 kilometres long with 229 metro stations
      
      All major corridors under Delhi Metro’s Phase 3 expected to be opened by December 2018

      Posted On: 31 OCT 2018 1:12PM by PIB Delhi

    The 17.86 km long Shiv Vihar–TrilokpuriSanjay Lake section of the 59 km long Majlis Park - Shiv Vihar corridor (Line 7) of Phase 3, also known as the Pink Line is now ready for passenger operations. It was inaugurated here today by Minister of State (I/C) for Housing and Urban Affairs, Shri Hardeep Singh Puri and Deputy Chief Minister of Delhi, Shri Manish Sisodia. Transport Minister of Delhi Shri Kailash Gahlot, Member of Parliament Shri Manoj Tiwari, Secretary MoHUA Shri Durga Shankar Mishra, MD of DMRC Shri Mangu Singh andsenior officials were present also on the occasion.


    This stretch will be a major boon for the eastern and northern fringes of the national capital. Three interchange facilities at Welcome (With Red Line), Karkarduma and Anand Vihar ISBT (with Blue Line) will tremendously boost the connectivity of areas such as Shiv Vihar, Gokul Puri, Maujpur, Jaffrabad etc. In the future, this stretch will get connected with the presently operational Majlis Park – Lajpat Nagar section of Pink Line. The residents of the neighbouring Ghaziabad areas of Uttar Pradesh will also get immensely benefitted. The Majlis Park – Shiv Vihar Corridor is crossing the existing Vaishali- Dwarka elevated line 21 metres above the ground and is 10 metres above the existing Metro line.


    With the opening of this section, the Delhi Metro network has now become 314 kilometres long with 229 Metro stations. All the major corridors under Delhi Metro’s Phase 3 are expected to be opened for passengers by the end of the year.


    Addressing the gathering, Shri Hardeep Puri said that with this expansion, the Delhi Metro has become member of an elite club of large metros which have such a mammoth network of over 300 km long route and added that in coming months it will also breach the 350 kilometre mark and more and more people of the entire National Capital Region will be benefitted. He said, Delhi Metro is indeed scripting history as it has added 80 kilometres of new sections in the year 2018. The Minister appreciated Delhi government’s assurance for clearing the hurdles for commencement of Delhi Metro Phase-IV project of 103.93 km length. He said, clean and green public transport system is essential to combat air-pollution, decongest the city and providing a dependable mobility platform to people. He said, in the coming months also, a lot of expansion is going to happen in the NCR cities as new sections will open in NOIDA, Greater NOIDA, Ghaziabad and Ballabhgarh.


    Other Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) projects being planned include the 82.15 km. Delhi to Meerut corridor; Delhi- Panipat (111 km) and Delhi- Alwar (180 km).


    ***


    RJ/KGS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1551320) Visitor Counter : 375
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi