      Ministry of Tourism

      Shri K J Alphons presides over the Program and Budget Committee meeting of UNWTO
      
      India to chair the Programme and Budget Committee of UNWTO Executive Council till 2021
      Posted On: 31 OCT 2018 5:23PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Tourism, Shri. K. J. Alphons along with a delegation of senior officials is attending the 109 th session of United Nations World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) Executive Council in Manama, Bahrain. The three day Session of UNWTO Executive Council began on 30 th October 2018. The Executive Council will discuss several topics on the agenda that are related to the development of global Tourism sector.


    During the opening day of the Executive Council meeting, Shri. K. J. Alphons chaired the ‘Programme and Budget Committee’ meeting of UNWTO. In his opening remarks, the Minister highlighted the role of tourism in socio-economic development through job creation, enterprise and environment development and foreign exchange earnings. As the chair of the Committee, the Minister informed the session that for the first time, UNWTO had a surplus budget and most of the arrears due have been paid . India will be the chair of Programme and Budget Committee of UNWTO Executive Council till 2021.


    At the sidelines, the Tourism Minister also met the Secretary-General of UNWTO, Mr. Zurab Pololikashvili and discussed on involving UNWTO in developing tourism as a strong agent for the better future of the world and establishing the Global Public Private Partnerships.


    The World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) is the United Nations agency responsible for the promotion of responsible, sustainable and universally accessible tourism. The UNWTO Executive Council represents the Organization’s governing body whose task is to take all necessary measures in consultation with the Secretary-General, for implementation of its own decisions and recommendations of the Assembly and report thereupon to the Assembly. The Council meets at least twice a year, the next to be held in Bahrain. The council consists of 35 Full Members elected by the assembly in proportion of one member for every Five Full Members, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure laid down by the Assembly with a view to achieving fair and equitable geographical distribution.


    *****


    NB/JP/Tourism/31-10-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551380) Visitor Counter : 607
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam