      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Secretary addresses the valedictory session of the conference on “CCTNS--Good practices and success Stories”
      Posted On: 30 OCT 2018 9:11PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba attended the valedictory session of the two-day conference on “CCTNS--Good practices and Success Stories” organised by National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) here today. While Dierctor IB, Shri Rajiv Jain was the Guest of Honour on the occasion.


    While addressing the concluding session of the conference the Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba appreciated the efforts of all States/UTs Police in the implementation of CCTNS and develop various good practices. DG UP, BPR&D and NDRF were also present along with officers from State Police, CPOs, CAPFs, NatGrid and ministries of Government of India,


    Home Secretary stated that the integration of CCTNS with ICJS and other databases like Prison, Courts, Transport etc., would help investigative agencies in not only reducing the time taken for investigation but also increase the percentage of prosecution. He added that once integrated with these databases coupled with Big data analysis, CCTNS would be able to provide 360 degree profile of any person.


    He appreciated the good practises adopted by States/UTs like Uttar Pradesh and Haryana who have provided many more citizen services than originally envisaged, some of which were presented during the conference and said that other States/UTs would do well to emulate these for providing better services to citizens. He went to add that States should charge for providing some of these services which would help them in sustaining these services.


    Shri Rajiv Gauba while speaking of connectivity mentioned that BharatNet would connect all remote and rural police stations which would increase the reach of CCTNS.


    He opined that for the purpose of embedding technology in their day to day functioning many States have re-engineered their Business processes which is the right way to adopt technologies. Other States should also think on similar lines to be successful in CCTNS.


    HS while launching the Mobile app on person and property search congratulated NCRB, stated that this app would be very useful for all police personnel especially the investigating officers. He also complimented NCRB for released mobile apps for lodging of complaints, locating police stations, View FIR etc., which are useful for citizens.


    Home Secretary, shri Rajive Gauba also released NCRB Journal which would provide Law Practitioners, Academicians and Researchers invaluable information on Police Science, Law, Scientific Investigations, Criminal Science, Forensic Science, Finger Print Science, Biometrics, Cyber Crime, Cyber Terrorism, Cyber Security, Economic Offences, Prisons and other areas of research.


    He appreciated efforts of all State/UT Police Chiefs and Nodal Officers and officers of NCRB in taking CCTNS project to its current status. He also congratulated individuals who have been rewarded during the conference for their immense contribution in the successful implementation of CCTNS in States/UTs.


    Shri Gauba also gave away awards to States/UTs for their CCTNS Best Practises which were showcased during the conference. He also rewarded 57 officers from States/UTs and NCRB for their significant contribution in the implementation of CCTNS.


    Earlier while welcoming Union Home Secretary and Director Intelligence Bureau, Director NCRB informed that 94% of police stations across the country are connected to their respective data centres and are registering online FIRs. He also added that 12200 police stations are accessing National Data of crime and criminals for making regular searches. Remaining police stations would be able to do the same by year end. He mentioned about the Phase 2 of CCTNS including upgradation of connectivity and enhancing the capability of application by integrating with AI, GIS and Big data analytic tools. Challenges in the project like TNF sites, manpower issues and usage of data were also highlighted with their probable resolutions.


    Director IB in his address appreciated the efforts of NCRB and said CCTNS has made in roads in the Indian Policing system and it worthwhile to take this success to other countries.


    Earlier in the day, Shri Alok Joshi, Former DG NTRO delivered key note address on Big Data Analytics.


    During the day, in the first session presentations were made on Data Analytics, Reports, Dashboards, Monitoring and Integrations by Telangana (MO offenders, eBeat, Jail Monitoring, Geo Tagging of Criminals, Enterprise Search, Facial Recognition, AFIS, Dial 100 integration), Maharashtra (Dynamic Reports and Integration with Jail, CCTV, IGR, AMBIS, Photo Uploading and CAS Entry Monthly Reports) and UP (Performance Monitoring System).


    In the last session of presentations on Data Centre, Networking and Capacity Building were made by Karnataka (Data Centre, KSWAN, ERP and Capacity Building) and Madhya Pradesh (Data Centre and Network Management, URL Monitoring, MPSWAN usage and DC-DR Drill). Rajasthan also presented their newly launched eFIR system.


    Delegates participated in finalization of Conference recommendations so that they can be taken forward and become part of CCTNS future roadmap.


    ***


    BB/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1551291) Visitor Counter : 210
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi