      Ministry of Science & Technology

      The Kingdom of Netherlands to be the Partner Country 25th DST – CII Technology Summit 2019
      Posted On: 30 OCT 2018 7:40PM by PIB Delhi


    The Kingdom of Netherlands will be the Partner Country 25th DST – CII Technology Summit to be organized in 2019, announced Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister for Science & Technology, Earth Sciences, Environment, Forest and Climate Change here, today. Dr. Vardhan was speaking at the Curtain Raiser to announce the Silver Jubilee edition of Technology Summit - 2019.


    The Minister highlighted the successful bilateral research cooperation between India and Netherlands in sectors such as affordable medical devices, urban water systems, big data and Internet of Things (IoT). He further stressed that there is great scope to explore a closer partnership between the two countries to leverage emerging digital technologies. He also emphasized onenhancing security in digital applications with a view to increase transparency and trust for societal benefits.


    Dr. Vardhan also proposed to take the 25th Technology Summit -2019, to the next level, by inviting global participation during the next year Summit and making it truly a global event.


    H.E. Marten Van Den Berg, Ambassador to India, Kingdom of Netherlands shared that the visit of their Prime Minister to India in May this year has marked the start of collaboration for 10 years of Science, Technology & Innovation collaboration between the two countries.


    He said by combining the best entrepreneurial and scientific minds in public private partnerships focused on affordable and scalable solutions India and the Netherlands are addressing unmet needs and opening new collaborative avenues together in areas such as water, health, agriculture, high tech systems and IT.


    Prof.Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary Department of Science & Technology said that this is an important year in which we are celebrating 10th year of our research partnership with the Netherlands.He welcomed co-creation of knowledge jointly with Dutch institutions in the fields of Water, health, cyber physical system etc. He cautioned that soon antibiotics may lose their impact and we are already addressing this challenge by working on Anti-Microbial Resistance (AMR).


    *****


    RDS/MS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1551275) Visitor Counter : 1306
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu