      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Sh. Ravi Shankar Prasad to felicitate the winners of #OpenGovDataHack National Challenge
      Posted On: 31 OCT 2018 1:35PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Electronics & Information Technology Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad in the august presence of Shri S.S. Ahluwalia, Union Minister of State, Electronics and IT, Shri Ajay Sawhney, Secretary, Ministry of Electronics & IT and Dr. Neeta Verma, Director General, National Informatics Centre, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, will felicitate the winners of the #OpenGovDataHack National Challenge, at the Stein Auditorium, India Habitat Centre, New Delhi on Thursday, November 1, 2018.


    Open Government Data (OGD) Platform India ( https://data.gov.in ) India is at the forefront in promoting innovation in Open Data ecosystem in India. It has been set-up by National Informatics Centre (NIC) in compliance with the Open Data Policy whose objective is to provide a platform for proactive access to Government owned shareable data. These datasets are directly published on the platform by the Government Departments.


    The Open Government Data Team, National Informatics Centre (NIC) in association with Internet & Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) & StartUp India had organized Hackathon - “#OpenGovDataHack“ for Students, Entrepreneurs, Innovators, Start-ups, Developers and Community to create unique and innovative service delivery Applications & Info-Graphics to foster innovation.


    The sectors selected for the Hackathon are Water & Sanitation, Transport, Education, Crime and Health. The Hackathon was conducted successfully in 2 phases. The National screening committee shortlisted 20 Apps for final presentation out of which 3 (three winning) apps and 7(seven) other excellence apps will be felicitated in an award event on 1 st November, 2018 by the Hon’ble Union Minister.


    *****


    NNK/MD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551325) Visitor Counter : 750
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi