      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Ministry WCD extends deadline for Nari Shakti Puraskar 2018 Awards Nomination, till November 30, 2018
      Posted On: 29 OCT 2018 4:52PM by PIB Delhi


    In a significant move, the Ministry of Women and Child Development has extended the deadline for receiving nominations for the coveted Nari Shakti Puraskar 2018 till November 30, 2018.


    The highest civilian honour for Women in India is conferred to exceptional Women and Institutions, who have been working incessantly towards the cause of Women Empowerment. The Awards, now in its 19th year, recognise excellent contribution in the fields of Economic and Social Empowerment of Women. Every year, the President of India confers the Nari Shakti Puraskar on the International Women's Day.


    "We have been conferring the Nari Shakti Puraskar since 1999. It gives me immense pleasure to invite Nominations for this year's Awards. I urge Women, those who rise above barriers, venture into unexplored sectors and make a lasting contribution to society to apply for the coveted Awards. With the Deadline Extension Announcement, I am hopeful that many more illustrious women will be able to file their Nominations", said Union Minister for Women and Child Development, Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi.


    The desired documents for Nomination are to be submitted to the Deputy Secretary (WD & IC), MWCD, Room No- 632, 6th Floor, Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi- 110001.


    Applicants are requested to read the Award Guidelines at: http://www.wcd.nic.in/award


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development salutes the unbeatable prowess of Nari Shakti Puraskar awardees, who have become role models for future generations. These iconic ladies have left an indelible mark on people's mind, and have also ignited young minds.


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development reaffirm its commitment to provide equal opportunities to Women by making them an integral part of nation’s development journey. Women Led Development is our primary focus and we are determined to create enabling environment to unleash their full potential.


    *****


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551112) Visitor Counter : 688
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Bengali , Tamil