      Ministry of Railways

      Shri Piyush Goyal Felicitates Outstanding Civil Engineering Staff and Officers of Indian Railways
      Posted On: 29 OCT 2018 6:01PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Railways and Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal felicitated 39 outstanding Civil Engineering Staff and Officers of Indian Railways with Certificates of Excellence in a felicitation programme organised by Ministry of Railways here today. The civil engineering staff and officers who had done exemplary and outstanding works in prevention of accidents, accelerated completion of safety works, works of high quality passenger amenities including Foot Over Bridges and beautification of stations, construction of important bridges, new lines and doubling projects, etc. from all over Indian Railways were honoured for their outstanding work by the Minister.


    Speaking on the occasion, Minister of Railways & Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal underlined the importance of their role in the modernisation of the Railways. He added that we can get transformational results in Railways that is re-engineering itself. All it requires is dedication and an open mind to new ideas and risks.


    During the function, a Book on “Building the Great Himalayan Railway - The Story of USBRL” was also released by Minister. The Book covers the journey and challenges of construction of Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramullah rail link project which is a national project, in a beautiful and interesting pictographic format.


    Member Engineering, Railway Board, Shri M.K. Gupta, Member Staff, Railway Board, Shri S.N. Agrawal, Financial Commissioner, Railways, Shri A.K. Prasad, Member Traction, Railway Board, Shri Ghanshyam Singh, Chief Commissioner of Railway Safety, Shri S.K. Pathak, General Manager, Northern Railway, Shri Vishwesh Chaube, other Railway Board Members and over 250 Staff and Officers from all the Zonal Railways, RDSO, Indian Railways Institute of Civil Engineering and Commission of Railway Safety were present on the occasion.


    *****


    SVS/MKV/ENS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1551139) Visitor Counter : 265