      Ministry of Home Affairs

      MoS (Home) Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir inaugurates conference on “CCTNS--Good practices and success Stories”
      
      CCTNS will help in containing crime and criminality: Ahir

      Posted On: 29 OCT 2018 5:20PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of State for Home , Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir inaugurated the two-day conference on “CCTNS--Good practices and Success Stories” organised by National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) here today. MoS (Home) Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir also released a Compendium of “CCTN--Good practices and Success Stories”.


    In his Inaugural address, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir said that in a huge democracy like India, having population of 130 crore, CCTN System and associated technologies can help us get information quickly and track the criminals.


    Appreciating the functions of the system, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir said that all States/UT should effectively use it to contain the crime. For this all the States/UTs should coordinate and integrate the various organs of the Criminal Justice System such as the Police, Courts, Prisons, Prosecution, Forensic Laboratories, Finger Prints and Juvenile Homes with the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS) database, he proposed.


    The Minister said that MHA has always been helping in modernization of the Police in the country by appropriately funding it and it has already given nod for developing CCTNS phase II.


    In his welcome address, the Director NCRB, Dr. Ish kumar said that at present 14,749 Police stations ( Out of 15,655) and 6,649 higher offices (out of 7931) are connected through CCTNS and sending data to NDC regularly, except Bihar. Out of the remaining 1000 Police stations 894 are from Bihar State. He said that out of 36 States/UTs, 35 States/UTs have launched their citizen portals for providing services to citizens like filing of complaints online and seeking antecedents verification of tenants , domestic helps. Criminal record check of applicants of Global Entry programme( GEP) of USA is being done by NCRB using CCTNS, he added.


    The Joint Secretary, Women Safety Division, MHA, Smt. Punya Salila Srivastava, senior Officer of CAPFs and MHA and NIC were present during the function.


    ***


    BB/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551123) Visitor Counter : 467