      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NDMA conducts training programme for CBRN emergencies at Raipur airport
      Posted On: 29 OCT 2018 4:53PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) is conducting a basic training programme at the Swami Vivekanand Airport in Raipur today . The five-day training programme, aimed at enhancing the preparedness of Airport Emergency Handlers (AEHs) to respond to CBRN emergencies at the airports.


    CBRN emergencies pertain to threats emanating due to Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear material. The training programme is being conducted in collaboration with the Airport Authority of India (AAI), Institute of Nuclear Medicine & Allied Sciences (INMAS) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF).


    Handling CBRN emergencies need specialised skills and efforts. In fact, even a small CBRN related event can cause panic among people at the airports. This training programme will improve the CBRN safety at our airports by enabling the AEHs to handle any CBRN emergency.


    The programme consists of lectures as well as field training, including live demonstrations of detection and decontamination including use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Besides equipping the AEHs to handle CBRN emergencies, the training programme will also enable them to provide medical first aid and initial psycho-social support.


    Experts from stakeholder departments such as Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), INMAS, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), National Institute of Mental Health & Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS), Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) and Haryana Institute of Public Administration (HIPA) will train the participants. A team of third BN NDRF from Mundali, Odhisa, especially trained on CBRN Emergency Management, is camping at Raipur during the training period.


    A total of 45 participants representing various agencies responsible for operation and maintenance of the airport will be trained on various aspects of CBRN emergencies. Another 150 working level staff will be sensitized on the subject in a half day module.


    This is the ninth in a series of such programmes being conducted at airports across the country to enable AEHs to respond suitably till the arrival of specialised response teams. Eight batches have already been trained - one each in Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, Varanasi, Patna, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Chandigarh.


    *******


    BB/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1551113) Visitor Counter : 295