      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President embarks on three nation Africa visit
      
      Strengthening bilateral ties, improving trade relations are priorities;

      Posted On: 31 OCT 2018 9:18AM by PIB Delhi

      The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu embarked on his first Africa visit from 31st October to November 6, here today. In his weeklong visit, he will visit Botswana, Zimbabwe and Malawi where he is scheduled to interact with heads of state of the three nations, business fora and address Indian Community.


      The visit underlines the high priority, the government of India accords to Africa and is line with India’s efforts to have a sustained and regular engagement.


      The Vice President is accompanied by a high level Parliamentary delegation comprising of the Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment, Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar, and four Members of Parliament.


      The Vice President will reach Botswana’s capital Gaboron on 31st October evening to attend the Official opening of the 13th Annual Global Expo where 25 Indian companies are participating for the first time showcasing India’s economic and Industrial proves.


      On November 1, Shri Naidu will interact with the Vice President of Botswana, Mr. Slumber Tsogwane to hold Delegation Level Talks. He will also meet the Speaker of the National Assembly of Botswana, Mr. Gladys Kokorwe in the evening before addressing the Indian Community at Baisago Convention Centre, Baisago University.


      On 2nd November, the Vice President is scheduled to participate in the India-Botswana CEO Roundtable where he would interact with businessmen and investors of both the nations and proceed to visit Diamond Trading Centre, Botswana. Shri Naidu will call on the President of the Republic of Botswana, Mr. Mokgweetsi Eric Keabetswe Masisi before emplaning for Harare, Zimbabwe. He will address the Indian community at the reception hosted by the Ambassador of India to Zimbabwe. This is the high level visit taking place after a gap of 21 years in Zimbabwe.


      On Saturday, November 3rd, the Vice President will call on the President of the Republic Zimbabwe, Mr. Emmerson Mnangagwa before meeting the Vice President, Mr. General (Retd) Dr. Constantino Chiwenga. Both the Vice Presidents will witness the Signing of Agreements. Shri Naidu is scheduled to attend the India-Zimbabwe Business Forum in the evening.


      On 4th November, the Vice President will take part in the Ground Breaking Ceremony of Chancery Building before emplaning for Lilongwe in Malawi. The Vice President would begin his interactions in Malawi with an interaction with the Indian Community on the same evening.


      On Monday, November 5, the Vice President of India is scheduled to participate in the India Malawi Business Meet. Later he will hold a Tete-eTete meeting with President of Malawi, Mr. Peter Arthur Mutharika and hold talks. In the evening he will attend the opening of Jaipur Foot Camp for Fitment of Artificial Limbs under “India for Humanity” Theme.


      Charge-de-Affairs, Botswana Embassy, Ms. Chenesani Asa and Dy. Ambassador of Zimbabwe, Mr. Lovemor Bebe, bid farewell to Vice President on his departure in New Delhi.


      ***


      AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551290) Visitor Counter : 1173
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Tamil