      Prime Minister's Office

      English Rendering of PM’s address at the Valedictory Session of India-Italy Technology Summit, New Delhi
      Posted On: 30 OCT 2018 5:45PM by PIB Delhi


    His Excellency, Prime Minister of Italy, Prof. Giuseppe Conte , my cabinet colleague Dr.Harshvardhan, eminent technocrats from Italy and India attending this Tech Summit, ladies and gentlemen!


    Greetings! Namaskar!


    Ciao!Comestai!*


    I extend my heartfelt greetings especially to our guests who have come all the way from Italy to attend this summit.


    Benvenuto * in India!


    Friends,


    This is the 24th Tech Summit. It is a matter of great pride for us to have Italy's participation in this summit as Partner Country, along with the dignified presence of Prime Minister Prof Conte.


    Prior to this event, we had a detailed conversation during my dogmatically meeting with Prime Minister Prof Conte.I have personally experienced his enthusiasm and commitment towards relations with India.


    This year is also monumental for us as it is the 70th year of Diplomatic Relations between India and Italy. This year, we also achieved a milestone by completing our 40 years of cooperation in the field of Science and Technology. Hence, Prime Minister Prof Conte’s visit to India on this opportune occasion holds an exceptional significance.


    Friends,


    We are in the era when technology is all pervasive and it is unimaginable to live without it. Today almost every person's life is connected to technology in some form or the other. In the last few years, there has been a rapid change in the field of technology. Its speed is so meteoric, that by the time the benefits of a technology touches the last end of the society, a new advanced technology emerges. This situation has undoubtedly posed challenges in front of all the countries to keep pace with changing technology;however, it has also opened several doors to new opportunities.


    India has made technology a medium of social justice, empowerment, inclusion, competent governance and transparency. The effective LAST-MILE DELIVERY of government services is being consolidated through technology. Especially a comprehensive infrastructure of Digital Technology is being developed so that the general public can easily reap the benefits of these facilities. We consider technology as an important medium of ease of living.


    Friends,


    Today one of the world's largest Direct Benefit Scheme is being implemented in India. Citizens are now receiving Government benefits directly to the beneficiaries' bank accounts. Many facilities are now available online whether be it Birth Certificate or old age pension. More than 300 centres and state government services have been brought on a platform through the robust Umang App.


    Digital payments are now seen achieving a meteoric growth at a speed of about two and a half million transactions per month. More than three lakhs Common Service Centres across the country are providing online services across several villages.


    In the last 4 years, the cost of one GB data in India has decreased by more than 90 percent. This cheap availability of data in India has proved to be an effective medium for delivering digital technology to every person in the country.


    Friends,


    India is now moving forward to take the IT Software Power's identity to the next orbit. We are simulating India into leapfrogging from Scientific Temper to Technological Temperament .


    Through the Atal Innovation Mission, a network of youth is being created across the country, which is expected to become the strongest pillar of the fourth industrial revolution. Technological Temperament is being developed for future technology and innovation in schools by establishingAtal Tinkering Labs throughout the country.


    The result of all of the government's efforts is that we have come up 21 places in the Global Innovation Index ranking by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). Apart from this, today India is proud to have become world’s second largest start-up ecosystem.


    There is also emphasis on quality in the innovations that are taking place in India. India's Space Program is a great example of this, and Italy has also realized its success.


    Today India, like Italy and several other nations of the world, has succeeded in sending the satellites in many countries of the world at a very low cost to space. They are proving useful in extending the benefits of satellite technology to every doorstep.


    Friends


    Today, when the world is discussing Industry 4.0, strengthening cooperation between the ancient civilizations of India and Italy for science and technology will not only create new opportunities, but will also help in handling the challenges effectively.


    Friends,


    Today, India is one of the fastest growing economies in the world. India's vast Domestic Market, Young Population and the ecosystem of Technology and Innovation is certainly going to be a strong driver of growth in the world.


    Italy has a rich heritage in science and technology and has a reckoning in the world in the manufacturing sector for class and best quality. Therefore, India and Italy together can strengthen their cooperation in High Quality Research and foster technological solutions to addressand solve global challenges.


    This is the reason that it is now of utmost priority for both the countries to strengthen cooperation in science and technology leading towards human welfare, clean environment, improving the lives of people. I am happy that the scientific community and business leaders of both countries are collaborating in the areas of cutting edge Research and Innovation. We have extensive cooperation in areas such as Renewable Energy, Environmental Science, Neuroscience, and IT to preserve our rich cultural heritage.


    Friends,


    Apart from strengthening this path of cooperation, our goal is also to ensure that the results of research and development are not confined to laboratories, but their benefits also reach the society and the general public. That's why I always say "science is universal, technology has to be local".


    In India, we have started the Science and Heritage Research Initiative, i.e. SHRI for the protection of our historical heritage. Its aim is to find solutions related to technology for the preservation and restoration of historical monuments. Technology, Tourism and History –SHRI is an amalgamationof these three.


    I believe that by promoting science, technology and innovation, new speed of development will be ensured. They will also have an important role in the development of our bilateral relations. This is the key agenda of this Tech Summit.


    I am confident that in the last two days Summit will help in enhancing the technology transfer, Joint Ventures and Market Access between the two countries. It will surely play a pivotal role in the discussions on the future of mutual cooperation between our nations.


    Friends,


    Today, I am very happy to announce the introduction of the next phase of Indo-Italian bilateral Industrial Research and Development Cooperation Program. This will enable our industry and research institute to develop new products and prototypes without any interruption. It is the need of the hour to change "Know how" to "Show how".


    In order to strengthen economic relations between the two countries, we have also agreed to constitute a CEO Forum under the guidance of the Joint Commission on Economic Cooperation. Along with this, there has been consensus on creating a Fast Track Mechanism to overcome the bottlenecks in ease of doing business by enhancing two-way investments between the two countries,


    I am also happy that India and Italy have agreed to increase cooperation in the field of LAD i.e. Life Style Accessories Design. There will also be special focus on leather sector and Transportation & Automobile Design (TAD).


    Along with this advancement, I feel happy to state that both countries will further establish Indo-Italian Centres of Excellence based on skills in select areas like Conservation of Cultural Heritage, Renewable Energy, Life Sciences and Geo-Hazards. Not only will these high-class universities, research institutes and industry work in synergy, but they will also aim to provide technical solutions to the challenges being faced by us in these sectors.


    Friends,


    I extend my heartfelt congratulations to all the organizers for the success of this Tech Summit. I am indeed grateful to the Italian government who consented to join us as a partner country. I am very grateful to all the participants of Tech Summit. The contribution and presence of all of you have been important for the success of this Summit.


    Once again, I express my gratitude to Prime Minister Prof Conte for his august presence during this program. Not only that, he has also given a valuable gift to us by offering his personal mentoring, guidance and commitment to this newly-formed Indo-Italian Partnership.


    Grazie mille!*


    Thanks a lot !!!


    ***


    AKT/SH/RSB/SS/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551238) Visitor Counter : 566
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Assamese , Bengali