      Prime Minister's Office

      English translation of Press Statement by Prime Minister during his visit to Japan
      Posted On: 29 OCT 2018 5:06PM by PIB Delhi


      Prime Minister and my close friend, Mr. Abe,


      Distinguished delegates,


      Friends,
      Namaste,
      Konichiwa,
      
      The affectionate way in which Abe San has welcomed me here in Tokyo, and earlier in Yamanashi and in his home, has made this visit of mine to Japan even more unforgettable. Japan is the best amalgamation of best values of eastern and western cultures. This is the same great country which has taught us that the path of human development is not the one of conflict between the ancient and the new ways but it is about their co-existence and creation. Acceptance of new and respect for the old – this is the key contribution of Japan to the world civilization. And it is also one of the very close similarities of India and Japan.
      
      Excellencies,
      
      India and Japan relations have the depths and expanse of Indian and Pacific oceans. These relations are based on shared commitment to democratic values ​​and freedoms and the Rule of Law. Yesterday and todayI had a very useful conversation with Abe San on great vision for the future development of our relations. Today, we have signed this shared vision. Tomorrow it will provide a new light to our future. We are in complete agreement that we will give unhindered pace to our cooperation in digital partnership to cyber space, from health to defense and security and from sea to space. I have been told that today Japan's investors have announced a fresh investment of $ 2.5 billion in India. This will provide employment to about 30 thousand people in India. Agreement on Bilateral Currency Swap Arrangement during this visit clearly reflects our mutual trust and our ever increasing closeness in economic partnership.
      
      Friends,
      
      21st century is the century of Asia, but there are questions regarding its form and factor. Who will benefit, what needs to be done, there are many such questions. However one thing is very clear that without the cooperation between India and Japan 21st century cannot be a century of Asia.


      
      Abe San and I have agreed to the 2 + 2 Dialogue between our Foreign and Defense Ministers. Its purpose is to promote peace and stability in the world. Japan's entry into the International Solar Alliance will be another shining example of such cooperation in the interest of the world.


      
      Friends,
      
      Next year Japan will host the G-20 Summit in Osaka. The Rugby World Cup will also be held in Japan next year. This tournament will be held in Asia for the first time. And after that 2020 Olympics) will be held in Tokyo. For all these important global events, on my behalf, and on behalf of whole India, our warmest wishes are with you.


      
      Friends,
      
      Progress in India-Japan relations is limitless like Japan's Kaizen philosophy. Together with Prime Minister Abe, I am committed to strengthen these relations further. Once again I thank Abe San, the Government of Japan and all of you and convey my heartfelt wishes.


      Domo Arigato Gozaimasu.


      ***


      AKT/SH/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551116) Visitor Counter : 685
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Tamil