      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Twelve Projects Worth Rs 929 Crore Approved Under Namami Gange
      
      Two STP Projects in Delhi at Coronation Pillar and Chattarpur Given Green Signal

      Posted On: 29 OCT 2018 6:07PM by PIB Delhi

    The Executive Committee (EC) of the National Mission for Clean Ganga approved 12 projects worth Rs. 929 Crore under the Namami Gange programme in its 16 th meeting today.


    Two Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) have been sanctioned for Delhi for creating 340 MLD waste treatment capacity at a cost of Rs 580 Crore. The first is an STP of 318 MLD capacity at Coronation Pillar . The second is a project in Chattarpur assembly constituency where various sewage pumping stations and 9 STPs of total 22.5 MLD capacity will be constructed. Sewage flow will be collected and pumped to STPs for treatment. The treated water will be used for development/ rejuvenation of eight nearby waterbodies and for irrigation purpose. The Central Government will fund Rs 256 Crore for the project.


    For Uttar Pradesh many projects have been approved with total cost of Rs 128 Cr. One existing Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) of 6.25 MLD capacity for textile printing units in Mathura Industrial Area has been taken up for upgradation. Apart from this, one project for treatment of Rampur Drain in Rampur, using NSN-Technology based Bio Oxygenation and another project for treatment of 30 drains and third party inspection of 123 drains in the state has been approved.


    For inspection and monitoring of industries, STPs and CETPs by third party technical institutions, an amount of 0.98 Cr has been sanctioned for strengthening of UP Pollution Control laboratories . This project will enable UP Pollution Control Board to better monitor and inspect all Grossly Polluting Industries, STP & CETPs situated in the catchment area of River Ganga and its tributaries.


    For West Bengal , two projects have been sanctioned at a cost of Rs 50 Cr. One project has been approved for upgrading the STP in Kancharapara from 13 MLD to 18 MLD capacity, along with its operation and maintenance for the next 15 years. Another project has been sanctioned for Hilsa fisheries improvement at Farraka barrage . Implementation of this project will increase the natural stock of Hilsa in the river Ganga, upstream of Farakka barrage through ranching of wild collected Hilsa seed/juveniles. The project will also study and monitor Hilsa migration across the Farakka barrage in the main river Ganga.


    Two more projects have been sanctioned in this EC meeting under CSR category which will be funded by corporate groups. INDORAMA Charitable Trust is funding the Ghat and Crematoria Work at Badrinath and Gangotri in Uttarakhand at a cost of Rs 26.33 Cr. Shipping Corporation of India (SCI) is taking up renovation and beautification of Ganga River Bank at Katwa, West Bengal at a cost of Rs 0.35 Cr.


    *****


    NP/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551143) Visitor Counter : 887
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi