      Ministry of Power

      BOLD INITIATIVES TO FURTHER INDIA’S DEVELOPMENT PAYING OFF INDIA 3 RD FASTEST GROWING ECONOMY: SHRI R.K. SINGH
      Posted On: 09 SEP 2019 6:39PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Union Minister of State for Power, New & Renewable Energy (Independent Charge) and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship Shri R.K. Singh said that the Centre has taken initiatives which have not been taken for many years.


    Addressing a Press Conference on the occasion of completion of 100 Days the Central Government here organised by Press Information Bureau, Hyderabad today, the Minister enumerated the bold and decisive actions taken by the Central Government for furthering India’s development. Shri Singh said that abrogation of Article 370, removing special status to the state of Jammu & Kashmir was a long cherished dream of the people of Jammu & Kashmir. The move will boost local economy, improve socio – economic infra structure and lead to job creation, he said.


    He said 106 Acts including the Right to Education Act, Benami Transfer Prohibition Act, Child Rights Act, Dowry Prohibition Act, Minorities Act etc. were not extended to Jammu & Kashmir as the state had a separate constitution till now.


    The merger of Public Sector Banks, will facilitate additional credit expansion, leading to finalisation of infrastructure projects. With this move, the Minister said Rs. 70,000 crore have been infused into the banks and they are now in a position to lend Rs. 5 lakh crore. The government has also linked the bank repo rate with interest rates, and is passing the benefit to the consumers, he said. He said India’s rank in the ‘Ease of doing business’ has improved from 142 to 77 as a result of the measures taken by the government. The minister reiterated that the government was committed to making India a five trillion dollar economy. Ten public sector banks were merged into four entities, reducing the cost of lending and enhancing profitability.


    He said the government has taken several measures to safe guard the child Rights, introduced a Bill to uphold the rights of the Transgenders. 150 Ekalavya Model Schools have been approved to provide quality education to ST students in tribal dominated areas.


    He said the government has abolished the practise of Triple Talaq to protect vulnerable married Muslim women.


    In order to encourage the use of solar energy, the government is subsidising the use of solar panels heavily – 40% of the cost for 3 kilo watt and 20% to above 3 kilo watt .


    1.95 crore houses will be built in rural India in the next two years under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana the minister said


    Shri Singh said that with a view to boost power production in the country, the Dibang hydro electric project in Arunachal Pradesh, the largest in India is being constructed at a cost of Rs. 28,080 crore.


    The government is launching movements Swachch Bharat, Fit India for the people. The Prime Minister’s visits to other countries has brought a paradigm shift in India’s relations with those countries.


    In order to give a push to electric mobility, the GST on electric vehicles has been reduced to 5% from 12% he said.


    Under the Pradhana Mantri Kisan Urja, Suraksha Evam Uttham Mahabhiyan (PM KUSUM) Scheme solarisation of 10 lakh grid connected Agriculture Pumps would be taken up.


    In answer to a question, Shri R.K. Singh expressed confidence that the Indian economy will again become buoyant despite a temporary showdown. “ours is the third fastest growing economy, and is poised to grow stronger”, he said.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584580) Visitor Counter : 80
    Click Here for Related Photos
    
      Read this release in: Telugu