      PIB Headquarters

      CSIR Foundation Day and outreach event for IISF-2019 at CSIR-NGRI
      Posted On: 27 SEP 2019 6:23PM by PIB Hyderabad


    76 th Foundation Day of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) was celebrated as an OPEN DAY in the Habsiguda based CSIR-National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI). This occasion also served as the outreach event for the upcoming India International Science Festival (IISF)-2019, being organized in Kolkata during 5-8 November. The daylong activities included exhibits and expositions about R & D works and capabilities, achievements of the institute in the fields of Gas hydrates, controlled source seismics, airborne geophysics, gravity & magnetics, bio-geohysics, geochemistry, groundwater, tsunami modelling and seismology. More than 8500 science enthusiasts, mainly the school/college students, including the thronged the lush green campus of the institute and availed the opportunity to enlighten themselves about scientific techniques for exploration of the natural resources like water, energy and minerals, quite crucial for growth of our nations. Though Hyderabad is comparatively in safer zone as far as the earthquake are concerned, the young visitors showed keen interest in the models, posters and films shown about earthquake research being carried out in the institute. The special attraction this year was the on spot Quiz program organized for the school children at the Open Air Theatre of the institute.


    This year’s CSIR Foundation Day Lecture was delivered by the renowned scientist, Padma Shri Professor Goverdhan Mehta. Speaking on the topic “Chemistry – A 21 st Century Science for Global Sustainability”, Prof. Mehta dwelled upon the genesis, history, present and future of chemistry as a science and its importance our daily life. He explained the concepts of circular chemistry and material perpetuity for sustainable Earth. Citing father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi, he stressed that Earth can cater to the needs of humans but not to their greed and materials usage should be cycled perpetually so that the concept of wastage is minimised. He further emphasized the need for CO 2 capture and technologies to convert it into useful products like amino acids. Prof. Mehta predicted that there will be a concept of limited material to each individual in future. He spoke about importance of cultural diversity in scientific research and the need of integrating ethics as part of research and academics. He further suggested that individual persona matters in order to become a complete scientist. Prof. Mehta believes that chemistry has solutions to many of the challenges faced by humans in the future.


    Speaking on this august occasion, Dr. V. M. Tiwari, Director, CSIR-NGRI highlighted the achievements of the institute. On this occasion, the last year retirees were honoured with ‘Samman Patras’ while prizes were given to the winners of various competitions organised at CSIR-NGRI.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586488) Visitor Counter : 22