      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      New centre of CIPET will come up at Medak soon- Sadananda Gowda
      The Minister inaugurated newly constructed boys hostel at CIPET, Cherlapalli
      Posted On: 26 SEP 2019 6:31PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers, Shri D.V. Sadananda Gowda announced that a new centre of CIPET (Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology) will come up at Medak soon with the cost of Rs 58.32 crore. The project cost would be borne on 50:50 ratio by the Telangana government and the centre .It will offer under graduate, post graduate and Ph D courses, he said. Land for the project has already been acquired, the Minister revealed.


    The Minister today inaugurated the newly constructed Boys Hostel at the CIPET at Cherlapalli. Speaking on the occasion the Minister said that the hostel constructed at a cost of Rs. 22 crore with 145 rooms and a capacity to house 450 students, would augment the capacity of intake of the students pursuing career in polymer technology.


    Shri Gowda said that an expert committee has been constituted to study the impact of ban on Single Use Plastics and the committee would submit its report by 2nd October. Referring to the Prime Minister’s call to shun use of single use plastics, the Minister said that, such plastic posed a threat to the environment as they are littered everywhere and not recycled properly. However, he said plastics are used in every sphere of human life and also in many economic sectors like packaging, automobiles, agriculture, medicine etc. The industry employs 4 million people, he said.


    The minister further informed that approximately 26,000 tonnes of plastic waste is generated in India every day. He advised CIPET to take up R &D initiatives for developing new and effective technology for recycling plastics.


    The Minister said that the Department of Chemicals and Fertilizers, is organising mass cleanliness drive and awareness campaigns in 80 locations through CIPET, conducting competitions for children, organising exhibitions, screening videos on recycling and disposal, rallies with children, and shramdaan. He urged people to pick up and properly dispose the plastic material on roads on October 2 on the eve of Gandhi Jayanthi.


    CIPET: CSTS Hyderabad, conducts diploma and PG Diploma courses in Polymer Science and Technology and various skill development training programs sponsored by Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India and other state and central government agencies. CIPET offers technology support services in the areas of Design, Tooling and Mould Manufacturing, Plastic processing to key sectors like Automobiles, Aerospace, Agriculture, Construction, Defence, IT, Packaging and Teletronics etc.


    Shri A Revanth Reddy, MP , Malkajgiri, Shri B Ramamohan, Mayor, Hyderabad, Shri B. Subhash Reddy, MLA, Uppal, Shri Prabhakar, Ex MLA Uppal, Shri Kashinath Jha, Joint Secretary, Government of India also spoke.


    Earlier, Dr Nayak, Director General CIPET welcomed the gathering.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586319) Visitor Counter : 10
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu