      Ministry of Rural Development

      Our government committed to Rural Development, progress of farmers- Narendra Singh Tomar
      The Union Minister inaugurates two-day Rural Innovators Start -Up Conclave 2019 at NIRDPR, Hyderabad

      Posted On: 27 SEP 2019 6:56PM by PIB Hyderabad

    Union Minister of Rural Development, Panchayat Raj, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shri Narendra Singh Tomar inaugurated two-day Rural Innovators Start -Up Conclave (RISC-2019) today at NIRDPR (National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj) Hyderabad.
    Addressing the innovators the Union Minister said, under the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the government is committed for cause of rural development and farmers’ progress. Rural innovation and Rural India will play a crucial role in developing the New India.
    The Minister in his address highlighted the importance of Rural India, the challenges faced and the present scenario. Various schemes like NRLM, DDUGKY, Start-up India, and Stand up India are making a positive impact to the society, he added.
    The minister expressed his happiness and appreciated NIRDPR for doing its best for rural development via various initiatives. He said the Rural Technology Park at NIRDPR is a step in the right direction that is helping identify, demonstrate and encourage sustainable technologies. Such initiatives by NIRDPR will be instrumental in bridging the rural-urban divide.
    Instead of waiting for government jobs youth should use the opportunities and schemes of government and start entrepreneurship process of rural transformation. The government will support the youth in all its ways through various schemes he said.


    In our next Budget Rs 100 lakh crore to be spent on various schemes like Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, Sampoorna Grameen Rozgar Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Gramin Awaas Yojana etc to improve the live hood of rural people .He said that the government has spent about 300-350 crores for Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal to provide clean drinking water to every household. Under this, schemes have been elated to provide piped water supply to every household with a view to end their dependence on Hand-pumps (chapakal) and other sources of drinking water.
    “I am confident that the conclave will witness numerous innovations and solutions that will help rural innovation”. He ended. The Minister visited Rural Technology Park and inaugurated the Biogas Resource Centre.


    Rural Innovators Start-up Conclave (RISC) will provide a platform to a wide array of budding Ideas, innovators and start-ups to showcase their product, talk and pitch and get an opportunity for funding, network and mentoring support. The platform brought together innovators and entrepreneurs for unlocking new potential in seven identified sectors - agriculture and allied activities, green energy, waste to wealth, sustainable housing, health and elderly care, drinking water and sanitation, and sustainable livelihood


    RISC-2019 focused on identification of critical problems faced by people in rural areas, exploring potential solutions based on the problems, providing platform to exchange ideas. Innovators from various parts of the country participated in the event.
    The RISC-2019 will provide a platform to innovators and entrepreneurs to showcase their innovations and connect them with potential funding and network support. The meet would focus on agriculture and allied activities, water, green energy, health, sustainable livelihood and elderly care,” W.R Reddy, Director-General of NIRDPR, has said


    National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (NIRD-PR) have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the following
    1) Bio Tech regarding Bio gas resource centre and all the bio gas models, which can be taken to rural areas.
    2) Mari gold regarding weaving & dying.
    3) CFTRI regard to promote Food processing and entrepreneurship.
    Dr .G Ranjith Reddy, Member of Parliament,Chevella, Shri Arvind Dharnapuri Member of Parliament, Nizamabad and other dignitaries present on the occasion.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586503) Visitor Counter : 84
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu