      Ministry of Defence

      SAURABH KUMAR TAKES OVER CHARGE OF DGOF AND CHAIRMAN ORDNANCE FACTORY BOARD
      Posted On: 01 JAN 2019 11:00AM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata : Jannuary 01, 2019.


    Shri Saurabh Kumar IOFS, has taken from Shri P K Shrivastava IOFS, Director General of Ordnance Factories (DGOF) and Chairman of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) upon the latter’s superannuation at the OFB Kolkata on December 31, 2018.


    Shri Kumar, an IOFS officer of the 1982 batch is an M-Tech in mechanical engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur. An expert in the manufacture of ordnance, Shri Kumar was on deputation to the Ministry of Defence at Delhi as the Director of Planning and Coordination from 2002 to 2009. During this period he was involved in drafting the Indian offset policy for defence purchases and the ‘Make’ procedure in the Defence Procurement Procedure of 2003-04, which incorporated the recommendations of the Arun Singh Committee.


    Shri Kumar was also instrumental in piloting the proposals and obtaining the approval of the Government for setting up two new Greenfield Ordnance Factories at Nalanda and Korwa in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh respectively.


    Shri Kumar, as the General Manager of the Engine Factory at Avadi (2012-13) was involved in the project and initiating an indigenization programme which culminated in the handing over of fully indigenous engines of T-90 ‘Bhishma’ and T-72 ‘Ajeya’ tanks to the Hon’ble Raksha Mantri in July 2018.


    Shri Kumar’s tenure saw the establishment of the vendor base that led to this achievement. There was a dramatic increase in production of new engines by 30% during his tenure.


    As the General Manager of Ordnance Factory Ambajhari, near Nagpur in Maharashtra, Shri Kumar spearheaded the modernization programme which included induction of robotic forging technology, new generation CNC machines and predictive maintenance which not only increased productivity and quality but also led to the successful production of ‘Pinaka’ rockets.


    Shri Kumar is currently a member of the Ordnance Factory Board looking after the Ammunition and Explosive group of factories.


    *****


    SSS/bb/Kol............................

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558096) Visitor Counter : 2