      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Workshop on skill development held in Kolkata
      Posted On: 03 JAN 2019 5:44PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 3 rd January, 2019


    A workshop on aspiration mapping and employment opportunities was organised in Kolkata today, by Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS) for the youngsters residing in South Kolkata and adjoining areas. In course of the two day workshop, jointly partnered by UNICEF and a number of skill development training institutes in the city, 16 reputed firms will provide placement offers to young job-seekers based on their qualification and job skills on the second day, that is, tomorrow (January 4, 2019). This apart, experts will counsel the youngsters on employment opportunities based on their aptitude and areas of liking along with guidance on the necessary skills required for various jobs.


    Shri Nabin Naik, State Director of NYKS in West Bengal provided encouragement to the students and youngsters for picking up the right skills and personality development for landing up a job and being employed. He urged them to attain economic self-sufficiency and start to earn which is the first step towards progress in life. Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan, under Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, is organising six such workshops at different locations in West Bengal that also includes North Kolkata, Barasat, Baruipur and Purulia. A similar workshop has already been conducted in Jalpaiguri.


    Shri Sanjib Kundu, State Consultant of UNICEF in West Bengal spoke about factors like various social ills like child marriage, child labour, dropping out of school etc., that prove to be hurdle in the path of development and progress. The representatives of Skill Development Institutions laid emphasis on selecting the right course for skill training based on aptitude and areas of interest, which is being called aspiration mapping. A number of candidates who are now employed after attaining skill development training in finance, hotel & food industry and other sectors, upheld their success stories in front of the job-seekers.


    *****


    CC/SC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1558496) Visitor Counter : 37
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali