      Ministry of Textiles

      Export of jute diversified products risen by 24 percent since 2014: Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani
      Posted On: 07 JAN 2019 8:19PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, January 07, 2019.


    Union Textiles Minister Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani stated that the export of jute diversified products has risen by 24 percent since 2014. The Minister inaugurated a 4-day textile outreach initiative called “Artisan Speak & Jute Expo” organized by the Ministry at the newly restored heritage Old Currency Building in Kolkata today. The Minister also gave out jute export awards to the best performers of the industry.


    Speaking on the occasion, Smt Irani mentioned, “Jute is the currency of the day”. Jute has contributed to the flourishment of West Bengal for years, she further said. The Government is taking initiatives for collaboration between jute farmers, industry and exporters for betterment of jute industry. Raising the income of farmers and generation of more employment in the jute industry is being focused upon, the Minister added.


    Union Textiles Secretary, Shri Raghavendra Singh said, textiles ministry is trying to connect the weavers with big companies for realizing higher margins. Further, insurance and marketing assistance is being provided to weavers in 40 districts of India, he also said.


    Exposition of textiles, handlooms and handicrafts will take place till January 10, 2019. A fashion show curated by well-known fashion designer Miss Anamika Khanna was organized as part of the inaugural programme. A special philatelic cover commemorating the old currency building was jointly released by the Textiles Minister, Textiles Secretary and Chief Post Master General of West Bengal Circle Shri Gautam Bhattacharya. Members of industry and senior government officials involved with the Ministry of Textiles was also present on the occasion.


    *****


    CG/SC/bb/Kol

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559003) Visitor Counter : 10
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali