      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      Students with their specialized educational know-how have a paramount role in development of society and nation, says Dr. Bibek Debroy
      
      53rd Convocation of Indian Statistical Institute held

      Posted On: 10 JAN 2019 7:37PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, January 10, 2019


    Students with their specialized educational know-how, have a paramount role in development of society and nation. Dr. Bibek Debroy, President of Indian Statistical Institute and Chairman of the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister (EAC-PM) said this while addressing the welcome speech of 53 rd Convocation of the institute here today. Dr. Debroy emphasized that the long legacy of stalwarts of the institute inspires the young students to academic excellence. He urged the students to channelize their know-how in diverse areas for the betterment of people. He congratulated the students on their success and said, their aspiration should be to place the institute as one of the best in the country and in the world.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Pravin Srivastava, Secretary & CSI, Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, emphasized the need for Quality in data collection, sampling, tabulation, validation statistical process analysis. He said that making sense of the data is equally important as data collection. He mentioned that technology forms the core of any statistical analysis and the importance of right and effective process is the bedrock for any effective policy decision making. Statistical process is inextricable connected to effective and efficient policy decision making, he said.


    Lord Meghnad Jagdishchandra Desai, Chief Guest on the occasion emphasized that Statistics as a discipline has huge potential and students of the institute has to be committed to address the emergent challenges posed by changing dynamics of the world. He urged the students to evolve strategies and techniques for addressing challenges and to forecasting unforeseeable scenario via. Statistical processes in daily activities.


    Prof. Sanghamitra Bandyopadhyay, Director of the institute exhorted the students to touch new heights of success in their career. She enumerated the achievements and prominent activities of the institute in the previous year as she congratulated the students. Academic officials and staffs of the institute were also present on the occasion.


    ***


    SB/CG/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559450) Visitor Counter : 51
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali