      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      SHRI RAMDAS ATHAWALE SAYS POWER GENERATION CAN PLAY PIVOTAL ROLE IN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
      Posted On: 18 JAN 2019 6:09PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata: January 18, 2019


    Thermal and Hydel Power generation can play a pivotal role in economic development of the country, said Minister of State in Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Shri Ramdas Athawale. Addressing the media in Maithon dam, Dhanbad today, he said Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) has potential in irrigation and power generation. DVC being one of the leader in power sector in India, formed in 1948 had a potential capacity of 7400 MW installed capacity with 4 dams, namely Maithon, Panchet, Tilaiya and Konar, over Damodar rivers, he said. The Minister today visited DVC Maithon as mark of respect to Dr BR Ambedkar, who played pivotal role for the vision of foundation of DVC and development of water resources in the country.


    Shri Athawale urged the leadership and management team of DVC to develop the roadmap where Central Government initiatives in power and allied sector could be developed for the betterment of the people. He said that the vision of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar can be fulfilled by the cooperation and hard work of DVC and all the stakeholders in the value chain of power sector. The Minister also held a meeting with the officers of the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). He reviewed the initiatives of the DVC with officials with regards to carrying forward the vision of Dr. BR Ambedkar for water development.


    Earlier in the day, the minister was present in a felicitation programme by Marwari Community at Asansol. He emphasised that there is need to bring awareness of the policies and programmes of the Central Government which is being done for the benefit of the people. He said, people should be aware of Government initiatives so that they can utilise it for the growth, development and betterment of all communities.


    *****


    SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560535) Visitor Counter : 114
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali