      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      State Youth Parliament Festival to be held in Jadavpur University on February,7.
      Posted On: 17 JAN 2019 5:24PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, January 17, 2019


    State Level Youth Parliament Programme would be held at Jadavpur University on February, 7, 2019, informed Smt Sarita Patel, Regional Director, National Service Scheme (NSS), Kolkata here today. She informed that there will also be competitions at district and national levels. The District Level Youth Parliament will be held from January 24 to 28 in 23 designated districts of West Bengal. Selected youths from the district level will participate in state level which will be held at Jadavpur University on February 7, 2019.


    Selected youths at state level will participate in national level competition which will be held on February, 23 and 24, 2019 in New Delhi. The best three speakers at the National lelel will be awarded Rs. 2 lakhs, Rs. 1.50 lakhs and Rs. 1 lakh respectively along with a certificate of merit. At least one best youth from all the districts will be selected for attending as delegate in the National Youth Parliament Festival in New Delhi. Certificates of merit and participation will be awarded to all the qualified candidates.


    National Youth Parliament Festival 2019 is organized on the theme of “Be The Voice of New India” and “Find solutions and contribute to policy”. Youth in the age group of 18-25 years are invited to participate in the District Youth Parliaments. This is done in order to hear the voice of youth in this age bracket who are allowed to vote but cannot contest in elections. The National Youth Parliament Festival will also encourage the youth to engage with public issues, understand the common man’s point of view, form their opinion and express these in an articulate manner. Relevant and effective voices on the vision of New India would be captured and documented to make these available to policy makers and implementers to take it forward.


    A maximum of 50 best speakers from the Digital screening and 50 best speakers from Walk-in process, shortlisted by the Screening Committee in each district, will participate in the District Youth Parliaments. The best three speakers selected by a Jury from each District Youth Parliament will participate at the State Youth Parliament. Similarly, the two best speakers selected from each State Youth Parliament will participate as speakers in the National Youth Parliament. The highest scorer from each District in the District Youth Parliament (DYP) will participate in the National Youth Parliament (NYP) as a delegate.


    ***


    CG/MSA/bb

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560355) Visitor Counter : 291
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali