      Ministry Of Law & Justice

      IATA celebrates 78th Foundation Day
      Posted On: 25 JAN 2019 3:46PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, January 25, 2019.


    78 th Foundation Day of Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) under the Ministry of Law and Justice was celebrated here today. Speaking at the inaugural function, Smt. Seema Khorana Patra, Principal Chief Commissioner, Income Tax, West Bengal and Sikkim said, being the oldest tribunal in the country, ITAT specializes in dealing with appeals under the Direct Taxes Acts. She stated that ITAT brought about a paradigm shift in the grievance redrassal system. It has ensured complete functional independence of the institution, a high degree of legal and technical expertise of the members manning the Benches, user friendly, simple and informal procedures with inexpensive and quick delivery system.


    Shri P.M. Jagtap, Vice President, ITAT Kolkata Zone, appraised the gathering of the successful functioning of the ITAT especially the Kolkata Benches. He pointed out that 4 Benches of ITAT have been regularly functioning at Kolkata and the pendency of appeals with Kolkata Benches has come down from 7215 appeals in October’2015 to 3881 appeals in December’2018. Informing about the e-Court functioning of the ITAT in Kolkata Shri Jagtap said that the setup of e-Court in Kolkata is ready to start hearing the cases of Guwahati, Patna and Ranchi Benches by Kolkata Benches through Video Conferencing. This will tremendously help speed up justice delivery.


    Several senior members including Shri R.N. Bajoria; Shri R.P Agarwala and Shri S.P. Choudhary were honored and felicitated in recognition of their immense and valuable services while being in tribunal.


    Shri S.K. Tulsiyan, President, Income Tax Bar Association, Kolkata; Shri M.K. Chaturvedi, Vice President (Retd), ITAT and Shri J.Sudhakar Reddy, Member, ITAT along with other members were also present on the occasion.


    ****


    MSA /Kol………………….

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561424) Visitor Counter : 1