      Ministry of Railways

      10 NFR passenger trains to be upgraded under “Project Utkrist” by March 2019
      Posted On: 28 JAN 2019 4:58PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, January 28, 2019.


    10 rakes of N.F. Railway mainly comprising mail express trains have been selected to be upgraded under Project Utkrisht. Under the programme coaches of the identified trains will be provided with upgraded facilities for better passenger comfort during train journey as all the basic amenities will undergo a sea change apart from changed colour scheme.


    It is to be mentioned here that Indian Railways has decided to upgrade passenger train rakes presently running by adding more passenger friendly items under a project named “Utkrisht”. In the first phase 140 rakes will be upgraded throughout Indian Railways. This upgrade includes giving a noticeable facelift of both interior and exterior of the entire train rake.


    In N.F. Railway the trains selected for upgradation in the first phase includes long distance train like 15906/15905 Dibrugarh – Kanya Kumari Vivek Express, 15417/15418 Alipurduar Jn – Silghat Rajya Rani Express, 15933/15934 Dibrugarh – Amritsar Express, 15612 / 15611 Silchar – Guwahati Express, 12510/12509 Guwahati – Bangalore Express, 12067 / 12068 Guwahati – Jorhat Janshatabdi Express and 55801 / 55802 Guwahati – New Bongaigaon Manas Rhino passenger train.


    Under Project Utkrisht, all coaches of the revamped rakes will be fitted with ‘Swachh Rail Toilet’, which not only reduces water consumption while flushing, but also ensures that the stench is minimal. The new toilets have various advantages like – no choking, quick discharge to bio toilet tank, complete sealing of odour, garbage bags in toilet etc. All AC coaches will also be provided with the new features like LED panel lighting, new types of bottle holders, braille signage, night glow stickers, new types of fire extinguishers, LED panel photo frame in first AC coaches, big size mirrors, anti-graffiti vinyl wrapping in the gangway area, toilets with exhaust fans, health faucets, auto janitors, Odonil containers, large size mirror, auto janitor system to control bad odour etc. All coaches will be fitted with energy-efficient LED lights – in the main interior, doorway, gangway and inside toilets. The upgradation of such facilities will slightly differ in sleeper class coaches and unreserved coaches. Even the pantry car will be upgraded with stainless steel panelling, stainless steel chequered plate on the floor and new stainless steel utensils and equipment for better hygiene. Trains being maintained under OBHS (Online House Keeping System), cleaning of toilets will be done every two hours and GPS tagged biometric attendance system will be provided. Suitable good quality posters will be framed highlighting cultures of North Eastern Region to improve the aesthetics inside coaches. Western style toilets in AC coaches will have provision of seat cover dispenser. Good quality destination boards will be provided in all selected trains.


    Implementation of the Project Utkrisht is a dashboard item of the Railway Minister, i.e. it is being monitored by the Railway Minister personally on regular basis. The target for upgrading the rakes is by 31 st March 2019 after which more such rakes will be taken up in the next phase under this project.


    *****


    CG/bb/Kol

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561674) Visitor Counter : 6