      Ministry of Shipping

      Roadshow on Maritime Conclave 2019 held in Kolkata
      Posted On: 29 JAN 2019 7:02PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata: 29 th January, 2019


    Kolkata Port Trust organised a road-show in run-up to Maritime Conclave 2019 in Kolkata today. This year the Maritime Conclave will be held at East Coast Railway Stadium at Bhubaneswar on 14 and 15 February, 2019. It is a joint initiative of Ministry of Shipping and FICCI, launched to provide investment promotion and facilitation services to investors seeking to invest in India's maritime sector. The Chairman of Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT), Shri Vinit Kumar; Director (Ports) in the Union Ministry of Shipping, Shri Arvind Chaudhury and senior officials of KoPT attended the road-show. Multiple stakeholders of maritime sector and shipping industry also participated.


    Chairman of KoPT, Shri Vinit Kumar, in his address, urged the representatives of the shipping industry having business links with KoPT to participate in the conclave in large numbers. He mentioned that Kolkata Port Trust is drawing plans of capacity augmentation to the tune of 65 MT in Haldia and 25 MT in Kolkata to keep up with the growing volume of business. It will be supported with necessary infrastructure development projects like mechanization of berths, development of land etc, Shri Kumar said. Earlier in the day, Shri L N Malik, Executive Director of SAIL, stated that the major steel PSU and an important customer of KoPT has plans to increase volume of shipping done through KoPT to 300 MT by 2030.


    Shri Arvind Chaudhury, Director (Ports) in the Ministry of Shipping informed about Government’s initiatives for development of ports through Sagarmala Project, doubling the handling capacity of ports within next 5 years and also overall doubling of cargo movement. Shri Chaudhury, on this occasion, made a presentation on various factors favouring development of the port sector like growth in exim trade, development by means of Sagarmala and Jalmarg Vikas Project, fiscal incentives and Ease-Of-Doing Business. A special session on Chabahar port will be held as part of the Conclave in which representatives from various countries will participate.


    The website – www.maritimeinvest.in provides detailed information about Maritime Conclave 2019.


    *****


    AM/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561854) Visitor Counter : 8
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali