      Ministry of Tourism

      A Two Day meeting on Destination Management and Community Participation Organized
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2020 5:57PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    A Two Day meeting on Destination Management and Community Participation w ill be organized by the Ministries of Tourism and Culture in cooperation with the Government of Gujarat at Rann of Kutch in Gujarat from 13 th to 14 th February 2020.


    The event will be inaugurated by the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Gujarat and Hon’ble Minister of State for Tourism and Culture (IC), Government of India on 13 th February 2020. The meeting has been convened to discuss the importance of Destination Management and Community Participation in the tourism sector. The event shall involve speaker sessions by government officials, tourism industry, private sector entrepreneurs, etc. showcasing best practices / case studies from various States & Union Territories in the related field. The meeting shall aid in understanding the concepts & frameworks, approaches, challenges faced in implementation and impact generated by such initiatives on the society & the overall economy.


    The event will highlight on benefits to local communities by way of imparting skillsets necessary for prudent hospitality industry and cross-cultural learning exchanges to improve employability of the local people. Socio-economic benefits for the community could be enabled by making them lead the development initiatives. Issues related to management of Destinations with Natural offerings and Man made will be discussed during the meeting.


    The event aims to encourage constructive discussions and collaboration between various stakeholders for achieving sustainable destination. Based on recommendations and discussion, a Task Force shall be constituted to document the approach benefits, challenges, recommendations, case studies and proposed way forward action plan to assist in policy formulation and future reference for the stakeholders.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602824) Visitor Counter : 37
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati