      Ministry of Textiles

      Textiles Minister to inaugurate 58th IIGF 2017 58th IIGF to leverage brand India: Chairman, AEPC
      Posted On: 17 JAN 2017 2:49PM by PIB Bengaluru


    Textiles Minister to inaugurate 58th IIGF 2017

          58 th IIGF to leverage brand India: Chairman, AEPC
          The 58th edition of India International Garment Fair (IIGF) will be held in New Delhi from January 18 - 20, 2017. The 58th IIGF caters primarily to Autumn-Winter 2017/18. Organized by Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) India, the IIGF is one of the largest and most popular platforms in Asia, from which overseas garment buyers can source products and forge business relationships with India’s finest players in the apparel and fashion accessories domain.

          The Union Textiles Minister, Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani will inaugurate the 58 th IIGF and will unveil the Fair Guide as well. Minister of State for Textiles, Shri Ajay Tamta, and Textiles Secretary, Smt. Rashmi Verma will also be present on the occasion.


          A total of 312 participants from 14 states of the country are participating in the Fair; the major participating states are Delhi-NCR, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Gujarat and Karnataka. The sellers would be showcasing womenswear, accessories, kids wear and menswear.

          The IIFG will have two fashion shows a day (one in the morning and one in the afternoon) on all three days, for exhibiting the collections and developing business. A theme pavilion and best display awards are some other attractions of the event.

          Mr. Ashok Rajani, Chairman AEPC, informed that 58th IIGF is India’s largest garment show in South Asia, covering Apparel and Fashion Accessories, organized over a vast exhibition area. He said that the objective of IIGF is to showcase the latest trends in garment and fashion accessories, and to leverage brand India across the globe.

          The India International Garment Fair was started in 1988. It is a B2B fair and is meant for conducting meaningful and quality business.

          ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1480614) Visitor Counter : 55