      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Regional Conference of State Labour Ministers and Principal Secretaries/Secretaries, Department of Labour of Southern States
      Posted On: 10 JAN 2017 5:14PM by PIB Bengaluru


    Regional Conference of State Labour Ministers and Principal Secretaries/Secretaries, Department of Labour of Southern States


        Employment Generation is the first priority for the Government. The Ministry of Labour and Employment is committed towards job security, wage security and social security for each and every worker. Along with bringing transparency and accountability in enforcement of Labour Laws, the Ministry has taken important initiatives to realize and establish the dignity of every worker through provision of social security, enhancing the avenues and quality of employment.


        Labour is a subject of current list with a focus on cultivating strong Center-State Bond. Ministry is endeavoring to engage with the States on regular basis to discuss topical policy challenges and develop common position on criterial issues. Regional Conferences with State Labour Ministers and Senior Officers from State Labour Department have been organized since last year to provide platform for encouraging interactions and co-operation.


        Regional Conference of State Labour Ministers and Principal Secretaries/Secretaries, Department of Labour of Southern States (Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telngana, Lashadweep and Puducherry) will be held on 11 th January, 2017 at Chennai. The Conference is living to be inaugurated by Hon’ble Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. Hon’ble Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Labour & Employment Shri Bandaru Dattatreyaji, will chair the Conference.


        The daylong Conference will have 4 Technical Sessions.


        The 1 st Session will cover the topics on Progress of Unified Shram Suvidha Portal & Simplification of Forms, Labour Reforms - Simplification and rationalization of 43 labour laws into 4 labour codes, Monitoring Harmonious Industrial Relation, Effective implementation of Labour Laws, Compliance under EPF & ESIC Laws, Amnesty Schemes of ESIC / EPFO, Implementation of PMRPY etc will be discussed during 2 nd session.


        In the 3 rd Session the focus will be on Job Creation/Employment, Implementation of Model Career Centres, Progress of National Career Service Portal, Utilization of BOCW Cess amount by the State Governments, Bonded Labour Rehabilitation Scheme etc while Recent initiative by MOLE on Financial inclusion and Sharing of good practices in the region viz-a-viz labour reforms will be discussed during the 4 th session. The Conference is expected to bring out issues for possible coordination and dialogue before Center and States.


        *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1480275) Visitor Counter : 42