      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      "SAATH HAI, VISHWAS HAI, .. HO RA HAI VIKAAS” 5 DAY PHOTO EXHIBITION: DAVP
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2017 8:40PM by PIB Hyderabad


    The Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP) (Min of Information & Broadcasting) in continuation of its campaign activities, a five-day photo exhibition is being organised at Mandal Panchayat Development Office, Jadcherla, from today ie Wednesday 20.12.2017. The DAVP has been conducting this campaign nationwide in most of the metropolitan cities.


    Jadcherla MPP Smt Laxmi Shankar Naik, formally launched the exhibition in the presence of ZPTC Smt Jayaprada, Tahsiladar,Shri Laxminarayana, and MPDO, Smt G Munni by formally lighting the lamp. The theme of the exhibition is “ Sath Hai Vishwas Hai Ho Raha Vikas Hai” . Highlighting the importance of the photo exhibition, smt. Jayapradha urged the people to utilise the schemes of the Central Government and become beneficiarie and said the Central Government is bringing out various schemes for welfare of the people particularly minorities, down trodden, women & child and for girls too. By utilising the schemes the beneficiaries can develop. She also highlighted the Prime Minister Mr Narendra Modi’s effort for the poor, women and children and also farmers. He said the power sector in country has grown in leaps and bounds. He lauded the efforts of the DAVP for organising the exhibition through its outreach campaigns.


    Smt Laxmi Shankar Naik, MPP, said people should know how much the Centre and State governments put continuous effort to ensure development of all sections by introducing such popular schemes. She said the USP of the schemes would be known if only if people become its beneficiary. She urged the people to know about schemes by visiting the exhibition. Villagers, poor, farmers, Dalits, youth and women are the main focus of the reach out of campaign and the government will endeavour to educate them about how a host of welfare schemes are aimed at their well-being, she said .


    The programme aims at highlighting the achievements of the NDA government in the last three years — with Goods and Services Tax, surgical strike, strengthening internal security, improving economy with a special focus on poor, farmers and the youth, as well as growing stature of India on the global stage as the main themes — is getting ready.


    The five-day DAVP photo Exhibition comprises of 50 panels which covers various themes such as Prosperous Farmers Prosperous Nation, Government for the People, of the People, by the People, Visionary Government – Securing India’s Future, India’s Rise in the Global Order, Harnessing Yuva Shakti for New India, Decisive & Bold Government, Empowering Gaon & Garib for New India, Empowering Women, Reform to Transform and Government that cares.


    Hon’ble Prime Minister Mr Narendra Modi put out the statistics related to various sectors to show comparisons between 2014 and now. Mr Narendra Modi invited the public to participate in a survey on his NarendraModi App about the performance of his government. “Sath hai, vishwas hai, ho raha vikas hai (There is cooperation, there is confidence and progress is being made),” the prime minister tweeted . “Last 3 years have seen concrete steps that have transformed people’s lives,” said in another tweet.


    The exhibition will be open from 11 am to 5 pm. DAVP Exhibition Officer, Shri Suresh Dharmapuri welcomed the gathering.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513521) Visitor Counter : 159
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu