      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Nitin Gadkari lays foundation stone for many sewerage infrastructure projects in Bihar
      
      These projects will prevent the flow of 32 Crore litres of sewage per day into the Ganga River
      
      Sewage treatment capacity on Ganga towns in Bihar will increase from 64 MLD to 643 MLD

      Posted On: 01 MAR 2019 12:23PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Road Transport and Highways & Shipping Shri Nitin Gadkari laid the foundation stone of sewerage projects worth Rs 2785.23 Cr in Chhapra, Bihar in the presence of Deputy Chief Minister of Bihar Shri Sushil Kumar Modi yesterday.


    The projects will prevent the flow of 32 Crore Litres of Sewage per day into the Ganga river from 13 towns of Bihar including Patna, Chhapra, Sonepur, Danapur, Maner, Phulwarishari, Bakhtiyarpur, Fatuha, Mokama, Begusarai, Khagaria, Munger and Bhagalpur.


    Details of the projects are as under:


    Digha, Patna : Foundation stone of sewage treatment plant with the capacity to treat 10 crore litres of sewage water per day has been laid at Digha. This also includes sewer network of 288 km.


    Kankarbagh, Patna : Foundation stone of another STP project with the capacity to treat five crore litres per day and sewer network of 150 km was given a go-ahead.


    Phulwarishaif, Patna: Foundation stone laid for 60 lakh litre per day treatment capacity STP, two additional STPs with a combined capacity of 70 lakh litres per day, one main pumping station, four projects of interception and diversion and three intermediate pumping stations.


    Bakhtiyarpur, Patna : Foundation stone of one crore litre per day treatment capacity STP, one main pumping station and 6 projects of interception and diversion of drains given a green signal.


    Fatuha, Patna: Foundation stone of 70 lakh litre per day treatment capacity STP, five sewage pumping stations and 19 projects of interception and diversion of drains was laid by Shri Gadkari.


    Mokama: Foundation stone of 80 lakh litre per day capacity treatment plant STP and three pumping stations was laid.


    Danapur : Foundation stone of STP of 2.5 Cr litres per day capacity, two interception and diversion project, 4.1 km long gravity main sewer line, one pumping station and 2.8 km long rising main laid.


    Maner : Foundation stone of 65 Lakh litre per day capacity, one main pumping station, two interception and diversion project and three km long rising main laid.


    Chhapra : Foundation stone of interception and diversion of 31 drains, STP of 3.2 cr litres per day capacity, five sewage pumping station, 18.95 km long interceptor sewer, rehabilitation and development of 8 ghats and rising main of 2.3 km was laid.


    Sonepur : Foundation stone of Interception and Diversion of 4 drains, 35 Lakh Litres per day capacity sewage treatment plant and 3.576 km long main interception sewer laid.


    Begusarai : Foundation stone laid for 1.7 cr litres per day capacity STP and 98 km long sewer network.


    Khagaria : Foundation stone of 45 lakh litres per day capacity STP, two sewage pumping stations and three projects of interception and diversion of drains laid.


    Munger : Foundation stone of 30 lakh litres per day capacity STP, 174.5 km long sewer network laid.


    Bhagalpur : Foundation stone of 45 lakh litres per day capacity STP and 10 pumping stations laid.


    Shri Rajiv Pratap Rudy, M.P, Saran, Shri Suresh Sharma, Minister for Urban Development and Housing, Bihar, Shri Nand Kishore Yadav, Minister for Road Construction, Bihar and other dignitaries were also present on the occasion.


    Six Ghats with a cost of 19.75 crore at Sonepur was also inaugurated by Shri Gadkari and other dignitaries during the program. These ghats have changing rooms, toilets and seating platforms to improve accessibility of the ghats.


    In Bihar, Namami Gange sewerage infrastructure projects have been sanctioned in 18 towns at a cost of over Rs. 5, 000 crores. The present sewage treatment capacity on Ganga towns is only 64 Million Litres Per Day (MLD) which is being enhanced almost 10 times through all the Namami Gange projects upto 643 MLD.


    *****


    NP/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566845) Visitor Counter : 569
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi