      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Setting up of Centre for Disability Sports at Gwalior in Madhya
      Posted On: 01 MAR 2019 4:54PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government has approved the proposal regarding setting up of a Centre for Disability Sports at Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, to be registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, which is to function under the name of Centre for Disability Sports, Gwalior. Setting up of the Centre shall entail an estimated cost of Rs 170.99 crore (Non-recurring Rs.151.16 crore and Recurring Rs 19.83 crore), spread over a period of 5 years.


    The Centre will have an Outdoor Athletic Stadium, Indoor Sports Complex, Basement Parking Facility; Aquatic Centre having 2 Swimming Pools, one covered Pool and an Outdoor Pool; High Performance Centre with classrooms; medical facilities; Sports Science Centre; hostel facilities for athletes, support facilities including accessible lockers, dining, recreational amenities and Administrative Block. The facilities so developed would be multi-functional centres with provision for training, selection, sports academics and research, medical support, spectator galleries and suitable for holding national/international events.


    The sports identified for training in the Centre are as under:

     1. Integrated sports (Indoor) like Badminton, Basketball, Table Tennis, Volleyball, Judo, Taekwondo, Fencing and Rugby;
     2. Adapted sports (Indoor) like Boccia, Goalball, Football 5 a side, Para Dance Sport and Para Power Lifting;
     3. Integrated sports (Outdoor) like Athletics, Archery, Football 7 a side and Tennis; and
     4. Integrated sports (Indoor & Outdoor) – Swimming.

    Taking 1 st April, 2019 as the zero date, the project is expected to be completed in two years time, i.e, by 31 st March, 2021. Thereafter, it will take another 6 months for the Centre to become operational.


    Once operational, this Centre will result in employment of 140 personnel. In addition, construction and allied activities will also generate considerable employment opportunities.


    Improved sports infrastructure created by this Centre will ensure effective participation of persons with disabilities in sports activities and also enable them to compete at national and international levels. Setting up of the Centre will develop a sense of belonging in Divyangjan to facilitate their integration in society.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/SJ&E-01-03-2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566973) Visitor Counter : 462
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

4.