      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President embarks on a visit to Paraguay and Costa Rica
      
      First ever visit of an Indian Vice President to Paraguay
      Posted On: 04 MAR 2019 5:08PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu embarked on an a eight-day two-nation visit to Paraguay and Costa Rica, here today, to strengthen bilateral ties with the two Latin American countries. The Minister, Deputy Head of Mission, Embassy of Paraguay in India, Mr. Ruben Dario Benitez Palma, the CDA for Costa Rica, Mr. Eduardo Salgado and other dignitaries were present at the departure.


    This will be the first ever visit of an Indian Vice President to the Republic of Paraguay.


    The Vice President is accompanied by the Minister of State for Culture and Tourism, Shri Alphons Joseph Kannanthanam, the Member of Parliament, Shri Ram Kumar Kashyap and senior officials from Government of India.


    Soon after arriving at Paraguay, Shri Naidu will visit National Pantheon of Heroes and pay homage to fallen soldiers by placing a wreath. Later, he will hold discussions with the President of Paraguay, Mr. Mario Abdo Benitez at Palacio de Gobierno.


    The Vice President will also have t ête-à-tête with the Vice President of the Republic of Paraguay, Mr. Hugo Velazquez and also participate in a high level delegation talks and attend the banquet lunch hosted in his honour.


    Later, Shri Naidu will meet with the President of the National Congress, Mr. Silvio Ovelar and attend a reception organised for the Indian community in Paraguay.


    Before emplaning to San Jose on March 7, the Vice President will interact with the business community and see a presentation on “Business and Investment Opportunities” in Paraguay.


    Soon after arriving in San Jose, the Vice President will receive the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (Honoris Causa) in International Peace & Conflict Studies conferred by the University for Peace in recognition of his contribution to the rule of law, democracy, sustainable development and peace.


    Later, the Vice President will call on his host, the President of the Republic of Costa Rica, Mr. Carlos Alvarado Quesada and also participate in high level delegation talks with him.


    On March 9, the President of Congress of the Republic of Costa Rica, Ms. Carolina Hidalgo Herrera will call on him, followed by banquet lunch hosted by the First Vice President of the Republic of Costa Rica, Ms. Epsy Campbell Barr.


    Later, Shri Naidu will attend a reception hosted for the Indian community before emplaning to India en route Madrid.


    During his visit, Shri Naidu will seek the support of the two countries for India’s bid for permanent membership in the United Nations Security Council, apart from pushing for strengthening the cooperation in various areas, including trade, culture and Science & Technology with Paraguay and Costa Rica.


    The Vice President will return to India on March 11.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1567330) Visitor Counter : 757
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi