      Ministry of Defence

      Air Marshal C Hari Kumar PVSM AVSM VM VSM ADC
      
      Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, WAC IAF Retires

      Posted On: 02 MAR 2019 10:22AM by PIB Delhi

    Air Marshal Chandrashekharan Hari Kumar PVSM AVSM VM VSM ADC, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Air Command Indian Air Force retired on
    28 February 2019 after an illustrious career spanning over 39 yrs.


    The Air Marshal was commissioned in Flying Branch of Indian Air Force in the year 1979. He has been a Qualified Flying Instructor and a Fighter Combat Leader having more than 3300 hours of flying to his credit. He graduated from Defence Services Staff College and National Defence College. During his meritorious service to the nation, he had done instructional tenures at Fighter Training Wing, Tactics and Air Combat Development Establishment (TACDE) and College of Air Warfare. He has commanded a MiG-21 Sqn, TACDE and a frontline fighter base. His staff appointments included Ops 1A, Air-1 at Headquarter Western Air Command and Deputy Director Air Staff Inspection, Director Operations (Joint Planning), Assistant Chief of the Air Staff Operations (Offensive) at Air HQ and Senior Air Staff Officer at Headquarter South Western Air Command.


    The Air Marshal was the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Eastern Air Command prior to his appointment as Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Air Command.


    For his distinguished service to the Nation, he was awarded Param Vishisht Seva Medal, Ati Vishisht Seva Medal, Vayu Sena Medal, Vishisht Seva Medal and appointed Honorary Air Force ADC to President of India on 01 Jan 2017.


    The Air Marshal celebrated his sixtieth birthday on 26 February and remained a soldier till the last day of his service. He personally supervised the planning and successful execution of the IAF strikes in Balakot sector. A day prior to his retirement, the officer personally directed the fighters that repulsed the raid from PAF on forward posts of the Indian Army. Both operations received nation wide accolades and personal appreciation from the highest level of leadership.


    AB/BBS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1567130) Visitor Counter : 533
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi