      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      ‘Centre for Disability Sports’ to be set up at Gwalior
      Posted On: 03 MAR 2019 12:49PM by PIB Delhi


    A‘Centre for Disability Sports’will be set up at Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh. The proposal regarding setting up of it has been approved by the Government. It will be registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860, which is to function under the name of Centre for Disability Sports, Gwalior.Improved sports infrastructure created by this Centre will ensure effective participation of Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) in sports activities and also enable them to compete at national and international levels. Setting up of the Centre will develop a sense of belonging in Divyangjan to facilitate their integration in society.


    Taking 1 st April, 2019 as the zero date, the project is expected to be completed in two yeartime, i.e, by 31 st March, 2021. Thereafter, it will take another 6 months for the Centre to become operational.Once operational, this Centre will result in employment of 140 personnel. In addition, construction and allied activities will also generate considerable employment opportunities.Setting up of the Centre shall entail an estimated cost of Rs 170.99 crore (Non-recurring Rs.151.16 crore and Recurring Rs 19.83 crore),spread over a period of 5 years.


    The Centre will have an Outdoor Athletic Stadium, Indoor Sports Complex, Basement Parking Facility; Aquatic Centre having 2 Swimming Pools, one covered Pool and an Outdoor Pool; High Performance Centre with classrooms; medical facilities; Sports Science Centre; hostel facilities for athletes, support facilities including accessible lockers, dining, recreational amenities and Administrative Block. The facilities so developed would be multi-functional centres with provision for training, selection, sports academics and research, medical support, spectator galleries and suitable for holding national/international events.


    The sports identified for training in the Centre are as under:

     1. Integrated sports (Indoor) like Badminton, Basketball, Table Tennis, Volleyball, Judo, Taekwondo, Fencing and Rugby;
     2. Adapted sports (Indoor) like Boccia, Goalball, Football 5 a side, Para Dance Sport and Para Power Lifting;
     3. Integrated sports (Outdoor) like Athletics, Archery, Football 7 a side and Tennis; and
     4. Integrated sports (Indoor & Outdoor) – Swimming.

    *****


    NB/SK/jk/SJ&E/03.03.2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1567207) Visitor Counter : 1006
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi
    
    
    

4.