      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Government has implemented several measures to provide additional facilities and amenities to the CAPFs, says Union Home Minister
      
      Shri Rajnath Singh inaugurated 28 infrastructure & housing projects of CAPFs, CPOs and Delhi Police and laid foundation stone for three projects worth over Rs.1,895 crore

      Posted On: 06 MAR 2019 6:26PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh has said the Government is committed to improve the working conditions and quality of life of jawans of the Central Armed Police forces (CAPFs). He was speaking at an event here after inaugurating 28 projects covering 5,283 housing units, 71 non-residential buildings and 34 barracks built at a cost of Rs 1,895 Crores of various CAPFs, Delhi Police and Central Police Organisations (CPOs). He also laid the foundation stone of three projects of LPAI.


    Appreciating the valour, hardwork and contribution of the jawans in providing security to the country and its people, the Home Minister said the Government has implemented several measures to improve various facilities and amenities to the CAPFs during the last nearly five years, yet more needs to be done. “Despite our best efforts made for the welfare of jawans, there is still room to do more,” said Shri Rajnath Singh. He interacted with officers and jawans of various CAPFs during the inauguration from across the country through video link. They were highly appreciative of Home Minister and MHA’s assistance and expressed gratitude to him. Shri Singh, in turn, told them that the country reposes faith in them and the CAPFs won this trust through their selfless duty, devotion to work and sacrifices.


    The Home Minister listed several recent decisions made by the Government to boost the morale of the CAPF jawans. They include:


    Free air travel from Jammu to Srinagar and back on duty/ leave and also on duty from Delhi to Srinagar and back.


    Enhancement of existing Risk and Hardship Allowances for CAPF personnel deployed in Jammu and Kashmir, LWE affected districts.


    The CAPF personnel wounded during an operation and admitted to a hospital would be considered on duty during the period of their treatment. The Operational Casualty Certificate was introduced on October 9, 2017. Besides, the ex-gratia payable to a CAPF martyr has been enhanced from Rs.15 lakh to Rs.35 lakh. Shri Rajnath Singh said though no amount of monetary compensation is enough for the sacrifices made by the jawans in the line of duty, he has ensured that every CAPF martyr’s family gets a minimum of Rs. 1 crore. For this, the Bharat ke Veer Fund has been created which has already raised huge sums in donations. Besides, private institutions are also providing scholarships to wards of CAPF martyrs. CAPF martyrs’ dependents are now entitled to preferential allotment of LPG outlets at par with martyrs of the Armed Forces. “A proposal to provide assistance during the period of recovery from injuries in addition to the treatment costs is under active consideration,” he added. The Union Home Minister assured there will be no shortage of money for benefit of CAPF/CPOs personnel as India has enough resources both from Government, Public and Private Sector. “You constitute the first and vital aspect of the development process, - the security,” said Shri Rajnath Singh, adding, “the provision of better facilities will improve performance and satisfaction level among the jawans.”


    The Home Minister said the Government has allocated Rs.425 crore for Police Modernization during the FY 2018-19. Ministry of Home Affairs has approved the raising of two Mahila Battalions in CRPF and 21 Mahila Companies in SSB. Ten India Reserve Battalions have been sanctioned for the North-Eastern Region where the insurgency related incidents have shrunk by a huge 85%. Government has also set up more Central Forensic Sciences Laboratories (CFSL) to aid in crime investigation while a new NSG hub has been set up in Gujarat. With capacity building and better coordination among CAPFs, State Police Forces and Security Agencies, the security scenario has improved significantly in LWE affected areas while concerted operations are being carried out in J&K to check cross-border terrorism.


    Addressing the gathering, the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir said the Government is concerned about providing better facilities and amenities to the CAPF jawans.


    Speaking on the occasion, MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju said that the Government has ensured timely utilization of MHA budget as compared to the period prior to 2014.


    Special Secretary (Internal Security) Shri AP Maheshwari, in his address, said the Government has taken several steps to improve the working conditions and housing satisfaction levels in the CAPFs. The Government has also initiated steps to enhance Women’s Security, Separate Family Accommodation, schools and other infrastructure facilities at CAPF formations.


    Delivering the Vote of Thanks, Director General, CRPF, Shri Rajiv Rai Bhatnagar expressed gratitude to the MHA for approving proposals of the CRPF to procure modern equipments including bullet proof vests and vehicles and AK-47 assault rifles.


    The Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba, Director, IB, Heads of CAPFs and CPOs, Delhi Police Commissioner and senior officers of MHA were present during the function.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1567671) Visitor Counter : 777
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi