      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      PM to Inaugurate Construction Technology India-2019 Expo-Cum-Conference Tomorrow
      
      Construction Technology India -2019 to Identify Proven, Innovative & Globally Established Technologies for Use in Indian Context
      
      Technology Providers, Researchers, Start-UPS, Developers, Academia, Public Sector Agencies & Domain Experts to Participate Inexpo–Cum –Conference on 2-3 March 2019
      Posted On: 01 MAR 2019 5:56PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Construction Technology India-2019 Expo-cum-Conference in New Delhi on 2 nd March, 2019. In response to the envisaged vision of Hon’ble Prime Minister, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Aﬀairs, Government of India has conceptualized a Global Housing Technology Challenge - India (GHTC- India) which aims to identify and mainstream a basket of innovative technologies from across the globe that are sustainable and disaster-resilient.Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana - Urban (PMAY-U) targets the construction of 1 Crore housing units by 2022, out of which 79 lakh houses have been sanctioned by MoHUA. More than 41 lakh houses have already been grounded and 16 lakh houses are completed and handed over to beneficiaries. Within the ambit of the overarching PMAY (U), a Technology Sub-Mission (TSM) was set up, to facilitate the adoption of innovative, sustainable, green and disaster-resilient technologies and building materials for low-cost, speedier and quality construction of houses. Currently more than 12 lakh house are being built with new technologies. The GHTC-India platform aspires to provide an eco-system for the adoption of innovative technologies in the housing construction sector in a holistic manner.


    “Construction Technology India – 2019” an Expo –cum –Conference is being organised by the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs on 2 nd – 3 rd March, 2019 in Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi- to identify proven, innovative and globally established technologies for use in the Indian context. Technology providers, researchers, start-ups, developers, academia, public sector agencies and other domain experts are participating in the 2-day event.


    CTI-2019, an expo-cum-Conference will provide avenues for interaction among stakeholders that can open up new areas for collaboration and will facilitate conversion of ideas into market-ready products. Potential technology providers can benefit from the support provided by Affordable Sustainable Housing Accelerators- India (ASHA-India) initiative. Youth are the main beneficiaries of this initiative.Proven technologies which are identified during CTI - 2019 will be further invited to design and build lighthouse projects of approximately 1,000 housing units each, at six places in the country. The six States are Gujarat, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Tripura& Uttar Pradesh, that have competed with a total of 14 States/UTs in a competitive mode and won the opportunity to build the Light House Project. These projects will demonstrate the merits of the selected technologies and serve as live laboratories for research, testing, technology transfer, increasing mass awareness and for mainstreaming them in the country.


    GHTC-India will also contribute substantially towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as laid out by the United Nations (UN), the New Urban Agenda and the Paris Climate Accord to which India is a signatory and similar international commitments by gradually migrating from inefficient & carbon intensive processes to cleaner and compliant options.GHTC-India will bring about a paradigm shift in the manner in which construction is not only done but also received and perceived in the country.


    RJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1567033) Visitor Counter : 710
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi