      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Secretary, DEPwD Lays Foundation Stone of ‘National Institute of Mental Health Rehabilitation’ at Sehore, Madhya Pradesh
      Posted On: 03 MAR 2019 12:55PM by PIB Delhi


      SmtShakuntala D. Gamlin, Secretary, Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD), Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment laid the foundation stone of the ‘National Institute of Mental Health Rehabilitation’ at Sherpur Village along Bhopal-Sehore highway, District Sehore, Madhya Pradesh today. This Institute will be first of its kind in the country. The Centr al Government has approved an outlay of Rs 180 crore for this project for an initial period of three years. The land for this institute measuring about 25 acre was allocated free of cost by the Government of Madhya Pradesh in October 2018.


      The Institute will promote mental health rehabilitation using an integrated multidisciplinary approach , to undertake capacity building and to involve in developing trained professionals in the area of mental health rehabilitation and help the Government in formulati ng policy and programs/models for rehabilitation of persons with mental illness.It will run various coursesstarting from certificate course to M.Philin the area of vocational counselling, care giv ing, psychiatric nursing,community based rehabilitation, clinical psychology and psychiatric social work etc.


      The construction work of the building will be undertaken by CPWD, Bhopal and is expected to be completed within a period of two years. During the construction phase the institute will run some of the courses and provide certain servicesfrom a temporary accommodation. Once the institute is made fully functional, it will serve as an expert body in the area of mental health rehabilitation besides developing various models for rehabilitation of mental ill persons including their mainstream in the society.


      Princip al Secretary, Social Justice, Government of M.P., Shri Ashok Shah, Joint Secretary, Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Government of India, Ms Dolly Chakrabarty, Chief Engineer, CPWD,Mohd. Kamaal Ahmed, District Collector, Sehore,Shri Ganesh Shankar Mishra and other officers of the Centr al and State Government were present on this occasion.


      *****


      Sanjay Kumar/MoSJ&E/03.03.2019


    

    
    (Release ID: 1567208) Visitor Counter : 758
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi