      Ministry of Railways

      Cabinet approves the 3rd line between Narayangarh & Bhadrak (155 Km) on South Eastern Railway
      
      Will help generate additional optimum capacity to cope up with the existing as well as additional traffic
      Capacity utilisation on Narayangarh & Bhadrak section is 138%. Third line will help reduce this congestion
      Will help generate direct employment for about 37.2 lakh mandays
      Total estimated cost of this project is Rs. 1,866.31 cr. & will be completed by 2023-24
      Posted On: 07 MAR 2019 2:14PM by PIB Delhi


    The Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the construction of a 3rd railway line between Narayangarh in West Bengal & Bhadrak in Odisha of 155 kms length. At a total cost of Rs. 1,866.31 crore it is slated for completion during the year 2023-24.


    The construction of the third line will help create capacity to cope with existing as well as additional traffic. The busy section between Narayangarh and Bhadrak is mainly used for the movement of coking coal to steel plants as well as the movement of export ore from the areas of Chakradharpur to several ports. Therefore, this 3rd line will help in easier movement of coal. This will help steel plants, power plants as well as the export industry, which will boost the economies of Odisha and West Bengal, and entire East India.


    Third line will ease congestion on this route. Narayangarh – Bhadrak section forms a part of the Howrah-Chennai trunk route. The present utilization (with maintenance block) of the section between Narayangarh & Bhadrak is to the tune of 138% as per Line Capacity Statement 2014-15. Over and above the heavy freight traffic, the route has to accommodate 47 pairs of coaching trains including high-speed trains like Bhubaneswar Rajdhani, Howrah-Yesvantpur Duronto, Howrah-Puri Duronto, Sealdah-Puri duronto & Howrah-Puri Shatabdi Express. This makes it highly congested.


    The project will also help generate direct employment for about 37.2 lakh mandays during construction, and has the potential to generate indirect employment as well.


    *****


    AKT/SH


    

    
    (Release ID: 1567763) Visitor Counter : 138
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi