      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Prime Minister Launches PM-SYM in Ahmedabad Today
      
      Around 14.5 Lakh Beneficiaries Registered in PM-SYM till Now
      
      Smt. Sushma Swaraj, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad and Dr. Harsh Vardhan Distribute PM-SYM Pension cards in a state level function at Delhi Today

      Posted On: 05 MAR 2019 4:43PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today formally launched Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-Dhan (PM-SYM) Scheme in Ahmedabad. Union Minister of State for Labour and Employment Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar was present along with Chief Minister of Gujarat. Ministry of Labour and Employment arranged the launch function of the scheme at 4 levels for wider publicity and creating awareness amongst the unorganised workers. At national level, the scheme was formally launched by Prime Minister in the event held at Ahmedabad, Gujarat where around 40,000 workers from across the nation attended. Prime Minister interacted with 35 beneficiaries of the PM-SYM from different professions across the country and also distributed PM-SYM cards to the 35 beneficiaries of the scheme from across the country.


    State level functions were organised in all the States where the Chief Ministers, Union Ministers, State Ministers, Trade Union Leaders and local representatives participated in the events. The District level functions have been organised by the District officials, Central and State Labour offices. At ground level, the event has been organised at three lakh Common Service Centre (CSC) across the country.


    Smt. Sushma Swaraj, Union Minister for External Affairs, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, Union Minister for Law and Justice & Electronics and Information Technology, Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister for Science and Technology, Earth Sciences & Environment, Forest and Climate Change jointly honoured beneficiaries of PM-SYM by distributing them PM-SYM Cards in New Delhi today.


    Smt. Swaraj said that Central Government has given social security as well as honour to Unorganized Sector Workers. Prime Minister has honoured domestic workers, rickshaw pullers, agricultural labourers, small vendors etc by recognizing them as ‘Shram Yogi’ and they will get their ‘Maandhan’ after attaining the age of 60 years. This scheme will benefit the Shram Yogis when they get old and they may have no means of livelihood and will get a ‘Maandhan’ (Pension) of Rs. 3,000 per month throughout their life.


    While addressing the function Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad said that CSCs spread across the country are enrolling PM-SYM beneficiaries. There are over three lakh CSCs in the country. Nearly 12 lakh youth are working in CSCs and they are instrumental in smooth implementation of not only PMSYM but other welfare schemes like Aayushman Bharat Yojana. He further said that the Government under leadership of the Prime Minister is working for all sections of society especially for the poor. Nearly 12 crore farmers will be benefitted from Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana and crores of people have got security cover through Atal Pension Scheme, Accidental Insurance and other schemes.


    Addressing the gathering Dr. Harsh Vardhan said that government is sincerely working for welfare of poor sections of society and poverty alleviation and social security schemes are being implemented in mission mode with regular monitoring by PM himself with an emphasis to finish the work in time bound manner. PM-SYM is a historic scheme which will benefit all unorganized sector workers earning Rs. 15,000 per month or less.


    Shri Sunil Barthwal, CPFC, EPFO welcomed all the dignitaries and informed the audience that all the 270 EPFO offices in the country along with CSCs are working for successful implementation of PMSYM.


    Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-Dhan (PM-SYM), a pension scheme for Unorganized Workers is being implemented for an estimated 42 crore workers in the unorganized sector constituting around 85% of the total Labour force of the country.PM-SYM has been made effective since 15 th Feb, 2019 in all states. It is a central sector scheme open to unorganised workers, whose monthly income is Rs 15000/- or below and who have an Aadhar number as well as savings bank account. The minimum age for joining the scheme is 18 years and the maximum is 40 years.


    It is a voluntary and contribution based scheme under which the subscriber gets an assured minimum monthly pension of Rs 3000/- from the age of 60 years onwards. The contribution of a subscriber ranges from Rs 55/- to Rs 200/- depending on his entry age which is 18 to 40. Under the scheme, the Central Government will also give matching contribution towards beneficiary’s pension account. Further, it has unique feature that in case of exit, subscriber would be returned his entire contribution. The unorganized workers are mostly engaged as home based workers, street vendors, mid-day meal workers, head loaders, brick kiln workers, cobblers, rag pickers, domestic workers, washer men, rickshaw pullers, rural landless labourers, own account workers, agricultural workers, construction workers, beedi workers, handloom workers, leather workers, Audio- visual workers, and in similar other occupations.


    *****


    RCJ/SKP/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1567511) Visitor Counter : 3177
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi