      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      7th March 2019 to be celebrated as ‘JanaushadhiDiwas’ across India
      
      Over 5050 Janaushadhi stores functional across 652 districts in the country
      
      Each block in the country to have a PMBJP Kendra by 2020: Shri Mansukh Mandaviya
      
      
      
      Posted On: 06 MAR 2019 1:21PM by PIB Delhi


    “With the initiative of Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi in the direction of making quality healthcare affordable for all, the Government has taken important steps to make affordable and quality generic medicines popular among the people through Pradhan MantriBhartiyaJanaushadhiPariyojana (PMBJP)”, said Shri Mansukh Mandaviya, Union Minister of State for Chemicals & Fertilizers, Road Transport & Highways, Shipping while addressing the media here today.


    The Minister informed thatfor providing further impetus & creating awareness about use of generic medicines, it has been decided to celebrate 7 th March 2019 as ‘JanaushadhiDiwas’ across India. Hon’ble Prime Minister will interact with owners of JanaushadhiKendras and beneficiaries of the scheme across the country through video conference at 1:00 pm on 7 th March, 2019. Talking about the future course of development, Shri Mandaviya added that with this pace of progress, all blocks in the country would have atleast 1 PMBJP Kendra by 2020.


    Citing Prime Minister’svision thatno poor person should die due to non-availability of good quality affordable medicines in the country, Shri Mandaviya said that with developments likemore and more doctors prescribing generic medicines and opening of over 5050Janaushadhistores across 652 districts, awareness and availability of high quality affordable generic medicines has increasedin the country. About 10-15 lakh people benefit from Janaushadhi medicines per day andthe market share of generic medicines has grownover three foldfrom 2% to 7%in last 3 years, the Minister added.


    Shri Mandaviya said that health is one of the most important part of development and this Government has been incessantly working to ensure quality healthcare affordable for all, through schemes like Ayushman Bharat, PMBJP among others.The Janaushadhi medicines have played a big role in bringing down the out of pocket expenditure of patients suffering from life threatening diseases in India. The PMBJP scheme has led to total savings of approximately Rs.1000 crores for common citizens, as these medicines are cheaper by 50% to 90% of average market price.


    Secretary, Pharmaceuticals, Shri J.P. Prakash in his opening remarks informed that as part of the celebrations of Janaushadhi Diwas tomorrow, programmeswould be organized at all PMBJP Kendras to increase the awareness about the scheme. These programmes would witness participation of doctors, health experts, NGOs and beneficiaries, which would help in spreading awareness about the scheme to common masses.


    CEO, Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India (BPPI), Shri Sachin Kumar Singh, said that the PMBJP is also providing a good source of self-employment with self-sustainable and regular earnings. Average sales per store per month has grown to Rs 1.50 lakhs (including OTC & other products) as per a survey conducted by the BPPI, which implements the scheme. Four big warehouses Delhi, Guwahati, Bengaluru, Chennai have been opened so as to ensure adequate availability of Janaushadhi medicines at all PMBJP kendras.


    Shri Singh also displayed a wide range of affordable quality health products already launched under the PMBJP Scheme and available at PMBJP Kendras. This included Jan AushadhiSuvidhaOxo-Biodegradable Sanitary Napkins at Rs. 2.50 per piece; JanAushahiSwabhiman at Rs. 140 for a pack of 5 Adult Diapers;Jan AushahdiBachpan at Rs 20 only for a pack of 5 baby diapers; Jan Aushadhi Ankur pregnancy test kits at Rs 20; Jan AushadhiUrja Energy Drink at Rs. 35 for a300 gm pack, among others.


    *****


    KSP/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1567601) Visitor Counter : 2441
    
    
      Read this release in: Kannada , Hindi , Urdu , Marathi , Bengali , Gujarati , Malayalam