      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      M/O Tribal Affairs holds meeting with Officers of State Governments dealing with issues relating to Scheduled Tribes & Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006
      Posted On: 07 MAR 2019 4:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Tribal Affairs organized a meeting with the officers of the State Governments dealing with the issues relating to the Scheduled Tribes and other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006 yesterday. The meeting was chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs and was attended by the officers representing 20 State Governments who are respondents in the Writ Petition (Civil) filed by Wildlife Trust of India (Case No. 50/2008 & 109/2008). The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the provisions of the Act and to carry out effectively the directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court given by it during the hearing of the case on 28.02.2019.


    While the exact directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court were not available during the meeting as the written order has not been received, it was conveyed that States should formulate a time-bound Action Plan to take up suo-motto review of all rejection cases involving claims of individual rights and these are brought before the District Level Committee (DLC) which is the final appellate authority under the Act. It was also conveyed that proper procedure as per the Act and rules thereunder for examination of the claim applications at all levels i.e Gram Sabha, Sub-divisional Level Committee and District Level Committee should be fully adhered to by the States. All States should carry out an accurate assessment of the finally rejected cases at the District Level Committee after taking into account the possibility of duplicate applications requiring de-duplication. Cases rejected on wrongful grounds as detected by SDLC/DLC should be excluded from the list of rejected cases. There is need to doubly ensure that no eligible person is rejected. In each case, the decision taken should be also conveyed to the claimant in writing. Further, it was conveyed that information should be separately compiled for STs and OTFDs. State Governments should complete the review processes and file their affidavits before the Hon’ble Supreme Court by 10.07.2019.


    It was also emphasized that meetings of the State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) should be held early and the members of these Committees in the States should be aware of the directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court so that the Committee can carry out its duty of effective review and monitoring of the procedures being adopted by the various authorities while deciding the cases as well as conveying the decision to the applicants/claimants.


    It was also emphasized that the concerned line officials including forest officials should be made fully aware of the provisions of the Act and rules thereunder through regular training and capacity building programmes.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/MoTA/07.03.2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1567866) Visitor Counter : 423
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi