      Prime Minister's Office

      PM to visit Varanasi, Kanpur and Ghaziabad Tomorrow
      
      Foundation Stone of Kashi Vishwanath Temple Corridor to be laid in Varanasi
      
      Lucknow Metro Rail Project to be inaugurated,
      
      Panki Power Plant to be unveiled &
      
      Foundation Stone of Agra Metro Rail Project to be laid by PM in Kanpur
      
      Hindon Airport Civil Terminal to be inaugurated &
      
      Foundation stone of Delhi - Ghaziabad - Meerut RRTS to be laid by PM in Ghaziabad

      Posted On: 07 MAR 2019 5:48PM by PIB Delhi

        The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will visit Varanasi, Kanpur and Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh on 8 th March 2019. He will unveil multiple development projects for the state.


        At Varanasi


        The Prime Minister will visit the Kashi Vishwanath Temple at Varanasi. He will lay the foundation stone of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple approach Road, Beautification & Strengthening Project . Later PM will inspect the project site.


        PM will attend National Women Livelihood Meet – 2019 at Deendayal Hastkala Sankul in Varanasi. He will distribute appreciation letters to five Women Self Help Groups. Members of the Women Self Help Groups will also share their experiences with Prime Minister.


        PM will distribute Electric Chaak, Solar Charkha and Honey Warp and Cheque to beneficiaries.


        Women SHGs aided by Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana - NRLM, Uttar Pradesh will hand over a cheque to the Prime Minister for contribution in 'Bharat Ke Veer' Fund.


        PM will also address a public gathering


        At Kanpur


        PM will unveil the Panki Power Plant, establishment of new 660 megawatt electricity generation and distribution unit. PM will inaugurate Lucknow Metro Rail Project. He will also Flag-off Metro Rail from Ch. Charan Singh Airport Station, Lucknow through video link. PM will lay foundation stone for Agra Metro Rail Project.


        PM will distribute keys to beneficiaries of PMAY.


        Later, PM will also address a gathering on this occasion.


        At Ghaziabad


        PM will inaugurate Dilshad Garden - Shaheed Sthal (New Bus Adda) Section of Metro . He will flag-off the Metro Rail from Shaheed Sthal Metro Station. This elevated metro corridor section will have 8 stations. It will provide convenient mode of transport for people in Ghaziabad and New Delhi and will ease the traffic congestion.


        PM will inaugurate the Hindon Airport Civil Terminal at Hindon Airport Civil Terminal, Ghaziabad. Passengers from Western Uttar Pradesh and NCR region will be benefit from the operation of domestic flights from this new civil airport terminal at Hindon.


        PM will lay foundation stone of Delhi - Ghaziabad - Meerut RRTS . This is one of the first, high speed and high frequency rail based Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) project. It will greatly improve the regional transport facility and create many employment opportunities.


        The Prime Minister will also unveil various development Projects for education, housing, drinking water, sanitation and sewerage management in Ghaziabad.


        He will distribute certificates to beneficiaries of various schemes.


        Later, he will address a public gathering.


        *******


        AKT/ VJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1567970) Visitor Counter : 840
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Tamil , Kannada