      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh addresses workshop on International Women’s Day
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2019 5:20PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh addressed a workshop organised by Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, on the occasion of International Women’s Day, here today. The Minister also presented awards to the women employees of the Personnel Ministry in various competitions organised in run up to the Women’s Day celebrations.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr Jitendra Singh said that the entire spectrum of Women’s Day celebrations has changed over the last few years. It was earlier observed to highlight the issues related to gender equality and women emancipation, while now it is being observed to celebrate the success stories of women in different areas, he said. He complimented the women employees who have been presented awards on the occasion of Women’s Day.


    The Minster said that the Government under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has taken many initiatives for the welfare of women in the country. He spoke about many steps in these areas including maternity leave, creches for women, leadership positions for women, women-oriented schemes such as Ujjawala Yojana, among others. He also talked about role of women in defence forces. These initiatives have led to tremendous amount of transformation in the social thinking and behaviour, the Minister added. The Minister said that these steps are going to have long-term impact in the society.


    The Secretary, DoPT, Dr. C. Chandramouli said that women employees are an important part of any organisation. He emphasised that we should work together in the direction of providing opportunities to the women and support their efforts.


    The senior officers and women employees of the Ministry were also present on the occasion.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1568299) Visitor Counter : 308
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi