      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NCRB to celebrate its 34th Inception Day
      Posted On: 10 MAR 2019 1:18PM by PIB Delhi


    National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) will celebrate its 34 th Inception Day tomorrow on March 11, 2019 here today. Shri Rajiv Gauba, Union Home Secretary will be the Chief Guest and Shri Rajiv Jain, Director, IB will be the Guest of Honour on this occasion.


    Prizes to the winners of NCRB Sports & other events will given alongwith Commendation Certificates to the various NCRB officers for their sincerity and dedication towards their work in the Bureau. Meritorious children of NCRB employees will also receive prizes, during the occasion.


    A Cultural Program is being organised on this occasion, where NCRB Staff & their family members and a dance program from “Nritya Manjari” will enlighten the Guests with their performances.


    Formed in 1986, NCRB is mandated to empower the Indian Police with Information Technology and is responsible for collecting, maintaining and analysing the crime data of the country. It facilitates Investigating Officers with updated IT tools and information in Investigation of Crimes.


    NCRB is the Nodal Agency for authentic source of data on crime, accidents, suicides, and prisons for policy matters and research. Bureau is also apex nodal agency for all Finger Print related matters including accreditation of Finger Print Experts in the country. Bureau is implementing & monitoring agency for implementation of Crime & Criminal Tracking Network System (CCTNS), a Mission Mode Project under the National e-Governance Plan of Government of India. The project aims at creating a comprehensive and integrated system for enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of policing in the country.


    NCRB also imparts training in Information Technology (IT) and Finger Print Science for Indian Police Officers as well Foreign Police officers. Areas covered during the training are Cyber Crime Investigation & Digital Forensics, CCTNS, Advanced Fingerprint Science, Network & e-Security, Coloured Portrait Building System, etc.. Four Regional Police Training Centres (RCPTCs) in Hyderabad, Gandhinagar, Lucknow and Kolkata also conduct similar courses for lower functionaries of Indian Police.


    Senior officials of NCRB, CPOs and Former Directors General of NCRB, will also grace the occasion with their presence.


    *****


    BB/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1568463) Visitor Counter : 1139
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi