      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Register 5 Crore beneficiaries under Ayushman Bharat at the earliest - Ravi Shankar
      Posted On: 09 MAR 2019 3:33PM by PIB Delhi


    Today CSC SPV organized a National workshop on “Celebrating 2 Crore PM-JAY and 1000 Digital Villages” at the India Habitat Centre in New Delhi.


    Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, Hon’ble Minister of Electronics & IT and Law & Justicewhile inaugurating the event, appreciated the efforts of the CSC VLEs and said, “Recently, Hon’ President of India and Hon’ Prime Minister appreciated CSCs’ efforts. In last 4 years, our VLEs have become change agent of rural India. I feel proud that we have 67,463 women VLEs in India.” He also launched the completion of 1000 Digital Villages and congratulated HDFC for supporting in Digital Village initiative. “CSCs will become case studies in Harvard like global institutions very soon. Once, Hon’ PM said that I want to see the governance on the palm of every citizen and I can see it in villages of our country.” He asked VLEs to complete the registrations in Ayushman Bharat to 5 crore in next two months. “I wish the Village Level Entrepreneurs of CSC all the best and hope they will truly be the harbingers of digital revolution in India and enable us to create digitally and financially inclusive society. I and my government will always support CSCs in enabling delivery of services.”


    CSC SPV and Ministry of Health & Family Welfare have partnered to implement the Ayushman Bharat scheme through the CSC network across the country. Under the partnership CSCs will help the beneficiary to identify his/her name in the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare database and his/her entitlement for the scheme. CSCs will also help beneficiary to scan/upload his/her KYC documents for verification of his/her identity and claim his/her entitlement. The Beneficiary will have facility to print his/her Ayushman Scheme card through CSC. Hence, CSCs will also provide requisite information about the scheme and promote it among citizens, so that maximum number of beneficiaries can avail the benefit.


    As part of their social responsibility, HDFC has collaborated with CSC SPV to transform and develop villages and hamlets across the country as Digital Villages, which enables rural citizens to access G2C, education, health and financial services.


    CSC SPV is implementing the Digital Village Programme (Digi Gaon) in rural and remote areas of the country, with the mandate of the Ministry of Electronics & IT, where citizens can avail of various online services of the central and State government, and private players alike. These Digital villages are positioned to be the change agents, promoting rural entrepreneurship and livelihood through community participation.


    These Digital Villages have been equipped with solar lighting facility in their community center, LED Bulb assembly unit, sanitary napkin unit, and Wi-fi Choupal; an initiative towards developing a Rural Wi-Fi infrastructure. These villages would also have the regular online services available through the Common Services Center like G2C and B2C, Banking and Insurance, Health, Education and other utility services of the State government.


    NNK/MD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1568418) Visitor Counter : 741
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi