      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President briefs the Vice President of the Republic of Argentina about Pulwama terror attack and the Argentina leader condemns it;
      
      India and Argentina need to work actively in widening and deepening of bilateral trade and promotion of investments: Vice President
      
      
      Interacts with the Vice President of the Republic of Argentina

      Posted On: 12 MAR 2019 4:54PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has briefed the visiting Vice President of the Republic of Argentina, Mrs. Gabriela Michetti about the terrorist attack that had taken place in Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir and the Argentina leader strongly condemned it and said that Argentina is with India in the fight against terrorism. Shri Naidu was interacting with the Vice President of the Republic of Argentina, who called on him, here today.


    The Vice President of India recalled India-Argentina special declaration against terrorism issued on 18 th February during the visit of the President of Argentina, Mr. Mauricio Macri to India.


    Both leaders also discussed regional and multilateral issues. The Vice President of India said that the battle for peace includes, in the current context, the battle against terror, corruption, climate change, illicit money and arms flows and drugs menace. He further said that India and Argentina should work actively in widening and deepening of bilateral trade and promotion of investments in sectors of mutual interest.


    This was the second high level visit from Argentina during the year after the President of Argentina, Mr. Mauricio Macri visited India in February 2019, when India and Argentina are celebrating the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations.


    Both the leaders exchanged views on parliamentary functioning, bilateral, regional and global issues of mutual interest. They committed to further strengthen India-Argentina multi-faceted cooperation now elevated to a strategic partnership. They recalled the road-map laid by the two leaders during the President of Argentina, Mr. Mauricio Macri visit to India. They also stressed the need for both sides to work together in the new areas identified including defence, nuclear energy, space, mining including Lithium, Antarctica, agriculture, IT, health, renewable and non-renewable energy, tourism, films etc.


    Shri Naidu acknowledged the efforts made by the Vice President of Argentina for empowerment of people with disabilities, both within Argentina and globally. He also appreciated the peaceful and invigorating experience she had at the Brahma Kumar is event in which she participated recently.


    The Vice President of Argentina invited the Vice President of India to visit Argentina and participate in the Global Disability Conference which is going to be held in Argentina in June 2019.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1568669) Visitor Counter : 560
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali