      Ministry of Railways

      Minister of Railways and Coal Shri Piyush Goyal launches 3 Projects of Rail Sahyog Supported through CSR
      
      High-Speed Wifi at 4,791 Railway Stations through CSR from Tata Trust
      
      Over 2,400 toilets to be constructed in circulating area of Stations through support from PSUs
      
      5,000 stainless steel benches at Railway Stations through support from General Insurance Corporation
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2019 7:03PM by PIB Delhi


    Today, Hon’ble Minister of Railways and Coal Shri Piyush Goyal, launched several projects which will boost Railways infrastructure, enhance passenger experience and improve cleanliness and hygiene.


    3 of these projects are supported through Rail Sahyog which is a platform for the Corporates and PSUs to contribute to creation of amenities at or near Railway Stations through Corporate Social Responsibility funds.


    1. Wi-Fi Facility at 4,791 stations by Tata Trust


    Indian Railways is fully committed to the Digital India initiative spearheaded by Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. Providing high speed internet services to its passengers over its network is a priority for Indian Railways. Out of 8,738 Stations, 6,441 Stations have been planned to be given Wi-Fi facility, excluding 2,297 halt Stations. So far, 832 Stations have been equipped with Wi-Fi facility. 775 more Stations will be covered with Wi-Fi service by March, 2019. 4,791 balance stations will be taken up by TATA Trust and are targeted for commissioning progressively by 2nd September 2019, on the auspicious occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi.


    2. Toilets in circulating areas of stations


    Over 2,400 toilets will be constructed in circulating area of Stations with separate units for Men, Women & Divyangjan with low-cost sanitary pads dispenser, incinerator& condom vending machines, through CSR support from corporates like Coal India Ltd. and its Subsidiaries; NLC; IRFC; CONCOR and PGCIL. RITES, a PSU under Ministry of Railways, is project implementation partner, on behalf of Indian Railways. Sample toilets have been installed at Anand Vihar Station, New Delhi Station and Prayagraj Station.


    3. Steel Benches at Railway Stations


    General Insurance Corporation committed to provide funds for 5,000 stainless steel benches at Railway Stations. These benches will be provided at 250 Stations of Central and Western Railway.


    *****


    SVS/MKV/AP/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1568368) Visitor Counter : 473
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi