      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President to take up Nationwide Campaign on Promoting Peace and Sustainable Development
      
      Terrorism posing major threat to World Peace: Vice President
      
      UN must soon conclude talks on Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism

      Posted On: 15 MAR 2019 2:50PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has announced that he would undertake a nationwide campaign on promoting the rule of law, democracy, sustainable development and peace.


    Speaking at a felicitation function organized at Swarna Bharat Trust, Vijayawada today, following the conferment of Doctor Honoris Causa upon him by the University for Peace of Costa Rica, the Vice President said that he felt doubly honored to receive the honorary doctorate as the world was commemorating the 150th birth anniversary of Gandhiji, who had demonstrated to the world the power of non-violence.


    Emphasizing the need for creating greater awareness among the people on the importance of strengthening the rule of law, eliminating corruption, promoting peace and sustainable development and ending regional and social disparities, Shri Naidu declared that he would take up all these issues as also the need for a united action to stamp out terrorism during his visits to other countries.


    Expressing his disappointment over the recent decision of China to block the proposal of the United Nations Security Council to declare Jaish-e-Mohammed Chief, Masood Azhar as a global terrorist, Shri Naidu said it underlined the need for expansion of UN Security Council.


    The Vice President said that it should be remembered that peace and development are inextricably linked. Peace was the foremost prerequisite for the progress of a nation and the world at large.


    Describing the honour conferred upon him by the University for Peace as a global acknowledgement and recognition of the age-old Indian values of peace and harmony embedded in our philosophy of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, the Vice President said India always believed in peaceful co-existence with all the countries in its neighbourhood.


    Observing that terrorism was the enemy of humanity and posing a major threat to world peace and development, he pointed out that India had been its victim for many years and called upon all the countries in the world to come together to stamp out the menace of terrorism. The Vice President also urged the United Nations to conclude at the earliest the deliberations on the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1568888) Visitor Counter : 743
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi