      Ministry of Culture

      Prime Minister to inaugurate Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archaeology tomorrow in Greater Noida, UP
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2019 4:45PM by PIB Delhi


    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi will inaugurate Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archaeology tomorrow, on 9th March, 2019 at 12:00 noon at Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh. Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh and Minister of State (I/c) of Culture & MoS of Environment & Forest Dr. Mahesh Sharma will also attend the event. The Prime Minister will also unveil the statue of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya installed in the premises of the Institute. The foundation stone of the Institute Building was laid by the Union Home Minister, Shri Rajnath Singh on 28th October, 2016 during the celebrations of 100th Birth Anniversary of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay.


    The Institute of Archaeology (IA) is an academic wing of ASI under the Ministry of Culture. In the Institute , the students are provided with a supportive, enthusiastic and challenging academic atmosphere which enables them to achieve their full potential in the field of Archaeology. The Institute conducts professional workshops in different fields of archaeology. The foremost aim of this Institute is to provide an opportunity to students to achieve excellence in their passionate fields of archaeology.


    The state-of-the-art institute, built at an estimated cost of Rs. 289 crore is spread in over 25 acres. The 3 star ultra modern green building of the Institute is equipped with all latest technologies. The Institute comprises of an auditorium with seating capacity of 1000 people, an open air theatre and an Archaeological Museum.


    The Institute of Archaeology (IA) under Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) imparts training in Archaeology and allied archaeological activities. In 1985, the Institute was shifted to a colonial structure at 24, Tilak Marg, New Delhi and later on to Red Fort, Delhi. It was realized that the space available at the Institute is far from adequate to accommodate its ever-growing demands of a self contained multi-disciplinary Institution for imparting training, pursuing research, archaeological and excavation related studies/activities. To carry out training research and study of archaeology and related activities in a full-fledged manner, ASI purchased 25 acres of land at Greater Noida at a cost of Rs.4.77 crore for construction of complex for Institute of Archaeology.


    In 1959, the School of Archaeology was started by ASI under the directorship of the renowned archaeologist Shri B.B. Lal. The School of Archaeology transformed to Institute of Archaeology in 1983 as per R.N. Mirdha Committee Report.


    NB/PS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1568268) Visitor Counter : 1234
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Urdu , Hindi