      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Ministry of WCD and Ministry of Skill Development enter into MoU for improving women livelihood and empowering them through skill development.
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2019 3:12PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development and the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, today entered into a Memorandum of Understanding aimed at improving women livelihood and empowering them through skill development. The MOU was signed in the presence of Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi , Minister, Women and Child Development and Shri. Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship.


    Rashtriya Mahila Kosh (RMK) and the National Skill Development Council (NSDC) will be the implementing partners on behalf of the Ministry of Women and Child Development and Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship respectively.


    Speaking on the occasion, Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi said that the new initiative will help impart those skills to the women which are relevant and will help them to find employment/generate income immediately which will further lead to their overall well being in the long run. She thanked the Skill Development Ministry for joining hands with WCD Ministry for contributing to women empowerment. Hailing it as a unique and first of its kind initiative, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan said that the Skill Development Ministry is determined to work closely with women for imparting them skills which will transform their life as well as contribute to country’s growth. The two Ministries will work together to design appropriate modules to bring immediate benefit to the women, he added.


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development through Rashtriya Mahila Kosh will identify the skill sets and their geographical relevance which are suitable for enhancing livelihood of women through self-employment or wage employment. RMK shall also develop necessary modules aligned with the National Skill Qualifications Framework for skill development of women.


    Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship within the bound of Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna shall extend their support for the skill development programme identified by Ministry of Women and Child Development. Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship shall also provide details of women to MWCD who have received skill development training and engaged in producing goods or providing services after their training. Ministry of Women and Child Development, through RMK, shall assist such women to onboard into Mahila E-Haat platform. Mahila E-Haat and NSDC will also jointly organize capacity building workshops for the NSQF certified women interested in self-employment/entrepreneurship etc.


    The training partners for the programme shall be from the partners approved under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna, keeping in view, their local presence and experience in skill training. The MOU is valid for a period of 3 years.


    NB/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1568230) Visitor Counter : 786
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi