      Vice President's Secretariat

      India is a peace loving nation but determined to combat terror in all its forms: Vice President
      
      We need to translate economic growth into inclusive & sustainable development;
      
      Interacts with Leaders from Ghana, Guinea and Lesotho
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2019 5:09PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has underscored India’s stand as a peace loving nation but determined to combat terror in all its forms and manifestations. He was interacting with the Vice President of Ghana, Dr. Mahamudu Bawumia, the Prime Minister of Guinea, Dr. Ibrahima Kassory Fofana and the Deputy Prime Minister of Lesotho, Mr. Monyane Moleleki, who called on him, at his residence here today. The Spouse of the Vice President, Smt. Usha Naidu and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President welcomed the dignitaries with Anga Vastrams (traditional Indian attire) and Smt. Usha Naidu offered traditional Shawls to the spouses of the visiting dignitaries.


    At the luncheon meeting hosted by the Vice President of India, the leaders shared their happiness at the traditionally close ties between their countries with India, underpinned by shared vision and values of peaceful co-existence and natural respect, democracy and rule of law.


    Shri Naidu said that noted with satisfaction that there was strong economic co-operation between the countries and that all countries were growing at a fast pace. He further observed that each of our countries has natural, financial and human resources and that we have to tap into our material resources, enrich our human resources and transform our economies through partnership.


    Recounting a number of high level visits between India and these countries including President of Ghana’s visit to India last year for the founding conference of International Solar Alliance; President of India’s visit to Ghana in 2016; the President of Guinea’s visit to India in 2015; His Majesty King Let Sie-III King of Lesotho’s visit in December, 2017 and of Prime Minister of Lesotho in 2018, the Vice President desired that these high level visits deepen our mutual ties and must continue. In this connection, he mentioned the possibility of his own State visit to Lesotho later this year.


    He expressed pleasure that quite a few collaborative projects have been completed like the work on the Tema-Akosombo railway line has started (approx 400 Million USD) and India-Ghana Kofi Annan Centre ($ 2.86 million) set up training 20,000 students for excellence in IT in Ghana and India-Lesotho Centre for Advanced Information Technology started in 2017. He reiterated India’s support for electricity, hospitals, transportation – as well as in telemedicine (e-Arogya Bharati) and digital learning (e-Vidya-Bharati) in Guinea.


    “There is immense scope for further enhancing bilateral trade and commercial cooperation between our countries”, he added.


    The Vice President expressed the hope that in all our countries, we would be able to translate economic growth into inclusive, sustainable development and referred to Indian government’s resolve to transform governance and ultimately the lives of the people.


    Shri Naidu thanked the leaders for their support to India in international forums, especially on the issue of India’s non-permanent membership of UNSC for 2020-21 and various candidatures in other UN bodies and stressed the need for democratizing UNSC as wells as by including India as member.


    The Vice President highlighted the rising tide of terrorist violence across the globe including the recent incidents of Pulwama, Christchurch and Utrecht. He underscored India’s stand as a peace loving nation but determined to combat terror in all its forms and manifestations. The Vice President explained the recent preemptive counter terror air strikes by India


    All the three leaders expressed unequivocal support to India’s actions and condemned the brutal assault at Pulwama. They reaffirmed their commitment to combat the menace and stated that even the African Union has taken a considered position against terror.


    The Vice President hosted a traditional Indian Lunch along with Smt. Usha Naidu to those dignitaries and their delegations at the Vice President’s house.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1569099) Visitor Counter : 717
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi