      Ministry of Finance

      Signing of Inter-Governmental Agreement for exchange of country by country reports between India and the United States of America
      Posted On: 27 MAR 2019 3:58PM by PIB Delhi


    India and the United States of America have today, the 27 th March, 2019, signed an Inter-Governmental Agreement for Exchange of Country-by-Country (CbC) Reports. The Agreement was signed by Shri P.C.Mody, Chairman, Central Board of Direct Taxes and Mr. Kenneth I. Juster, Ambassador of the United States of America to India on behalf of the two countries. This Agreement for Exchange of CbC Reports, alongwith the Bilateral Competent Authority Arrangement between the two Competent Authorities, will enable both the countries to automatically exchange CbC Reports filed by the ultimate parent entities of Multinational Enterprises (“MNEs”) in the respective jurisdictions, pertaining to the years commencing on or after 1 st January, 2016. It would also obviate the need for Indian subsidiary companies of US MNEs to do local filing of the CbC Reports, thereby reducing the compliance burden.


    India has already signed the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement (MCAA) for Exchange of CbC Reports, which has enabled exchange of CbC Reports with 62 jurisdictions.


    Filing of CbC Reports by the ultimate parent entity of an MNE group to the prescribed Authority in the jurisdiction in which it is a resident and exchange of such CbC Reports by the Competent Authority of the said jurisdiction with the Competent Authorities of other jurisdictions in which the group has one or more of its constituent entities, are the minimum standards required under the Action 13 Report of OECD/G20 BEPS Project in which India is an active participant.


    A CbC Report has aggregated country-by-country information relating to the global allocation of income, the taxes paid, and certain other indicators of an MNE group. It also contains a list of all the constituent entities of an MNE group operating in a particular jurisdiction and the nature of the main business activity of each such constituent entity. MNE groups having global consolidated revenue of 750 Million Euros or more (or a local currency equivalent) in a year are required to file CbC Reports in their parent entity’s jurisdiction. The INR equivalent of 750 Million Euros has been prescribed as INR 5500 Crore in Indian rules. This information will enable an enhanced level of assessment of tax risk by both tax administrations.


    ***


    DSM/RM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1569599) Visitor Counter : 1491
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi