      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      14th CII-EXIM Bank Conclave on India-Africa Project Partnerships Concludes in New Delhi
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2019 6:29PM by PIB Delhi


    The 14 th CII-EXIM Bank Conclave on India-Africa Project Partnerships concluded in New Delhi today. The three-day conclave was organised by the Ministry of Commerce inassociation with Confederation of Indian Industry and EXIM Bank of India. Addressing the valedictory session, Commerce Secretary, Dr. AnupWadhawan said that trade ties with African countries have strengthened over the years and the relationship has been mutually beneficial. He said this conclave marks the pre-eminence of India-Africa partnership in the realm of South - South Cooperation at a time when the global economy is faced with intractable challenges that stem from rising protectionism and trade conflicts. The India-Africa bilateral partnershipisfurther augmented by India’s ascendency as the growing major economy, as well as Africa’s new economic dynamism illustrated by some of the sub-Saharan economies featuring among the top 10 fastest growing economies in the world.


    The Commerce Secretary said that the conclave coheres into the Indian government’s larger vision of long–term engagement with Africa and Government of India’s unwavering commitment to expanding the canvas of India – Africa economic partnership. He said several Indian engineering companies have been engaged in bridging the gaps in physical infrastructure in Africa by way of development of roads, highways, ports, power generation and distribution and watershed projects that connected different African countries.India’s development cooperation ranges from power projects and dams in Sudan and Rwanda to water treatment plants in Tanzania, sugar factories in Ethiopia and IT Parks in Mozambique and Swaziland, building of the Presidential Place in Ghana and National Assembly building in the Gambia, besides other numerous projects.


    Dr. AnupWadhawan informed that as part of India’s outreach in Africa, Ministry of External Affairs, on 10th September 2018 signed an agreement with the Telecommunications Consultants India Limited (TCIL) to establish a pan- Africa e-Arogya Bharti Network Project to serve as a digital bridge between India and Africa shrinking the distance between India and Africa even more.This project is also designed to aid Africa’s journey towards achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) targets in education and the health sector and enrich the lives of its predominantly young population.


    The conclave held annually, since its inception in 2005, brings senior Ministers, policy makers, officials, business leaders, bankers, technologists, start-up entrepreneurs and other professionals from India and Africa on a common platform.The event also marks the deepening of India-Africa economic and business ties and paves the way for a whole range of cross-border project partnerships.


    Over 500 delegates from Africa participated in the conclave. Vice President of Republic of Ghana,Dr.MahamuduBawumia, Prime Minister of Republic of Guinea, Dr.IbrahimaKassoryFofana and Deputy Prime Minister of Kingdom of LesothoMonyaneMoleleki, also participated in the conclave.


    *****


    SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1569116) Visitor Counter : 1240
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu