      Ministry of Finance

      CEA asks the Indian Economic Service (IES) Officers to keep themselves updated and skilled with tools and techniques concerning econometrics, data analytics & effective visualization among others; Also emphasizes the need of sharing of experiences and best practices regularly on a common platform amongst the IES Officers
      Posted On: 28 MAR 2019 5:57PM by PIB Delhi


    Dr. Krishnamurty Subramanium, Chief Economic Advisor (CEA) to the Government of India and Cadre Head of the Indian Economic Service (IES) asks the IES officers to keep themselves updated and skilled with tools and techniques concerning econometrics, data analytics and effective visualization among others. He also emphasized the need of sharing of experiences and best practices regularly on a common platform amongst IES officers. CEA Dr Subramanium was speaking during his interaction with the IES officers yesterday in the national capital. The interaction was half-a-day long Brain-storming Session on enhancing the effective contribution of IES officers to the Economic Policy making and its implementation in the country. More than 130 IES officers, who are posted at different levels in various Ministries and Departments of the Government of India, participated in the said Session.


    It was agreed that IES officers can contribute more effectively to the policy space by making all advice to the Government evidence-based, objectively communicating the policies of the Government, and widening the scope of engagement of IES officers to parastatals and the State Government services. To this end, CEA emphasized that IES officers need to be updated and skilled with tools and techniques relating to econometrics, data analytics & effective visualization among others. As the importance of specialization in policymaking is increasing constantly, IES officers need to constantly engage with academia and the private sector to provide sharp economic analysis. The CEA also advocated continuous learning through training programs in India and abroad in the best academic institutions and combining them with effective use of the advantages provided by the online training courses.


    IES officers expressed their gratitude to the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA), Ministry of Finance - for the growth and reach of IES officers to the Senior Levels in the Government of India.


    ***


    DSM/RM/PD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1569794) Visitor Counter : 903
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi