      Ministry of Defence

      Local Indian Diaspora Join Indian Navy's - Humanitarian efforts in Mozambique
      Posted On: 25 MAR 2019 4:16PM by PIB Delhi


    The HADR efforts by the Indian Navy in Mozambique have galvanised the local Indian Diaspora to work in tandem with the ships of the First Training Squadron of the Indian Navy (Sujata, Sarathi and Shardul) currently deployed there.


    The local community along with Indian Community has enthusiastically joined the HADR efforts being undertaken by the ships. The Rescue teams have voluntarily been provided vehicles by the Indian community for travel to affected areas and for coordination with the local authorities. The Indian Diaspora have also organised local SIM cards for the teams so that effective communication is maintained while undertaking rescue work.


    During the ongoing operations at Port Beira since 18 Mar 19, the ships have rescued more than 192 survivors from Buzi area near Port Beira, which is cut off from the mainland. Three medical camps have been set up at Port Beira, Gaura-Gaurathe Island and Matadoura School, Imnhamizua and Medical assistance has been provided to over 1500 affected people from the local population.


    The Chetak helicopter of Indian Navy has undertaken a number of sorties in difficult conditions for evacuation of local personnel in coordination with local authorities and the UN Mission. In addition, it has also dropped relief material (food and water) including that provided by World Food Programme.


    Community services are being undertaken by the ships crew at affected locations like schools, churches, hospitals, orphanages in coordination with the local government officials. The ships have setup a Community Kitchen kept open 24x7 for local populace including the workers at the port and 22 tons of fresh water has been provided to local authorities.


    The HADR operations by the ships of the First Training Squadron are likely to continue at Port Beira till 30 Mar 19. INS Shardul is enroute to Maputo to embark relief material and will return to Beira by 28 Mar to disembark relief material and also supply provisions to IN Ships. Meanwhile INS Magar, with relief stores being embarked at Mumbai and is likely to depart for Beira 27/ 28 Mar 19 to alleviate the suffering of the cyclone affected population of Mozambique.


    The indomitable spirit, humane approach and professionalism of the ships of the Training Squadron and the helicopter operations by the IN have received wide acknowledgement from the local government as well as the international agencies including the UN staff involved in HADR operations in Mozambique.


    DKS/AC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1569408) Visitor Counter : 793
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali