      PIB Headquarters

      Agriculture has key role in making India $5trillion economy: Governor Soundararajan
      The Governor inaugurated the foundation course of110th FOCARS at NAARM

      Posted On: 07 JAN 2020 6:50PM by PIB Hyderabad

    The Honorable Governor of Telangana State Smt. Tamilisai Soundararajan said that agriculture has a key role to play in helping the country achieve its goal of becoming five trillion dollar economy and the Central and State governments were focusing on formulating a cash crop and export-centric farming system.


    The 110 th Foundation Course for Agriculture Research Service (FOCARS) at the National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) in Rajendranagar was inaugurated by the Governor .135 young scientists from 22 states undergoing 3 months training in Agricultural Research Services at NAARM.


    Recalling the emphasis laid on Agriculture by the Prime Minister Sri Narendra Modi-led Central government, she said the support from the Central and the State governments to the agriculture sector, particularly to small farmers, was immense. Like credit cards, soil cards to farmers is a great step, which will carry crop-wise recommendations of nutrients and fertilisers required for the individual farms to help farmers to improve productivity through judicious use of inputs.


    The governor said that India is a leading player in milk exports. The country's largest mobile vaccination program for cows is going on. Some companies in the US are using artificial insemination in livestock.


    Tamilisai Soundararajan lays stress on innovation in agriculture sector. There is a shortage of human resources in agriculture. Agricultural education, research and extension services should be extended to the field. The Governor said there was a need to strengthen agricultural education and research. She also suggested the establishment of industries based on research. Tamilisai said each state and region has different weather conditions. Young scientists are called upon to work towards a second green revolution. Every scientist should strive to double the income of farmers. There are enormous opportunities in the agricultural sector. The governor suggested that yoga training should be adopted to overcome mental stress.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1598659) Visitor Counter : 44
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu