      PIB Headquarters

      “INTEGRATING WOMEN’S DEVELOPMENT WITH NATION’S DEVELOPMENT: ROLE OF STAKEHOLDERS”
      Posted On: 17 JAN 2020 7:20PM by PIB Hyderabad


    A one-day Conference on “Integrating Women’s Development with Nation’s Development: Role of Stakeholders” was held today at NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad. The Conference was organized in collaboration with National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). Smt. JyotikaKalra, Member NHRC delivered the presidential address and said that even if 50% of Indian women start working the GDP of India will go up by 1.5 to 9.00 %.She also said that potential of women has not yet been realized and all talk has been about violence against women rather than empowerment of women as powerful agents of development.


    Hon’ble Mr. Justice G. Chandraiah, Chairperson, Telangana State Human Rights Commission was the Chief Guest at the Conference and in his address, he emphasized the importance of Human Rights particularly Right to Dignity and Rights of Women. He also said that number of schemes of State Government such as Shadi Mubarak, Kalyan Lakshmi, Double bedroom houses to the poor, Pension to old age/ widows etc. are basically schemes for the promotion and realization of basic human rights.


    Mr. Jaideep Govind, Secretary General, NHRC also talked about the importance of integrating human development with nations development. Ms. SosoShaiza, Member, National Commission for Women chaired one session and highlighted several issues about women development. Mr. Pallav Kumar talked about atrocities against Dalit women and how their development is neglected.


    Prof. Faizan Mustafa, Vice-Chancellor, NALSAR University of Law recalled the effective role played by NHRC in the realization of Human Rights in the first decade of its inception and expressed the hope that NHRC will proactively work towards helping the poor and the marginalized sections of our population. He also said that today women of the country are ready to lead us. He also emphasized the need of researches in the area of Human Rights and women rights.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599740) Visitor Counter : 34