      PIB Headquarters

      NHRC- NALSAR CONFERENCE ON “INTEGRATING WOMEN’S DEVELOPMENT WITH NATION’S DEVELOPMENT: ROLE OF STAKEHOLDERS” IN HYDERABAD ON 17TH JANUARY, 2020
      Posted On: 16 JAN 2020 6:50PM by PIB Hyderabad


    The National Human Rights Commission, in collaboration with the National Academy of Legal Studies and Research, NALSAR, is organizing a conference on ‘Integrating Women’s development with nation’s development: Role of stakeholders’ at NALSAR, Hyderabad tomorrow on 17 th January, 2020.


    India’s year-on year progression over the last two decades is ironically not matched with trends in women’s progression. Rather, the journey reveals quite an inverse experience, as India has witnessed a coinciding decline in its female labour force participation rate (“FLFPR”). While the foregoing makes out a case for deliberating upon FLFPR, the approach if confined to only the labour force participation would be too short-sighted.


    To resolve the crisis of women absence, policy interventions at both, supply and demand forces are needed. All in all, the need is for mainstreaming women participation and development into the overarching and all-encompassing national growth. Hence, this conference aims to address this need.


    The objective of this Conference is, if not to answer and resolve the crisis, at least trigger our thoughts, discussions and debates towards investigating the expanse of, and highlighting the underlying issues with a critical approach. This will involve brainstorming on potential solutions; whilst appraising the concern more holistically through lens of varied domains. Given the interplay involved, an only legal or only economic or only social perspective will not work. Hence, the conference seeks to bring all of these domains together on one platform, for a more inclusive and diverse roadmap ahead-to attain the ultimate mission where women are reckoned as vital stakeholders for India’s future.


    Representation from National Commission for Women, Telangana State Commission for Women, Ministry of Women and Child Development & Department of Women and Child Development, Telangana reputed economists, Journalists, educationists, legal experts, etc., are expected to be important participants of this conference.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1599613) Visitor Counter : 15