      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      CHANGE OF MINDSET NEEDED FOR WOMEN'S EMPOWERMENT - ANURADHA MEDOJI
      TELANGANA GOVT GIVING TOP PRIORITY FOR WELFARE OF GIRL CHILD- MLA MUTA GOPAL

      Posted On: 24 JAN 2020 7:17PM by PIB Hyderabad

    Today women are taking rapid strides in each and every field and profession, and are holding different position but few mindsets that a female child is a liability and a male child is an asset has to vanish. People mindset needs to change for women's empowerment,said Anuradha Medoji , Sr,Regional Director, Ministry of Health Family Welfare. Regional outreach Bureau, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting today organised an awareness program on Beti Bachao Beti Padhao( BBBP) on occasion of National Girl Child Day .


    Shri Muta Gopal , M.L.A Musheerabad was the chief guest on this occasion and inaugurated the programme which was held at Government High school Musheerabad.


    Speaking on this occasion Smt Anuradha Medoji said that " Our PM Narendra Modi had launched this program nationwide to address the dipping child sex ratio and empower girl child in the country. The aim of this celebration is to create awareness in the society about the rights of daughters and to provide new opportunities to the daughters for their social and financial development she added.


    Addressing the gathering MLA Muta Gopal said that Telangana Government is giving top priority for welfare of girl child. He said that government is dedicatedly working for women empowerment and girl child education. Kalyana laxmi Scheme is helping in curbing early marriages in girls while Arogya Laxmi is helping pregnant women with nutritious food, he said.


    Kalyan Laxmi , KCR kit, Shadhi Mubharak , Arogya Laxmi were such successful programs implemented for development of women in the state and our chief Minister KCR is intended to ensure that no female member of a house hold would walk miles to carry a pot of water he added.


    Dr. K. Laxman, ex-MLA, Musheerabad is one of the guests for the programme asked the people present during the programme to avail the benefits of various centrally sponsored schemes like Ayushman Bharat, PM-KISSAN, PMAY etc,


    Venkat Reddy , ACP said, SHE TEAMS has been introduced in TS with a motto to provide safety and security to women in Telangana.


    Certificates and prizes were distributed to the winners essay writing competition conducted by ROB on this occasion.


    Earlier, chief guests visited stalls organised by SHE TEAMS, 1098, SAKHI, Nutrition stall which were aimed to sensitize people on safety and development of women.


    Sri Muta Gopal, MLA, Smt.Anuradha Medoju Sr,Regional Director Ministry of Health Family Welfare, , Sri Hari Banu Assistant Director ROB, Smt. Sylvia Fernandez Asst.Director NIN, Sri Venkat Reddy ACP SHE TEAMS, Sri Shrinivas Reddy Comparator, Ramnagar , Sri Srinivas Reddy ,SRD NGO , Women and students of Government high school Musheerabad participated in the event.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1600489) Visitor Counter : 96
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu