      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Orientation workshop on Intensified Mission Indradhanush 2.0 organised by Regional Outreach Bureau
      Posted On: 29 JAN 2020 6:35PM by PIB Hyderabad


    An orientation workshop on Intensified Mission Indradhanush 2.0 was organised today by the Regional Outreach Bureau, at CGO towers Kavadiguda, Hyderabad.


    Addressing the programme the chief guest Shri S.Venkateswar, Director General, Southern Region, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting said “The Artistes hold significant importance in sensitizing people on various problems and issues “. Artists and performing troupes should give the information in a simple way in form of song and drama and help to disseminate health-related information to the public of remote areas, he said.


    Speaking on the occasion Shri P.Chandrashekar, Immunisation Officer, Telangana State said the government is implementing many wellfare programs and health care schemes to improve the health services especially in rural and remote areas. He also said, Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) and Maternal Mortality Ratio (MMR) was a major concern for government of India to start universal immunisation program in 1985 and provide benefits of vaccination to all the children of the country.


    Our Prime minister started The Intensified Mission Indradhanush 2.0 which aims to immunize children below 2 years of age and pregnant women against eight vaccine-preventable diseases for tuberculosis, meningitis, measles, Hepatitis B, tetanus, whooping cough, poliomyelitis and diphtheria he added.


    He said, the state government is also working to improve immunisation coverage to all the children in districts especially in high risk identified areas like khammam, Asifabad , Mulugu & Jayashankar BHupalapally.


    Dr. Murari Prasad , Medical Officer ,WHO said that the ultimate goal of Mission Indradhanush is to ensure full immunization with all available vaccines for children up to two years of age and pregnant women. The first and second rounds were completed and the third and fourth round of the mission will be launched in February and March 2020. He spoke on the benefits and importance about Immunisation to the troupes in detail.


    Dr. Anuradha Medoju, Sr.Regional Director, Regional office for Ministry of Health & Family Welfare Govt of India said that Vaccine-preventable diseases have so many serious complications that can be avoided through immunization. Government has eradicated and eliminated Polio from India. Government is taking all measures to eradicate other vaccine preventable diseases like Diphtheria, tuberculosis etc. she added.


    Dr .P Narahari ,Deputy Director, Mass Media &Communication Officer Medical & Health Department Govt of Telangana , Ravikanth and K.Uma Shankar from UNICEF gave an insight to the participants on flagship program Intensified Mission Indradanush 2.0 .


    Field functionaries of ROB and registered 30 artists from 12 registered from cultural troupes of ROB from Nalgonda, Pedapalli, Jayashankar Bhupallapally , Karimnagar , Mancherial and Nirmal have participated in the workshop.


    Smt. Bharata Laxmi, Assistant Director ROB, Shri Hari Babu Assistant Director and field publicity officers of Nalgonda, Nizamabad and Warangal were also present at the event.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601049) Visitor Counter : 166
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu