      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Credit to media for integrity and accuracy in this crisis situation: L R Vishwanath
      
      Media training will help in sensitizing Journalists on COVID-19: Samudra Gupta Kashyap
      
      PIB and UNICEF collaborate to sensitize media on COVID-19
      Organizes webinar for NorthEast
      Posted On: 06 MAY 2020 4:22PM by PIB Guwahati


    “Media is doing a commendable job in disseminating information with accuracy and integrity in this crisis situation”, said Shri. L. R Vishwanath, Director General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. He was addressing the opening session of the Webinar organized by the Press Information Bureau, Guwahati in collaboration with UNICEF for journalists of seven North Eastern States except Assam in Guwahati today. The first workshop for media representatives from 15 districts of Assam was conducted on 29 April 2020.


    “Media should properly spread the information based on accurate facts on COVID-19 related stories”, said senior journalist, Shri Samudra Gupta Kashyap while addressing the media personnel on ethics in reporting on COVID-19. He further said that they must be sensitive while covering stories during this crisis situation. Media must attribute to the official sources while making news story & it should not promote any traditional preventive measures suggested by non-official persons, he added.


    The Press Information Bureau, Guwahati organised the Webinar for journalists from 7 North Eastern States & it was conducted today by experts from UNICEF and media, who took sessions on health, child protection, ethical reporting, children’s issues for on-ground reporting and safety guidelines. Around 25 journalists from the 7 States participated in the workshop through video conference.


    While addressing the media, Dr. Madhulika Jonathan, Chief of Field Office, UNICEF Assam said, “ Media, among other agencies, has a critical responsibility. They play an important role in raising awareness, dispelling myths, exposing misleading information, as well as in promoting kindness, preventing stigma and building confidence among people by reporting in a fair manner and on accurate reports”.


    Senior Journalist, Shri Mrinal Talukdar said that report on human interest and success stories from different parts of the North East region must be given due priority. Positive stories along with photographs must be highlighted as the COVID-19 cases are low in North East as comparison to the rest of the country he added. He also stressed on the need for psychological support for every journalist and said that it is very much essential in the field of journalism as much as in any other field.


    Shri Mritunjaya Bose, Bureau Chief of Deccan Herald, Mumbai informed about the situation in Maharastra. He appreciated the role of PIB in disseminating information about government initiatives in tackling COVID-19 situation in the country.


    During the workshop, a handbook for journalists and safety guidelines were shared. These will be disseminated to all media houses in the North-eastern states, as a collaborative effort between UNICEF and PIB NE Zone. The PIB – North East Zonal Office, with eight regional offices across the North East – is a pivotal point for dissemination and feedback between the Government and the People.


    Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, PIB Guwahati in her welcome address, said that the main aim of the workshop is to sensitize the media personnel of north east zone who are in the frontline to cover COVID-19. Shri Gopajit Das, Media and Communication, Press Information Bureau moderated the Webinar.


    *****************

    
    
    (Release ID: 1621402) Visitor Counter : 36
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese