      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      MoS for Food Processing Industries in interview with AIR
      
      North East has immense potential in Food Processing: Teli

      Posted On: 10 MAY 2020 9:12PM by PIB Guwahati

    “North Eastern states have immense potential in food processing sector and it can bring huge economic dividend to the region through employment generation”, Union Minister of State for Food Processing Industries Rameswar Teli said this in an interview aired in the programme “Pratirodh” by All India Radio, Guwahati on Sunday. Sri Teli informed that as the food is the most essential item, his Ministry has directed all food processing industries to resume operations so that there is no shortage of food items during the lockdown period. He also said that almost all the food processing units in the North Eastern states have reopened except in few places where there is a shortage of workers. He informed that the Ministry has appointed Nodal Officers for ensuring restart of these industries.


    Throwing light on the projects in the pipelines, the Minister informed that the Ministry of Food Processing Industries has plans to establish Mega Food Park, one in each of the North Eastern states except in Sikkim, covering an area of 150 bighas by each project. In Assam, the Mega Food Park has already started it’s operation at Tihu in Nalbari District. He informed that The Mega Food Park will contain around 20 to 25 units that will give direct and indirect employments upto five thousand people.


    Another major point highlighted by the Minister was that the Ministry of Food processing will provide upto 75% of subsidies to any entrepreneur who would establish Food Processing Industry in the Northeastern states.


    Speaking in the interview taken by Sri Manas Pratim Sarma, News Editor, AIR, Guwahati Sri. Teli cited the example of Kerala for successful containment of COVID-19 outbreak through close coordination between public and the government and he urged the people of Assam to follow the guidelines issued by Central and State Governments to flatten the curve of COVID19 infection in the state.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1622798) Visitor Counter : 7
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese