      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      DD News Guwahati’s story “Jorhat Celebrity Diaries” bags best weekly story award by Prasar Bharati
      
      Story aimed at setting an example for others to stay home to fight COVID-19 pandemic

      Posted On: 08 MAY 2020 8:25PM by PIB Guwahati

    Regional News Unit, Doordarshan Guwahati’s (RNU Guwahati) story on Jorhat celebrity diaries has been adjudged among the top 5 stories telecast on Doordarshan’s regional network during Lockdown for week ending 26 th April. The story was on what the celebrities including actor Gitawali Rajkumari, singer Prasenjit Lahon , child Bihu artist Rudrani Buragohain are practising during the lockdown days. It highlighted that the lockdown presented an opportunity to all to stay with their near and dear ones. Some experimented with their culinary skills, while others enjoyed reading books. Some spent quality time with their kids while others were busy rehearsing Bihu dance and so on. The report by RNU Guwahati’s Duina Barbaruah also set an example for others to stay home to fight this pandemic.


    “We wanted to do a story where people will sustain their strength from the community itself while facing challenging times. The story need to be rooted in culture of Assam and based in Jorhat” said Partho Chakraborty who conceptualized the story for the daily News show, Sangbad Lohittya in DD Assam.


    “Despite the challenges posed by the pandemic, RNU Guwahati has been successful in bringing to the viewers, the latest on COVID19 from across Assam. In fact, we have started a new half an hour news bulletin titled Sangbad Lohittya which is telecast every Monday to Friday at 8:30 PM in DD Assam . The bulletin besides latest News updates has space for feature stories from Districts” said, Varun Bhardwaj, Joint Director & Head of News, DD News Guwahati.


    The team of Duina Barbarua as reporter, Moshmi Konwar as input editor and Jitumani Ray as Video editor who worked on the story will be awarded an e-certificate by Prasar Bharati besides a cash prize.


    In order to recognize best news stories on COVID-19 across the Regional Doordarshan network for the week and the month, Prasar Bharati has started best story awards on weekly and monthly basis. Five best stories are selected every week and every month to encourage the stringers and casual assignees who are working to give best output despite of the challenges posed by COVID-19.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1622257) Visitor Counter : 8
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese