      Ministry of Railways

      15 pairs of Passenger Special trains to start running from Tuesday
      Posted On: 11 MAY 2020 7:06PM by PIB Guwahati


    Ministry of Railways has decided to gradually restart passenger train services by initially starting with running of special trains from 12 th May, 2020 in specific routes. Through a press release they have informed that 15 pairs of special train will connect 15(fifteen) important cities of the country with New Delhi station only. Ticket booking of these special trains can be done only through IRCTC website (https://www.irctc.co.in). Railway and IRCTC authorized agents are not permitted to book tickets for journey by these special trains for the time being. Railway PRS & ticket booking counters at station will remain closed and no tickets including platform tickets will be sold.


    As informed by the CPRO, NF Railway, Maligaon, in NFR portion 2(two) Passenger special trains will start running with limited stoppages. 12423 / 12424 Dibrugarh – New Delhi – Dibrugarh (Daily) Passenger special will run as per public time table timings from New Delhi w.e.f. 12.05.2020 and from Dibrugarh w.e.f. 14.05.2020 with stoppages only at Mariyani, Dimapur, Lumding, Guwahati, Kokrajhar, New Jalpaiguri, Katihar Jn, Barauni Jn, Danapur, Pd. Dd Upadhyaya Jn, Prayagraj Jn, and Kanpur Central stations during its both way journeys. And 20501/ 20502 Agartala – New Delhi – Agartala (Weekly) Passenger special will run as per public time table timings from New Delhi w.e.f. 18.05.2020 (Monday) and from Agartala w.e.f. 20.05.2020 (Wednesday) with stoppages only at Badarpur Jn, Guwahati, Kokrajhar, New Jalpaiguri, Katihar Jn, Barauni Jn, Patliputra, Pd. Dd Upadhyaya Jn and Kanpur Central stations during its both way journey.


    As informed, the fare structure of these special trains will be like regular time-tabled Rajdhani express train / or as per the regular time-tabled train category excluding the catering charges. Passenger with confirmed journey tickets will be only be allowed to enter the station.


    The Ministry of Railways has made it is mandatory for all passengers to wear mask and undergo thermal screening before entering station and will allow only asymptomatic passengers to board the train. As informed, the online cancellations are permitted upto 24 hrs before the scheduled departure of the train and Cancellation charges will be 50% of the fare.


    The Ministry of Railways has stated that the Maximum advance reservation period (ARP) for journey by these trains are 7(seven) days only. Only person with confirm journey tickets can undertake journey. No RAC or Wait listed tickets are allowed, neither on-board ticketing by ticket checking staff is permitted. Current booking, Tatkal booking and premium Tatkal booking are also not allowed.


    Moreover, the Ministry has said that catering charges will not be included in the fare and there will be no provision of e-catering and pre-paid meal booking. However, IRCTC will provide only limited amount of eatables and drinking water only on payment basis if asked for. No linen and blankets will be provided to any passenger. All such information will be available to passenger during the time of ticket booking itself at the website.


    The Ministry informed that these special trains are in additions to the Shramik Special Trains which are in operations from various locations of the country as per request of the respective state governments.


    ***


    

    
    (Release ID: 1623064) Visitor Counter : 8