      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Webinar on COVID-19 will help in sensitising the journalists: L R Vishwanath
      
      Media must attribute to the official sources while covering COVID-19: Samudra Gupta Kashyap
      
      PIB and UNICEF collaborate to sensitize media on COVID-19
      
      Organizes webinar for Assam
      Posted On: 13 MAY 2020 5:16PM by PIB Guwahati


    The Webinar on COVID-19 will surely help in sensitising the journalist who are in frontline to cover the pandemic said Shri L. R Vishwanath, Director General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. He was addressing the opening session of the 3 rd Webinar organized by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati in collaboration with UNICEF for journalists of Assam in Guwahati today. The first workshop for media representatives from 12 districts of Assam was conducted on 29 th April and the second workshop was conducted on 6 th May 2020 respectively.


    Media must attribute to the official sources while making news story & it should not promote any traditional preventive measures suggested by non-official persons said senior journalist, Shri Samudra Gupta Kashyap while addressing the media personnel on ethics in reporting on COVID-19. He further said that media should properly spread the information based on accurate facts on COVID-19 related stories.


    The Press Information Bureau, Guwahati organised the Webinar for journalists from 21 districts of Assam & it was conducted today by experts from UNICEF and media, who took sessions on health, child protection, ethical reporting, children’s issues for on-ground reporting and safety guidelines. More than 30 journalists from the 21 districts along with the DIPRO’s of the districts participated in the workshop through video conference.


    While addressing the media, Dr Madhulika Jonathan, Chief of Field Office, UNICEF Assam said, “Media, among other agencies, has a critical responsibility. They play an important role in raising awareness, dispelling myths, exposing misleading information, as well as in promoting kindness, preventing stigma and building confidence among people by reporting in a fair manner and on accurate reports”.


    Senior Journalist, Shri Mrinal Talukdar said that report on human interest and success stories from different parts of the North East region must be given due priority. Positive stories along with photographs must be highlighted as the COVID-19 cases are low in North East as comparison to the rest of the country he added.


    Shri. Varun Bhardwaj, Joint Director of DD News Guwahati talked about the role of Doordarshan as a Public Service Broadcaster during COVID-19. He asserted that DD News Guwahati is trying to maintain the credibility and authenticity intact while covering COVID-19.


    Shri Manas Pratim Sarma, News Editor, All India Radio Guwahati also talked about role of AIR in creating mass awareness during COVID-19.


    Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, PIB Guwahati in her closing remarks said that the main aim of the workshop is to sensitize the media personnel of Assam who are in the frontline to cover COVID-19. Shri Gopajit Das, Media and Communication, Press Information Bureau moderated the Webinar.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1623616) Visitor Counter : 5