      PIB Headquarters

      R SRAVAN S RAO TAKES OVER AS INDIAN OIL’S STATE HEAD FOR TELANGANA & ANDHRA PRADESH
      Posted On: 18 FEB 2020 7:54PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Mr R Sravan S Rao has taken over as the Executive Director & State Head of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd for the states of Telangana & Andhra Pradesh. He takes over from Mr. Rahul Bhardwaj, who’s since taken up an assignment in the Marketing Head Office of Indian Oil.
    
    Prior to this posting, Mr. RSS Rao, has been heading the Secretariat of Director (Marketing) in Indian Oil’s Marketing Head Office at Mumbai, monitoring the execution of several strategic marketing initiatives of IndianOil. He brings to the position of state head, an extensive grasp and keen insight of the wide range of Divisional operations of the IndianOil. As the convener of the core strategic group meetings of the senior management of IndianOil for several years, he has interfaced intensively with all other Divisions of IndianOil including Business Development, gathering valuable insights and knowledge of corporate governance in the process.


    
    Hailing from Hyderabad, he holds a Post Graduate degree in Chemical Engineering from Osmania University besides having attended courses from premier management institutions.
    
    Mr. Rao has over three decades of experience in Indian Oil, primarily in LPG with its functional verticals of Operations, Engineering and Salesin the states of Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh. Earlier during his stint in Secunderabad Area Office, he spearheaded the implementation of the first In-house developed LPG Distributor Software. His seminal contribution to the improvement in commercial/industrial LPG sales is well recognized. Besides he significantly contributed to the first phase of AADHAR based LPG Cylinder Deliveries.


    

    **

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603584) Visitor Counter : 142
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu