      Ministry of Home Affairs

      MoS Home Affairs Kishan Reddy inaugurated National Cyber Research, Innovation & Capacity Centre at CDTI campus, Hyderabad
      The Centre will play an important role in helping the nation prepare itself to face cyber threats-MoS

      Posted On: 24 FEB 2020 6:59PM by PIB Hyderabad

    The Minister of state for Home Affairs Shri G. Kishan Reddy inaugurated the National Cyber Research, Innovation & Capacity Centre at CDTI campus, Hyderabad today. The minister in his inaugural address said that the National Cyber Research Innovation and Capacity Building centre plays an important role in helping the nation prepare itself to face cyber threats while working for promotion of innovation in the area to keep India ahead of others in the domain.


    
    The minister said that CDTI is one of the seven verticals under Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) and highlights the growing relevance of continuous research and innovation in our fight against cyber crime. He congratulated the Bureau of Police Research & Development for taking up this crucial project, wherein they have materialized the concept of a dedicated centre for Cyber research, Innovation and capacity building.


    
    There is no doubt that such a centre is the need of the hour. With the proliferation of Information Technology life has become easier. But technology itself is a double edged weapon and therefore criminals misuse it for ulterior purposes. The world in general and India in particular has witnessed a rise in cyber crime during the last decade. Fighting cyber menace is increasingly becoming a global challenge. Our dependence on technology coupled with the government’s intention for digitalisation has created demand for cyber space. He added.


    Shri Reddy further said that today Every Indian in one way or the other uses cyber space. We make online payments which mandate our sharing of certain data. We are not sure of the security protocol that the respective companies follow. We use smart phones with multiple features and very often don't understand the right way of using them. By using technology criminals may access our phone and the data. Then, the Obvious follows. Technology can make our lives comfortable and they can also make our lives miserable. It is therefore very important to ensure that cyber technology is not misused. Criminals, especially tech-savvy criminals exploit the dynamic nature of technology and use it to their advantage.


    
    Appreciating the imperative of a dedicated centre that can carry out research and innovate new technology for making the lives of people better, and to pre-empt the designs of those who are involved in cyber crimes, The Ministry of Home Affairs conceptualised such centers all across India. Our aim, therefore, is to anticipate new domains of cyber crime and prevent them before the crimes actually take place. He added.


    
    The Minister said that the selection of Hyderabad for the centre is strategic. With organisations like CCMB, CDFD, IIT, a slew of DRDO establishments in the government sector, a host of world class IT companies in private sector, Hyderabad figures amongst the top cities of the world in IT development.


    
    The Minister recalled that Hon’ble prime Minister Sri Narendra Modi has recently launched 5 labs across India which are called Young Scientists Laboratories under DRDO. The purpose of these labs is just research and innovation. The maximum age upto which one can work in these labs is 35. You can very well understand the intent of the Prime Minister - That young brains which are fresh and bubble with enthusiasm should be tapped for research and innovation .This is also ample proof of how much importance the Government of India gives for innovation and research.


    
    Innovation in cyber crime research is more important. Criminals who exploit the lacunae of smart devices and high-end technology are clever and crafty. Therefore the responsibility of this centre is greater. Emerging technologies across the globe need to be understood, and research carried out to see if they could be used negatively, and deterrent measures need to developed accordingly.


    The minister also said that the MHA is also working on setting up of Regional Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (R4C) in the States. It is in collaboration with I4C to further strengthen the cyber combat capabilities of the nation. CDTI Hyderabad will prove to be a central hub for entire South India. He added.


    DG, BPR&D Shri Kaumudi, IG, BPR&D Shri Karuna Sagar& other senior officials from Telangana Police, CAPFs were also present on the occasion.


    
    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604225) Visitor Counter : 18
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu