      PIB Headquarters

      COAST GUARD LAW AND OPERATIONS COURSE COMPLETED
      Posted On: 07 AUG 2018 6:10PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    58 Assistant Commandants of the 66th Batch passed out of the portals of Indian Coast Guard Training Centre on successful completion of CG Law and Operations Course today. On this occasion, an impressive Passing Out Parade (POP) was held at Indian Coast Guard District Headquarters No. 4, Kochi. The Passing Out Parade was reviewed by Inspector General Vijay D Chafekar, PTM, TM, Commander Coast Guard Region (West).


    During the ceremonial review, the chief guest awarded book prizes to the meritorious trainee officers. Assistant Commandant Sahil Chopra was awarded 1 st prize for scoring highest marks in the passing out batch. The coveted “Director General Sword of Honour” for the 65th Batch was awarded to Assistant Commandant Ankit Sharma for standing first in overall order of merit.


    Speaking on the occasion, Inspector General Vijay D Chafekar congratulated the officers and Staff of CGTC for ensuring sustained high quality training in preparing the trainees to become best instruments of service and the nation . He said that the country had reposed tremendous faith in the Coast Guard Service and urged each trainee officer to live upto it in order to prove their worth through proactive, prompt and result oriented decisive action. He further asked the trainee officers to hone the skills they have gained during their training and reiterated the need to continuously strive for setting high standards of professionalism and conduct. He exhorted the officers to uphold the stature, honour and the glorious tradition of the service at all times.


    During the 10.2 weeks CG Law and Operations Course, the officers were imparted instructions on Coast Guard specific subjects such as Maritime Law, Search and Rescue, Fisheries Monitoring & Control, Prevention and Control of Marine Pollution and other subjects related to the CG Charter of Duties. The training at CGTC (K) has been conducted with due impetus to build up professional calibre, broad base knowledge and critical thinking skills needed for taking up assignments on state of art ICG ships and also prepare the trainees to hone their abilities to handle unanticipated and unpredictable situations at sea.


    The POP was witnessed by a large number of senior Naval and Coast Guard Officers and families as well as civilian dignitaries.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542056) Visitor Counter : 2