      Ministry of Steel

      Ministry of Steel to take lead role in transforming & turning around Steel PSUs and bringing accountability and result-oriented approach in their working
      There will be zero tolerance for laxity in performance says Steel Minister Shri Birender Singh
      Posted On: 06 SEP 2017 3:37PM by PIB Delhi


    In his weekly review meeting with senior officials of Ministry of Steel in New Delhi on 5th September, the Union Minister of Steel Shri Birender Singh, tasked the Ministry officials to play active role in transforming and turning around Steel PSUs. Senior Ministry officials will be given responsibility of monitoring the performance of individual steel plants by on-ground visits and reviews, he added. These officials will check the progress of each plant in terms of achievements of the targets set out for them. It is noteworthy that Ministry of Steel had earlier constituted an Expert Committee, which has made recommendations for improving production and productivity of these plants. While outlining the agenda for the future, the Minister remarked that no laxity will be tolerated at any level, and there has to be accountability and a result-oriented approach built into the work culture of Ministry of Steel and the PSUs. He also directed the Ministry officials to work on instituting an award of “Plant of Excellence” for the best performing Plant among Steel PSUs, so that other Plants can get inspired to excel. The steel production target of 300 million tonnes set in the National Steel Policy-2017 will have to be broken down year-wise and exponential annual increase will have to be ensured for realistic achievement, the Minister added.


    He appreciated the accomplishments in the past and stated that steel sector has much more potential which needs to be harnessed for the vision of “Make in Steel for Make in India.”


    The Secretary Steel, Dr. Aruna Sharma, Joint Secretaries and other officials from Ministry of Steel attended the meeting.


    YSK/MI

    
    
    (Release ID: 1501898) Visitor Counter : 195