      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Youth Sports Centre to come up at Alipur, Delhi: Vijay Goel
      Posted On: 01 SEP 2017 4:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel has announced that a new Youth Sports Centre to be built at Alipur, Delhi. Announcing this here today he said there is an aspiration amongst the youth of rural Delhi to have a State of the Art Youth Sports Centre at par with best facilities in the city since no such facility exists in rural Delhi. He said, the project has been envisioned so that maximum rural youth can avail the facility for their overall development and promotion of sports in rural areas of the capital. Shri Goel said the proposed Centre will come up on the NYKS land adjacent to Swami Shraddhanand College of Delhi University. NYKS has a land measuring about 11 acre out of which 8 acre will be utilized for the Sports Centre. Shri Goel said the complex will have State of the art sports facilities such as football ground, an Athletic track, as well as volley ball, kabaddi and kho-kho facilities besides a multipurpose indoor hall for training players in Boxing & wrestling. A modern gym will also be developed. SAI will create SAI training centre at this complex in the next three years.


    He said this will have a 200 bed Youth Hostel and facilities for providing training for Youth Leadership, Skill Development, Life Skills, National Integration, Cultural and Folk Art activities and will also have an Information facility for providing relevant information to the youth about the Flagship Schemes of Govt. of India for their development and welfare.


    In a unique arrangement both Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS) and Sports Authority of India (SAI) will jointly create and run this unique Youth Sports Centre.


    This centre will provide for over all fitness and personality Development for youth, Career guidance as well as identification of sports talent for further grooming at National Level.


    The entire facility will be used for multiple purposes by both the organizations i.e. NYKS & SAI. Apart from the same, the facility will also be used for local community development.


    An amount of about Rs. 20 crore will be spent on the project.


    *****


    AD/MB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1501461) Visitor Counter : 76