      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Swachhta Pakhwada Celebration at Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology
      Posted On: 02 SEP 2017 4:10PM by PIB Delhi


    
    Swachhta Pakhwada was observed in the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY) from 1st to 15th August, 2017 with great enthusiasm and active participation of the officers/staff members of MeitY and its offices. Day-wise Action plan was prepared for implementation which consisted of both motivational and physical activities.
    
    Shri P.P. Chaudhary, Minister of State for Electronics and Information Technology and Law and Justice, administered a pledge to all the officers and staff on 01.08.2017 and delivered an inaugural message highlighting the importance of cleanliness in our day to day functioning and urged all to maintain a clean/green environment to realize the Swachh Bharat vision of our Prime Minister. As part of Government of India’s initiative for giving a fillip to renewable energy programme, Shri Chaudhary also inaugurated the 200KW Rooftop Solar Power Plant, recently installed in the Electronics Niketan building of MeitY.
    
    To spread the message of cleanliness and hygiene and to increase the participation of every individual of Ministry in Swachhta Pakhwada, Swachh Bharat Messages/slogans were widely publicized / displayed.
    
    To create awareness about environmental hazards caused due to unorganized disposal of old / discarded electronic devices and the ways and means for its proper disposal, a Lecture was organized on e-Waste management. A training class on e-office was also arranged to give exposure to the officers and staff on the working of the e-office system towards achieving a ‘Paperless office’.
    
    As an initiative towards achieving a greener, safer and eco-friendly environment, a circular was issued by Ministry to minimise/optimize the use of plastic in MeitY and its offices. 40% of the lights of the building were also replaced with energy efficient LED light fittings.
    
    The general cleaning activities were scaled up around the entire office premises. Vermi-Composting pit was also dug for formation of natural manure.
    
    In addition to above, few important activities amongst various the activities, performed by the offices under MeitY, are as follows:
    
    NIC conducted a Workshop on Swachh Bharat Mission activities and also on Institutional Sanitation and Individual responsibilities for Swachh campus. A competition inviting innovative ideas on Swachh Bharat was also conducted and prizes were awarded to the winners. NIELIT/its sub-centres conducted essay/slogan competition and lecture/workshop on e-Waste Management and conveyed messages to their students about cleanliness. The students also participated in the cleaning of their campus/hostel. A Poster/slogan competition on the theme “Mera Bharat Swachh Bharat” was organized on 12.08.2017 by NeGD, in which students from various neighbouring schools participated.
    
    The Pakhwada culminated on 15.08.2017. On closing day, Nukkad Natak on the importance of Swachhta was performed by some employees of MeitY and its offices .Thereafter, Shri Chaudhary, Hon’ble Minister of State awarded certificates to the winners of the poster/slogan competition. Finally, tree plantation was done by him along with officers of MeitY.

    ******


    
    
    NNK/MD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1501518) Visitor Counter : 172