      Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs

      Smt Sumitra Mahajan Inaugurates Exhibition-cum-Seminar
      ‘New India – We Resolve to Make’
      Posted On: 01 SEP 2017 12:44PM by PIB Delhi


    Smt Sumitra Mahajan, The Speaker, Loksabha inaugurated Exhibition-cum-Seminar ‘New India – We Resolve to Make’ here today. Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi was present on this occasion. Shri Rajiv Yadav, Secretary, Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs was also present on this occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, Smt Sumitra Mahajan, The Speaker, Loksabha said that this programme is not just an exhibition, it is like a Sankalp. India got independence just in 5 years of starting Quit India Movement due to its Sankalp. Every freedom fighter fought for Independence in a different method. In Loksabha, all parties have made a Sankalp to make a New India in next 5 years. She also said that Exhibition is for children who is our future of India to know that our India’s rich traditions and to make a New India in a better way.


    Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs said that very few people who participated in August Kranti Andolan are alive today. In this context, it is very important to make our children know about how we have got our Independence. With programmes like these children would be connecting with the freedom struggle. Government is making every effort to take everyone in Sankalp se Sidhi to make India free of corruption; free of poverty; free of filth; free of communalism; free of terrorism and free of casteism. We have taken a pledge to make a New India by 2022.


    Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs coordinated in organizing Exhibition-cum-Seminar in association with willing Central Public Sector Units (CPSUs) at 39 places across the county on the theme ‘Naya Bharat – Karke Rahenge’ or ‘New India – We Resolve to Make’ to commemorate the 75 years of Quit India Movement and forthcoming 75 years of Independence in 2022.


    The focus of the exhibitions will be on India’s freedom movement from 1857 to 1947 showing the various activities initiated to attain the freedom from the British rule- “The First War of Independence, 1857”, “The Champaran Satyagrah”, “The Non-cooperation Movement”, “The Dandi Yatra” and “The Quit India Movement”. Besides this, the period of five years from 1942 to 1947 will be reflected to show how the movement of India’s struggle for freedom transformed the entire country into one to fight for the freedom from the British Rule and in the end, the vision of new India from 2017 to 2022 will be showcased, when we will be celebrating 75 years of India’s Independence.


    The five year period from 2017 to 2022 is to give a unique opportunity of ‘Sankalp se Sidhi’ towards a ‘New India’. This programme is in tune with the mass campaign started by the Prime Minister to take the six resolves to make the country- free of corruption; free of poverty; free of filth; free of communalism; free of terrorism and free of casteism. This programme is organized with the purpose of spreading Prime Minister’s message amongst the people of the country to help in achieving the vision of new India.


    ******


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1501442) Visitor Counter : 235