      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Arunachal CM calls on Dr Jitendra Singh, discusses State related issues
      Posted On: 13 SEP 2017 8:34PM by PIB Delhi


    Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh, Shri Pema Khandu called on Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today and discussed a wide range of State related issues.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh informed Shri Khandu that his request regarding deputation of certain IAS officers in the State had been processed as desired and the needful would be done very soon.
    
    Referring to the recent visit by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi to assess the flood situation in Arunachal Pradesh and other affected States, Dr Jitendra Singh disclosed that Rs.10,000 crore flood relief package announced by the Prime Minister is an indication of the Central Government’s concern and high priority for the people of the region. He also disclosed that the Ministry of DoNER is sponsoring a research study through Brahmaputra Study Centre at Guwahati University to evaluate the ways of preventing such flood-like situation in future. The Chief Minister informed him that the flood situation has now almost come back to normal and the follow-up action has also been carried out effectively.
    
    In reference to some of the major projects in Northeast during the last three years, Dr Jitendra Singh mentioned about the new State Secretariat Building at Itanagar, which had been funded by the Ministry of DoNER. He also expressed the hope that the construction work will start soon to set up a Film and Television Institute in the State.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh expressed satisfaction that the land identification and acquisition process for setting up an Airport at Itanagar has been finalized even though after some delay. He said, the major achievements of three years of the Central Government will include the setting up of the first-ever airport in the State and also at the same time, bringing Arunachal Pradesh on the rail-map of India. Dr Jitendra Singh said, the Ministry of DoNER is coordinating with the other concerned Ministries for promotion of tourism and entrepreneurship through fruit industry, etc.
    
    Shri Pema Khandu appreciated Dr Jitendra Singh for his keen personal interest in the development of the region and said, Arunachal Pradesh, being one of the peripheral and lesser developed States, finds itself immensely benefitted because of the liberal support from the Prime Minister and diligent efforts of the DoNER Minister.

    *****


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502767) Visitor Counter : 141