      Vice President's Secretariat

      Every city in the country should become a Smart City: Vice President
      
      Performs Bhoomi Poojan for Ranchi Smart City

      Posted On: 09 SEP 2017 7:40PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that every city in the country should become Smart City and we must put efforts in that direction. He was addressing the gathering after performing Bhoomi Poojan for the Ranchi Smart City, in Ranchi, Jharkhand today. He also laid foundation stone for Urban Civic Tower, Convention Centre and Jharkhand Urban Planning and Management Institute in the Campus of Ranchi Smart City Area. The Governor of Jharkhand, Smt. Droupadi Murmu, the Chief Minister of Jharkhand, Shri Raghubar Das, the Minister for Urban Development and Housing Department, Government of Jharkhand, Shri C.P. Singh and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.

    
    The Vice President said that the state of Jharkhand is adorned with natural beauty and forty percent of India's mineral wealth is in the state. He further said that mineral resources of Jharkhand should be used for public welfare, especially for the person standing last in the line. For the success of the Smart City transparency and order in the system is also required, he added.
    
    The Vice President said that the Smart City means beautiful, where all types of facilities are available to the citizens. He further said that electricity, drinking water, better education, medical and transportation facilities are available. For the smart city, the role of public representatives and general public with the government is crucial and together, all should contribute for the formulation of this.
    
    The Vice President said that there is no place for violence in democracy and those who commit violence should never be encouraged. The security of each person is very important and peace needed for the development, he added.
    
    Following is the text of Vice President's address:
    
    "Friends, I am extremely delighted to lay the foundation stone of Ranchi Smart City.
    
    A total of 90 cities have been selected for smart cities in the entire country and Ranchi in Jharkhand became the first city in the country where Bhoomi Poojan Program for building smart city is concluded, in the coming days Ranchi will become an inspirational city in the country. Selection of Ranchi is not merely selected as I was Urban Development Minister, but Ranchi has all those points which were necessary for the selection of a Smart City. All citizens of the state should discharge their responsibility for the construction of this smart city and decide your role in the task. The people will participate in the programme if the government is transparent, accountable and trustworthy.
    
    No plan can be successful without the participation of the people. Smart City project is given to Ranchi with the efforts of citizens of Ranchi. Ranchi will be the country's first Green Field Smart City. This city will be an inspiration for entire Jharkhand.
    
    Jharkhand is having 40% of country's minerals, abundant natural resources and a visionary Chief Minister. Just make the people of the state smart and take advantage of this opportunity to ensure their participation.
    
    If the world is moving then why should we stay behind? It is necessary for the country that all the cities of India are smart and this is also the goal of our Prime Minister. People need to change their thinking. People think that what will happen if we become a smart city, they come out from such a thinking. The smart city will work for the state as a light house and help people to move in the right direction, as in the ocean the light house indicates the ships the correct path.
    
    If Smart City is there, then there will be other necessary facilities, including better health, education, basic amenities. The Center and the State Government are providing 500-500 crore rupees for the construction of Smart City, but all of us have to dedicate ourselves to the resources to build it.
    
    Smart City means beautiful city, where all facilities are available for citizens. Facilities like electricity, drinking water, education, medical, transportation etc. It will be a success only when we work with transparency and accountability. Jharkhand has to give a message to the whole country by completing the Ranchi Smart City in time.
    
    When I was the Minister of Rural Development in the then Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee's Government, he thought of strengthening the National Highway, which was also opposed why tax payers money is spent for the road construction. But Shri Vajpayee created the four National Highways and facilitated the movement of people, everyone accepted it and welcomed the change. Later I told Shri Vajpayee the plan to build roads in the village, it was also opposed. But the Pradhanmantri Gram Sadak Yojana was launched by showing his zeal for the development of the village and went on joining the village to the city. It is necessary to understand that we need to change with time. Center, state government, panchayat and general public all should discharge their responsibilities.
    
    State will develop as long as the law and order in the state is normal. The theory and ideology are different. Those who oppose should convince the people with their ideology and come out through elections and become Chief Minister, Prime Minister and People Representatives. It will be acceptable to all but it is not your right to do this with the gun. The Vice President said that violence has diminished in Jharkhand to a large extent. Human rights activists raise voice only when the Maoists are killed, but they should also raise their voice when a Policeman martyrs. Those who commit violence should not get encouragement.

    

    *****


    
    KSD/BK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502266) Visitor Counter : 125