      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister concludes his 4-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir
      Centre to give 3000 jobs to migrants from Kashmir valley: Shri Rajnath Singh
      
      Posted On: 12 SEP 2017 3:04PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh concluded his four-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir today. He was accompanied by the Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba and senior officers of Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh joined the Home Minister in Srinagar since yesterday.


    Addressing a press conference in Jammu today, Shri Rajnath Singh said that the Centre is trying to give equitable development to all the 3 regions of J&K. Several projects are under implementation under PMDP. The Centre has decided to give 3000 jobs to migrants from Kashmir valley and Rs 1080 crores have been sanctioned to the state under this head, he further said. He also said that the Government has increased the compensation for those who get killed in ceasefire violations from Rs 1 lakh to 5 lakh. He said that Pakistan has violated ceasefire on more than 400 times in recent years. Pakistan will have to stop these violations sooner or later, he asserted.


    Highlighting other initiatives, he said that the Government has also decided to construct 6000 Transit Accommodation in the Kashmir valley. He said that the Government has also allocated a package of Rs 2000 crores for the rehabilitation of POJK migrants. The disbursal has been linked to AADHAAR, he added.


    Shri Rajnath Singh said that he has been on J&K visit for the past four days. He visited Nowshera yesterday and met the people living in border areas and jawans of BSF. He said that we cannot forget the contribution made by people living in border areas. The Home Minister said that the Government has decided to constitute an expert/study group to study the problems facing the people living in border areas.


    The Home Minister met various delegations in Jammu including political parties, 'Panun Kashmir', Gujjar Bakarwal community and delegations from different sections of the J&K society.


    The Union Home Minister had arrived in Srinagar on September 09, 2017 on a 4-day visit to the state. During his visit, he met the Governor Shri N. N. Vohra and Chief Minister Ms. Mehbooba Mufti. He also reviewed the status of implementation of the Prime Minister's Development Package (PMDP) for Jammu and Kashmir with the Chief Minister, Deputy Chief Minister Dr. Nirmal Kumar Singh, Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba, Chief Secretary of J&K, Shri BB Vyas and Senior Officers of the MHA and State Government. He also chaired a high-level Security Review Meeting in Srinagar on the law and order and security situation in the State.


    ************


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502490) Visitor Counter : 161