      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister launches “Swachhta Hi Sewa” campaign of Ministry of Home Affairs
      Posted On: 15 SEP 2017 3:25PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh launched the “Swachhta Hi Sewa” campaign of Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), at ITBP campus, Tigri here today. A ‘Swachhta pledge’ was also administered by the Union Home Minister to the Force personnel on this occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Rajnath Singh said that the Government is confident to fulfill Prime Minister’s vision of making India Open Defecation Free (ODF) by October, 2019. He said that providing toilet facility at home will ensure safety and dignity of women. He also said that ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa’ campaign will help in improving nutrition and productivity of our children. For Swachhta, the Government is implementing Rs 12,000 crore Action Plan through 76 ministries, he added. He said that the use of technology for creating wealth from waste is Government’s priority.


    Shri R.K. Pachnanda, DG, ITBP conveyed his gratitude to the Home Minister and MHA for giving the opportunity to the ITBP for hosting “Swachhta Hi Sewa” campaign programme and assured that the Force will participate in the campaign in letter and spirit.


    The Home Minister along with senior ITBP officers and jawans participated in cleanliness drive around the unit campus. A Swachhta demonstration by ITBP’s women personnel was presented. Theme song created and composed by ITBP personnel on cleanliness was also presented.


    The Swachhta drive undertaken today will culminate on Gandhi Jayanti i.e. 2nd October, 2017. The Ministry of Home Affairs and all Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) will clean the areas in and around official and other premises. The MHA will undertake cleanliness drive in all rooms, and vicinity of North Block, NDCC-II building etc for awareness generation and community mobilization activities.


    *****


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502985) Visitor Counter : 180