      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Water storage level of 91 major reservoirs of the country goes up by one per cent
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2017 5:31PM by PIB Delhi


    The water storage available in 91 major reservoirs of the country for the week ending on September 14, 2017 was 92.51 BCM which is 59% of total storage capacity of these reservoirs. This percentage was at 58 for the week ending on September 07, 2017. The level of water storage in the week ending on September 14, 2017 was 86% of the storage of corresponding period of last year and 81% of storage of average of last ten years.


    The total storage capacity of these 91 reservoirs is 157.799 BCM which is about 62% of the total storage capacity of 253.388 BCM which is estimated to have been created in the country. 37 Reservoirs out of these 91 have hydropower benefit with installed capacity of more than 60 MW.


    REGION WISE STORAGE STATUS:-


    NORTHERN REGION


    The northern region includes States of Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan. There are six reservoirs under Central Water omission (CWC) monitoring having total live storage capacity of 18.01 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 15.48 BCM which is 86% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 79% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 81% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the corresponding period of last year and is also better than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    EASTERN REGION


    The Eastern region includes States of Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and Tripura. There are 15 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 18.83 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 11.68 BCM which is 62% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 78% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 71% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the corresponding period of last year and is also less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    WESTERN REGION


    The Western region includes States of Gujarat and Maharashtra. There are 27 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 27.07 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 19.15 BCM which is 71% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 74% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 75% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the storage of last year and is also less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    CENTRAL REGION


    The Central region includes States of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. There are 12 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 42.30 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 24.94 BCM which is 59% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 86% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 71% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the storage of last year and is also less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    SOUTHERN REGION


    The Southern region includes States of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, AP&TG (Two combined projects in both states) Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. There are 31 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 51.59 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 21.27 BCM which is 41% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 42% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 70% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the corresponding period of last year and is also less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    States having better storage than last year for corresponding period are Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Tripura, Telangana, Karnataka and Kerala. States having equal storage than last year for corresponding period are Maharashtra and Uttarakhand. S tates having lesser storage than last year for corresponding period are Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, AP&TG (Two combined projects in both states), Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.


    Samir/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502866) Visitor Counter : 147