      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Training Workshop for Indian Zoo Veterinarians Concludes at Delhi Zoo
      Posted On: 15 SEP 2017 2:14PM by PIB Delhi


      A four-day training workshop was organized by the Central Zoo Authority in collaboration with the Smithsonian National Zoological Park, Washington D.C, USA and National Zoological Park New Delhi, on “Capacity Building of Indian Zoo Veterinarians on Animal Health Management in Captivity from September 11-14, 2017 in New Delhi”. The training workshop was inaugurated by Union Minister for Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan on September 11, 2017 at Ganga Auditorium of Indira Paryavaran Bhavan. The training workshop was attended by eighteen veterinarians from eighteen zoos in India.


      Soon after the inauguration of the workshop, all the participants arrived at the National Zoological Park. The training workshop was conducted by Dr. Jessica Seigsl-Willott, Dr. Budhan Pukazhenthi and Mr. Anthony Coulbourn Barthel of Smithsonian National Zoological Park, Washington D.C, USA .


      On the first day of the workshop, the participants were taught about the procedure of performing successful immobilization, capture and restraint. On the second day, a Jaguar was immobilized in the sequence of immobilization; examination of the animal, sample collection, (blood draw for CBC/Chem/bank) checked microchips and then monitored recovery. This was followed by a roundtable discussion among participants (success, challenges, discussions and questions), dart preparation and dart practice. On September 13, 2017, immobilization of a Jungle cat was done in the sequence of immobilization, examination of the animal, sample collection, (blood draw for CBC/Chem/bank) checking microchips and then monitored recovery. This was followed by another roundtable discussion among participants (success, challenges, discussions and questions). A Classroom session continued on discussion of field diseases, and operant conditioning.


      On the concluding day of the workshop on September 14, 2017, a white tiger was immobilized in the sequence of immobilization, examination of the animal, sample collection, (blood draw for CBC/Chem/bank) check microchips and then monitored recovery. This was followed by a roundtable discussion among participants (success, challenges, discussions and questions).


      The closing session of the training workshop was chaired by the Chief Wildlife Warden of Himachal Pradesh, Shri Ramesh Kang. Member Secretary, CZA, Dr. D. N. Singh, elaborated the idea behind conducting such a training in collaboration with Smithsonian National Zoological Park, Washington D.C, USA. Director, National Zoological Renu Singh, delivered the vote of thanks. At the end, the participants said that the workshop will benefit them to work confidently on the subject at their respective work places.


      A group photograph at the conclusion of the workshop


      ***


      HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502962) Visitor Counter : 257