      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister chairs high-level meeting in Srinagar to review security in J&K
      Various political delegations call on Shri Rajnath Singh

      Posted On: 10 SEP 2017 8:57PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh chaired a high-level Security Review Meeting in Srinagar today on the law and order and security situation in the State. Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Shri NN Vohra, Chief Minister Ms. Mehbooba Mufti, Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba and Senior Officers of the Army, CAPFs, Security Forces besides State Administration were present.

    
    Earlier, delegations of various national and regional parties called on the Union Home Minister. Yesterday, Shri Rajnath Singh had held discussions with as many as 33 civil society delegations comprising more than 200 members representing traders, tour operators, farmers, youth associations and other groups.
    
    The Union Home Minister also visited the Jammu and Kashmir Police Lines and CRPF camp in Anantnag district today. He was accompanied by the State’s Deputy Chief Minister Dr. Nirmal Kumar Singh and Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba.
    
    The Union Home Minister said that the nation is indebted to the supreme sacrifices made by the Security Forces and no amount of money can compensate their sacrifice. He said we will again make J&K into a “heaven on earth” and no force can stop the country from achieving this goal. Shri Rajnath Singh said this is his fifth visit to the State within the space of a year. Reiterating the commitment of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, the Union Home Minister assured that the Centre will provide all assistance to the State and resolve all issues of the Security Forces including Housing and Welfare activities for the jawans.
    
    On the third day of his visit tomorrow, Shri Rajnath Singh will address a press conference in Srinagar before visiting relief camps at Nowshera in Rajouri district and interact with BSF jawans at Rajouri. He will arrive in Jammu later in the afternoon and meet various delegations.

    *****


    
    
    KSD/BV/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502287) Visitor Counter : 119