      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Kiren Rijiju inaugurates first National Conference on “Uniformed Women in Prison Administration”
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2017 6:53PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Kiren Rijiju inaugurated the first National Conference on “Uniformed Women in Prison Administration” here today. The two-day Conference for women officers in the ranks of Jailors to Dy. Superintendent of Prisons in States and UTs is being organised by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D), Ministry of Home Affairs. Dr. M. C. Borwankar, DG, BPR&D and senior officers were also present on the occasion.
    
    Addressing on the occasion, Shri Kiren Rijiju expressed happiness to note that such a large number of delegates have attended the conference and virtually the entire India has been represented. He was appreciative of the fact that discussions will take place amongst them so as to gain useful and practicable insights into addressing the lacunae in the Prisons and Correctional Services. He looked forward to the resolutions of the Conference and assured that the Ministry of Home Affairs will make efforts in their implementation. Shri Rijiju also said that this important Conference will be held biannually so as to assess the progress made on the resolutions adopted in the Conference.
    
    More than 90 delegates from 25 States/UTs, representatives from various NGOs working in the field of Prison Reforms, and universities and academia, especially in the NCR Region are attending the Conference.
    
    The conference includes panel discussion on important topics including role of Women Prison Officers in Rehabilitation of Prisoners, Gender Neutrality among Prison Officers – A Woman’s Perspective and Prisoners with Special Needs (Juvenile, Transgender and Senior Citizen) & duties of Prison Officers. It also includes Syndicate Discussions on various important themes.
    
    Ms. Lalitha Kumaramangalam, Chairperson, National Commission for Women (NCW) will be the Chief Guest at the Valedictory Session to be organised tomorrow.

    ******


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502888) Visitor Counter : 125