      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Rajnath Singh inaugurates the new HQs building of Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D)
      Posted On: 08 SEP 2017 7:03PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh inaugurated the new HQs building of Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D), Ministry of Home Affairs here today.
    
    While inaugurating the building, Shri Rajnath Singh appreciated the efforts of BPR&D and the NBCC for timely completion of the project. He appreciated the ambiance and positive environment and hoped that it would motivate the staff working here to perform better. He agreed that the pay structure of certain ranks of deputationists is anomalous and requires to be corrected. The Union Home Minister also agreed that MHA will consider the request of BPR&D for incentive of 30% like other training institutions so that more officers would join the organization willingly.
    
    The Union Home Minister also awarded the Union Home Minister’s Medal for best Police Trainer to Shri Sulkhan Singh, DGP, UP. He also gave away Police Medals to the officials of the BPR&D, namely, Dr. Nirmal Kumar Azad, Inspector General, NPM, Shri Sanjay Sharma, PSO (W), Dr. S. Karthikeyan, Assistant Director, R&CA, Shri Ranveer Singh Gahlot, Dy. SP, CDTS Jaipur and Shri Sudhakar Deshmukh, Assistant, CDTS Hyderabad.
    
    Dr. Meeran C. Borwankar, DG, BPR&D outlined the achievements of the BPR&D in the fields of research and modernization of the Indian Police. Shri V.H. Deshmukh, Director Administration, introduced the latest initiative of BPR&D, i.e. e-Ustad Trainig e-Portal which was launched by the Union Home Minister. Shri Rajnath Singh also released the volume on “Data on Police Organization as on 1.1.2017”, flagship presentation of the BPR&D.
    
    Highlighting the features of the newly constructed building, Dr. A. K. Mittal, CMD, NBCC said that the new headquarters building has been constructed at the cost of Rs. 100 crore approx. by the National Buildings Construction Corporation (India) Limited. This building has modern facilities, such as, state of the art auditorium with seating capacity for 250, 9 big and small conference/syndicate halls, modern library to house 3.5 lakh books, hostel facilities equipped with industrial kitchen having, 52 twin seater rooms. The BPR&D headquarters is fully air conditioned and follows green building norms and has rain-water harvesting system. The campus has sufficient green belt. BPR&D including the NCRB block has a total strength of more than 500 employees, for whom modular workstations have been provided. It has state of the art cafeteria equipped with industrial kitchen and officers lounge.
    
    Dr. Kiran Bedi, Lt. Governor, Puducherry, Shri Rajiv Jain, Director IB, Chief of various CPOs/ CAPFs and other dignitaries were also present on the occasion.

    *****


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502251) Visitor Counter : 125