      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      MoS DoNER Dr Jitendra Singh to inaugurate two-day “North East Calling” festival tomorrow
      Posted On: 08 SEP 2017 3:20PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh will inaugurate the “North East Calling” festival, here tomorrow. The two-day “North East Calling” event is being organised by the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), Government of India under its ‘Destination North East series’ of this year. The purpose of the event is to promote the art, culture, heritage, cuisine, handicrafts, business and tourism of North East India.


    The two-day event will be held at India Gate lawns from 11.00 AM to 10.00 PM. The entry to the venue for the general public is free


    The event will include Music Festival for bands of North-East, Cultural Night for Dances of North-East, Handloom Demo Show presenting the clothes of North-East, Exhibitions of activities being undertaken in NE, stalls by various Central Government ministries showcasing the works being undertaken by them in the region, stalls by State Governments offering opportunities in their states, stalls for Sale of products of NERAMAC and NEHHDC, variety of food stalls including sale of delicacies of NE, contests for all sections of young population to expose them to NE, B2B Summits on Food Processing, Tourism and Start-up opportunities in the North-East. The highlights of the event for the public will be Music Festival, Cultural festival, and live band performances.


    The event coincides with the 16th Anniversary of Ministry of DoNER. In the run-up of to the event, a variety of contests including Photography and Caption Contest, video contest, Choreography Contest for Colleges on the theme “Connect NE”, Quiz Competition for schools and colleges, Best North-Eastern attire in the crowd, Home Chef Contest, have been organised. Winners of these contests will be given awards during the event.


    .


    *****


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502194) Visitor Counter : 89