      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Rajnath Singh to operationalise the New Intelligence Set-up of SSB on 18th September
      Posted On: 15 SEP 2017 4:43PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh will operationalise the New Intelligence Set-up of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) at a function here on September 18, 2017. On the occasion, he will also launch the Welfare and Rehabilitation Board (WARB) App and distribute scholarship to the children of SSB martyrs.
    
    The SSB has been mandated the responsibility of guarding the Indo-Nepal and Indo-Bhutan borders where there are no restrictions on the movement of people on either side. The border population on both sides has strong regional, cultural and economic ties. There is trans-border movement of criminals and anti-national elements which pose a major challenge on the border in the context of the visa free regime. Besides, SSB has also been declared as the Lead Intelligence Agency (LIA) for both the Indo-Nepal and Indo-Bhutan borders. Thus, it was felt that a well knit intelligence network of the highest capabilities that can function and deliver would be the prime requirement of comprehensive border management. This was quite essential as the operations of SSB have to be intelligence based so as to prevent criminals and smugglers from taking advantage of the friendly borders with Nepal and Bhutan. MHA has accordingly sanctioned 650 posts in various ranks from Battalion to Frontier Headquarter.
    
    The Mobile App named “WARB” is available on Google Play store and is user friendly. It contains various useful features to facilitate retired CAPFs and Assam Rifles personnel to get their genuine grievances redressed, seek skill development training through National Skill Development Corporation under “Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna, re-employment and other relevant and important information. This mobile App shall also help retired personnel to have better coordination with WARB and its field formation at states/UTs and district level.
    
    It’s a matter of great pride that 43 Officers and personnel of SSB have sacrificed their lives for national security. In this year only in Chirang district of Assam Shri Amal Sarkar in an encounter with NDFB militants not only killed one militant but also sacrificed his life. SSB’s Women Welfare Association “SANDIKSHA” has taken up the task to help out children of such martyrs. SSB’s Women Welfare Association is providing financial help to children of martyrs who are still studying in school, colleges and universities to continue their studies.

    ******


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1503003) Visitor Counter : 61