      Ministry of Culture

      M/O Culture and its Organisation’s pushes for massive awareness during ongoing Swachhta Pakhwada
      Posted On: 22 SEP 2017 12:23PM by PIB Delhi


    Swachhta Pakhwada’ and Swachhta hi Seva abhiyaan is being conducted by the Ministry of Culture and its 43 organisations to create a massive awareness among all stakeholders of the society. During the current swachhta Pakhwada various autonomous, attached and subordinated organisations under the Ministry of Culture have undertaken more than 100 activities such as Shramdan by staff (cleanliness drive), various lectures, seminars, competitions, nukkad natak and painting exhibitions with an objective of dissemination of the message of Swachh Bharat widely.


    North Central Zone Cultural Centre, Allahabad has organized poster making by children giving message for cleanliness. Sangeet natak Academy has organised Vimal Pravah Yatra during 19-21 September to give message of swachh Bharat through cultural performances. The staff of the regional Centre of Anthroplogioval survey of India has cleaned the approach road of the office premises located in Andaman & Nicobar, Port Blair. Teachers from different schools have participated in the Swachhta programme conducted by Gandhi Smriti and Darshan Samiti on September 18, 2017 at Gandhi Darshan during ongoing swachhta hi seva abhiyan . Nukkad natak as a medium of powerful IEC (Information Education and Communication) is being used by the Delhi Public Library in Delhi and North East Zone Cultural Centre, Dimapur in various NE state capitals. Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Institute of Asian Studies, Kolkata took the swachhata drive with just not cleaning, but creating awareness among the future Indians to maintain the Clean Environment by tree plantation.


    A Free Residential Home - Premasree - for Blind and Visually Impaired Children participated in Swachh Bharat Abhiyan campaign organised by Central Reference Library, Kolkata, during ongoing Swachhta Pakhwada. Regional Science Centres under the National Council of Science Museums-NCSM have organised hand washing and other swachhta activities for the students. Also Centre for Cultural Resources and Training (CCRT) has trained more than 100 students of Guru Ramdas College of Education, Delhi on the occasion of ongoing Swachhata Pakhwada.


    Sahitya Akademi participated in the pakhwada by organising tree Plantation Programme on 21st September, 2017 in Ravindra Bhavan Campus, New Delhi. In this series Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sanghralaya organised a marathon walk as part of awareness programme for ‘Swacch Bharat Abhiyaan’. The walk commenced from museum and continued till Boat Club; during the walk participating employees and officers spread messages of cleanliness through slogans. Everyone collected the garbage spread on the route and disposed it properly.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Culture/22-09-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1503731) Visitor Counter : 220