      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of PM’s speech at the release of postal stamp on Ramayana at Tulsi Manas Temple, Varanasi
      Posted On: 22 SEP 2017 10:06PM by PIB Delhi


    Postal stamps have their own importance in our country and also in the world. In a way, postal stamps reflect the history of a country. They also work like ambassadors. When our postal articles are delivered in other countries, there are people there who collect our postal stamps. Sometimes postal stamps of a country reveal the kind of changes that country has gone through. In a way the stamp informs about those changes. India’s postal department has continuously been making this kind of contribution.


    Today, a postal stamp related to the life of Lord Ram is being unveiled. I could have done this in Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi. I could have done it at the Prime Minister’s residence. However, it occurred to us that this is the auspicious occasion of Navratri and Navratri and Vijayadashmi had their special importance in the life of Lord Ram. And there can be no place more appropriate than Manas Mandir for dedication of this postal stamp to the public because the place bears the live memories of Tulsidas Ji even today. Since I had to come to Kashi so I had a discussion with the department of post. Several stamps have been issued in the honor of Lord Ram Ji but this is first such collection of stamps in which different aspects of life of Lord Ram have been shown through postal stamps. It appears that it is just one stamp, however, it is a collection of several stamps. So, in a way this kind of work has never been published on the life or Lord Ram in form of postal stamps. This is for the first time this kind of thing has been done today. I’m happy that I got the opportunity to do this thing from the holy land of Manas. And the life of Lord Ram is a source of inspiration for everyone.


    If we remember Mahatma Gandhi, Lord Ram was a Mantra of his life since his childhood days. Every aspect of the life of this great man is a source of inspiration for the modern society. On behalf of government of India, I release this postal stamp on the auspicious occasion of Navratri while bowing down to the Lord Ram. I convey my happiness and I thank all of you for coming here.


    *****


    AKT/AK/KT/DG/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1503810) Visitor Counter : 218