      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      “Hunar Haat” to be organised in Puducherry from 24th to 30th September 2017 by Ministry of Minority Affairs
      Posted On: 21 SEP 2017 12:40PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said that Ministry of Minority Affairs is organising “Hunar Haat” at Puducherry, one of renowned centre of art & culture, from 24 th to 30 th September, 2017 to provide market and opportunity to master artisans belonging to the Minority communities.


    Shri Naqvi said that “Hunar Haat”, organised by Minority Affairs Ministry earlier at different places, have been very successful and encouraging for master artisans belonging to the poor sections of the Minorities.


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Puducherry Chief Minister Shri V Narayanasamy will inaugurate the “Hunar Haat”, to be organised at Craft Bazaar, Gandhi Thidal Beach, Goubert Avenue, Puducherry.


    Master artisans from 16 states would be showcasing their traditional talent. Artisans will bring for display and sale, a wide variety of traditional and rare Handicraft and Handloom items which include Hyderabad Pearl, Wrought Iron & Wood Carving, wooden and sandalwood items, hand-made jewellery, Tie and Die, Kantha Embroidered Jean bags, Handloom Bed Sheets, Ceramic/Clay items, Black Stone Pottery, Hand Embroidery, Chiken work, Leather items.


    Besides, Hand Painting, Zari bag and Wall Hanging, Mutava Handicraft, Ajrakh Print, Copper/Brass/Aluminium Handicrafts, Jute/Cane/Bamboo Product, Marble Inlay, Wooden-Toys/Gift Items, Block Printed dresses, Dry Flowers, Durry & Carpets, Bagh/Batik Print, Raparound Palazzo, Ladakh and Kashmiri Handicrafts, Lamps, Sea Ornaments, Attar, Applique, Bangles, Glassware and Maheshwari Saree etc will also be available.


    In an open space in Gandhi Thidal, traditional stalls are being constructed in the “Hunar Haat” where the visitors will also enjoy delicious foods from various parts of the country. Culinary experts would be participating from different States.


    Delicious food items like Rajasthani Food, Maharashtrian Food, Gujarati Thali, Punjabi Food, Malabar Food, Mughlai food, Mutton/Kakori Kabab, , food from Andhra Pradesh, M.P, Halwa, Ghewar, West Bengal Sweets, Jack fruit Items, Street Foods, traditional Pickles from Kerala and other states will be available.


    The participating artisans belong to different parts of the country. Artisans from Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Nagaland, Orissa, Puducherry and Uttarakhand etc are participating.


    The Ministry of Minority Affairs has organized “Hunar Haat” earlier also at different places. Recently, “Hunar Haat” had been organized at Baba Kharak Singh Marg, Cannaught Place in New Delhi which was a hit among the people as more than 26 lakh people, both domestic and foreign visitors, visited this “Hunar Haat”. The people purchased goods at large scale which helped and promoted traditional arts of these master artisans.


    *********


    AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1503582) Visitor Counter : 87