      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister operationalises the New Intelligence Set-up of SSB
      
      Guarding country’s open borders more challenging: Shri Rajnath Singh

      Posted On: 18 SEP 2017 6:18PM by PIB Delhi

    
    

    Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh operationalised the New Intelligence Set-up of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) at a function here today. This marked the culmination of a long pending aspiration of the Force following approval of the Union Home Minister.

    
    SSB has been declared as the Lead Intelligence Agency (LIA) for both the Indo-Nepal and Indo-Bhutan borders. Thus, it was felt that a well knit intelligence network of the highest capabilities that can function and deliver would be the prime requirement of comprehensive Border Management. This was quite essential as the operations of SSB have to be Intelligence based so as to prevent criminals and smugglers from taking advantage of the friendly borders with Nepal and Bhutan. MHA has accordingly sanctioned 650 posts in various ranks from Battalion to Frontier Headquarters.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Rajnath Singh said the job of SSB is much more demanding and challenging since it is vested the responsibility of guarding open borders unlike other borders. This makes the task much more challenging and demands highest alertness to check illegal activities like smuggling of arms, Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN), drugs and human-trafficking.
    
    Commending the leadership shown by Smt. Archana Ramasundaram, who is the first woman to head any CAPF, the Union Home Minister said she has proved her mettle by leading a paramilitary force with exemplary skills. Shri Rajnath Singh cautioned the Forces’ personnel to keep a tab on rumour-mongering over the social media. Assuring the Government’s concern about the welfare of the CAPF personnel and their families, the Union Home Minister said he has taken steps to ensure a martyr’s family gets atleast Rs. 1 crore compensation. He urged the CAPF Officers each to adopt a CAPF martyr’s family.
    
    On the occasion, the Union Home Minister launched the Welfare and Rehabilitation Board (WARB) Mobile App for CAPF personnel. The App is available on Google Play store and is user friendly. It contains various useful features to facilitate retired CAPFs and Assam Rifles personnel to get their genuine grievances redressed, seek skill development training through National Skill Development Corporation under “Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana, re-employment and other relevant and important information. This mobile App shall also help retired personnel to have better co-ordination with WARB and its field formation at states/UTs and district level.
    
    Later Shri Rajnath Singh released the book “Pride of India”, a compilation on SSB martyrs and awardees. He also distributed scholarships to children of SSB martyrs.
    
    Till date 43 Officers and personnel of SSB have sacrificed their lives for national security. This year Shri Amal Sarkar made the supreme sacrifice after gunning down one militant in an encounter with NDFB militants in Chirang district of Assam.
    
    SSB Wives’ Welfare Association “SANDIKSHA” has taken up the task to help out wards of such martyrs under the ‘Sanrakshan’ scheme. “SANDIKSHA” is providing financial help to children of martyrs who are still studying in school, colleges and universities to continue their studies.
    
    In his address MoS (Home) Shri Hansarj Gangaram Ahir said the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has laid emphasis on Police Modernization and the Government is committed to carry it forward.
    
    Welcoming the new Intelligence Wing of the SSB, Director, Intelligence Bureau, Shri Rajiv Jain said it will act like a force multiplier. Directors-General of CAPFs were present on the occasion.
    
    Director General, SSB, Smt. Archana Ramasundaram said that the Force’s Operations are mostly based on Intelligence hence the new Intelligence set-up will help effective guarding of India’s open borders with Nepal and Bhutan. The Force has undertaken Modernization programme and the SSB has acquired two UAVs while the MHA has approved three Bomb Detection and Disposal squads for the SSB, she added.

    *****


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1503231) Visitor Counter : 184
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil