      Ministry of Steel

      Chaudhary Birender Singh Chairs Meeting of Consultative Committee of Ministry of Steel
      Committee Discusses Activities of MECON Limited and Role of SRTMI in Enhancing Research & Development Capability in India
      Posted On: 21 SEP 2017 8:55PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of Steel, Chaudhary Birender Singh chaired a meeting of Consultative Committee of Ministry of Steel in New Delhi today. The Union Minister of State in Ministry of Steel Shri Vishnu Deo Sai was also present during the meeting.


    Welcoming the members of the Parliamentary Consultative Committee of Ministry of Steel the Chairman & Steel Minister said that innovations and competitiveness in the steel industry in the country is essential for better growth in the sector. The National Steel Policy 2017 laying the roadmap for domestic steel industry for achieving 300 MT production capacity by 2030-31, focuses on developing globally competitive steel manufacturing capabilities, through innovations and new technology by the Steel Research &Technology Mission of India (SRTMI). The Committee discussed activities of the CPSE miniratna under Ministry of Steel, MECON Limited and the role of SRTMI in enhancing the Research & Development capability in India. SRTMI will evolve as a single umbrella body for all steel related research and development in the country with an initial corpus of Rs. 200 crore out of which Rs. 100 crore will be funded by Ministry of Steel and the balance Rs. 100 crore by the founding members companies from iron & steel sector. A comprehensive note to operationalise the SRTMI is being prepared to be placed before the Cabinet for its approval.


    The members who participated in the meeting and put forth some important suggestions during the discussions included:


    Dr. Anupam Hazra


    Shri Janardan Singh Sigriwal


    Shri Bodh Singh Bhagat


    Shri Sher Singh Ghubaya


    Shri Shyama Charan Gupta


    Shri Laxman Giluwa


    And Shri Tapan Kumar Sen


    The senior officers from the Steel Ministry who participated included the Secretary Steel Dr. Aruna Sharma, Addl. Secretary and Financial Advisor Shri Saraswati Prasad and Joint Secretaries Shri Sunil Barthwal, Smt. Urvillla Khati, Shri T. Srinivas, and Steel CPSE heads among others.


    YSK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1503725) Visitor Counter : 178