      Ministry of Culture

      Vice President releases Commemorative Coin on Dr. M.S. Subbulakshmi and inaugurates exhibition ‘Kurai Onrum Illai-MS : Life in Music’
      Posted On: 19 SEP 2017 5:23PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu released a Commemorative Coin on Bharat Ratna Dr. M.S. Subbulakshmi and inaugurated an exhibition entitled “Kurai Onrum Illai-MS: Life in Music” on the occasion of Birth Centenary Commemoration of Dr. M.S. Subbulakshmi here today. Minister of State (Independent charge) for Culture Dr. Mahesh Sharma was the Guest of Honour.


    Addressing on the occasion, the Vice President said that Dr. M.S. Subbulakshmi was a legendary and iconic figure who mesmerized everyone from Mahatma Gandhi to common man. India is a land of rich cultural heritage with music in diverse genres representing the truly myriad mosaic of plurality. He further said that what defines India is this rich heritage of music and its unifying role in bringing people together cutting across religions, regions, castes and communities.


    He said that the roots of Indian music can be traced to Vedic literature, Sama Veda in particular and as such every note and cadence associated with our ancient music systems have to be preserved and propagated. He further said that this is our bounden duty to see such cultural heritage is preserved which is given to us by our fore fathers and pass it on to the next generation.


    The Vice President said that Dr. M.S. Subbulakshmi’s music is immortal and everyone in this country was influenced and thrilled by her music. He further said that music acquired a divine dimension when she lent her voice to various compositions. She was the first musician to be awarded Bharat Ratna, the country’s highest civilian honour and first Indian musician to have performed at the United Nations General Assembly, he added.


    In his address Dr Mahesh Sharma said that Bharat Ratna Dr. M.S. Subbulakshmi performed in 50 th anniversary celebration of the United Nations and it was a very moment for all Indians. Mahatma Gandhi Ji asked her sing “Prabhu Tum Haro Jan Ki Pir” and she had sung it with full dedication. Dr. M.S. Subbulakshmi was not only a singer but was an encyclopaedia of singing. It is a proud occasion for us to celebrate her anniversary from 16 th September, 2016 to 16 th September, 2017. India is known by its rich cultural heritage and our new generation should try to preserve our rich and diverse cultural heritage.


    The title of the exhibition draws from an iconic song composed by Rajaji and rendered by Dr. M.S. Subbulakshmi, perhaps only by her. The song tells God that she has no complaints about life, about him. The exhibition looks at the life of Dr. M.S. Subbulakshmi from her early years to the people who moulded her the composers and songs she immortalized, her contribution to the freedom movement, her magnanimous charity work, her role in films and the many awards and accolades world decorated her with.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Culture/19.09.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1503319) Visitor Counter : 120