      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa’ campaign jointly launched by NDMC and DoPT
      Posted On: 15 SEP 2017 5:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) in association with Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) launched the fortnight long ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa’ cleanliness campaign here today. The Lt. Governor of Delhi, Shri Anil Baijal, NDMC Chairman Shri Naresh Kumar, Secretary, NDMC Ms. Chanchal Yadav and Senior Officers of the DoPT and NDMC attended the programme.


    In his address, Delhi LG Shri Anil Baijal commended the NDMC for the entire Municipality area under its jurisdiction being declared an entirely Open Defecation Free (ODF). He also mentioned that the NDMC is prompt in ensuring waste disposal and cleanliness. Shri Baijal said the ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa’ campaign was announced by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi in the Mann ki Baat programme. He said this cleanliness campaign should not be viewed as an NDMC campaign, but as a mass movement. Shri Baijal appealed to the people that cleanliness as a habit should not be limited during this 15-day campaign, but should become an everyday activity. On the occasion, Shri Baijal administered the ‘Swachhta pledge’ to the employees of the DoPT and NDMC.


    DoPT Joint Secretary Shri G D Tripathi, NDMC Brand Ambassador and Paralympics athlete Ms. Deepa Malik and many DoPT and NDMC Officials and other personnel enthusiastically participated in the cleanliness campaign.


    The DoPT has drawn up an elaborate Action Plan for the ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa’ campaign running from September 15, 2017 to October 2, 2017. The Department has constituted Swachhta Monitoring Committees in each of its three premises in Delhi. The DoPT is moving vigorously towards 100% implementation of e-office which will result in reduced paper consumption and less garbage. An eco-friendly system to convert bio-waste into manure has been installed in the DoPT Canteen in North Block. Sanitary napkin disposal machines will be installed in all Ladies Washrooms for better hygiene. DoPT employees will also be offering Shramdan by undertaking tree plantation drive at Vinay Marg playground during this pakhwada. To spread awareness among employees, DoPT will distribute T-shirts and caps with the Swachh Bharat Mission logo.


    *****


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1503026) Visitor Counter : 94