      Ministry of Home Affairs

      “Make Swachchta a habit, a daily routine,” says Shri Kiren Rijiju
      Posted On: 17 SEP 2017 8:54PM by PIB Delhi


    While participating in the nation-wide programme of ‘Swachchta Hi Seva Hai’ in the premises of Tomo Riba Institute of Health and Medical Sciences (TRIHMS), Naharlagun in Arunachal Pradesh today coinciding with the birthday of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and Vishwakarma Puja, Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Kiren Rijiju passionately appealed the people of the state to make cleanliness drive a habit and daily routine.
    
    Shri Rijiju told the huge gathering that the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was very concerned about the health of all the Indians and had asked the country men to make Swachchta a mission a goal to cherish in order to build a clean and healthy India. Shri Rijiju urged everyone to take proper care of their health by keeping the surroundings they live in and their houses neat and clean, adding that most of the diseases were caused by the unhygienic surroundings. While expressing his grave concern over the increasing numbers of cancer patients, most of them at last stage, being evacuated to Delhi and other metros for treatment, the minister assured to grant Rs 40 crores to establish a cancer unit in the TRIHMS to facilitate diagnosis and treatment of cancer at early stage. He said that he was fully alive to the lack of infrastructure in the hospitals and health centres in the state and assured to provide Ambulance and Hearse to all the hospitals and health centres in the state. While expressing his concern over the unplanned growth of the twin capital, the minister said that the people must change their mindset and strive hard to make Itanagar a model city by creating a clean and beautiful ambience to attract tourists from across the globe. He urged the people to love their state and make a difference by their continued and persistent effort to keep every nook and corner of the state clean and green.
    
    The Deputy Chief Minister Mr. Chowna Mein while participating in the Swachchta programme extended his greetings to the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on his birthday on behalf of the Chief Minister and the state government. He urged the people to create awareness on the importance of cleanliness all over the state.
    
    The Swachchta Hi Sewa Hai programme will culminate on 2nd October, the birthday of Mahatma Gandhi. Later, Shri Rijiju and other dignitaries planted saplings along the roads in the campus of the newly built Inter State Bus Terminal at Lekhi in Naharlagun.

    ***


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1503114) Visitor Counter : 30