      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Government enhances superannuation age of doctors to 65 years
      A visionary and pragmatic decision that will strengthen the health services in the country: J P Nadda
      Posted On: 27 SEP 2017 4:43PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister ShriNarendraModi has approved ex-post facto, the enhancement of superannuation age of doctors other than doctors of the Central Health Services (CHS) falling under various Departments/Ministries/autonomous organisations, to 65 years. Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare, Shri J P Nadda, welcomed the Cabinet decision and stated that it is a very visionary and pragmatic decision that will strengthen the health services in the country. “Through this forward looking step, the services of experienced doctors shall be available to bring quality health services to the people. It will help in retaining the existing strength of experienced doctors thereby providing better patient care satisfaction,” ShriNadda added.
    
    Terming the decision to be people-centered and pro-patient, ShriNadda further stated that it will address the shortage of doctors. “This is a strong signal that the Government is taking all steps to enhance services/service delivery.This would also help in improving doctor-patient ratio in the country,” ShriNadda said.
    
    Speaking further on the cabinet decision, ShriNadda said that the decision will help in proper academic activities in Medical Colleges as also in effective implementation of national health programmes for delivery of health care services. “The decision may not have much financial implications as large numbers of posts are lying vacant and the present incumbents would continue to work in their existing capacity against sanctioned posts. Around 1445 doctors of various Ministries/Departments of the Central Government would be benefitted,” ShriNadda informed.
    
    According to the Cabinet decision, the superannuation age of doctors under the administrative control of the respective Ministries/Departments [M/o AYUSH (AYUSH Doctors), Department of Defence (civilian doctors under Directorate General of Armed Forces Medical Service), Department of Defence Production (Indian Ordnance Factories Health Service Medical Officers), Dental Doctors under D/o Health & Family Welfare, Dental doctors under Ministry of Railways and of doctors working in Higher Education and Technical Institutions under Department of Higher Education) has been enhanced to 65 years.
    
    The Union Cabinet has approved ex-post facto, the enhancement of superannuation age of doctors working in Central Universities and IITs (Autonomous Bodies) under Department of Higher Education to 65 years; and approved enhancement of superannuation age of doctors in Major Port Trusts (Autonomous Bodies) under Ministry of Shipping to 65 years.
    
    The Union Cabinet has approved that doctors shall hold the administrative posts till the date of attaining the age of 62 years and thereafter their services shall be placed in non-administrative positions.

    ***


    
    
    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504187) Visitor Counter : 229