      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Dr Jitendra Singh discusses investment options in Northeast with ASSOCHAM
      Posted On: 25 SEP 2017 12:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh held discussion on the various options, opportunities and possibilities of investment in Northeast with a delegation of the "Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India" (ASSOCHAM) led by its national team of office bearers, who called on him here yesterday.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh said that the Ministry for Development of Northeast (DoNER) is encouraging investments, both through the Government agencies as well as private parties. In this regard, he cited the example of huge collaboration with the Government of Japan, which is planning a heavy investment in the region as well as Singapore which has offered to set up a Skill Center in Assam. In addition, he disclosed that a number of India-based leading industrial and trade houses have also stepped in to make investments in different States including Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Manipur.
    
    The ASSOCHAM, being a leading representative body of India’s trade and business industry, Dr Jitendra Singh said, can take the lead in spreading awareness about the avenues available and also act as a bridge between the Government and the private industry to facilitate the PPP model in trade promotion. The handicraft, herbal and medicinal plant entrepreneurship has already attracted some of the leading business houses across India to set up their establishments in Northeast, he said and added that ASSOCHAM can perform the role of a catalyst as well as a bridge to fill up the missing gaps.
    
    The fast-track thrust by the Union Government in the last 3 years, Dr Jitendra Singh said, has resulted in a sea-change by improving the connectivity scenario, both in air, rail and road connectivity, and this is bound to overcome many of the earlier constraints faced by the potential entrepreneurs. With the Union Government's emphasis on “Act East” policy, he said, this is a great opportunity to explore the new possibilities of growth production for international trade in the region.
    
    Citing a number of recent initiatives like, for example, North East Industrial Promotion Policy (NEIPP), Venture fund for Start-Ups, revival of NERAMAC etc., Dr Jitendra Singh said, the 8 States of North Eastern region are now ready to uplift themselves at par with the more developed States of India and the respective Governments in these different States are also highly motivated by the priority and focus shown by the Central Government.
    
    The members of ASSOCHAM delegation assured Dr Jitendra Singh of full cooperation and said that in very near future, they are planning a number of events focusing on investment opportunities in the Northeast.

    ******


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504028) Visitor Counter : 235