      Ministry of Defence

      Directorate General of Quality Assurance Celebrates its Diamond Jubilee
      Posted On: 28 SEP 2017 2:22PM by PIB Delhi


    Directorate General of Quality Assurance (DGQA) has completed 60 years of its existence. Minister of State for Defence, Dr Subhash Bhamare, graced the Diamond Jubilee celebration at DRDO Bhawan here today to mark the occasion. Addressing the august gathering, Dr Bhamre complemented DGQA for firmly supporting the combat effectiveness of the India Army and Navy while handling a very large bandwidth of technology and an inventory of equipment unparalleled anywhere in the country.
    
    Dr Bhamre appreciated professionalism, dedication and excellence of the personnel of the DGQA and went on to stress that Self-Reliance was the corner stone on which the military capability of any nation must rest and that has been the guiding principle of the government policies. He pointed out that preference given to Indigenous Design, Development and Manufacture (IDDM) has been reflected in DPP-2016. Dr Bhamre went on to highlight that numerous initiatives of Department of Defence Production like Green Channel Status and Self Certification would go long way in realising the objective of ‘Make in India’. He urged DGQA to realign itself with the best practices all over the world.
    
    Director General of DGQA Lt Gen Shamsher Singh highlighted the achievements of the organisation. He stated that all its 36 laboratories are NABL accredited and 99 of its establishments have been granted ISO certification. The organisation has quality assured Defence stores worth Rs. 28,878 crore during the financial year 2016-17. In addition, the organisation has been providing assistance to the User and Manufacturer in difficult and trying situations, warranting the technical expertise and hands-on experience. He also informed that during the last one month as part of their celebrations, the organisation which is spread pan India has organised a tree plantation drive wherein 23,000 saplings were planted.
    
    Though, the origin of the DGQA dates back to 1869, when the first Inspectorate was set up at Ammunition Factory, Kirkee, the organisation came into its present incarnation in 1957 when Maj Gen Pratap Narain was appointed as the first Director General on 27 September 1957.
    
    Dr Bhamre released the ‘First Day Cover’ to commemorate the occasion. He also launched a portal for e-registration of vendors. Secretary (Defence Production) Shri Ashok Gupta also addressed the gathering. This was followed by an awards ceremony wherein officers and staff were awarded DGQA Commendation Cards and Cash Awards for their commendable performance and exemplary services rendered.
    
    MJPS/NM/DK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504256) Visitor Counter : 94