      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog invites Indian entrepreneurs to participate in the Global Entrepreneurship Summit, 2017
      Posted On: 29 SEP 2017 2:11PM by PIB Delhi


        NITI Aayog, in partnership with the Government of the United States of America, is hosting the eighth annual Global Entrepreneurship Summit from November 28-30, 2017. The event, to be held in Hyderabad, will be addressed by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi. The US delegation will be led by Ms. Ivanka Trump, Advisor to President Trump.


        This is the first time the Global Entrepreneurship Summit is being held in South Asia. Hosting GES 2017 in Hyderabad will empower Indian entrepreneurs to pitch their ideas, build partnerships, secure funding, and create innovative products and services that will transform societies for a better future. It will not only bring global best practices to India, but will create an irreplaceable place for India in the global entrepreneurial ecosystem. The themefor this year’s Summit - Women First, Prosperity for All - will celebrate entrepreneurship in all its strength, diversity and entirety.


        The four primary focus areas of GES 2017 are Health Care and Life Sciences, Digital Economy and Financial Technology, Energy and Infrastructure, and Media and Entertainment. Entrepreneurs, investors and ecosystem supporters in these sectors will come together for two and a half days to participate in dynamic panel discussions, high-impact networking, mentoring and investment matchmaking.


        The summit will deliberate on the four key sectors, focus on critical aspects of entrepreneurship and host interactive sessions between panelists and the audience.


        Applications are being invited from entrepreneurs across India to participate in the Global Entrepreneurship Summit, 2017.Interested candidates are requestedto apply by 7 October 2017 to experience the dynamism and opportunities that the Summit offers, here: http://www.ges2017.gov.in/entrepreneurs.php


        ***


        AKT/HS/VK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504370) Visitor Counter : 378