      Vice President's Secretariat

      People have right to know how decision-making happens at the highest level and what national security entails: Vice President
      Releases book ‘Securing India: The Modi Way'

      Posted On: 29 SEP 2017 6:03PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that Indian people have the right to know how decision-making happens at the highest level and what national security entails. He was addressing the gathering after releasing the book ‘Securing India: The Modi Way' authored by Shri Nitin Gokhale, here today. The Minister of State for Defence, Dr. Subhash Ramrao Bhamre and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President said that the book provides the most intimate and sweeping account yet of the NDA Government’s approach to national security and foreign policy initiatives. He further said that drawing on internal memos, as yet classified information, meeting notes and hundreds of hours of interviews with key players in the national security team, Shri Gokhale brings alive inside stories of decision-making at the highest levels in the government.


    The Vice President said that the book details hitherto unknown aspects of the planning and execution of the surgical strikes, revamping of New Delhi's policy towards China and Pakistan, India's renewed global policy focus on Middle East, Prime Minister Modi's attempt to leverage the Indian diaspora worldwide, besides focusing on some small but far-reaching steps taken to secure India in every possible way - on land, space, cyber and maritime domains.


    The Vice President said that the issue of terrorism is at the fore front of government’s foreign policy world over. He further said that terrorism has no religion; it’s a threat to humanity and it should be curbed and we must be humane and sensitive in our approach while interacting with others. If there is tension there can’t be attention towards development, this should bear the basic principle, he added.


    The Vice President said that in democracy violence has no place and bullet cannot bring change where as ballot can. The policy of government should be zero tolerance towards terrorism and corruption both will eat away the vitals of our system, he added.


    Following is the text of Vice President’s address:


    “I am pleased to release the book ‘Securing India: The Modi Way', written by senior journalist, Shri Nitin Gokhale.


    Normally, matters relating to defence and security aspects are kept shrouded in a veil of secrecy and not put in public domain by most nations the world over. Understandably, in most cases utmost precautions are taken not to make public important decisions and their processes in order to protect security and national interests.


    No doubt, legitimate security concerns could be the reason for maintaining complete secrecy in such matters. However, a balanced view has to be taken on the extent to which such information could be made available to the public as complete lack of transparency would give scope to corruption.


    In this background, the book by Shri Gokhale provides the most intimate and sweeping account yet of the NDA Government’s approach to national security and foreign policy initiatives.


    Drawing on internal memos, as yet classified information, meeting notes and hundreds of hours of interviews with key players in the national security team, Shri Gokhale brings alive inside stories of decision-making at the highest levels in the government.


    Painstakingly researched, the book details hitherto unknown aspects of the planning and execution of the surgical strikes, revamping of New Delhi's policy towards China and Pakistan, India's renewed global policy focus on Middle East, Prime Minister Modi's attempt to leverage the Indian diaspora worldwide, besides focusing on some small but far-reaching steps taken to secure India in every possible way --on land, space, cyber and maritime domains.


    The book provides an authentic account of the Modi government' decision making process on vital issues. This is by no means an analytical document. In fact, it is mostly factual and narrated from the point of view of those involved. In that respect, some might view this book as an incomplete account. It’s a start nevertheless. Till then, read the book for what it is: a journalistic record of some of the bold and unconventional decisions taken by the Modi government since 2014.


    There is no denying the fact that this book has gained immensely by the trust reposed in the author by people in very sensitive appointments. For the first time, people holding sensitive positions have spoken on record about some major incidents like the Pathankot Operation, the two surgical strikes - one in Myanmar and one in PoK - and the standoff at Doklam.


    The book contains interviews with Former Defence Minister, Shri Manohar Parrikar, the National Security Adviser, Shri Ajit Doval, current and former Army Chiefs, Special Forces officers and men, NSG commandos and IAF personnel.


    By writing this book, Shri Gokhale has brought the complicated subject of national security to the common citizen. Indian people have the right to know how decision-making happens at the highest level and what national security entails. This book provides rare insight into that process. I commend the author for accomplishing this task in a short time and bringing to light some of the unknown aspects of governance.


    I am a happy that issue of terrorism is at the fore front of government’s foreign policy world over.


    Terrorism has no religion; it’s a threat to humanity. It should be curbed and we must be humane and sensitive in our approach while interacting with others but at the same time we must be firm in assuring and maintaining Indians unity, integrity and internal security.


    If there is tension there can’t be attention towards development, this should bear the basic principle. We have to secure our borders and also assure the internal security so that the government and the administration can focus on development.


    In democracy violence has no place. Bullet cannot bring change where as ballot can. This has been witnessed world over. The policy of government should be zero tolerance towards terrorism and corruption both will eat away the vitals of our system.


    Jai Hind.”


    ***


    KSD/BK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1504424) Visitor Counter : 89