      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      HUA Minister Shri Hardeep Singh Puri assures J & K of support in urban sector
      J & K Deputy CM Dr.Nirmal Singh takes up State issues with Shri Puri
      Posted On: 26 SEP 2017 2:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Housing & Urban Affairs Shri Hardeep Singh Puri today assured the Government and the people of Jammu & Kashmir of priority consideration and all possible assistance in all matters of urban development. This assurance was given when the Deputy Chief Minister of the State Dr.Nirmal Singh met Shri Puri here today and discussed various projects relating to J & K. They discussed progress and implementation of urban sector projects in the State.


    Dr.Nirmal Singh has sought help in River Front Development along a 4.50 km stretch of Tawi River along the lines of Sabarmati River Front Development, completion of Sewerage Project of Greater Jammu sanctioned under JNNURM earlier, inclusion of Katra and Udhamput under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) for basic infrastructure development etc.


    The Deputy Chief Minister informed Shri Puri that the Sewerage Project of Srinagar, sanctioned under JNNURM is progressing with additional central assistance released by this Government.


    Shri Puri directed the concerned officials in the Ministry to have the River Front Development proposal under the Smart City Plan of Jammu. After further consultations with the State Government on mobilization of resources for the sewerage project in Jammu including its financing under the ongoing urban missions, NBCC will be directed to resume the project works, Shri Puri assured. On the inclusion of two more cities under AMRUT, he said 500 cities have been included in this mission based on certain criteria and will have the possibility in this regard considered, he informed Dr.Singh.


    Referring to details of various projects sanctioned and investments approved for J & K under various new urban missions, Shri Puri urged the Deputy Chief Minister to speed up their implementation so that the intended outcomes were realized within the specified timeframes. He referred to providing new water supply connections to 1.08 lakh households in the State under Atal Mission.


    Deputy Chief Minister of Jammu & Kashmir Dr.Nirmal Singh with Union Minister of Housing & Urban Affairs Shri Hardeep Sindh Puri in New Delhi on September 26, 2017.


    AAR/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504044) Visitor Counter : 163