      Ministry of Steel

      Steel Minister Shri Birender Singh exhorts the employees to make cleanliness a habit for life
      Posted On: 28 SEP 2017 2:57PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Steel is observing “Swachhta hi Sewa” campaign fortnight by organising different activities on different days, during the period September 15 to October 2, 2017.
    
    Steel Minister Shri Birender Singh presented awards to the team members of the Coordination Section adjudged as Cleanest Section in a function organized on 27.9.17. The Minister congratulated the awardees and urged all employees to make cleanliness a permanent habit at their work place and their homes. Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given a new energy, approach and direction to the cleanliness movement, he added. We must all work together to build a Clean India, which would bring health, happiness and propersity. He encouraged the employees of the Ministry to continue actively participating in the Campaign and help make it a mass movement across the nation. Shri Singh remarked that there has to be a change in our mindset and behaviour then only things can improve. The Minister directed that Swachhta activities must be undertaken by the PSUs of this Ministry, one by one, every month so that Swachhta spirit is kept alive.
    
    Earlier an elocution competition on the subject of Swachhta was also conducted on 19.9.17, among other activities.
    
    PSUs under the Ministry are actively participating in the Campaign by organizing Swachhta related events in schools in their townships, factory campuses etc. They have undertaken following activities –
    
    i) Cleaning of the company premises as well as nearby township, cleaning of company’s hospitals, shopping complex and market complex etc.
    
    ii) Adoption of nearby habitation to create awareness about cleanliness, sanitation and hygiene.
    
    iii) Creating awareness on non-usages of Plastic and on personal hygiene
    
    iv) Conducting slogan/poem/poster/essay writing competition for school children/wards of the employees
    
    v) Conducting debate and quiz completion for school children/wards of the employees etc.
    
    vi) Organizing workshops for employees stressing upon the need for Swachh Bharat.

    ******


    
    
    YSK/MI

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504265) Visitor Counter : 166