      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Valedictory Session of Assistant Secretaries: IAS Officers of 2015 batch make presentations to PM
      Posted On: 26 SEP 2017 4:57PM by PIB Delhi


    As part of their Valedictory Session as Assistant Secretaries, IAS officers of the 2015 batch today made presentations before the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi.


    8 selected presentations on various themes of governance were made by the officers, on themes such as rapid response for accident victims, tracking individual carbon footprints, financial inclusion, improving rural incomes, data driven rural prosperity, heritage tourism, railway safety, and central armed police forces.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said that it was indeed significant that the junior-most and senior-most officers are spending such a lot of time communicating with each other. The Prime Minister said that the young officers must imbibe all the positives from these interactions. The Prime Minister asked young officers to focus on subjects such as GST implementation and boosting digital transactions, especially via the BHIM App.


    He urged all officers to speed up the adoption of Government e- Marketplace (GeM) in their respective departments. He said this would eliminate middlemen, and result in savings for the government.


    Giving examples of ODF targets and rural electrification, the Prime Minister urged the officers to work towards 100 per cent achievement of targets. He urged the officers to work towards creating the India of the dreams of freedom fighters, by 2022. He said that officers who have risen from humble backgrounds, should meet young students, and motivate them. Communication leads to compassion, the Prime Minister added.


    He said that the key aim of officers today is the welfare of the nation and its citizens. He urged the officers work with team spirit, and make teams wherever they go. Speaking on the occasion, the Cabinet Secretary Shri P.K. Sinha said all the 175 Officers were designated and posted as Assistant Secretaries in 42 Ministries (58 Departments) of the Central Government for three months from July 03, 2017 to September 29, 2017 after their Phase-II training at the Lal Bahadur Shashtri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie. During their three-month central deputation they were provided a holistic overview of the functioning of the Central Government through individual projects, group projects, concurrent review of projects suggested by earlier batches with a view to providing exposure of office functioning of Government of India to the young IAS officers at a very early stage in their career, he said.


    The Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh, the Union Home Secretary, Shri Rajiv Gauba, who is holding the additional charge of Secretary, DoPT and the Additional Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, Dr. P.K. Mishra were also present.


    *****


    KSD/AKT/HS/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504070) Visitor Counter : 140
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil