      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi participates in “Swachhta Hi Seva” programme in New Delhi
      Course for “sanitary supervisors” to be started in Garib Nawaz Skill Development Centres, being established across the country: Shri Naqvi

      Posted On: 28 SEP 2017 2:23PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said here that a course for “sanitary supervisors” will be started in Garib Nawaz Skill Development Centres, being established across the country.
    
    Shri Naqvi undertook “Shramdan” (voluntary work) at the campus of Maulana Azad Education Foundation of the Minority Affairs Ministry under “Swachhta Hi Seva” (cleanliness is service) campaign.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that about 3 to 6 months-duration course for “sanitary supervisors” will be started at Garib Nawaz Skill Development Centres. While on one hand it will create job opportunities for the youths belonging to poor sections of the Minority communities, on the other hand it will strengthen “Swachh Bharat Abhiyan”.
    
    The course will also include training for cleaning work with latest technology and machines and also preparing compost from the garbage.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that 100 Garib Nawaz Skill Development Centres will be established across the country where youths belonging to Minority communities will be provided job-oriented skill development training.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that “Swachh Bharat Abhiyan” has becoming successful under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. For the first time after the Independence, cleanliness has not remained as just a matter of habit but it has now become a passion.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that “Swachh Bharat Abhiyan” (Clean India Campaign), launched on 02nd October 2014, has become an effective mission with the help of the common people. The NDa Government is working with commitment to build a “clean, healthy & strong” India.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that the common people, especially the youth of the country, have become more attentive towards cleanliness. Cleanliness has now become a people’s movement. The people’s thinking towards cleanliness has been changed. “Swachhta Hi Seva” campaign is being organised across the country from 15thSeptember to 02nd October, 2017, the birth anniversary of “Father of the Nation” Mahatama Gandhi.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that during the last three years, the NDA Government has constructed more than 3 crore toilets across the country. Ministry of Minority Affairs has been constructing toilets in a large number of Madrasas and other Minority institutions and connecting them with the cleanliness campaign. These “sanitary supervisors” can play an important role in maintenance of these toilets.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that Ministry of Minority Affairs is also organising “Swacchta Hi Seva” campaign from 15th September to 02nd October, 2017. “Swacchta Hi Seva” campaign is being organised at headquarters of Ministry of Minority Affairs at “Antyodaya Bhawan”, offices of NMDFC, CWC, Maulana Azad Education Foundation at various parts of the national capital and different state waqf boards across the country. The campaign is also being organised in schools and other educational institutions and social institutions of Minority communities.

    ******


    
    
    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504257) Visitor Counter : 126