      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Government’s Vision is to Establish Janaushadhi Kendras in Every Block and Gram Panchayat: Shri Ananth Kumar
      Mou Signed to Establish 1000 Janaushadhi Kendras Across the Country

      Posted On: 18 JAN 2017 3:03PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers and Parliamentary Affairs, Shri Ananth Kumar presided over the signing of Memorandum of Understanding ( MoU ) between the Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India ( BPPI ) and National Yuva Cooperative Society Ltd . ( NYCS ) here today, with the objective to setup 1000 Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Kendras in both urban and rural places of the country, as a part of " Mission 3000 " kendras by March 2017 . Shri Mansukh L . Mandaviya, Minister of State for Chemicals & Fertilizers, Shipping, Road Transport & Highways was also present on the occasion .


    Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana ( PMBJP ) , an initiative of the Department of Pharmaceuticals, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, Government of India, is a mission to make quality medicines accessible to all citizens of the country at affordable prices . The BPPI is the nodal implementation agency for the PMBJP Scheme .


    Speaking on the progress of PMBJP, Shri Ananth Kumar said that the number of Janaushadhi Kendras have seen a drastic seven-fold jump in the last two and half years to over 750 currently. Further, around 20,000 applications have already been received and over 5,000 have been accorded in-principle approval for setting up of Janaushadhi Kendras in the country. Government envisions to establish Jansaushadhi kendras in every block & gram panchayat across the country, he added.


    Shri Kumar reiterated Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s vision to provide ‘Swasthya Suraksha’, by making affordable quality medicines accessible to every citizen of the country. This government is working to promote the indigenous generic drug industry and make it globally competitive. The Minister added that the PMBJP is a step in this direction which would, on one hand, drastically reduce the out of pocket health expenditure for the common man and give an impetus to the Make in India mission in the pharma sector.


    Addressing the gathering, Shri Mandaviya said that the Government is actively pursuing the goal of ‘Affordable Medicines for All’ through the PMBJP, under which currently there are over 750 stores with a portfolio containing 600 drugs and 154 surgicals & consumables. He added that by joining hands with NYCS, the energy of the youth of the country would be channelized in achieving this goal.


    There is an active financial support extended by the government to the extent of Rs . 2 . 5 lakh in the form of financial assistance to the kendras setup in Government hospitals and incentives to individuals, with special and softer terms to SC, ST and differently - abled persons .


    Other dignitaries present during the event were Shri Jai Priye Prakash, Secretary, Department of Pharmaceuticals, Shri Biplab Chatterjee, CEO, BPPI, Shri Rajesh Pande, President, NYCS along with other senior officers of the Ministry .


    VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1480661) Visitor Counter : 145