      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Shri Radha Mohan Singh announces the setting up of KVKs in Mungeli and Bemtara of Chhattisgarh under 12th Plan
      Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Minister inaugurates Krishi Samridhi-Rashtriya Krishi Mela in Raipur

      Posted On: 27 JAN 2017 5:45PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Shri Radha Mohan Singh said that the regular organization of agriculture fairs in large nos. across the country has invigorated farmers with new energy. Shri Singh said agriculture fairs play important role to reach the farmers directly. Agriculture Minister also announced the setting up of KVKs in Mungeli and Bemtara of Chhattisgarh under 12 th Plan. Shri Radha Mohan Singh further said that keeping this in view, 7 new Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) have been proposed under 12 th Plan in Chhattisgarh. Shri Singh stated this at the inauguration of Krishi Samridhi-Rashtriya Krishi Mela, Chhattisgarh, 2017 in Raipur, today. The Chief Minister of Chhattisgarh Dr. Raman Singh was also present on this occasion.


    Shri Radha Mohan Singh further added that Government of India is committed for the betterment of agriculture sector and prosperity of the farmers. An unprecedented increase of almost Rs. 500 crore was included in the budget of agriculture research in the year 2016-17. Likewise agriculture extension was reinforced with a sum of Rs. 750 crore with an increase of Rs. 90 crore as compared to the previous year.


    Shri Singh opined that keeping in view meager potentialities of extension of cultivable area, it is imperative to increase the productivity in view of rising population of the country. The productivity can be enhanced through active use of available resources which include high yielding, seed varieties, fertilizers, pesticides, irrigation, as well as agriculture machines. Agriculture Minister further said institutes of ICAR are unabatedly researching on the effects of climate change. They are also doing research on varieties that yield higher production and on ways of saving water. They are giving their best contribution to develop agriculture sector by improved techniques.


    Shri Singh said that for the last two years, new programmes have been initiated in research and education institutes. In order to increase liaison between farmers and scientists for technological development and its utilization ‘Mera Gaon-Mera Gaurav’ and ‘Farmers First’ programmes have initiated. Initiatives such as Student Ready, Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA), Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Krishi Unnati Shiksha Yojana, Consortia Research Platform, External Finance Assistance, National Agriculture Science Fund, National Agriculture Project and Agricultural Education in the schools have been taken up.


    The Minister further told that Government of India has taken a number of initiatives for the betterment of the farmers amongst them being Soil Health Card Scheme is worth mentioning for bringing about improvement in natural resource utilization skill. Under this scheme, 14 crore Soil Health Cards are to be given away to all the farmers in a period of two years. So far, under this scheme, more than 4 crore Soil Health Cards have been distributed amongst the farmers. The infrastructure under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana has been chalked out to enhance the water use efficiency and to provide water for irrigation in the country to achieve the target of “More Crop – Per Drop”. Apart from this, National Agriculture Market has also been established to cope with the effects of natural calamities. Contingencies plans have been made for more than 600 districts. The contingency plans have been prepared for 27 districts of Chhattisgarh.


    Agriculture Minister , thereafter, inaugurated Dau Kalyan Singh Agriculture University’s building and its Girl Hostel in Bhatapara, Distt. Boloda Bazaar. Shri Singh said that Chhattisgarh has taken a fast track in agricultural sector. Chhattisgarh have recorded 33% enhancement in foodgrains production, 58% in milk production, 92% in eggs production and 245% enhancement in fisheries for the last 13 years.


    Shri Radha Mohan Singh unveiled the statue of Dau Kalyan Singh Ji in the University. Agriculture Minister assured that this University will take a leap in the time to come and the students coming out from this university will bring name and fame to Chhattisgarh in the world. The Chancellor of the Agriculture University Dr. S.K. Patil was also present on this occasion.


    SS/AK


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1481289) Visitor Counter : 110