      Ministry of Education

      11,000 innovators at 48 centres in 42 cities will code non-stop for 36-hours, to find digital solutions for 350 problem statements: HRD Minister
      
      PM to address the largest ever Hackathon in the world at 10 PM today
      
      Grand Finale of Smart India Hackathon - 2019 (Hardware) to be held in June 2019
      
      We will find our solutions and will lead the global community in new innovations: Shri Prakash Javadekar
      
      HRD Minister inaugurates two-day Grand Finale of Smart India Hackathon - 2019 (Software)
      Posted On: 02 MAR 2019 2:55PM by PIB Mumbai


    The Grand Finale of Smart India Hackathon 2019 (Software) was inaugurated by the Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri Prakash Javadekar in Jaipur today. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will address the Grand Finale of the largest ever hackathon in the world, from 10 PM onwards tonight, through video-conference.


    Addressing the participating students and organizers of the two-day hackathon, the HRD Minister said:


    “This is the third year of the Smart India Hackathon. 11,000 students have entered the Grand Finale, which is being held at 48 nodal centres in 42 cities. There are many problems for which there are no solutions in the world today. Various governments, ministries and private sector players have submitted these problem statements. Multiple teams, each team comprising six students guided by two professors, work on these problems and come up with bright ideas. 40,000 students participated and more than 19 solutions were obtained in the first year. Many innovative and new solutions were generated; this is what New India is.


    The PM always says that innovation is what will take the country forward. Only those countries which innovate prosper on sustainable basis. This unique event is therefore significant. It is the world’s largest hackathon. 11,000 innovators will code non-stop for 36-hours, to find digital solutions for 350 problem statements.


    The total participation of the hackathon has exceeded 2 lakh this year; the number of participants is doubling each year.


    The Government started Atal Tinkering Labs in more than 30 thousand schools, to promote a culture and mindset of innovation.


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will interact with participants at all nodal centres in the country, at 10 pm today.


    The Grand Finale of Smart India Hackathon (Hardware) will be held in June 2019.


    We will find our solutions and will lead the global community in new innovations.”


    The 36 hour non-stop hackathon will have prizes in three categories namely Complex (prize 1 Lakh rupees), complicated (75 thousand rupees) and simple (50 thousand rupees).


    The hackathon is being organized by the Ministry of Human Resources Development, Government of India; All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Persistent Systems, i4c and Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini.


    In Maharashtra, the Hackathon is being held at Welingkar Institute of Management Development & Research, Mumbai; College of Engineering Pune; G. H. Raisoni College of Engineering, Nagpur; and Sri Ramdeobaba College of Engineering & Management, Nagpur.


    In Mumbai, the Hackathon is being held at Welingkar Institute of Management Development & Research. The Chief Guest for the occasion, Head, HP World (India), Shri Nandadeep Jayakar; Group Director, WeSchool, Prof. Dr. Uday Salunkhe; Nodal Head, AICTE, Shri Adesh Gokhale; and Western Regional Officer, AICTE, Dr. Amit Dutta were present on the occasion.


    More on Smart India Hackathon


    Smart India Hackathon is a unique initiative to identify new and disruptive digital technology innovations for solving the challenges faced by our country. It is a non-stop digital product development competition, where problems are posed to technology students for innovative solutions.


    In SIH 2019, students would also have the opportunity to work on challenges faced within the private sector organizations and create world-class solutions for some of the top companies in the world, thus helping the private sector hire the best minds from across the nation. The SIH is the largest ever Hackathon in the world and the only one to be held at the national level.


    So far, two editions of SIH have been conducted successfully. The first two editions SIH-2017 and SIH-2018 proved to be extremely successful in promoting innovation and out-of-the-box thinking in young minds, especially in engineering students from across India.


    For more information, please visit: https://www.sih.gov.in/sih2019


    ***


    DJM/IJ/SP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1567142) Visitor Counter : 886