      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      Civil Aviation Minister to inaugurate newly constructed terminal building and associated works of Chipi Airport, Sindhudurg on 5th March
      
      Flight operations at Sindhudurg airport to start soon
      
      Bids called from airlines to operate flights under UDAN 3.1 from Sindhudurg to Mumbai, Pune and Nashik

      Posted On: 04 MAR 2019 11:39AM by PIB Mumbai

    The Union Minister for Civil Aviation and Commerce & Industry Shri Suresh Prabhu will inaugurate the newly constructed terminal building and associated works of Chipi Airport, Sindhudurg tomorrow, along with Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri Devendra Fadnavis.


    Flight operations from the airport (under UDAN scheme) will commence very soon. Routes connecting Sindhudurg to Pune, Mumbai and Nashik have already been approved under UDAN 3.1 and bids from airlines have been invited.


    The Konkan region has a long and beautiful coastline blessed with picturesque white sandy beaches. The region is not only blessed with rich natural beauty but also has ancient temple and historical forts. With the airport coming up in the region, air connectivity to areas of Northern Karnataka, western Maharashtra and parts of Goa will improve. It will also boost tourism in the region and bode well for economic development of the region.


    Features of Chipi Airport, Sindhudurg:

     1. Total cost of the project is about Rs. 520 crore
     2. Newly constructed Terminal Building has a capacity to handle 400 passengers per hour and with an annual passenger capacity of about 10 lakh
     3. Runway Length of the airport is 2500 M X 45 M, which is suitable for operations of A-320 and B737 type of aircraft
     4. Apron, Taxiway, Isolation Bay and boundary wall have been completed
     5. Fire station and other associated facilities have been completed. Security cabin and Watch Tower have also been completed

    ***


    DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1567260) Visitor Counter : 324
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi
    
    
    

5.