      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Film screenings at Films Division to mark International Women’s Day 2019
      Posted On: 07 MAR 2019 5:53PM by PIB Mumbai


    Screening of a film on the courage and struggle of a Polish woman to help refugees from Poland find a safe home in India during World War II and documentary films on women empowerment in India will mark the International Women’s Day celebrations on 8 th March, 2019 at Films Division, Pedder Road, Mumbai.


    The Consulate General of Republic of Poland, Mumbai in collaboration with Films Division, is screening “My Home India” (44 min) directed by Anjali Bhushan, well known film maker and social/environmental activist. The film is about the phenomenal struggle of fragile but stubborn and strong willed Kira Banasinska (wife of the first Consul General of Poland in Bombay) to make a home for the Polish war refugees in India in the aftermath of World War II. The film is a rare collection of previously unseen archives combined with first hand testimonies from the survivors - a discovery of the extra ordinary in the ordinary. The screening will be held at the Audi II at the New Museum Building at 7.00 p.m.


    FICCI FLO, an All India organisation for women, is jointly organising with Films Division a talk on Role of Women in India followed by screening of two FD documentary films, “And whose image is this, anyway?” (37 min./ Premraj Achari) which probes the crisis between identity and portrayal of Indian womanhood on screen and “The Exceptional Runner – Shalini Saraswati (07 min./Pratibha Kaur Pasricha), a film on the life of Shalini Saraswati who, despite losing her limbs to a dangerous viral infection, betters her life by concentrating on her home, career and finally in the sports of running where she has set a goal of participating in 2020 Olympics. The talk and screenings will be held at the RR-II Theatre on the 6 th floor of Film Bhawan-2 from 2.00 to 3.30 p.m.


    Earlier in the day, the women cell of Films Division will celebrate the International Women’s Day by organising cultural programmes and screening of two films on the theme of women empowerment at the JB Hall from 2.00p.m.-5:00p.m..


    The screenings are free and on first come first served basis.


    ***


    Source: Film Division

    
    
    (Release ID: 1567977) Visitor Counter : 311