      Ministry of Education

      Total government expenditure on education up from 3.8% in 2014 to 4.6% of GDP now: Union HRD Minister
      
      Educational infrastructure being expanded and reformed to take the nation forward: Shri Prakash Javadekar
      
      We need to take a decision to live for the society; this is necessary for a New India: HRD Minister to graduating students
      
      13th Convocation Ceremony of D. Y. Patil University, Navi Mumbai held
      Posted On: 03 MAR 2019 8:30PM by PIB Mumbai


    The 13th Convocation Ceremony of D. Y. Patil University, Navi Mumbai was held in Mumbai today. Union Minister for Human Resources Development Shri Prakash Javdekar was the Chief Guest at the convocation function. A total of 1,925 students were awarded degrees, comprising 7 PhDs, 1 DM (Doctor of Medicine), 8 Fellowship recipients and 37 Gold medalists.


    Addressing the graduating students and parents, the Minister said :


    “I am very happy for the graduating students, who are being awarded Bachelors, Masters, PhD and gold medals. I congratulate the students who have achieved degrees after years of focussed hard work. I appreciate the parents of the graduating students for bringing them up, encouraging them and instilling self-confidence in them to stand on their own feet.


    The graduating students have all succeeded in a big way. This is the New India which is emerging under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. Today is a day when we take a pledge to work for the poor and needy of society. We need to be grateful to our forefathers for the system and knowledge which we are able to benefit from today. I wish you all success in your endeavours; at the same time, we need to take a decision to live for the society; this is necessary for a New India, which is free of corruption, uncleanliness, terrorism, poverty, communalism and casteism. We need to build this New India together.


    I am happy to note that more than 200 out of 900 universities in India conduct their convocation ceremony in Indian costumes; I am confident that D Y Patil University too would conduct their convocation ceremony in Indian costume from next year onwards. Students themselves can be asked to design the costumes for the convocation.


    We need to be grateful to the Institute for the environment in which the Institute is situated. Private medical and engineering colleges did not use to be there in Maharashtra. While discussions used to be held for expansion of education, privatization was not allowed and seats in government colleges were very limited. In such a situation, Shri D Y Patil approached the then Chief Minister of Maharashtra Shri Vasantdada Patil, showed him Manipal Institute and a good private institute in Bengaluru and then started private educational institutes in Maharashtra; it was a revolutionary step, since Government alone by itself cannot provide higher education to everyone.


    It is our priority that 6% of GDP should be allotted to education. I am happy to say that while total expenditure by Central and state governments on education was 3.8% of GDP in 2014, it has increased to 4.6% of GDP now. This indicates that we are progressing towards 6%.


    However, private investment is also necessary in education. The graduating students of D Y Patil University should be grateful for having been able to study in an institute with such good infrastructure.


    We have decided that education itself is true empowerment . We are making continuous efforts to improve educational facilities in the nation. Seven new IITs, seven new IIMs, 2 new NITs, 3 Central Universities and around 125 Kendriya Vidyalayas have been started, so as to improve access to education.


    To improve access, a portal SWAYAM too has been launched, which has 2,000 courses . Like ATM, this is ATL – Anytime Learning for everyone for free. The portal contains courses being taught by expert teachers, along with discussion forums and educational material, examinations and certifications. Choice-based credit system has been started in colleges , to enable students to pursue a variety of courses.


    Besides this, 32 educational channels have also been made available , which can be accessed on installing Doordarshan Dish. Through this, IIT-PAL (Professor Assisted Learning) is also available, where free coaching for IIT-JEE can be availed, enabling students to save lakhs of rupees and crack the JEE.


    These are new initiatives, and these are the essence of educational reforms.


    900 universities, 40,000 colleges and 4 crore students are there in our nation, but the same law is applicable to everyone. However, it is not right to have the same law for everyone, as this can either favour the wrongdoers or create problems for the honest ones. Hence, we took the historic decision of introducing graded autonomy, while ensuring quality education.


    The Government decided to provide only facilitation and not exert control over the institutes.


    Atal Tinkering Labs are being introduced in 5,000 schools to promote research and innovation. These Labs have advanced facilities such as 3-D printing, robotics, Artificial Intelligence tools such as Internet of Things, for use by students from 6 th standard onwards. Similarly, many initiatives have been introduced for promoting research in humanities, arts, technology, basic sciences and social sciences colleges. We have integrated research, teaching and industry.


    The change that is happening in the nation today will take the nation forward. We will ensure that the goal of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas is fulfilled.”


    Dr. D. Y. Patil, ex-Governor of Tripura, Bihar and West Bengal; Dr. Vijay Patil, Chancellor, D Y Patil University; Dr. Ajeenkya D Y Patil, Chancellor, Ajeenkya D. Y. Patil University, Pune; Mrs Shivani Patil, Managing Trustee, D Y Patil University; and Dr. Shirish Patil, Vice Chancellor, D Y Patil University, Navi Mumbai were also present on the occasion.


    ***


    DJM/BG/SP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1567253) Visitor Counter : 549