      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Bengali Braille Atlas of India and Map of West Bengal in Bengali Braille script released.
      Posted On: 11 JUN 2019 5:43PM by PIB Kolkata


    The first edition of Atlas of India and Map of West Bengal in Bengali Braille script for visually impaired students were released by National Atlas and Thematic Mapping Organization (NATMO) here today. Keeping in view the strong sense of touch of the visually impaired persons, the latest technology has been adopted on the digital platform which is soft to sense. Instructions on how to read the maps have also been given in the beginning of the atlas.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Tapati Banerjee, Director, NATMO said that this special publication will help the visually impaired students of Bengali medium in knowing the geographical features of the country. Comprising of 20 different themes on physical, social and cultural aspects of the country with brief description, this atlas with tactile maps will provide comprehensive knowledge to facilitate its users to have ready reference on concerned theme, she added and informed that the mixture of digital maps with Braille script unveils a new era on effectively transmitting the knowledge of our country even in different languages. Now NATMO is on the path of publishing atlases in Braille script of all regional languages to serve more than 50 lakh visually challenged citizens across the country, Dr. Banerjee added.


    NATMO is a specialized institution of its kind in the world. It is known for its contribution in the field of atlas making with maps on different themes. It has been involved in preparing atlases for visually challenged persons of the country since 1997.


    One day workshop on “Braille Map International and Awareness Drive for Braille Teachers/Trainers” from West Bengal Zone was also organized.


    Smt. Hena Basu; Secretary, Society for the visually Handicapped; Smt. Lisa Banerjee, State Project Director, PBSSM and Teacher-in-Charge, Calcutta Blind School and Shri Debabrata Chattaraj, State Commissioner of Persons with Disabilities were also present on the occasion.


    *****


    CC/MSA…


    

    
    (Release ID: 1573926) Visitor Counter : 95
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali