      Ministry of External Affairs

      Private sector to deepen India’s growing ties with Africa: Additional Secretary (Economic Diplomacy and States Division), Ministry of External Affairs
      Posted On: 14 JUN 2019 11:30AM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, June 14, 2019


    India’s engagement with Africa will grow in coming years and Government has accorded priority to India’s ties with Africa, said Shri Manoj Kumar Bharti, Additional Secretary, Economic Diplomacy and States Division, Ministry of External Affairs, here today. Speaking at a conference on ‘Doing Business with Africa’ organised by Bharat Chamber of Commerce, Shri Bharti said, the Government recognises the importance of Indian private sector in driving and deepening ties with Africa and therefore, encourages the private sector to continue to explore business opportunities in the African countries. The warmth of ties is reflected in the rise of trade between India and African countries, he said. The dignitaries from African countries who participated in the conference included High Commissioner of the Federal Republic of Nigeria Major General (Retd) Chris Sunday Eze, Deputy High Commissioner of Ghana Mr. Eddison Mensah Agbenyegah and Counsellor in the Embassy of Niger Mr. Souleymane Boureima. Shri Mukul Sarkar, Chief General Manager, Export-Import Bank of India, former Ambassadors of India Shri Shiv Shankar Mukherjee and Shri Sarvajit Chakraborty also took part.


    Shri Bharti said, tremendous potential exists for developing tourism, healthcare, hospitality and ICT sectors of African countries. These apart, telecommunications, hydro-carbon exploration, agriculture, renewable energy, food processing, road transport, IT & IT enabled services, water resources, machine technology are among the sectors in Africa which are set to grow, said the Additional Secretary and urged the business fraternity to take advantage of it. In this context, he mentioned the Duty Free Tariff Preference (DFTF) scheme extended by India for trade initiatives in least developed countries. Speaking of bilateral ties with African countries, he mentioned the high-level engagements, lines of credit and grant assistance extended by India to the African nations. He said, such investments bring in capital and technology, assist in value addition and industrialization, diversification of economic activities and most importantly, create employment opportunities and promote skill development among the local populace. Shri Bharti said, skill development training in diverse fields that is provided under Indian Technology and Economic Cooperation (ITEC) to African nationals has significantly doubled over the last five years.


    The Additional Secretary stated, Economic Diplomacy Division was started 4-5 years ago on realising the growing importance of trade and commerce in diplomatic works and thus according priority to it. The States Division was also started around the same time in Ministry of External Affairs to assist and promote economic activities of the states in foreign countries with State Facilitation Fund earmarked for this purpose to the Indian Missions. He said, Indian Missions abroad are provided with Market Access Fund to market Indian products and help business communities to expand export. Further, Branch Offices of MEA also organise events having economic and commercial impact in the states.


    CG/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1574750) Visitor Counter : 2