      Ministry of External Affairs

      ADDITIONAL SECRETARY, MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS TO INAUGURATE CONFERENCE ON ‘DOING BUSINESS WITH AFRICA’ IN KOLKATA
      Posted On: 12 JUN 2019 6:51PM by PIB Kolkata


    A Conference on ‘Doing Business with Africa’ is being organised by Bharat Chamber of Commerce in partnership with the Economic Diplomacy & States Division, Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India in Kolkata on 14 th June 2019 (Friday). Ambassador Manoj Kumar Bharti, Additional Secretary (ED & States), Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India will inaugurate the Conference. This was stated in a press communique released by the Chamber.


    The EXIM Bank, which has been credited for undertaking deep rooted studies on the scope of doing business with the countries in the African continent as well as executing the Government of India’s Lines of Credit, is a Lead Sponsor at the Conference. The contributions of EXIM Bank in this regard will be highlighted by Mr. Mukul Sarkar, Chief General Manager, EXIM Bank, Mumbai at the Conference, stated Mr. Sitaram Sharma, President, Bharat Chamber of Commerce.


    The High Commissioners of Nigeria, Tanzania, Ghana and Niger will outline the business opportunities between their respective countries and India, more particularly West Bengal. Ambassador Shiv Shankar Mukherjee, former High Commissioner of India to the U.K., South Africa, Namibia and Ambassador to Egypt, having profound experience in diplomatic relationship with African countries, will be one of the Key Speakers at the Conference, the President of the Chamber added.


    Considering the special initiatives that the Government of India is taking to spearhead bilateral trade and investment with countries in the African continent for mutual advantage, there is no doubt that in a couple of years’ time, India’s trade and investment in the continent will increase manifold, Mr. Sharma emphasised. He added that in this scenario the scope of exports of the item in which India has technological strength of global benchmark should be explored.


    Business opportunities of Eastern India and West Bengal, in particular, will be the focus at the Conference, stated Mr. Sharma.


    ***********


    Cg/sc…

    
    
    (Release ID: 1574066) Visitor Counter : 107
    
    
      Read this release in: English