      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Mass Yoga Demonstration in and around Kolkata and other parts of West Bengal marked on International Day of Yoga – 2019.
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2019 5:04PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 21st June, 2019


    The 5th International Day of Yoga (IDY) was observed in and around Kolkata by numerous organisations, Government and private offices, departments, NGOs where yoga enthusiasts in large numbers participated and performed yoga.


    The yoga session organised by India Tourism Kolkata Office in the grounds of Victoria Memorial Hall, today morning, was attended by about 400 local residents as well as tourists of various age groups. Students, youth, families, professionals, morning walkers and others performed yoga in front of the heritage structure following the instructions of Yogi Maharaj from Swami Shivananda Saraswati Yoga Ashram demonstrating and underlining the importance of Yoga in today’s human life. The organiser- Union Ministry of Tourism provided Organic eco-friendly Yoga Mats for all performers and instructors, thereby sending out an important message of conserving nature and going green. At a walking distance from Victoria Memorial Complex, Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan had organised a yoga session within the premises of another renowned heritage structure, Indian Museum. Marked enthusiasm was visible among the yoga performers of various age groups over there too.


    Around the same time in the morning, the South Bengal Frontier of the BSF arranged for mass yoga demonstration by approximately 1000 participants of NDRF, CRPF, CISF as well as the host unit of BSF at Badu in Madhyamgram, North 24 Parganas. The Eastern Command too, with an aim to promote better mental and physical health of people through Yoga, celebrated the day on the theme 'Yoga for Heart' all over their jurisdictional area. A large number of troops, their families and local citizens participated from far-flung areas of the East and North Eastern region to spread awareness and promote a healthy lifestyle. Various workshops were organised by the units of Eastern Command at Kolkata, Dimapur, Shillong, Tezpur, Sukna, Panagarh and all other military stations involving the local population to create awareness about Yoga and encouraging people to incorporate this form of exercise as a means to achieve a healthy life. A workshop cum practice Yoga session was organised in the premises of INS Netaji Subhas, the premiere naval establishment located alongside river Hooghly with various activities on Yoga for the Naval community and Defence civilians. Yoga sessions were held at Air Force Station Kalaikunda also. Ordnance Factory Board officials too dedicated themselves to the cause of yoga and wellness in a yoga practice session marked by their attendance in their offices premises near Calcutta High Court.


    Durgapur Steel Plant too joined the world in observing the 5 th International Day of Yoga today with a large number of enthusiastic DSP employees, their families, and other stakeholders who participated in the mass yoga held in the DSP steel township. IDY 2019 was also observed by Kolkata Port Trust at their Kantapukur CISF Barrack in Khiddirpore Dock Area which was attended by their Chairman Shri Vinit Kumar.


    The media units of the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting organised various programmes at different locations of West Bengal to mark International Day of Yoga - 2019. The Regional Outreach Bureau (ROB) – Kolkata in association with Press Information Bureau organised a yoga demonstration session for school students at Kendriya Vidyalaya – 1 in Salt Lake. The main event was supplemented with performances by Song & Drama Division’s troupe and a quiz competition on yoga with an aim to raise awareness about yoga and wellness amongst school-children. The Additional Director General (Media & Communication) of PIB –Kolkata delivered the inaugural address and also handed over prizes for the quiz competition to the school children.


    In North Bengal, students and teachers from I. B. Thapa Higher Secondary School, Siliguri Model High School, Deshbandhu Hindi High School, Baghajatin Vidyapeeth and the event-host institution—Margaret (Sister Nivedita) High School and Siliguri College of Commerce, among others, participated in yoga session organised by ROB-Siliguri which caters to North Bengal and Sikkim. Shri Ajay Mhamia, Jt. Director- PIB Kolkata participated and presided over the programme at Siliguri. The officials of Central Board of Film Certification in Kolkata also observed IDY 2019 along with their panel of film experts and children.


    **********


    CC/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1575220) Visitor Counter : 60