      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      National Statistics Day celebrated by ISI to mark the 126th Birth Anniversary of Professor Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2019 3:55PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, June 29, 2019


    Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) celebrated 126th Birth Anniversary of Professor Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis on the occasion of National Statistics Day here today.


    Speaking on the occasion, Professor Anju Seth, Director, Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Kolkata and Professor Dipti Prasad Mukherjee, Dy. Director, ISI said that Professor Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis, who was called ‘PCM’ by his colleagues, was a noted Indian scientist and applied statistician. He introduced the Mahalanobis distance, a statistical measure and random sampling. He was also one of the members of the first Planning Commission of India and played a key role in shaping the first 5 year plan. They added that Mahalanobis was instrumental in designing the way we conduct surveys today. He introduced the concept of pilot surveys and advocated the importance of sampling methods. He also introduced a method for estimation of crop yields using statistical sampling.


    In recognition of the notable contributions made by Late Professor Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis in the fields of statistics, statistical system and economic planning, Government of India in 2007, has designated 29thJune as the “Statistics Day” in the category of Special Days to be celebrated every year at the National level.


    The objective of celebration of this Day was to create public awareness about the importance of statistics in socio-economic planning and policy formulation, to acknowledge the contribution of Prof. Mahalanobis, and to pay homage to him. Every year, one particular theme of current national importance is selected for focused discussions and efforts throughout the year aimed at bringing about improvements in the selected area. The theme of Statistics Day, 2019 was “Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)”. The theme has been chosen for intensive and focused discussions towards filling the data gaps and improvement of timelines/quality in SDGs.


    The Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) at Kolkata, set up by Prof. Mahalanobis in 1931, and was declared an autonomous “Institute of National Importance” through an act of Parliament in 1959, also celebrates 29th June as the “Worker Day”.


    Dr. Ritabari Roy Chowdhury, formerly worker of ISI; Professor Subrata Roy, Professor, Agricultural Economic Research Unit, ISI;


    Shri Rajat Kanti Chatterjee, President, ISIWO and Shri Samarpan Padhi, Dy. Chief Executive, ISI were also president on the occasion.


    CC/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576311) Visitor Counter : 14
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali