      Ministry of Defence

      NCC CADETS SAIL THE HOOGLY FROM FARAKKA TO KOLKATA
      Posted On: 28 JUN 2019 1:58PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, June 28, 2019


    Sailing-Expedition 2019 by Naval Wing NCC Cadets of West Bengal and Sikkim NCC Directorate, which was flagged off from Farakka Barrage on 15 Jun 2019, was received at ‘Man of War’ Jetty on banks of River Hooghly in Kolkata today. The expedition was flagged off by Commodore Alok Chatterjee, Group Commander, NCC HQ Kol 'C' after undergoing six days of rigorous sailinq cum pulling training camp at NTPC Farakka. Today Maj. General K. T. Sreekumar, ADG, NCC WB & Sikkim Directorate received the team which was followed by an impressive ceremony held at James Princep Memorial.


    This strenuous Expedition over a distance of 430 Kms on River Hoogly in 13 days• is one of the toughest sails in the world for children under 18 years and is the longest sailing expedition undertaken by NCC Cadets in India. The expedition comprising of 20 Senior Wing Girl Cadets sailed and rowed shoulder to shoulder with 40 Senior Division Boys Cadets and 08 personal of Indian Navy in four DK Whaler J Class Boats under command of Captain (IN) S Biswas, CO 2(8) NU NCC and Cdr P K Manna, CO 1 (B) NU NCC. These whaler boats were escorted by safety boats with support staff embarked on them for operational and logistic support.


    The expedition team enroute made halts at Raghunathganj, Berhampore, Katwa, Nabodwip, Kaina, Chinsura, Dakhineshwar before arriving in Kolkata. Vanquishing the hot and humid weather enroute in true NCC spirit the cadets emerged successful in preventing any incident of dehydration.


    The expedition team undertook various social campaigns like 'Beti Bachao Beti Padhao., 'Save the Girl Child', Tree Plantation, Environment Protection, Swachhata Abhiyan, Anti-pollution and Swachh Bharat Internship enroute. The cadets also interacted with local population and exchanged ideas. The cadets perseverance, mental and physical strength helped them complete the long and adventurous journey in unpredictable water of Hooghly river in most professionally satisfying manner.


    ******


    CC/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576142) Visitor Counter : 7
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali