      Ministry of Railways

      RELEASE OF BOOK ON SOUTH EASTERN RAILWAY
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2019 11:30PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 28 th June, 2019


    A book on South Eastern Railway titled, “BENGAL NAGPUR RAILWAY - A LEGACY ” written by Sri G K Mohanty, former Chief Operations Manager, South Eastern Railway was released at Nazrul Mancha, Kolkata today (28th June, 2019) followed by a cultural programme organised by BNR Recreation Club.


    The Book depicts the glorious history of S E Railway and its different achievements since its inception in the year 1887 as Bengal Nagpur Railway. Through birth and rebirth, through trifurcation and modification, both Bengal Nagpur Railway and its heir South Eastern Railway have driven growth in one of the subcontinent’s most bountiful regions. The book documents their impacts. The book, “BNR-A Legacy” is viewed not as a mere history and heritage but as expression of many sided activities of bygone era of Bengal Nagpur Railway and existing South Eastern Railway. In the age of fast moving technology, SER is updating itself and spreading its wings, the details of which are recorded in this book. The biggest part of this book is the intimate detail of workings of Bengal Nagpur Railway and South Eastern Railway which are not only informative but a document for posterity.


    Shri Mohanty has earlier also written another book on South Eastern Railway titled, “ Freight Legacy of BNR “ which serves as an authentic documentation of SER’s growth as a major freight carrying railway and its transformation into a “Blue Chip Railway”.


    Smt. Rashmi Rekha Mishra, President, South Eastern and Eastern Railway Women’s Welfare Organisations (SERWWO & ERWWO), Sri Anupam Sharma, Addl. General Manager, South Eastern Railway and Sri J.K. Saha, Principal Chief Mechanical Engineer, SER & President BNR Recreation Club were present during the book release ceremony.


    Sri Sanjoy Mookherjee, former Financial Commissioner, Railway Board and Sri Radhey Shyam, former General Manager, South Eastern Railway were also present on the occasion.


    Photo Caption : Release of book on South Eastern Railway titled “BENGAL NAGPUR RAILWAY - A LEGACY ” written by Sri G K Mohanty, former Chief Operations Manager, South Eastern Railway at Nazrul Mancha, Kolkata today (28.06.19).


    Smt. Rashmi Rekha Mishra, President, South Eastern and Eastern Railway Women’s Welfare Organisations (SERWWO & ERWWO), Sri Anupam Sharma, Addl. General Manager, South Eastern Railway and Sri J.K. Saha, Principal Chief Mechanical Engineer & President BNR Recreation Club were present during the book release ceremony. Sri Sanjoy Mookherjee, former Financial Commissioner, Railway Board and Sri Radhey Shyam, former General Manager, South Eastern Railway were also present on the occasion.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1576348) Visitor Counter : 11
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali