      PIB Headquarters

      All India Radio, Chennai to host National Poets Conference: Governor to inaugurate
      Posted On: 08 JAN 2019 1:40PM by PIB Chennai


    “For the first time in 64-years, All India Radio, Chennai will be hosting the National Poets Conference in the city on 10 th January, 2019. Governor of Tamil Nadu Shri Banwarilal Purohit will inaugurate the Conference at Kalaivanar Arangam in which poets from all over the Country would present their composition in their respective languages” said Additional Director General Press Information Bureau, Region Shri. E.Mariappan in a Press Meet held at AIR Chennai today.


    Launched in 1956, the Sarva Bhasha Kavi Sammelan(National Symposium of Poets) is an endeavour to provide a creative platform for National integration and linguistic harmony through mutual interaction and coordinated presentation of best in contemporary poetry in Indian Languages. Its uniqueness is underlined by the fact that it is the only programme of its kind, wherein eminent poets of 22 Indian languages come together on one stage to offer their creative best. Poets present their compositions before an invited audience followed by the rendering of their Hindi versions translated by eminent poets of different languages said Programme Head, All India Radio, Shri. V. Chakaravathy.


    Shri. T. Rajendran Deputy Director General (Engineer), All India Radio said that a two-hour recording of this programme is broadcast on the National network of AIR on 25 th January on the eve of the Republic Day at 10.00PM. At the same time, regional language versions of this programme are broadcast in the regional languages ensuring its reach across the Nation.


    All India Radio, Chennai would broadcast the compilation of poems presented at the conference with their respective Tamil translations on the eve of Republic Day at 10.00PM on Chennai-A MW under the title Akhla Bharata Kavi Sammelan. Apart from this, the listeners could tune into Tamil DTH, FM GOLD-100.1MHz and on the App, All India Radio Live. The Web-streaming of the programme will be available at www.allindiaradio.gov.in .


    Director General of All India Radio Shri Fayyaz Shehryar and senior officials of AIR would be participating in this event. Connoisseurs of poetry and listeners are welcome to this programme at Kalaivanar Arangam on 10 th January, 2019 at 4.00PM


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559065) Visitor Counter : 396
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil