      PIB Headquarters

      TN excels in industrial growth for centuries, says Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman
      Posted On: 23 JAN 2019 4:16PM by PIB Chennai


    Systematic reforms have been taken courageously by the Centre under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri. Narendra Modi and one such measure is the GST which is the India's biggest economic reform said Union Defence Minister Nirmala Sitharaman while addressing the inaugural session of the TN Global Investors Meet 2019 held today in Chennai. . These reforms had made India an ideal destination for those who want to invest, she added.


    She appreciated the TN government for bringing a policy on aerospace industry and invited the global trade community to investin these sectors. She assured that Central Govt. will provide all possible support in this regard.


    On climate change front, TN has a major contribution through it's wind and solar energy. And because of these sustainable measure TN is being a power surplus state.


    While talking about the present industry scenario in the country, she said that India is seen as bright spark all over the world for ease of doing business. She made a note on recent IMF report which says that India's growth will sustain.


    The Defence Minister said that Tamil Nadu has been shown interest in industrial growth for centuries. For example, Cholas had taken TN culture all over the world through industrial ties and Poompuhar was one of the popular port of that time


    She said that we have lot of trade associations today like CII, Assocham but TN was known for having trade associations even in Chola Period and there are some inscription s regarding this in various countries like Thailand, Combodia and so on.


    She pointed out that Tamil poet Subramania Bharathy had insisted on making business globaly in his writings.


    The Minister released the TN Aerospace and Defence Policy and handed over the first copy to TN CM Shri. Edappadi K Palanisamy.


    TN Deputy CM Shri O. Paneerselvam, TN Minister for Industries Shri M. C. Sampath and dignitaries from various countries were also present on the occasion.


    *****


    Sri

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561091) Visitor Counter : 56
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil