      PIB Headquarters

      Designer leather products from 28 countries in IILF - 2019
      Posted On: 30 JAN 2019 5:12PM by PIB Chennai


    Designer leather products from 28 countries will be displayed in the 34 th India International Leather Fair (IILF) – 2019, which will be held from Feb 1-3, 2019, said Shri. P.R. Aqeel Ahmed, Chairman, Council for Leather Exports(CLE) while addressing the press today. 450 exhibitors across the world are participating in the fair and a lot of new technology is being introduced. It is expected that this fair will be a platform for those who want to establish long term business relationship, he added.


    He said that this year apart from the business to business meet, more investments are expected and separate desk for Investment India is been set up the in the IILF – 2019. So far, only foot wear production has been largest in the leather industry, now the leather goods like handbags and wallets are gaining popularity which is been followed by the leather garments.


    With the Prime Minister’s Make in India schemes, international companies are coming forward to start their manufacturing units in India. So far, 20 manufacturing units have been started from the inauguration of the Make in India scheme in 2015, says Ms. Hema Maity, General Manager, India Trade Promotion Organisation.


    Shri. Israr Ahmed, Regional Chairman (South), CLE said that CLE has proposed to state a MSME park mainly for the leather industry at Vellore in 100 acres and waiting for the State government for allocating the land. 38 to 40% share of the leather exports is from TN and 45% of people employed all over India in leather industry is from TN, he added.


    Many international companies like NIKI have started moving their manufacturing unit to India from other countries like China, Korea and Bangladesh. NIKI which has a production unit in Cheyyar, now planning to open another unit in Krishnagiri, he added. He said that India is becoming a favourite destination for investment in the leather sector mainly for two reasons. (i) Cheap labor which is 120$ to 150$ per month and (ii) Central and State governments support for the leather clusters where the production and processing are done in the same place. By 2020, the export target is US $ 10 billion, he said.


    The three day leather fair at Chennai Trade Centre will be inaugurated by Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister. This year, the theme pavilion ‘Greening the Leather’ is being setup by ITPO, CLE, CSIR and CLRI. This year, the fair will also manifests its commitment to various initiatives taken by the Government and Industry such as ‘Make in India’, ‘Digital India’, and ‘Swachh Bharat’.


    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561958) Visitor Counter : 40
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil