      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Need to Ensure that the Benefits of NEP Reaches the Last Man
      
      Webinar on National Education Policy Organized by PIB, Guwahati

      Posted On: 13 AUG 2020 7:14PM by PIB Guwahati

    Press Information Bureau, Guwahati conducted a webinar today on National Education Policy(NEP) that was recently been approved by the Union Cabinet paving way for transformational reforms in school and higher education sector in the country. The impact and possibilities of the new Education policy on education system were discussed in the webinar. Educationalists and experts from different Universities in the North East attended the Webinar.


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi approved the National Education Policy 2020 ON 29 th July which paves way for large scale transformational reforms in both school and higher education sectors, said Shri S. N. Pradhan, Additional Director General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting while delivering the keynote address. He highlighted the major aspects of the National education policy in his speech and said that it is important to ensure that the benefits of this policy reaches the last man.


    NEP 2020 is a very ambitious, aspirational, context specific and a big dream for transformation of education system, said Dr. Sunil Kanta Behera, Professor, Department of Mass Communication and Journalism, Tezpur University while giving an overview of National Education Policy. He said that this document is realistic and focuses on development of competencies, skills and critical thinking of children.


    Shri R.C. Jain, Chairman, Secondary Education Board of Assam in his speech on School education in NEP said that it is a comprehensive policy that addresses issues ranging from method of teaching to method of learning. Vocational education will help students to enhance their God gifted talents which will further benefit the society, Shri Jain said.


    Shri Dulumoni Goswami, Associate Professor, Department of Education, Gauhati University spoke about NEP 2020 with reference to College Education and Teacher Education and highlighted that better teacher education programme is important to enhance the quality of education. Talking about the importance of better infrastructure in educational institutions, he said that the State government should prepare a right type of strategic plan for successful implementation of the policy.


    Shri Gopajit Das, Media and Communication Officer, Press Information Bureau delivered the welcome address and the webinar was moderated by Smt. Hiramani Das, Field Exhibition Officer, Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati. Over 35 educationists, officials and media persons attended the webinar.


    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1645569) Visitor Counter : 11
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese