      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Film Fraternity of Assam hails the decision by I&B Ministry for resumption of shooting films and television serials
      Posted On: 26 AUG 2020 3:30PM by PIB Guwahati


    The film and television fraternity of Assam has welcomed the decision taken by Ministry of Information and Broadcasting for issuing guidelines for resumption of shooting films and television serials. The Ministry of I&B, in consultation with the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, has prepared the Guiding Principles and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on preventive measures for Media Production. Media production includes shooting of films, television production, web series and all forms of content creation in the electronic and film medium. The Guidelines were released by Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Shri Prakash Javadekar in New Delhi on 23 rd August 2020.


    "The film industry has to adjust with the present situation and starts shooting by following the guidelines prescribed by the I&B Ministry," feels eminent Film Director from Assam, Ms. Manju Bora. She believes that working in small units will help prevent unwanted exposure to the virus. She thanked the government for giving permission for resuming shooting. This will help the fraternity to survive as many of the people working in this field are facing financial crisis she added.


    “We must work together to prevent the spreading of COVID-19 and this is possible by following the guidelines prescribed by the government” said Assamese film director Shri. Sadananda Gogoi. He appreciated the government decisions for allowing shooting with guidelines.


    Shri Pabitra Margherita, Chairman of Jyotichitraban thanked the government for giving permission to start shooting. The SOPs issued by the government is a comprehensive one which includes almost every aspects of shooting be it media production or audience management, he said.


    Film Director Shri Rajesh Bhuyan said that the entire film fraternity of Assam will follow the guidelines prescribed by Government of India. He thanked the I&B Ministry for bringing the guidelines, which will help them to start the production.


    Popular film actress of Assam Ms. Aimee Baruah thanked the Government of India for issuing such detailed SOPs for media production.


    Actress Nishita Goswami, while expressing her gratitude to Ministry of I&B for releasing the guidelines for restart of shooting, said that this will help the industry to start functioning again.


    The highlights of the guiding principles issued by Ministry of I&B include the general principles which have been given by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare including inter alia non-essential activities not allowed in the containment zone in COVID-19, employees with high risk to take extra precautions, as also use of face covers/masks, frequent hand washing, provision of hand sanitizers etc. and respiratory etiquettes specifically with regard to the Media Production.


    ****************

    
    
    (Release ID: 1648705) Visitor Counter : 11
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese