      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      NRA will make government job opportunities more accessible to the youth of Northeastern Region
      
      Webinar on NRA organized by PIB, Guwahati

      Posted On: 28 AUG 2020 4:07PM by PIB Guwahati

    The youth of Northeastern Region will get fair opportunity in securing government jobs as a result of setting up of National Recruitment Agency. This view was expressed by the resource persons speaking at the webinar organized by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati today.


    In his keynote address, Shri SN Pradhan, Additional Director General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said that the aim of the webinar is to make people aware about NRA so that they can take full benefit of the initiative. He added that taking job opportunities closer to the people is a revolutionary step and that will greatly enhance the career prospects of the youth of the Northeastern region. He said that officials and the media should work closely to make people aware of its various provisions.


    Shri Manoj Tamuli, Placement and Training officer, Dibrugarh University, highlighted the difficulties faced by the youth of the backward districts of the region. He said that commuting for them is not easy and the very fact that the new model will focus on setting up Recruitment centers in these areas makes it a significant development initiative.


    Dr. Arup Kalita, Social Development Expert said that the country is still facing challenges in generating adequate job opportunities and NRA will help the aspirants in getting better employment. He spoke extensively on how NRA will be helpful for students from remote areas. He further added that multiple recruitment examination were a burden on the candidates so a common eligibility tests could enable these candidate to appear once and applied to any recruitment agency which could be a boon to all the candidates.


    NRA will be a game changer in taking job opportunity closer to the people from remote and far flung areas of Northeast Zone said Shri Ratul Baruah from MyGOV, Assam. He said that examination centres in every district will greatly enhance access to the candidates located in such remote areas.


    Shri Abhishek Dayal, Director, PIB, Imphal said that due to geographical barriers in Northeast region the students often faced difficulties to grab the job opportunities. He said that this initiative will help the students of the region to secure a career they truly deserve due to their high levels of accomplishments.


    Shri Pallab Chakrabarti, Deputy Director, PIB, Guwahati delivered the closing remarks and Smt. Hiramani Das, Field Exhibition Officer, Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati moderated the webinar.


    **************

    
    
    (Release ID: 1649225) Visitor Counter : 5