      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Updates on COVID-19
      Posted On: 01 MAY 2020 5:37PM by PIB Delhi


    Several actions have been taken by Government of India along with the States/UTs for prevention, containment and management of COVID-19, through a graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach. These are regularly being reviewed and monitored at the highest level.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare held a meeting today with Sh. Mangal Pandey, Health Minister of Bihar in presence of Sh. Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Minister of State of Health and Family Welfare along with the senior officials from both centre and State for the management on Acute Encephalitis Syndrome (AES) and to take stock and review the situation in the State for COVID-19.


    All the districts of the country have been divided into green, orange and red zone. State/UTs and district administration through focused efforts are required to ensure that the districts where cases have come up i.e. red and orange zones can break the chain of transmission through effective and stringent containment measures.


    Containment zones should be delineated duly taking into account mapping of cases & contacts; geographical dispersion of cases & contacts; areas with a well-demarcated perimeter; and enforceability.


    States/UTs are also advised that containment zones can be residential colony/mohallas/municipal wards or police station area/ municipal zones/towns etc. in urban areas as appropriate. In case of rural areas, zones can be village/clusters of village or group of police stations/ gram panchayats/block etc. as appropriate.


    States/UTs also need to clearly demarcate the buffer zones and containment zones. In containment zones, stringent perimeter control, active search for cases through the house to house surveillance by special teams formed for the purpose, testing of all cases as per sampling guidelines, contact tracing and clinical management of all confirmed cases need to be done while in case of buffer zones, extensive surveillance for cases through monitoring ILI/SARI cases in health facilities needs to be done.


    So far, a total of 8,888 people have been cured. This takes our total recovery rate to 25.37%. The total number of confirmed cases is now 35,043. Since yesterday, an increase of 1,993 has been noted in the number of COVID-19 confirmed cases in India.


    It is reiterated that for breaking the chain of transmission, it is important to follow hand hygiene, like washing hands with soap and water or using sanitizer; to disinfect and regularly clean all frequently touched surfaces such as table-tops, chair handles, keyboards, mouse, mouse pad, etc.; everybody should wear a mask or face cover as appropriate; download the Corona tracker app "Arogya Setu" for self assessment of risk; and maintain physical distancing.


    For all authentic & updated information on COVID-19 related technical issues, guidelines & advisories please regularly visit: https://www.mohfw.gov.in/ .


    Technical queries related to COVID-19 may be emailed at technicalquery.covid19@gov.in and other queries on ncov2019@gov.in and via tweets to @CovidIndiaSeva .


    In case of any queries on COVID-19, please call at Ministry of Health & Family Welfare helpline no. : +91-11-23978046 or 1075 (Toll-free). List of helpline numbers of States/UTs on COVID-19 is also available at https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/coronvavirushelplinenumber.pdf .


    *****


    MV/SG


    

    
    (Release ID: 1620059) Visitor Counter : 5924
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam