      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Updates on COVID-19
      
      So far, as many as 11,706 people have been cured

      Posted On: 04 MAY 2020 6:21PM by PIB Delhi

    Government of India is taking several steps along with the States/UTs for prevention, containment and management of COVID-19 through a graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach. These are being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare held a meeting today with Shri Narottam Mishra, Health Minister of Madhya Pradesh in presence of Sh. Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Minister of State of Health and Family Welfare along with the senior officials from both Centre and State to review containment and management on COVID-19 in the State. Various issues regarding contact tracing, surveillance, strengthening house-to-house active case finding, awareness generation among the people regarding seeking treatment for non-COVID disease management etc., were deliberated and discussed.


    Outcome ratio (Recovered vs. Death) for all closed cases, which indicates the clinical management status in the hospitals was analysed since 17 th April, and it is observed that there is an improvement in the country compared to that prior to 17 th April, 2020 (Outcome ratio was 80:20) while as of today it is 90:10.


    So far, a total of 11,706 people have been cured. This takes our total recovery rate to 27.52%. The total number of confirmed cases is now 42,533. Since yesterday, an increase of 2,553 has been noted in the number of COVID-19 confirmed cases in India.


    It is again reiterated that States / UTs must ensure that rigorous containment measures are taken, so that the caseload remains low. They must also ensure effective case clinical management while parallely focusing on infection prevention & control.


    It is important that as lockdown eases, we should follow protocol and guidelines related to physical distancing, follow preventive measures like hand hygiene and environmental hygiene and deal with COVID-19 by being careful, aware and alert. Always wear face covers / masks in public spaces. Even outside containment zones, follow all guidelines issued by the government on preventive measures. Avoid overcrowding while buying essential items or meeting in common areas.


    For all authentic & updated information on COVID-19 related technical issues, guidelines & advisories please regularly visit: https://www.mohfw.gov.in/ .


    Technical queries related to COVID-19 may be emailed at technicalquery.covid19@gov.in and other queries on ncov2019@gov.in and via tweets to @CovidIndiaSeva .


    In case of any queries on COVID-19, please call at Ministry of Health & Family Welfare helpline no. : +91-11-23978046 or 1075 (Toll-free). List of helpline numbers of States/UTs on COVID-19 is also available at https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/coronvavirushelplinenumber.pdf .


    *****


    MV/SG


    

    
    (Release ID: 1620962) Visitor Counter : 1882
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam