      Ministry of Tourism

      Ministry of Tourism holds its 14th webinar ‘Bengal by the Himalayas’ on the rich heritage of Darjeeling under Dekho Apna Desh Webinar Series
      Posted On: 04 MAY 2020 1:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Indian Himalayas themselves are a complete destination which can be explored around the year for variety of experiences. 73% of Himalayan range lies in India. Himalayas provide opportunity for a round-the-year tourism in India , right from hard adventure to soft adventure, rich flora and fauna to bio-diversity hotspots, high altitude peaks to beautiful lakes, from varied culture to the realm of spirituality and wellness.


    The 14th session of Ministry of Tourism’s Dekho ApnaDesh webinar on 2nd May 2020, titled, ‘Bengal by the Himalayas’ was a presentation by Shri Supratim (Raj) Basu, Help Tourism Pvt. Ltd which took the participants to the attractions of Darjeeling, the history of Darjeeling Tea, story Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) or Toy Train, the treks & trails, the heritage of Dak Bungalows & Charter train, the Village cultures, the Home stays.


    The promotion of Himalayas as a tourism destination by Ministry of Tourism has enabled India to be marketed as a round-the-year travel destination as the Indian Himalayas provide opportunities for travellers round the year. The Ministry of Tourism, under the Swadesh Darshan scheme is developing thematic circuits in the country in planned and prioritized manner. The Himalayan Circuit is one such identified theme under this scheme.


    In a historic step towards promoting adventure tourism in the country the Government of India opened 100 new peaks for mountaineering in the year 2019.


    The Union Tourism’s Ministry’s “ Dekho Apna Desh” webinar series on 2nd May, 2020 walked into its 14thsession showcasing the stories of Bengal by the Himalayas.


    The sessions of webinars are now available on the https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCbzIbBmMvtvH7d6Zo_ZEHDA/featured and also on all social media handles of Ministry of Tourism , Government of India.


    The next webinar titled Punjab –Beyond the Brochures is scheduled on 5th May 2020 at 11.00 am


    *******


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1620843) Visitor Counter : 799
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Kannada , Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Odia , Tamil , Telugu