      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      2000 Grievances of Labour/Workers Received Through Control Rooms Resolved
      
      Several Covid -19 Relief Measures Taken In Labour Sector : Shri Gangwar

      Posted On: 01 MAY 2020 8:58PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employment Shri Santosh Gangwar has said that Union Government has taken several initiaves to address the issues of workers/labour in the country which arose due to the lockdown announced to curb COVID-19. Complementing the Unions/Associations of Employees and Employers on the occasion of International Workers Day (1st May ) through Vedio Conference in New Delhi. Shri Gangwar stated that his Ministry is collecting data about migrant labour/workers and sharing information with States/UTs for extending relief measures like food, shelter, medical screening and help etc.


    He informed that 20 Control Rooms set up across country has so far received about 9000 grievances of which 6500 pertain to States/UTs and the same were shared with them from time to time. Out of rest about 2500 pertaining to central sphere, 2000 have already been resolved, remaining are being resolved on priority. It may be stated that Shri Gangwar himself is cross verifying random cases to check the quality of grievance redressal which is also done at various levels down the line.


    Shri Gangwar further said that Government issued advisories about wage payment and non-laying off of employees, payment to building and construction workers from the BOCW Cess Fund.


    He also said relief has been extended regarding EPF and ESIC subscribing members and their organizations, funds are being released to building and construction workers by States from Cess reserve which range from Rs 1000 to Rs 6000. Shri Gangwar added that ESIC Hospital network has been geared for treatment, testing and isolation facilities across the country.


    Shri Gangwar appreciated the Unions and Associations for their suggestions regarding measures being taken to provide relief to the labour/workers during the lockdown.


    Representatives of Labour Unions and the Associations of employers complemented the government for taking important and timely decisions to curb the spread of Covid pandemic and to provide relief to labour/workers and also to the employers in these difficult time for both. Apart from a number of suggestions, they also suggested that initiative may be taken to facilitate return of the migrant labour as the industrial/business activities re-start.


    Shri Gangwar further said that detailed deliberations will be held with representatives of Labour Unions on 6.5.2020 and Associations of Employers on 8.5.2020 when further VC meetings have been scheduled. He also invited suggestions through mail/in writing.


    *****


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1620453) Visitor Counter : 241