      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      During COVID-19 lockdown Janaushadhi Kendras achieved a record sales turnover of 52 crore rupees in April 2020
      Posted On: 03 MAY 2020 1:48PM by PIB Delhi


    In spite of problems in procurement & logistics due to COVID-19 lockdown, Pradhanmantri Bhartiya Jan aushadhi Kendras –PMBJAK ,achieved a record sales turnover of 52 crore rupees in the month of April 2020 compared to 42 crore rupees in March 2020. It was 17 crore in April 2019


    As the entire country is facing a big challenge due to COVID-19 Pandemic, demand for medicines and medical equipment are very high and to cater this demand Jan aushadhi Kendras delivered a record Rs. 52 crore worth of affordable and quality medicines to the public during April 2020. This led to total savings of approximately 300 crore rupees of common citizens as Jan aushdhi Kendra's medicines are cheaper by 50 to 90 percent of the average market price.


    @pmbjpbppi is committed to ensure uninterrupted availability of medicines to people of the country. In spite of lockdown and problems in procurement & logistics, Janaushadhi has achieved an appreciable sales turnover of Rs 52 Cr in April 2020 as compared to Rs 42 Cr in March 2020 pic.twitter.com/t7sHryXyUd

    — Sadananda Gowda (@DVSadanandGowda) May 1, 2020

    .@pmbjpbppi के #CoronaWarriors इस संकट की घड़ी में राष्ट्रसेवा का जज्बा लिए जन-जन तक सस्ती एवं गुणवत्ता वाली दवाएं पहुंचे इसे सुनिश्चित कर रहें हैं।
    
    निःसंदेह इन कर्म-योगियों का योगदान सराहनीय है, आइए हम सब मिलकर इन योद्धाओं को नमन करें, सम्मान करें। #IndiaFightsCarona pic.twitter.com/Lj5rhD1bWI

    — Mansukh Mandaviya (@mansukhmandviya) May 3, 2020

    Union minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers, Government of India, Shri DV Sadananda Gowda and MoS Chemicals & Fertilizers Shri Mansukh Mandaviya has congratulated the Janaushadhi store operators for achieving a record sales turnover and for working nonstop, tirelessly in the odd circumstances when the country needed it most.


    Shri Gowda has ensured that his ministry through Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan aushadhi Pariyojana (PMBJP) is committed to ensure uninterrupted availability of affordable medicines to people of the country.


    In its Fight against COVID-19 Government of India is revolutionizing the face of healthcare system through notable schemes like PMBJP that have been providing over 900 quality generic-medecines and 154 surgical equipments & consumable at affordable prices for every citizen of the nation.


    Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India (BPPI) CEO Sachin Kumar Singh has said BPPL developed ‘Jan aushadhi Sugam Mobile App’ to help people in a big way to locate their nearest Jan aushadhi Kendras and availability of affordable generic medicine with its price. Over 325000 people are using this App. They can avail a host of user-friendly options like direction guided through Google Map for location of the Janaushadhi kendra, search Jan aushadhi generic medicines, analyze product comparison of Generic and Branded medicine in form of MRP & overall Savings, etc. wth the help of this App.This App is available on both Android & I-phone platforms


    Presently , more than 6300 PMJAKs are functioning across the nation covering 726 districts of the country. In the lockdown period PMBJP is also generating awareness through informational posts on their social media platforms to help people protect themselves from Coronavirus.


    *****


    RCJ/RKM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1620586) Visitor Counter : 1361
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam