      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Dr. Harsh Vardhan reviews preparedness and containment measures taken for the management of COVID-19 in Madhya Pradesh through Video Conferencing
      
      
      Assures all support of the Centre to the State and advised to focus aggressively on surveillance in non-affected districts also
      Posted On: 04 MAY 2020 5:26PM by PIB Delhi


    Through a graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach, Government of India is taking several steps along with the States/UTs for prevention, containment and management of COVID-19. These are being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare held a meeting today withShri Narottam Mishra, Health Minister of Madhya Pradesh in presence of Sh. Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Minister of State of Health and Family Welfare along with the senior officials from both Centre and the State for the management on COVID-19 and to take stock and review the situation in the State.


    At the outset, expressing the concern of high fatality rate due to COVID-19, Dr. Harsh Vardhan stated, “It is painful to know that in few districts the fatality rate is higher than the national average”. He stated “Proper interventions, more aggressive surveillance and early diagnosis shall be on the top priority of the State to reduce the mortality rate due to COVID-19. The need of the hour is to take preventive, pre-emptive and comprehensive measures in a systematic manner and follow the protocols laid down by the centre, to prevent occurrence of fresh cases.”


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan exhorted that State also needs to focus on the non-affected districts by conducting search, surveillance and testing of Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARI) / Influenza Like Illness (ILI) cases, as this may avoid the further spreading of cases in other areas. He added that community volunteers may be identified at ward-level to spread awareness about the preventive measures like hand washing, social distancing etc. and also may play an effective role in removing the stigma prevailing in the society.


    “The Ministry of Health & Family Welfare would provide full support and handholding to the State Government through National Health Mission (NHM) for health systems strengthening as part of the immediate and long-term measures”, he stated. Dr. Harsh Vardhan also urged that the persons aged more than 65 years along with persons who are having any non-communicable diseases may also be diagnosed in the State on priority.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan also advised that State needs to ensure that non-COVID-19 services and programs like National Tuberculosis Elimination Program (NTEP), Maternal and Child Health, Dialysis, Chemotherapy, Vaccination, Immunization etc. are not hampered due to emphasis on COVID-19 management. He suggested that the data available with the States on Health Management Information System (HMIS) for various diseases may be optimally utilised for risk profiling.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan appreciated Indore administration and health officials for effectively utilising both Sarthak and Arogya-Setu Applications and asked other districts also to use as well as popularise the usage of these applications.


    Ms. Preeti Sudan,Secretary (HFW), Shri Rajesh Bhushan,OSD (HFW), Shri Sanjeeva Kumar, Special Secretary (Health),Ms. Vandana Gurnani, AS & MD(NHM), Shri Vikas Sheel,Joint Secretary, Dr. Manohar Agnani, Joint Secretary, Dr. S.K. Singh, Director, NCDC along with Principal Secretary (Health & Family Welfare), Government of Madhya Pradesh, Director AIIMS, Bhopal, District Collector/District Magistrates of all districts of Madhya Pradesh attended the meeting.


    *****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1620931) Visitor Counter : 471
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada