      Ministry of Culture

      On the occasion of centenary year of great archaeologist Prof B. B. Lal, Union Culture Minister releases e-book “Prof. B. B. Lal -India Rediscovered” today in New Delhi
      
      Prof Lal is a precious gem of Indian archaeology who rediscovered the civilizational India buried under the colonial past – Shri Prahlad Singh Patel

      Posted On: 02 MAY 2020 12:46PM by PIB Delhi

    On the occasion of centenary year of great archaeologist Professor B. B. Lal, Union Culture Minister Shri Prahlad Singh Patel released an e-book “Prof. B. B. Lal -India Rediscovered” today in New Delhi. Secretary, Ministry of Culture Shri Anand Kumar was also present on this occasion. Prof Lal was born on 02 nd may 1921 in village Baidora, District Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh. The book is a centenary special edition which has been prepared by Ministry of culture in collaboration with Prof B B Lal Centenary Celebration Committee. The book is a tribute from Ministry of culture for his immense contribution to the field of archaeology. Earlier in the morning Culture Minister Shri Prahlad Singh Patel visited Prof B. B. Lal personally and paid his respect and greetings on his birthday.


    Speaking on the occasion Shri Patel said that Prof B.B. Lal is a living legend and India is lucky to have such a great personality like him. He said that Prof Lal is a precious gem of Indian archaeology who rediscovered the civilizational India buried under the colonial past. He further said that it is a matter of immense pleasure that Ministry of Culture is celebrating the centenary year of great archaeologist who dedicated his whole life in the service of motherland. Shri Patel said that Prof Lal is an eternal inspiration not only for archaeologists but also for every citizen of India.


    Prof. B. B. Lal was conferred upon Padma Bhushan in the year of 2000. He was the Director General of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) from 1968 to 1972 and has served as Director of the Indian Institute of Advanced Studies, Shimla. Prof Lal also served on various UNESCO committees. In a career spanning over five decades Prof Lal made immense contribution to the field of archaeology. Prof Lal was trained by Sir Mortimer Wheeler at Taxila in 1944 and later joined Archaeological Survey of India. Prof. Lal excavated several important landmark sites including Hastinapura (U.P.), Sisupalgarh (Orissa), Purana Qila (Delhi), Kalibangan (Rajasthan). From 1975-76 onwards, Prof. Lal investigated sites like Ayodhya, Bharadvaja Ashrama, Sringaverapura, Nandigrama and Chitrakoota under the Archaeology of Ramayana Sites. Prof. Lal has authored 20 books and over 150 research articles on various national and international journals.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1620325) Visitor Counter : 1437
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu