      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 03 MAY 2020 6:24PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on COVID-19 from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare


    So far, a total of 10,632 people have been cured. In the last 24 hours, 682 patients were found cured. This takes our total recovery rate to 26.59%. The total number of confirmed cases is now 39,980. Since yesterday, an increase of 2644 has been noted in the number of COVID-19 confirmed cases in India.Dr Harsh Vardhanhas urged the people of India to observe the extended period of lockdown 3.0 (till May 17, 2020) in letter and spirit and treat it as an effective intervention to cut down the chain of transmission of COVID-19. He urged the countrymen not to ostracize the doctors treating COVID-19 patients and to not stigmatize the patients who have won the battle against COVID-19.


    For details:


    Prime Minister holds a detailed meeting to discuss financial sector, structural and welfare measures to spur growth in India


    Prime Minister held a meeting to discuss strategies to discuss interventions in the financial sector as well structural reforms to spur growth and welfare in the current context. At a meeting with Finance Minister and officials, PM discussed strategies and interventions to support MSMEs and farmers, enhance liquidity and strengthen credit flows. PM also discussed ways and means to ensure financial stability in the wake of COVID-19 and measures taken to enable businesses to recover quickly from the impacts. Dwelling on the issue of welfare of workers and the common man, PM pointed out the need to generate gainful employment opportunities by helping businesses overcome difficulties due to disruptions caused by COVID-19.


    For details:


    Railways only accepting passengers BROUGHT and FACILITATED by State Governments.


    It is clarified that few Special trains which are being run for migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places, are being operated on request of state governments only. All other passenger train services remain suspended.Railways isonly accepting passengers brought and facilitated by State Governments.


    For details:


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan visits Lady Harding Medical College Hospital to review status of COVID-19 management


    While commending the frontline caregivers and other healthcare personnel for the resilience, hard work, dedication and commitment shown by them in dealing with COVID-19, Dr. Harsh Vardhan said, “The recovery rate of COVID-19 patients has steadily increased which shows that more and more of these patients are getting better and going back to their homes. Till now around 10,000 COVID patients have recovered and have joined their normal life. Majority of patients in other hospitals are also on road to recovery. It reflects the quality of care provided by our frontline health workers in India. I congratulate them for their success.”


    For details:


    INDIA SALUTES CORONA WARRIORS


    India has been successfully fighting Corona Virus with the help of COVID Warriors. IAF has been contributing towards the national effort to contain Corona by supporting mobility of men and material both at International and Domestic level. More than 600 tons of medical supplies and large number of people have been airlifted including Doctors, Para-medics and equipment for setting up COVID testing labs. As a gratitude to all the Corona Warriors in India, IAF along with sister services is planning to salute these brave warriors of India in its own unique way. The planned fly past of the aircraft of the Indian Air Force is to salute the brave COVID warriors who have been tirelessly and selflessly working during these unprecedented times of corona virus pandemic.


    For details:


    Union Home Minister salutes the Corona Warriors for their unmatched Contribution and Sacrifice in fighting the COVID-19 epidemic


    ShriAmitShah said in a tweet, “India salutes its heroic Corona warriors. I assure you that the Modi government and the entire country stands beside you. We have to free the Nation from Corona by turning the challenges into opportunities and set an example for the world by creating a healthy, prosperous and strong India. Jai Hind!”


    For details:


    HRD Minister releases alternative academic calendar for classes 9th and 10th


    Speaking on the occasion the Minister said that this Calendar provides guidelines to teachers on the use of v arious technological tools and social media tools available for imparting education in fun-filled, interesting ways, which can be used by learner, parents and teachers even while at home. However, it has taken into account, the varying levels of access to such tools-Mobile, Radio, Television, SMS and various social media.


    For details:


    Judicial Member, Lokpal of India, Justice Ajay Kumar Tripathi died fighting COVID-19


    On Saturday, May 2 nd , 2020 at approximately 8:45 PM, Judicial Member, Lokpal of India, Justice Ajay Kumar Tripathi passed away at AIIMS, New Delhi. He was infected with Corona virus and was admitted to AIIMS on 2 nd April, 2020 after havingbreathing problems.


    For details:


    During COVID-19 lockdown JanaushadhiKendras achieved a record sales turnover of 52 crore rupees in April 2020


    In spite of problems in procurement & logistics due to COVID-19 lockdown, Pradhanmantri Bhartiya Jan AushadhiKendras –PMBJAKachieved a record sales turnover of 52 crore rupees in the month of April 2020, compared to 42 crore rupees in March 2020. It was 17 crore in April 2019.


    For details:


    All Stakeholders Must Adopt an Integrated Approach to Come over the Crisis: ShriNitinGadkari


    ShriGadkarihas called upon the industry that it is needed to be ensured by industries that necessary preventive measures are taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He emphasized on usage of PPE (Masks, sanitizer etc.) and advised to maintain social distancing norms during business operations.The Union Minister mentioned that there is need to focus on export enhancement as well as import substitution to replace foreign imports with domestic production.


    For details:


    MHA Control Room to be utilised for resolving complaints/issues of Drivers and Transporters on passage of goods carriers including empty trucks


    In order to ensure faster resolution of the complaints/issues of the drivers / transporters on passage of goods carriers including empty trucks for inter-state movement across the country during Lockdown, Union Government has decided to utilise the Control Room of Ministry of Home Affairs where officers of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways are also being deputed for this purpose. MHA Helpline Number 1930 and NHAI Helpline number 1033 may be used to seek assistance.


    For details:


    430 flights operated under Lifeline Udan


    430 flights have been operated under Lifeline Udan by Air India, Alliance Air, IAF and private carriers. 252 of these flights have been operated by Air India and Alliance Air. Cargo transported till date is around 795.86 tons. Aerial distance covered by Lifeline Udan flights till date is over 4,21,790 km. Helicopter services including Pawan Hans Ltd have been operating in J&K, Ladakh, Islands and North East region transporting critical medical cargo and patients. Pawan Hans till 2 May 2020 have carried 2.27 tons of cargo covering a distance of 7,729 kms.


    For details:


    Post- COVID situation provides an opportunity for India to boost its economywith the support of vast Bamboo resources: DrJitendra Singh


    DrJitendra Singh said that Bamboo is vital to India's Post- COVID economy and will provide an opportunity for India to emerge as an economic power with the support of its Bamboo resources.


    For details:


    Government asks states to speed up procurement of Minor Forest Produce to support Tribals in the backdrop of situation created by Covid 19


    Ministry of Tribal Affairs has advised all states to speed up procurement operations for Minor Forest Produceto support the Tribals especially in the backdrop of situation created by Covid19 and also keeping in view that it is now peak season for gathering of MFP.


    For details:


    Employees of EPFO contribute Rs 2.5 crore to PM CARES fund


    For details:


    N MCG & NIUA organized IDEAthon on ‘The Future of River Management’


    National Mission for Clean Ganga under the Ministry of Jal Shakti and National Institute of Urban Affairs organized an IDEAthon on “The future of River Management’ to explore how the COVID-19 crisis can shape River Management strategies for the future. Dealing with the COVID-19 crisis has been a challenge for most countries across the globe which has witnessed some sort of lockdown in most of the places. While the general narrative around this crisis has been that of anxiety and concern, the crisis has also thrown up some positive developments.


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Kerala: Armed forces salute & thank Covid19 warriors in Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi. Railways will operate four more trains today from Kerala for stranded migrant labourers. The trains will depart from Thrissur, Kannur and Ernakulam. Meanwhile, five more Keralites have lost their lives to Covid19 in the US and the Gulf. Total confirmed cases till yesterday: 499, Active cases: 96, Discharged: 400, Total deaths: 4.
      * Tamil Nadu: Armed forces shower flower petals over Covid hospitals in Chennai. State government to relax the lockdown in non-containment areas in all zones from Monday; economic activities to resume. 25 persons, including two children, test positive for Covid19 in Villupuram. JIPMER, Puducherry quarantines 44 healthcare workers after cancer patient tests positive for COVID-19. Total cases in TN till yesterday: 2757, Active cases: 1384, Deaths: 29, Discharged: 1341. Highest number of cases reported from Chennai 1257.
      * Karnataka: Today 5 new cases confirmed. Total cases 606. Kalburgi 3 and Bagalkot 2. So far 25 deaths and 282 people cured and discharged. State government announces free transportation for migrant workers after facing flak for high fares.
      * Andhra Pradesh:State to conduct Covid19 tests on one person from each family in red zones, amid an increase in the number of cases. The College Ethics Committee of Guntur Medical College gives green signal to Plasma Therapy treatment. The committee will send a report to ICMR for its response. 58 fresh cases in last 24 hours; 30 out of 58 from Kurnool district. Total positive cases rise to 1583, Active cases: 1062, Discharged: 488, Deceased: 33, Total tests done: 1,14,937. Districts leading in +ve cases: Kurnool (466), Guntur (319), Krishna (266).
      * Telangana: Expressing gratitude of the Defence forces to the Covid frontline 'warriors', an Indian Air Force helicopter showered flower petals over the state-run Gandhi Hospital. Environmentalists warn that the significant improvement in air and water quality, which Hyderabad has witnessed since the lockdown, may cease to continue if we are not mindful. Migrants from North India walk miles for food & essentials. Total cases till yesterday 1061, Active cases 533, Recovered 499, Total Deaths 29.
      * Arunachal Pradesh: Indian Air Force salutes frontline health workers in the battle against Coronavirus with a fly-past in Naharlagun, Arunachal Pradesh.
      * Assam: In order to deal with the economic situation amid Coronavirus outbreak, Assam Govt has constituted an 8 member Task Force for revitalisation of the economy of the State.
      * Manipur: FCI moves 29000 MT of foodgrain from Punjab and Haryana to Manipur.
      * Mizoram: Supply Department and IOC provides gas cylinders to 324 families at Mamit District villages in the State amid lockdown.
      * Nagaland: Mokokchung citizens in Nagaland come together to make 2 lakh face masks under the campaign 'Masks for All' which is initiated by District Task Force on COVID-19.
      * Tripura: CM in a tweet termed the IAF fly-past & showering flower petals as a remarkable effort by IAF for saluting the Corona Fighters in a battle against COVID19.
      * Chandigarh: The lockdown period in UT will be extended by two weeks i.e. upto 17th May, 2020. The curfew in the city will be lifted on midnight of 3rd May. The containment zone in the city will be restricted to the pockets identified and notified by Administration. There will be Intensive Screening and Testing of all cases within the containment pockets as per protocol.
      * Punjab: Shops in Punjab will open in the green and orange zones, across districts, from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. There would be no relaxations in red and containment zones. Health and Family Welfare Department, Punjab has issued fresh advisory on maintaining hygiene and sanitization by the plying goods vehicles and their drivers/workers during the COVID-19 pandemic.
      * Haryana: To facilitate the stranded persons and migrant workers for interstate movement (both inward and outward) in Haryana, the State Government has launched a web page https://edisha.gov.in/eForms/MigrantService for online registration of the migrant workers who wish to return to their home states. Haryana Government has directed all District Education Officers, District Elementary Education Officers, District Project Coordinators, Block Education Officers, Block Elementary Education Officers to provide information on distribution of books through mutual exchange being undertaken during the COVID-19 pandemic. Guidelines have been issued to Education Officer, School Head / In-Charge and SMC President and Members in this regard.
      * Himachal Pradesh: The State Government has decided to continue the curfew in the entire State in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic but the relaxation in the curfew would be increased by one hour from the existing four hours to five hours from 4th May, 2020 onwards. To revive the economy in the State in the wake of corona pandemic, 120 days assured employment would be provided to the urban population under a new MukhyaMantriShahariRojgar Guarantee Yojna. For this, if required, adequate training would be provided for their skill upgradation.
      * Maharashtra: A total of 790 cases were recorded in a day in Maharashtra taking its tally of positive cases to 12,296. The death toll at 521 is also the highest in the country. The corresponding figures for Mumbai are 322 deaths and 8,359 patients. The number of coronavirus cases rose to 360 in Maharashtra's Nashik district after 27 more people tested positive for the viral disease, the district administration said today. Out of these Malegaon accounts for 324 cases. Mumbai witnessed a spectacular fly-past carried out by Indian Air Force jets in the honour of thousands of ‘Covid-19 warriors’. The display was part of a nationwide exercise to express gratitude toward lakhs of ‘corona warriors’ in the frontline of fighting the coronavirus pandemic
      * Gujarat: State reported 333 new cases, taking its tally till now to 5,054. It also witnessed 26 deaths, which is maximum in a day till now. While Ahmedabad reported 250 of the 333 new coronavirus positive cases, Vadodara and Surat reported 17 cases each.
      * Madhya Pradesh: 127 new coronavirus cases were reported in MP. This brings the total reported cases of coronavirus in MP to 2,846. Among the total people infected as on date, 624 have recovered and 151 have passed away.
      * Rajasthan: 104 new cases were reported in Rajasthan, according to data released by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. This brings the total reported cases of in Rajasthan to 2,770. Among the total people infected as on date, 1,121 have recovered and 65 have passed away.
      * Chhattisgarh: CM BhupeshBaghel has written to PM Modi requesting inclusion of policemen, local bodies officers & employees of district administration in insurance scheme under PM's Welfare Package, on the lines of health workers.

    ********


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1620667) Visitor Counter : 2870
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

*