      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Updates on COVID-19
      
      So far, 12,726 people have been cured

      Posted On: 05 MAY 2020 5:44PM by PIB Delhi

    Through a graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach, Government of India is taking several steps along with the States/UTs for prevention, containment and management of COVID-19. These are being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare chaired the 14th meeting of Group of Ministers (GoM), where they had indepth deliberation on containment and management of COVID-19, and the measures taken by the Centre and various States. GoM reviewed the adequacy and availability of PPEs, masks, ventilators, drugs and other essential equipment against the requirement. The performance, impact and effectiveness of Arogya Setu App was also presented to the GOM.


    Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has issued an additional guideline for rational use of PPE for health care workers and others in non-COVID treatment areas in non-COVID hospitals and hospitals with COVID blocks. This is in continuance with the guidelines already issued on the rational use of PPE on 24 March, 2020.


    Different levels of Personal Protective Equipments (PPEs) have been prescribed for different areas of the hospital like in OPD, chambers of doctors, pre-anaesthetic check-up clinic, IPD- Ward/ICU, labor room, operation theatre etc. The detailed guidelines are available at https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/AdditionalguidelinesonrationaluseofPersonalProtectiveEquipmentsettingapproachforHealthfunctionariesworkinginnonCOVIDareas.pdf


    Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had already issued guidelines for Delivery of Non-Essential Health Services on 14th April, 2020. In accordance with these guidelines, the States/UTs have to ensure that all services like immunisation, maternal-child health services, services for critically ill patients such as dialysis, cancer, diabetes, TB and blood donation services are being provided in government and private non-COVID facilities as per the relaxations given in various zones.


    So far, a total of 12,726 people have been cured. This takes our total recovery rate to 27.41%. The total number of confirmed cases is now 46,433. Since yesterday, an increase of 3,900 has been noted in the number of COVID-19 confirmed cases in India. The total number of deaths reported so far is 1568 with 195 deaths reported since yesterday.


    As the highest increase so far in the number of confirmed cases and deaths has been reported in the last 24 hours, States/UTs are advised to effectively implement contact tracing, active case search and clinical management of cases.


    For all authentic & updated information on COVID-19 related technical issues, guidelines & advisories please regularly visit: https://www.mohfw.gov.in/ .


    Technical queries related to COVID-19 may be emailed at technicalquery.covid19@gov.in and other queries on ncov2019@gov.in and via tweets to @CovidIndiaSeva .


    In case of any queries on COVID-19, please call at Ministry of Health & Family Welfare helpline no. : +91-11-23978046 or 1075 (Toll-free). List of helpline numbers of States/UTs on COVID-19 is also available at https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/coronvavirushelplinenumber.pdf .


    *****


    MV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1621216) Visitor Counter : 1367
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Telugu , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Kannada , Malayalam