      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 05 MAY 2020 6:22PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updates on COVID-19 from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare


    So far, a total of 12,726 people have been cured. This takes our total recovery rate to 27.41%. The total number of confirmed cases is now 46,433. Since yesterday, an increase of 3,900 has been noted in the number of COVID-19 confirmed cases in India. The total number of deaths reported so far is 1568 with 195 deaths reported since yesterday.As the highest increase so far in the number of confirmed cases and deaths has been reported in the last 24 hours, States/UTs are advised to effectively implement contact tracing, active case search and clinical management of cases.


    For details:


    GoM reviews current status, preparedness and actions for management of COVID-19


    Group of Ministers had in-depth deliberation on containment strategyand management aspects of COVID-19, as well as the measures being taken by the Centre and various States.GoM was apprised that as of now,death rate is around 3.2% while recovery rate is more than25%, which may be taken as a positive effect of the Lockdown, along with the cluster management & containment strategy.Genome sequencing of strains of the novel coronavirus isolated from patients in different parts of the country has been initiated.GoMwas informed about the adequacy and availability of PPEs, masks, ventilators, drugs and other essential equipment against the requirement.Under PMGKP as on 4 th May,2020, 29.38 lakh MT food grains have been distributed to 58.77 crore beneficiaries as first month entitlement and 5.82 lakh MT to 11.63 crore beneficiaries as second month entitlement so far. 4.98 crore PMUY cylinders have been booked and 4.72 crore delivered during April-May,2020.Financial sanction for 8.18 crorebeneficiaries’(Farmers) for Rs. 2000/- each, has been generated during 20-21.As support for Senior citizens, Widows and Divyang, first instalment of funds @Rs.500 per beneficiary has been released for all 2.812 crore accounts of eligible beneficiaries. 20.05 crore women PradhanMantri Jan Dhanaccounts are being credited @Rs. 500 per account.9.27 lakh members of EPFO had availed the facility of online withdrawal amounting to Rs. 2895 crores.


    For details:


    Prime Minister participates at the online Summit of NAM Contact Group


    Prime Minister Narendra Modi participated in the online Summit of Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) Contact Group held on the evening of May 4, 2020 to discuss response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic crisis.


    For details:


    Intervention by the Prime Minister at Video Conference of NAM Contact Group in response to COVID-19


    “Today, humanity faces its most serious crisis in many decades. At this time, the Non Aligned Movement can help promote global solidarity. NAM has often been the world’s moral voice. To retain this role, NAM must remain inclusive. We need international institutions that are more representative of today’s world. We need to promote human welfare, and not focus on economic growth alone. India has long championed such initiatives.”


    For details:


    Union HRD Minister interacts with students across the country through webinar


    During the interaction, Union HRD Minister announced the dates of pending entrance examinations. He informed that the NEET will be held on 26 th July, 2020. He further informed that JEE MAIN will be held on 18 th , 20 th , 21 st , 22 nd and 23 rd July, 2020. He added that JEE(Advance) may be held in August. He said that the date of UGC NET 2020 and CBSE 12 th Board examinations will be announced soon. There will be no fees increase for IIT, IIITs and NITs for the academic year 2020-21.


    For details:


    PradhanMantriBharatiya Janaushadhi Kendras accepting orders on WhatsApp and e-mail to facilitate medicine procurement during lockdown


    At present there are over 6300 PMBJKs functioning in 726 districts of the country ensuring supply of quality medicines at affordable prices. These medicine are cheaper by about 50% to 90% on an average. In April 2020 around 52,crore Rupees worth of medicine have been supplied throughout the country.


    For details:


    EPFO Releases Rs.764 Crores to Its Pensioners


    EPFO has 65 lakh pensioners under its pension scheme. All 135 field offices of EPFO processed pension payment for April, 2020 in advance to avoid inconvenience to pensioners on account of nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.EPFO officers and staff battled all odds to send Rs 764 crore to all Nodal Branches of pension disbursing banks throughout India. All Bank branches have been directed to ensure credit of pension in the accounts of pensioners on schedule.


    For details:


    RakshaMantri reviews contribution of NCC in nation’s fight against COVID-19


    ShriRajnath Singh today reviewed the contribution of National Cadet Corps (NCC) in preventing the spread of COVID-19 through a video conference. In his opening remarks the RakshaMantri said that country is passing through challenging times and the government has taken several effective measures under the leadership of Prime Minister ShriNarendraModi to contain COVID-19. The NCC cadets have been engaged in logistics and Supply chain management duties, ensuring supply of essential food material, medicines, assisting in traffic duties, etc. Some of cadets have also made educational videos for social media, while others have made masks and distributed them locally.


    For details:


    Dr. Jitendra Singh reviews DARPG’s COVID 19 Public Grievances Redressal Progress Report for the period March 30-May 4, 2020 with 28 States and 9 UTs


    In this period, DARPG’s national COVID 19 Public Grievances monitor ( https://darpg.gov.in ) had seen a disposal of 52,327 cases of which Central Ministries and Departments redressed 41,626 cases. The average Grievance Redressal time for Central Government’s COVID 19 Public Grievance cases stands at 1.45 days/ grievance.


    For details:


    443 flights operated under Lifeline Udan by Air India, Alliance Air, IAF and private carriers


    443 flights have been operated under Lifeline Udan by Air India, Alliance Air, IAF and private carriers. Cargo transported till date is around 821.07 tons covering over 4,34,531 km. Helicopter services including Pawan Hans Ltd have been operating in J&K, Ladakh, Islands and North East region transporting critical medical cargo and patients. Pawan Hans till 3 May 2020 have carried 2.27 tons of cargo covering a distance of 7,729 kms.


    For details:


    Thinking of an Import Substitution Policy: ShriNitinGadkari


    Union Minister for MSME and Road Transport and Highways, ShriNitinGadkari today informed that a policy on imports substitution is being thought of in the wake of the new economic situation created by COVID-19 pandemic. He called upon various stake-holders to convert knowledge into wealth by improving quality through innovations and cutting down cost.


    For details:


    Union Ministry of MSME Working on Agro MSME Policy: Shri Nitin Gadkari


    The Union Minister mentioned that there is need to focus on export enhancement as well as import substitution to replace foreign imports with domestic production.He added that industry should focus more on innovation, entrepreneurship, science and technology, research skill and experiences to convert the knowledge into wealth.The Minister recalled that Government of Japan has offered special package to its industries for taking out Japanese investments from China and move elsewhere. He opined that it is an opportunity for India which should be grabbed.


    For details:


    Smt. HarsimratKaurBadal holds video conference with promoters of cold chain projects


    Smt. HarsimratKaurBadal emphasized on the need to leverage the collective strength of the Integrated Cold Chain network to cope up with the COVID-19 crisis that has posed a serious challenge to the existing supply chain of food products.They discussed issues such as piling stocks of frozen vegetables and processed dairy products not finding their traditional markets like restaurants, banquets, hotels etc. amidst the lockdown and further, the difficulty in exporting these products.


    For details:


    COVID 19 crisis demonstrates how DST is rapidly evolving as architect of profound science: Prof. Ashutosh Sharma


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Administrator has directed senior officers to focus on BapuDham Colony, Sector 30-B and other containment zones. He also instructed Director Health Services to start a special drive for screening and testing suspect cases in the area. He advised the staff to use proper protective gears while going for field operations to reduce the risk of infection.
      * Punjab: Department of Health and Family Welfare has issued an advisory for the special care of the elderly and the senior citizens in the wake of corona virus. The advisory is for the elderly citizens aged 60 or above due to their low immunity against corona virus and who suffer from chronic respiratory, heart, kidney and liver ailments. Expressing concern over the plight of tiny, micro, cottage and small industries amid the continued lockdown, Punjab Chief Minister has sought the Centre’s permission to allow these to operate by engaging labour from the family or the neighbourhood.
      * Haryana: AYUSH Department, following the guidelines of Ministry of AYUSH is distributing medicines to help enhance the immunity of Corona Warriors.
      * Himachal Pradesh: The Chief Minister flagged off three trucks loaded with relief material containing food and essential commodities donated by Art of Living for free distribution. He said that this philanthropic act would also inspire other organizations to come forward and contribute for the society.
      * Kerala: State government tells High Court that it would appeal for relaxing Centre's quarantine instruction for expats from institutional to home quarantine. The first flight carrying Keralites stranded in the Gulf will reach Kerala on May 7. There will be 15 services to Kerala alone. Huge rush of Malayalees returning from neighbouring states being witnessed at the six entry points. Meantime, Kerala HC refuses to impose a stay on the new ordinance of the state government for salary deferment of employees. Total confirmed cases: 499, Active cases: 34, Discharged: 465, Total deaths: 4.
      * Tamil Nadu: Workers at Amma canteen, Aavin milk plant test positive. In Chennai, hundreds hit the roads after lockdown was partially relaxed on Monday. Chennai hospital beds full, asymptomatic and stable patients moved to care centres set up at private colleges and Chennai Trade Centre. Koyambedu market accounts for over 600 cases in the State. Total cases till yesterday : 3550, Active cases: 2107, Deaths: 31.
      * Karnataka: 8 new cases confirmed today: Bangalore 3, Bagalkot 2 and one each in Bellary, Dakshin Kannada &Uttara Kannada each. One 62/F succumbed to Covid in Vijayapura today. Total cases till now 659, Deaths: 28, Discharged: 324.
      * Andhra Pradesh: State hikes liquor prices by another 50 per cent; reduces business hours; earlier prices were hiked by 25 percent. State re-opens Sub-Registrar Offices in all the orange and green zones; token system adopted to avoid crowding of people. 67 new Covid cases reported (14 of which from stranded Gujarat returnees), 65 discharged and one death reported in the last 24 hours. Total cases rise to 1717. Active cases: 1094, Recovered: 589, Deaths: 34. Districts leading in +ve cases: Kurnool (516), Guntur (351), Krishna (286).
      * Telangana: State to reduce the areas under containment zones after the third phase of the countrywide lockdown began on Monday with considerable relaxations. A Shramik Special Train carrying over 1,200 migrant workers to Khagaria in Bihar left from Hyderabad's Ghatkesar today morning at 3.05 am. This is the 2nd special train carrying workers leaving the city. Total Covid cases till now 1085, Active cases: 471, Recovered: 585, Deaths: 29.
      * Maharashtra: The number of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra surged to 14,541 on Monday, with a record 1,567 cases added to the tally by the State Health Department, which said this was a result of clearing a backlog of cases over the past week. The State's death toll rose to 583 with 35 more deaths recorded on Monday.As per state authorities, Mumbai has recorded 9,310 cases and 361 deaths so far. Dharavi, Asia’s biggest slum, alone recorded 42 new cases, taking the tally to 632 cases. 20 people have died in Dharavi so far.Battered by the Covid 19 onslaught, the Maharashtra government has declared a freeze on all new capital works until March 2021. The government has ordered departments to withhold tenders for new purchases and approvals for new development projects. It has also frozen all new recruitment till further orders.
      * Gujarat: Gujarat’s Covid-19 infection rate continues to remain high with 376 cases and 29 deaths added as per last report. The State’s cumulative figures now are 5,804 cases and 319 fatalities, while the recovery numbers stand at 1,195, including 153 patients who were discharged on Monday.
      * Rajasthan: 175 new coronavirus cases were reported as of 8:00 AM on May 5 in Rajasthan, according to data released by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. This brings the total reported cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan to 3,061. Among the total people infected as on date, 1,394 have recovered and 77 have passed away.The day after witnessing chaos outside liquor stores, Jaipur excise department has issued a fresh directive asking liquor shop owners to give coupons to customers so that they can turn up at the shops depending on the time slot being allowed through the coupon numbers and ensure social distancing.
      * Madhya Pradesh: Number of Covid of positive cases in Madhya Pradesh has climbed to 2,952 with 165 deaths. 798 people have since recovered. Indore is the worst affected city followed by capital Bhopal. Ujjain has emerged as a new hotspot on account steep rise in mortality rate.
      * Arunachal Pradesh:Govt issues list of contact numbers of Nodal Officers appointed to facilitate movement of stranded people back to their homes; set up website: covid19.itanagarsmartcity.in/index.php for any update and help regarding COVID19.
      * Assam: Health Minister HimantaBiswaSarma tweets that first batch of 124 Kota students quarantined at Sarusajai Stadium in Guwahati have been released after being tested negative for #COVID19.
      * Manipur: CM chairs meeting of the Task Force of Agriculture and Horticulture Deptts on ways to ensure self sufficiency of foodgrains in the state.
      * Manipur:Govt decides to increase COVID19 testing capacity by training more manpower and procuring relevant equipment.
      * Mizoram: 173 residents of Lawngtlai district returned from Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura and Manipur states, have been put in designated quarantine facilities.
      * Nagaland: Civil Secretariat and Directorates in Kohima&Dimapur to function with Deputy Secretary/Director level officers & above and with HoOs& immediate junior staff in districts. Revised guidelines allows inter-district movement of people within the state of Nagaland, plying of taxis & rickshaws under specified norms. Ban on passenger buses continues.
      * Tripura:Govt has launched a new portal i.e. covid19.tripura.gov.in for registration of its citizens who are stranded in other states and are willing to return.

    FACT CHECK


    ********


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1621232) Visitor Counter : 1691
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

*