      Ministry of Tourism

      Ministry of Tourism holds its 15 th webinar 'Punjab- Beyond the Brochure' under Dekho Apna Desh webinar series
      Posted On: 06 MAY 2020 8:34PM by PIB Delhi


    Many destinations have great things to see and do that are not well known in the State or Region leave alone outside of the state. The Ministry of Tourism’s Dekho Apna Desh webinar on 5the May 2020 titled ‘Punjab- Beyond the Brochure’ did complete justice to the title.


    When two roads diverge, taking the one less travelled has made all the difference in the world. So when we tend to take the road less travelled, we tend to encounter the most profound beauty. We stumble across unseen, unheard marvels that usually go under the radar. The session was all about finding such lesser known places in the State of Punjab that miss the traveller’s itineraries.


    The webinar presented by Ms. Shilpa Sharma, Founder-Breakaway and Ms.Puneetinder Kaur Sidhu, Author Travel Writer & Food Critic, highlighted all the three regions of Punjab namely Majha, Doaba and Malwa. The presentation touched upon the cultural and monumental heritage of Punjab that have historical footprint dating back to Harappan era , the Buddhist relics, milestones laid by Afghans and Mughal monuments. The stories of princely past of Punjab state, the British-era cantonments, martyr memorials, places of faith, and vibrant festivals were also narrated by the presenters.


    The presenters spoke about the different cities and the concept of home stays available which gives an opportunity to mingle with the local people, to know their culture, cuisine and folklore treating the tourists with a taste of Punjab. The vibrant festivals like Lohri, Basant Panchmi, Holi, Baisakhi, Teej, Diwali and concluding with the oldest music festival in the World Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan found mention in the presentation


    The sessions of webinars are now available on the https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCbzIbBmMvtvH7d6Zo_ZEHDA/featured


    and also on all social media handles of Ministry of Tourism , Government of India.


    The next webinar 7 th May 2020 at 11.00 am, titled, Goa : Crucible of Culture will talk about centuries of profound cultural exchange that Goa has seen, its music, food, architecture, painting etc. Register here: https://bit.ly/2SPNo0T


    ******


    NB /AKJ /OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1621585) Visitor Counter : 410
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil