      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      EPFO introduces email mechanism to obtain e-Sign for easing the Process of EPF Compliance by Employers during Lockdown Period as employers were finding difficult to use digital or Aadhaar based e-Sign
      Posted On: 06 MAY 2020 4:20PM by PIB Delhi


    In the current scenario of lockdown announced by the Government to control the spread of COVID-19 pandemic and other disruptions, the employers are not able to function normally and are facing problems in using their digital signatures or Aadhaar based e-sign on EPFO portal.


    Many important tasks like KYC attestation, transfer claim attestation etc are being done online by the authorized persons of employers using their Digital Signatures (DSC) or Aadhar based e-Signs on EPFO portal. For using DSC/e-Sign, one time approval from Regional Offices is required. Due to lockdown, many employers are facing difficulties to send the one time registration requests to the Regional Offices.


    Keeping in view the above situation and to further ease the compliance procedure, EPFO has decided to accept such requests through email also. Employer can send the scanned copy of duly signed request letter to the concerned Regional Office through mail. Official email addresses of the Regional Offices are available at www.epfindia.gov.in .


    Further, such establishments, whose authorized officers have approved digital signatures but are not able to locate the dongle, can login to the employer portal and register their e-sign through the link for registration of already registered authorized signatories. If their name against the approved digital signature is same as that in their Aadhar, the registration of e-sign will not require any further approval. Other authorized signatories can register their e-signs and send the request letters approved by the employers and seek approval of the concerned EPFO Offices.


    This facility provides further relief to the employers and EPF members adversely impacted by the Pandemic.


    *****


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1621380) Visitor Counter : 2197
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam