      Ministry of Science & Technology

      DG, CSIR launches Compendium of Indian Technologies for Combating COVID-19
      
      This compendium will serve as a ready-reference for policy makers, industries, entrepreneurs, startups, MSMEs, research scholars, scientists and others

      Posted On: 06 MAY 2020 5:47PM by PIB Delhi

    A “Compendium of Indian Technologies for Combating COVID-19 (Tracing, Testing and Treating)” prepared by National Research Development Corporation (NRDC) was launched by Dr. Shekhar C. Mande, Director General, CSIR and Secretary, DSIR, Govt. of India at CSIR Headquarters, New Delhi. The compendium carries information about 200 COVID-19-related Indian technologies, ongoing research activities, technologies available for commercialisation, initiatives and efforts taken by the Government of India, categorised under 3 T s of T racking, T esting and T reating. Most of these technologies are proof-of-concept (POC) tested and can help the entrepreneurs to take the product to market faster as they do not have to reinvent the wheel. Dr. Mande appreciated the initiative of NRDC for bringing out the Compendium of Indian Technologies for Combating COVID-19 “as it is very timely and would benefit the MSMEs, Startups and the public at large”.


    Dr. H. Purushotham, CMD, NRDC, informed that team-NRDC has made an attempt to compile most relevant and emerging indigenously developed technological innovations, including those which are at research stage, to fight COVID-19 for the benefit of all stakeholders and this compendium will serve as a ready-reference for policy makers, industries, entrepreneurs, startups, MSMEs, research scholars, scientists and others. He also informed that several of the technologies compiled are approved by ICMR.


    The information presented in the compendium is sourced from various government bodies and premier academic institutions including Department of Science and Technology (DST), Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Indian Institute(s) of Technology (IITs), Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB), Technology Development Board (TDB), National Innovation Foundation (NIF), Startup India and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST),and Indian Institute of Science (IISc). For more information, including transfer of technology, one may reach NRDC, an enterprise of Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR), Ministry of Science & Technology, Govt.of India at cmdnrdc@nrdc.in.


    Figure caption: Dr. Shekhar C. Mande, DG, CSIR and Secretary, DSIR launching the Compendium of Indian Technologies for Combating COVID-19, compiled by NRDC at CSIR-HQ, New Delhi. Present with him is Dr. H. Purushotham, CMD, NRDC


    ****


    KGS/(NRDC-CSIR)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1621458) Visitor Counter : 1380
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Assamese , Punjabi , Telugu