      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister participates at the online Summit of NAM Contact Group
      Posted On: 04 MAY 2020 9:57PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Narendra Modi participated in the online Summit of Non Aligned Movement (NAM) Contact Group held on the evening of May 4, 2020 to discuss response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic crisis.
    
    The online NAM Contact Group Summit on the theme of "United against COVID-19”. was hosted by the current Chairman of NAM, President of Republic of Azerbaijan HE Ilham Aliyev. The objective of the Summit was to promote international solidarity in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and to mobilise efforts of States and international organisations to address the pandemic. The event also commemorated the International Day of Multilateralism and Diplomacy for Peace.
    
    PM Modi’s participation underlined India’s longstanding commitment to the principles and values of NAM as one of its leading founding-member. In his intervention, Prime Minister emphasized the importance of a coordinated, inclusive and equitable response by the world to this crisis, outlining the steps India had taken domestically and internationally, while reaffirming India’s readiness to offer assistance in solidarity with the Movement, to the extent possible. PM also emphasized the importance of a continued effort by the world against other viruses, in particular terrorism and fake news.
    
    PM Modi was joined by over 30 other Heads of State and Government and other leaders, including from member States in Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, and Europe. The Summit was also addressed by the President of the UN General Assembly Prof Tijjani Muhammed Bande, UN Secretary General Mr. Antonio Guterres, African Union Chairperson Musa Faki Mahamat, EU High Representative, Josep Borrell, as well as Director General of the World Health Organization Dr. Tedros Ghebreyesus.
    
    Overall, NAM Leaders assessed the impact of COVID-19, identified needs and requirements for possible remedies and urged action-oriented follow-up measures. Following the Summit, leaders adopted a Declaration underlining the importance of international solidarity in the fight against COVID-19. Leaders also announced the creation of a ‘Task Force’ to identify needs and requirements of member States through the establishment of a common database reflecting their basic medical, social and humanitarian needs in the fight against COVID-19.


    Spoke at the NAM Summit, held via video conferencing. https://t.co/yRaIbCtpkq

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) May 4, 2020

    *****


    VRRK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1621065) Visitor Counter : 2412
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam