      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railways geared up to provide COVID Care Centers to State Authorities
      
      5231 Railway Coaches ready as COVID Care Centers across Indian Railways
      
      215 stations identified for placement of COVID Care centers,
      
      Out of 215 stations, Railways to provide healthcare facilities in 85 stations, in 130 stations, States to request COVID care coaches only if they agree to provide staff and essential medicines
      
      Indian Railways shall take care of water, electricity, repairs, catering and security of Covid Care Centers
      
      Guidelines issued by Centre to State Governments
      
      Guidelines prepared by Railways in consultations with Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) and other Institutions
      
      Indian Railways deploys more than 2500 Doctors and 35000 paramedic staff to meet the COVID 19 challenge
      
      Besides maintaining national supply chain in adverse circumstances, Indian Railways makes significant contribution to supplement Government of India’s efforts against COVID
      
      Railways producing own PPEs as well to protect its front line workers
      
      Posted On: 07 MAY 2020 3:18PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Railways has converted its 5231 coaches as Covid Care Centers. The Coaches can be used for very mild cases that can be clinically assigned to the Covid Care centers as per guidelines issued by MoHFW. These coaches can be used in areas where State has exhausted the facilities and needs to augment capacities for isolation of both suspect and confirmed Covid cases.


    The guidelines issued by MoHWF are enclosed (in the link given below).


    Sustaining the fight against Covid-19, Indian Railways is making an all out effort to supplement the health care efforts of Government of India. Indian Railways has geared up to provide its 5231 Covid Care Centers to the State. Zonal Railways has converted these coaches for quarantine facility.


    Out of 215 stations, Railways to provide healthcare facilities in 85 stations, in 130 stations, States to request COVID care coaches only if they agree to provide staff and essential medicines. Indian Railways has kept 158 stations ready with watering and charging facility and 58 stations with watering facility for these COVID Care centers. (list is enclosed in the link given below as Annexure A).


    Apart from Covid care centers, Indian Railways to deploy more than 2500 Doctors and 35000 paramedic staff to meet the COVID 19 challenge. Doctors and paramedics being recruited on a temporary basis by various zones. Around 5,000 beds in 17 dedicated hospitals and 33 hospital blocks in Railway Hospitals identified for treatment of COVID-19 patients getting ready any contingency.


    As per guidelines of MoHFW, State Governments would send the requisition to Railways. Railways will make allocation of these coaches to the State/UTs. After allocation by Railways, the train shall be placed, at required station with necessary infrastructure, and handed over to District Collector/Magistrate or one of their authorised persons. Wherever the train is placed, watering, electricity, repairs required, catering arrangements, security shall be taken care by Railways.


    Link of Guidelines by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare:


    Link of stations as Annexure A:


    ***


    DJN/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1621776) Visitor Counter : 1052
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Assamese , Punjabi , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam