      Ministry of Culture

      Prime Minister to participate in the Virtual Vesak Global Celebrations on Buddha Purnima tomorrow on 7th May 2020
      
      Shri Narendra Modi to deliver the keynote address on the occasion
      
      The program is dedicated as Global Prayer Week in honour of the Victims and the frontline warriors of COVID-19
      
      Prayer ceremonies on the occasion will be streamed live from various countries

      Posted On: 06 MAY 2020 9:52PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi shall be participating in the Buddha Purnima celebrations tomorrow, 7th May 2020. Minister of Culture and Minister of Tourism Shri Prahlad Singh Patel and Minister of State for Minority Affairs and Youth Affairs & Sports Shri KirenRijiju shall also be participating in the event.


    Ministry of Culture, Government of India in collaboration with the International Buddhist Confederation (IBC), a global Buddhist umbrella organization is holding a Virtual Prayer Event with the participation of all the supreme heads of the Buddhist Sanghas from around the world.


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi shall be delivering the keynote address in the morning at 8 am. The address of Prime Minister will be live telecast on DD News.


    Buddha Purnima celebrations are being held through a Virtual Visak day owing to the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic across the globe.It is also been dedicated as Global Prayer Week in honour of the Victims and the frontline warriors of COVID-19.


    Prayer ceremonies on the occasion will be streamed live from the Sacred Garden Lumbini, Nepal,Mahabodhi Temple, Bodhgaya, India,MulgandhaKutiVihara, Sarnath, India, Parinirvana Stupa, Kushinagar, India, Pirith Chanting from RuwanweliMaha Seya in the sacred and historic Anuradhapura stupa premises, Sri Lanka, Boudhanath, Swayambhu, Namo Stupa, Nepal apart from other popular Buddhist sites.


    The program will be live streamed on FB live, YouTube from IBC social media handles as well as on Mandala mobile app.


    The links are as under:


    https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4L9AkYfs104qBylCrAaRBQ


    https://www.facebook.com/ibcworld.org/


    www.mandalaapp.org.


    Vesak- Buddha Poornima, is considered the Triple Blessed Day as TathagataGautam Buddha's Birth, Enlightenment and MahaParnirvana.

      Kindly click the link for detailed schedule of the program

    *****


    NB/AKJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1621619) Visitor Counter : 629
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Telugu