      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 10 MAY 2020 6:23PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Adequate health infrastructure and health facilities set up for COVID-19 management


    Adequate health infrastructure and health facilities have been identified and set up for COVID-19 management in the country. The public health facilities dedicated for COVID-19 case management are categorised into three categories. As on 10/05/2020, 7740 facilities in 483 districts have been identified in all the States/UTs that include hospitals and facilities of the State/UT Govts as well as the central Govt. There are 656769 isolation beds, 305567 beds for confirmed cases, 351204 beds for suspected cases, 99492 Oxygen supported beds, 1696 facilities with Oxygen manifold and 34076 ICU beds. So far, a total of 19,357 people have been cured. In the last 24 hours, 1511 patients were found cured. This takes the total recovery rate to 30.76%. The total number of confirmed cases is now 62,939. Since yesterday, an increase of 3277 has been noted in the number of COVID-19 confirmed cases in India.


    For details:


    Central teams being sent to States to support in COVID-19 Management


    Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has decided to deploy Central teams to 10 states that have witnessed/are witnessing high case load and high spurt of cases. The teams will assist the State Health departments of respective states to facilitate management of COVID-19 outbreak.The teams are composed of a senior official from the MoHFW, a Joint Secretary level nodal officer and a public health expert. The team shall support the State health department in implementation of containment measures in the affected areas within the respective states’ districts/cities.


    For details:


    Cabinet Secretary chairs a meeting with Chief Secretaries and Health Secretaries of all States and UTs to review their status of COVID-19 Management


    Cabinet Secretary noted that more than 350 Shramik special trains have been run by railways carrying 3.5 lakh migrant workers. He requested State governments to cooperate with railways in running of more Shramik special trains.He also noted the cooperation of States on return of Indians from abroad under Vande Bharat Mission.Cabinet Secretary emphasised that movements of doctors, nurses and paramedics should be totally unhindered and all steps be taken to facilitate and protect Corona Warriors.The StateChief Secretaries informed about the situation in their States and also said that while protection is required from COVID, the economic activities also need to be stepped up in a calibrated manner.


    For details:


    PM to hold meeting with State Chief Ministers


    Prime Minister ShriNarendraModi will be holding the 5th meeting with State Chief Ministers via video-conference, tomorrow, 11 th May, 2020 at 3 PM.


    For details:


    Indian Railway operates 366 “Shramik Special” trains till 10th May, 2020 (1500 hrs) across the country


    As on 10th May 2020, a total of 366 “Shramik Special” trains have been operationalized from various states across the country, in which 287 trains had reached its destination and 79 trains are in transit. These 287 trains were terminated in various states like Andhra Pradesh (1 Train), Bihar (87 Trains), Himachal Pradesh (1 Train), Jharkhand (16 Trains), Madhya Pradesh (24 Trains), Maharashtra (3 Trains), Odisha (20 Trains), Rajasthan(4 Trains), Telangana(2 Trains), Uttar Pradesh (127 Trains), West Bengal(2 Trains). In these Shramik Special Trains, maximum around 1200 passengers can travel observing social distancing. Proper screening of passengers is ensured before boarding the train. During the journey, passengers are given free meals and water.


    For details:


    Home Ministry grants permission for opening of 3000 CBSE affiliated schools as assessment centres to evaluate CBSE Board exams answers sheets


    Union Minister for HRD Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' expressed his gratitude towards the Ministry of Home Affairs for giving the permission. He said that 3000 CBSE affiliated schools have been identified as assessment centers across India and special permission will be granted to these schools for the limited purpose of evaluation.


    For details:


    Law Minister holds review meeting with Attorney General, Solicitor General and all the Law Officers of Govt. of India


    Minister for Law and Justice, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad today held an interaction with the team of law officers. The Minister specially emphasized that addressing such a serious pandemic throws up complicated and sensitive nature of challenges, which the governance system has responded and it will be appropriate that this decision-making process of the Government of India and the state governments needs to be trusted.The Law Minister said that during these challenging times overzealous PILs needs to be avoided. The Law Minister in particular emphasized to take this challenge as an opportunity to make digital systems in justice delivery more robust.


    For details:


    MISSION SAGAR - 10 MAY 2020


    As part of the Government of India outreach amidst the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, Indian Naval Ship Kesari has departed for Maldives, Mauritius, Seychelles, Madagascar and Comoros, to provide Food Items, COVID related Medicines including HCQ Tablets and Special Ayurvedic Medicines with Medical Assistance Teams embarked, on 10 May 20 . This deployment as ‘ Mission Sagar ’, is in line with India’s role as the first responder in the region and builds on the excellent relations existing between these countries to battle the COVID-19 pandemic and its resultant difficulties.


    For details:


    Representation to register Retailers and Building and Construction Professionals as MSMEs will be examined: ShriGadkari


    Union Minister for MSME and Road Transport and Highways, ShriNitinGadkari today assured the Retailers Association of India and Practicing Engineers, Architects and Town Planners Association (India) that their request for registering as MSMEs will be examined expeditiously. He felt that this need to be explored from the point of these bodies being employment creators and whether various benefits such as insurance, medical, pension, etc can be provided to workers.He also called upon the retailers to start exploring option of home delivery and maintaining social distancing, availability of sanitizers for customers/employees and use of masks at all retail outlets.


    For details:


    Despite the stringent restrictions due to COVID-19 lockdown National Fertilizers Ltd. sale jumps 71% in April 2020


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Himachal Pradesh: On the request of the State Government, the Union Government has agreed to run a special train from Thivim/Margao/Karamali (Goa) to Una to facilitate movement of the people of Himachal Pradesh stranded in Goa. A special train would start from Goa on 13th or 14th of May to carry the Himachalis back home.
      * Punjab: Class X students under the Punjab School Education Board will not have to take any exams and will be promoted on the basis of their performance in the pre-Board exams, Chief Minister announced. The state government has decided to promote all students of Classes V to X under the Punjab School Education system to the next class without any examination, in the light of the unprecedented COVID crisis, which has led to prolonged lockdown/curfew, the Chief Minister disclosed. For Class XI and XII students, the state will go by the decision of the Central Government.
          + Haryana: The Haryana Government has issued guidelines with regard to the preventive measures to be taken to contain the spread of Coronavirus (for protection and safety of Divyangjan. All the Heads of Departments or Heads of offices have been directed to ensure that while drawing up roster of staff the employees who are persons with severe disabilities may not be called for duty. Haryana Government is making efforts to help school students continue their education. While on the one hand, academic syllabus is being telecast on five DTH channels, on the other hand, four channels of Haryana EDUSAT are being telecast by all the cable operators of the State.
          + Maharashtra: The total numbers of cases in Maharashtra rose to 20,228, with 48 new deaths after 1,165 fresh infections were reported in the last 24 hours. Mumbai alone has reported 12,864 cases and 489 fatalities so far.
          + Gujarat: Director of AIIMS Delhi, DrRandeepGuleria on a visit to Ahmedabad has said that late hospitalization of Covid-19 patients due to fear of stigma and higher prevalence of co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, heart and kidney disease were key reasons behind the high number of Civid-19 deaths in Gujarat. The states tally of positive cases is 7,747, while the death toll is 452.
          + Rajasthan: 33 more Covid-19 cases have been reported from Rajasthan today, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 3,741. The state has shown an impressive recovery rate of approximately 60%. 2,176 people have already recovered while 1,917 have been discharged from the hospital.
          + Madhya Pradesh: 273 new coronavirus cases were reported in MP, bringing the total reported cases to 3,614. Among the total people infected as on date, 1,676 have recovered and 215 have passed away.
          + Goa: Goa has joined several other states in relaxing labour laws under the Factories Act of 1948 and approved 12-hour daily work shifts for three months due to the Covid pandemic. The workers would be paid overtime for the extra hours.
      * Kerala:The Kerala High Court has directed state government to issue e-pass for those stranded at Walayar border check post with Tamil Nadu since yesterday as a onetime measure. A lot of Keralites turned up at the border areas today also without passes despite govt. warning. A total of 698 people who were evacuated from Maldives on INS Jalashwa, arrived in Kochi this morning. Among the 698 passengers, 440 are from Kerala, 156 from Tamil Nadu and the rest are from various states in the country. Another 121 from Lakshadweep also arrived at Kochi today on M V Arabian Sea. A flight with 182 passengers from Doha will arrive Thiruvananthapuram tonight.
      * Tamil Nadu : State government to bear the cost of transporting migrant workers with State Disaster Response Fund. 177 Indians flown home from Malaysia to Tiruchy by all women crew Air India Express flight. Chennai may see more COVID-19 cases this week, says special officer J Radhakrishnan. State to further relax Covid-19 lockdown restrictions from Monday. Total cases till yesterday: 6535, Active cases: 4664, Deaths: 44, Discharged: 1824. Active cases in Chennai are 3330.
      * Karnataka: Over 76% of Covid-19 patients in State are asymptomatic. Four Shramik trains leave for U.P., Bihar, Jharkhand. Random sample survey ordered in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. In biggest-ever spike, State records 53 new cases; state tally reaches 847.The state also reported its 31st death after the reports of 56-year-old woman, who passed away on May 7, showed that she was Covid positive.
      * Andhra Pradesh:The first Air India flight carrying Telugu people stranded abroad en-route Mumbai and Hyderabad is scheduled to arrive at Gannavaram Airport in Vijayawada on Monday morning. On arrival passengers will be screened at the airport and moved to quarantine centres for 14 days monitoring. 50 fresh cases of Covid19 reported; 38 discharged and one death reported in the last 24 hours. Total cases rise to 1980. Active cases: 1010, Recovered: 925, Deaths: 45. Districts leading in +ve cases: Kurnool (566), Guntur (382) & Krishna (339).
      * Telangana: The wait to return home might just get longer for lakhs of migrant workers from Telangana, with the city police putting the brakes on travel registrations, at some of its centres in Hyderabad. Total positive cases in Telangana 1163, Active cases 382, Discharged 751, Deaths 30.
      * Assam: Health Minister, HimantaBiswaSarma held a VC with all Deputy Commissioners to review the ongoing process of Assam Community Surveillance programe for COVID19.
      * Manipur: Special train from Chennai to Jiribam bringing stranded Manipuri citizens scheduled to start today evening. Official quarantine centres are arranged for the returnees.
      * Mizoram: In Mizoram, 1323 offenders fined so far under the Containment and Prevention of Covid-19 Ordinance, 2020.
      * Nagaland: Sufficient food stock, medicine & other commodities are available in Nagaland. No ban on commercial vehicles & service providers distributing essential items.Dimapur district administration allows opening of all hardware shops during 6 am and 9 am with effect from May 11.

    FACT CHECK


    ******


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1622723) Visitor Counter : 1595
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

*