      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      A Swachhata Warrior in Each of Us: Sadhguru
      
      “Broom is not the tool that will clean India. It is the active Participation of citizens that will play a crucial role in keeping our towns and Cities Clean”. Sadhguru
      
      Swachhata Warriors Interact with Sadhguru
      
      MoHUA, in Collaboration with Isha Foundation, Organizes Live Webinar With The Spiritual Guru
      Posted On: 08 MAY 2020 6:08PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Sadhguru, has said that that there is a Swachhata Warrior in each of us. “The broom is not the tool that will clean India. It is the active participation of citizens that will play a crucial role in keeping our towns and cities clean”, he added. Shri Sadhguru was addressing a live webinar titled ‘Swachhata Warriors with Sadhguru in Challenging Times’ organized by t he Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs (MoHUA), in collaboration with Isha Foundation. The hour long webinar had Sadhguru interact with District Collectors/ Municipal Commissioners from Ujjain, Surat, East Delhi Municipal Corporation, Agra and Madurai and provide powerful insights on facing the present crisis. The session dedicated to the frontline COVID champions – the Safai Karmacharis, was moderated by Shri Durga Shanker Mishra, Secretary, MoHUA and saw the spiritual Guru also respond to a set of questions posed by sanitation workers. The session was webcast live through YouTube (isha.co/MoHUAwithSadhguru) with simultaneous translation of the same available in Hindi (isha.co/MoHUAwithSadhguruinHindi).


    Shri Sadhguru started by acknowledging the critical role that the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) has played in significantly improving the levels of cleanliness of the country, and particularly saluted the efforts of the sanitation workers who are at the forefront of the Mission in the past five years.


    Along with answering the questions posed by ULB representatives and sanitation workers, Shri Sadhguru highlighted the importance of motivating the Swachhata Warriors along with ensuring the availability of adequate personal protective equipment and uniforms for sanitation workers to allay their fears and provide them with a sense of while on the job. He further added, “Sanitation, needless to say, is a big challenge. Along with the segregation and processing of wet and dry waste, the treatment of waste from industries and discharge of sewage from domestic industries also need to be paid attention to. Besides, dry waste segregation needs to be incentivized in some ways in order to encourage citizens to take it up with more enthusiasm”.


    The session was attended by a wide range of stakeholders across 4300+Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) across India which included Municipal Commissioners, Chief Executive Officers, political representatives such as Mayors along with health workers, sanitation workers, self-help group members, and all frontline COVID champions.


    RJ/NG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1622169) Visitor Counter : 508
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Assamese , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada