      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 08 MAY 2020 6:48PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    Updateon Covid-19 from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare


    There are 216 districts which have not reported any cases till date; 42 districts have seen no fresh cases in the last 28 days, while 29 districts have seen no fresh cases in the last 21 days. A total of 36 districts have seen no fresh cases in the last 14 days, and 46 districts have seen no fresh cases in the last 7 days.So far, a total of 16,540 people have been cured. In the last 24 hours, 1273 patients were found cured, taking our total recovery rate to 29.36 %. Total number of confirmed cases is now 56,342. Since yesterday, an increase of 3390 has been noted in the number of COVID-19 confirmed cases in India.Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare interacted with the State Health Ministers of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Telangana wherein he reviewed the preparedness efforts and containment measures regarding COVID-19. ICMR has initiated a multi-centre clinical trial called PLACID trial, to assess the safety and efficacy of Convalescent Plasma to Limit COVID-19 associated Complications in Moderate disease.


    For details:


    Government of India & AIIB sign agreement for $500 million COVID-19 support for India


    The Government of India and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) signed a US$ 500 million “COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Project” today to help India to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic and strengthen its public health preparedness. This is the first ever health sector support from the Bank to India.This new support will cover all States and Union Territories across India and address the needs of infected people, at-risk populations, medical and emergency personnel and service providers, medical and testing facilities, and national and animal health agencies.


    For details:


    Food grain procurement picks up pace amid lockdown


    More than half of targeted 400 LMT wheat for Central Pool procured. 45 LMT paddy also procured, Telangana leads with 30 LMT share. States/UTs lifted 70 LMT food grains under PMGKAY, which is about 58% of the total allocation for 3 months


    For details:


    Union Minister for Food and Public Distribution says massive exercise underway to supply free food grains & pulses to about 80 crore people across the country under PM-GKAY


    FCI has loaded a total number of 2641 rakes carrying about 74 LMT food grains, setting an all time record, says Shri Ram Vilas Paswan.Massive operation by NAFED to provide free pulses for 3 months to about 19.50 crore households for three months in the country, says the Minister. Under the “One Nation One Ration Card” plan, 5 more States/UT have been asked to integrate with the National Cluster. The cluster already has 12 States. Now, with a total of 17 States/UTs integrated with the National Cluster, the facility of national/inter-State portability would be enabled for 60 Crore NFSA beneficiaries to lift their entitled quota of foodgrains from any Fair Price Shop of their choice by using their same/existing ration card.


    For details:


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan lauds services of Indian Red Cross Society in difficult times


    Union Minister for Health & Family Welfare Dr. Harsh Vardhan took part in centenary celebrations of Indian Red CrossSocietyin New Delhi today on the occasion of ‘World Red Cross Day’. He appealed to voluntary organisations, NGOs and common people at large to come forward to promote voluntary blood donation. He asked people to donate blood at least once in a year on their birthday or marriage anniversary to make the occasion special for not only themselves but for the people who need blood also.He further asked IRCS to come forward to spread awareness amongst the masses to not to stigmatise patients and Corona Warriors including doctors, health workers, etc. and promote positive environment for them to work with great zeal.


    For details:


    Indian Navy’s Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) clears certification by INMAS


    Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) designed and produced by Indian Navy has been tested by INMAS (Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences) Delhi, a DRDO organization tasked with the testing and certification of PPE and is certified to be mass produced and used in clinical COVID situations .


    For details:


    India Post delivers Covid-19 testing kits from ICMR regional depots to testing labs across the country including remote areas


    India Post has entered into a tie up with ICMR for delivery of its Covid-19 testing Kits from its 16 regional depots to the 200 additional labs designated for Covid-19 Testing across the length and breadth of the country. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has set a target of carrying out around 1 lakh tests across the country per day. For this crucial work, India Post with its vast network of 1,56,000 post offices has once again geared up for performing as a strong COVID warrior. India Post has delivered consignments to remote areas.


    For details:


    Phone call between Prime Minister ShriNarendraModi and H.E. Charles Michel, President of the European Council


    Prime Minister ShriNarendraModi had a phone call today with H.E. Charles Michel, President of the European Council.The two leaders discussed the situation of and responses to the COVID-19 pandemic in India and the European Union. They appreciated mutual cooperation extended in the face of the pandemic, including for ensuring supplies of essential pharmaceutical products.The leaders recognized the importance of regional and global coordination to effectively address the health and economic impact of COVID-19.


    For details:


    Raksha Mantri ShriRajnath Singh speaks with Japan Defence Minister over phone on mitigating COVID-19


    The two Defence Ministers had discussions on their respective responses against the COVID-19 pandemic. ShriRajnath Singh informed MrKono Taro on India’s contribution to international efforts against COVID-19 and discussed areas of mutual cooperation in the global fight against the pandemic. They also agreed that India-Japan Special Strategic and Global Partnership provides a good basis for both countries to work together alongwith other countries in this regard to deal with the post COVID-19 related challenges.


    For details:


    ShriGadkari asks Event and Entertainment Management Industry and the Small Financing Enterprises to Remain Positive and Explore Tapping Present Situation


    Union Minister for MSME and Road Transport and Highways, ShriNitinGadkari today held meetings via video conferencing with the representatives of Events and Entertainment Management Association and members of Finance Industry Development Council on impact of COVID-19 on their sectors.ShriGadkari emphasized that this sector is doing an excellent work and that their talent and vision is widely recognized.


    For details:


    Ministry of Tourism organises 16th webinar titled ‘Goa-Crucible of Culture' under "DekhoApnaDesh" series


    Ministry of Tourism’s DekhoApnaDesh Webinar Series titled , “Goa- Crucible of Culture" on 7th May 2020 presented the ‘lesser known’ or ‘unknown’ travel experiences that India’s most popular tourist destination ‘Goa’ offers, thus bringing the participants face to face with the unknown beauty of a place which is waiting to be discovered in Goa.


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Punjab: Punjab Government has issued an advisory on maintaining the hygiene and sanitization by State Transport Undertakings (Punjab Roadways/PRTC/PUNBUS) and Private Bus operators during the transport of migrants/passengers in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. With a bumper production of wheat crop in the state, the Punjab has successfully crossed 100 LMT mark in wheat procurement despite several challenges during curfew/lockdown amid COVID-19.
      * Haryana: The Central Government has highly appreciated Haryana Government for the timely disposal of public grievances related to COVID-19. As many as 2436 grievances have been redressed out of 2827 received between the period from March 30, 2020 till May 6, 2020. Haryana Government is steadfast to provide employment and boost the economy of the state for which automated approvals are being given at the portal https://saralharyana.gov.in/ and so far 19,626 units have been approved and 11,21,287 workers have been allowed to work.
      * Himachal Pradesh: Chief Minister while presiding over the meeting with the senior officers of the State Government to review the situation in the State, in wake of corona pandemic directed them to ensure that the people of the State coming from other parts of the country must strictly follow quarantine norms. He said that all the persons coming back to the State from other parts of the country must be examined and thereafter it should be decided that he or she needs to be kept under home quarantine or institutional quarantine.
      * Kerala: Two flights carrying 177 Indians from Bahrain and 162 Indians stranded in Saudi Arabia will land in Kochi and Kozhikode respectively, tonight. One Shramik Special train with 1,150 migrant labourers will leave from Thrissur to Uttar Pradesh this evening. There are only 25 active covid cases in the State right now.
      * Tamil Nadu: Thousands throng liquor shops in the State disregarding distancing norms; protests held in several places against reopening of Tasmac outlets. State is preparing to open-up public transport post-lockdown by allowing buses with 50 per cent capacity and separate services for covid warriors. Total cases till yesterday: 5409, Active cases: 3822, Deaths: 37, Discharged: 1547. A large number of recent cases linked to Koyembedu Market.
      * Karnataka: 45 new cases reported today which is highest reported in a day till date; Bangalore 7, Bellary 1, Belagavi 11, Davangere 14 and Uttara Kannada 12 cases were reported. There were 14 discharges and one death today. Total cases till now are 750. So far there are 30 deaths and 371 people discharged. Meanwhile State announced that from tomorrow onwards all liquor shops, pubs and bars will open for liquor sales.
      * Andhra Pradesh:Chittoor district Police have started tracking the details of goods carriers’ drivers and cleaners as well as farmers who recently returned from Chennai’s Koyambedu market. 54 new Covid +ve cases reported, 62 discharged and three deaths reported in the last 24 hours after testing 7320 samples. Total cases rise to 1887. Active cases: 1004, Recovered: 842, Deaths: 41. Districts leading in +ve cases: Kurnool (547), Guntur (374), Krishna (322).
      * Telangana: At a time when migrant workers from various parts of the country are returning to their home states due to ongoing nation-wide lockdown, a Sharmik Special train with about 225 migrants from Bihar reached Telangana on Friday. Hyderabad-based vaccines and bio-therapeutics manufacturer Bharat Biotech to develop human antibodies for Covid19 therapy. Total Covid cases till now: 1122, Active cases: 400, Recovered: 693, Deaths: 29.
      * Assam:In Assam, three more persons tested COVID19 positive.Total case rise to 56, active 21, discharged 34 and 1 death, tweets Assam Health Minister. In view of the new COVID19 positive cases in Guwahati, the following areas has been declared as containment zones i,e, Amiyo Nagar, Chandmari, area near Dr. B. Baruah Cancer Hospital and Guahati Medical College and Hospitals.
      * Manipur: Directorate of Agriculture says all efforts are being made to make Urea fertilizer available for Kharif 2020 season in same quantity as last year.Manipur Social Welfare Dept. gives smartphones with ICDS-CAS application to Anganwadi workers & Supervisors in all districts to ensure real-time monitoring of Anganwadi activities and distribution of ration to beneficiaries.
      * Mizoram:Govt has quarantined over 150 people who have returned to the state without informing the state authorities.
      * Nagaland: CM says relaxation in lockdown to be done in phased manner, depending on the outcome of daily case reports. Nagaland Govt to deposit pensions of retired employees directly to their bank accounts. Pensioners asked to open bank accounts in SBI.
      * Maharashtra: Maharashtra reported 1,216 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday as cumulative tally reached 17,974 cases. Out of these, 11,394 cases have been reported from Mumbai. Maharashtra recorded single-day highest death toll of 43 on Thursday taking the total number of deaths to 694. Meanwhile, the number of people tested in the state has crossed 2 lakhs. The government of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh have announced an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh each on part of the respective state governments to the kin of the workers killed in the Aurangabad train mishap. 16 migrant labourers, who were sleeping on the railway track were crushed by a goods train at Karmad near Aurangabad early this morning.
      * Gujarat: With 388 new Covid cases reported, the total tally of positive cases in Gujarat has crossed seven thousand to reach 7,013. Of the 388 new cases found since Wednesday night, 275 were found in Ahmedabad district alone. Gujarat has reported a total of 425 Covid related deaths. In order to ensure that the Covid-affected people get hospitals and asymptomatic patients have sufficient quarantine facilities, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has taken over 8 private hospitals with 800 beds and 60 hotels with a capacity of 3,000
      * Rajasthan: 26 more coronavirus cases have been reported from Rajasthan, taking the tally of Covid-19 in the state to 3,453, the state Health Department said today. The state has witnessed 97 deaths, even as 1,596 have recovered from the viral infection.
      * Madhya Pradesh: The number of Covid 19 cases in Madhya Pradesh has surged to 3,252. While 1,231 people have recovered, 193 people have passed away in the state. Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain are the worst affected cities in MP.

    FACT CHECK


    ********


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1622188) Visitor Counter : 1276
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

*