      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister pays tributes to scientists on the National Technology Day
      Posted On: 11 MAY 2020 4:17PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today paid tributes to all the scientists in the country who are using science and technology to bring a positive difference in the lives of others.


    Shri Modi was tweeting on the occasion of National Technology Day.


    “On National Technology Day, our nation salutes all those who are leveraging technology to bring a positive difference in the lives of others. We remember the exceptional achievement of our scientists on this day in 1998. It was a landmark moment in India’s history”, he said.


    Referring to the Pokhran Tests which took place on the 11 th of May 1998, Prime Minister said the nuclear tests then were possible only due to a strong political leadership. Prime Minister also shared his quote on the tests, during his one of the MannKiBaat programme.


    “The tests in Pokhran in 1998 also showed the difference a strong political leadership can make. Here is what I had said about Pokhran, India’s scientists and Atal Ji’s remarkable leadership during one of the #MannKiBaat programmes,” he said


    Shri Modi further tweeted, “Today, technology is helping many in the efforts to make the world free from COVID-19. I salute all those at the forefront of research and innovation on ways to defeat Coronavirus. May we keep harnessing technology, in order to create a healthier and betterplanet”.


    On National Technology Day, our nation salutes all those who are leveraging technology to bring a positive difference in the lives of others. We remember the exceptional achievement of our scientists on this day in 1998. It was a landmark moment in India’s history.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) May 11, 2020

    The tests in Pokhran in 1998 also showed the difference a strong political leadership can make.
    
    Here is what I had said about Pokhran, India’s scientists and Atal Ji’s remarkable leadership during one of the #MannKiBaat programmes. pic.twitter.com/UuJR1tLtrL

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) May 11, 2020

    Today, technology is helping many in the efforts to make the world free from COVID-19. I salute all those at the forefront of research and innovation on ways to defeat Coronavirus. May we keep harnessing technology in order to create a healthier and better planet.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) May 11, 2020

    VRRK/AKP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1622952) Visitor Counter : 1184
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam