      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Cabinet Secretary chairs review meeting of NCMC to take stock of Vishakhapatnam gas leak incident and the actions taken
      Posted On: 08 MAY 2020 6:14PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Crisis Management Committee under the chairmanship of Cabinet Secretary, Shri Rajiv Gauba met for the second successive day to review the situation arising out of the gas leak that took place in Vishakhapatnam yesterday.


    Chief Secretary of Andhra Pradesh briefed the Committee on the ground situation as well as the actions taken by them after the incident to evacuate people and to contain the leakage in the plant. It was informed that all efforts were being taken by them to prevent any further emissions from the tanks. Issues related to the long term impact of the gas on health and on the quality of water and air were also discussed.


    Cabinet Secretary took stock of the current situation, preparedness, rescue and relief operations and directed that all assistance, as maybe required by the state, be provided to mitigate the situation. Consultations between national and international experts on Chemical Safety and Industrial processes and the officials on site would be carried out through video conferencing, and a team of such experts would also be flown in as per requirements. Similar consultations between medical experts would also be arranged on the medical protocol to be followed. Requirement of assistance by way of dispatch of inhibitor chemicals was also to be ensured.


    Secretaries of Ministries of Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Chemicals & Petrochemicals and Pharmaceuticals, DGs of NDRF and Health Services, Director, AIIMS and officers from MHA and Central Pollution Control Board were present. Chief Secretary of Andhra Pradesh joined the meeting through video conferencing alongwith officials of the Vishakhapatnam district.


    *****


    VG/SNC/VM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1622171) Visitor Counter : 596
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada