      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister interacts with the teachers across the country through webinar '
      
      Teachers who have completed Navodaya Vidyalaya recruitment process will get appointment after lockdown - Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank'
      
      Date of examination of National eligibility Test (NET) 2020 to be announced soon - Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank'
      Posted On: 14 MAY 2020 5:34PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Human Resource Development Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' today gave a message of 'Acharya Devo Bhava' while interacting with teachers across the country through webinar in New Delhi today. The Minister expressed his gratitude to all the teachers for spreading awareness relating to COVID-19 among the students and society at large. A large number of teachers joined the webinar and also asked questions to the Union Minister.


    The Union Minister made two big announcements during this webinar. In response to a question, he said that the examination date of NET will be announced very soon. He also announced that teachers who have completed the recruitment process of Navodaya Vidyalaya will get appointment after lockdown.


    The Union Minister, through his webinar, appealed to all the teachers to perform their duties and ensure academic welfare of students even in the lockdown situation. He said that in India, the importance of a Guru has always been more than God and that is why we should respectall the teachers keeping the spirit of Acharya Devo Bhavah. He added that in this crisis the teachers also acted like front line workers and their work is highly appreciated.


    Shri Pokhriyal said that the country is going through an unprecedented health emergency at this time. It is a difficult time for everyone where parents have their own concerns and students have their own. The responsibility of a teacher gets bigger because he is the guardian of many children at once and he has to take care of everyone without any bias. Teachers across the country have discharged their responsibilities, which is commendable.


    During the interaction, Shri Pokhriyal said that due to the efforts made by the teachers, the online education system of the country is proved successful. Many teachers were not expert in technology but still they trained themselves for the benefit of students and contributed to online education. The crisis period has further confirmed that if the teacher of the country is strong and responsible, then that country will always go on the path of development. The Union Minister also mourned the death of a teacher of primary school in Delhi due to Corona Virus. .


    While replying to question on appointments of teachers, the Minister said that the more than 8000 appointments in Kendriya Vidyalayas were done and nearly 2500 appointments are done in Navodaya Vidyalayas. He added that more than 12000 teachers were appointed in the Universities. The teachers selected in the recruitment process of Navodaya Vidyalaya will get appointment letters once the lockdown ends. Shri Pokhriyal said that our government believes that the posts of teachers should not be kept vacant and the Ministry is taking all possible steps to fill the vacancies soon.


    Shri Pokhriyal also informed that MHRD to respect the orders of Honourable High Court of Patna issued with respect to NIOS DLEd teachers. Honourable High Court Patna has quashed an order of NCTE which said that in service teachers who had done DLEd course THROUGH NIOS is not valid for regular appointment as primary school teachers.


    Responding to the question on teachers training Shri Pokhriyal said that the training of teachers for online education system is going on with full readiness and lakhs of teachers are also undergoing training. Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya National Mission on Teachers training (PMMMNMTT), training of teachers is being organized for the use of e-learning resources.The Minister also informed that the teachers participation has increased in these training programs. Teachers have expressed their willingness to connect themselves with new technologies to teach students.


    While concluding the session the Minister thanked all the teachers for patiently following the guidelines of the Health Department relating to Social Distancing, etc and , motivating students and parents to follow these guidelines . The Minister thanked teachers for participating with full sincerity in this war against COVID 19. He also urged all the teachers to send their suggestions on Twitter and Facebook on any important issues relating to education.


    Acharya Devo Bhava : Interacting with teachers from across India #EducationMinisterGoesLive https://t.co/F9dBJlWubP

    — Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank (@DrRPNishank) May 14, 2020

    ******


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1623822) Visitor Counter : 639
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam