      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      BPPI Contributes Rs.25 Lakh to PMCARES fund
      Posted On: 12 MAY 2020 5:15PM by PIB Delhi


    To support government in its fight against COVID-19, Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India(BPPI) Under the Department of Pharmaceuticals, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers has contributed Rs. 25 Lakh to PMCARES fund.


    A cheque of the said amount was presented by Secretary Pharma, shri PD vaghela to Union Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers Shri . DV sadananda Gowda in New Delhi today. On this occasion Shri Sachin Singh, CEO, BPPI, Shri Rajneesh Tingal, JS, pharma , Shri Navdeep Rinwa, JS, pharma and other senior officers were also present .


    The amount was contributed by employees, of BPPI and owners and distributors of Janaushadhi Kendras. The Kendras working under Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana (PMBJP) have been rendering essential services to the nation. Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India (BPPI), the implementing agency of the PMBJP has been keeping a close tab on the situation in all of its area of operations. BPPI has been standing with its stakeholders and consumers in these challenging times as Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Kendra (PMBJK) are functional and maintaining operations as part of their commitment.


    BPPI is committed to ensure uninterrupted availability of essential medicines at the PMBJK. BPPI has clocked appreciable sales turnover of Rs. 52 Crore despite the lock down and testing times in the month of April 2020 as compared to Rs. 42 Crore achieved in March 2020. As the product basket of PMBJP consists of all the essential medicines enlisted in the NLEM other than lab regents & stents, BPPI has adequate stock of the medicines which are currently under demand viz. Face mask, Hydroxychloroquine, Paracetamol and Azithromycin. BPPI has sold about 6 lacs Face masks, 50 lacs tablets of Hydroxychloroquine in the month of March & April 2020. Further, orders for 60 lacs Hydroxychloroquine tablets has also been placed. Envisioning current market demand, BPPI has also placed purchase orders for procurement of these medicines so as to have enough stock for the next six months.


    Following the lock down measures in place, over 6300 PMBJKs are functioning across the nation, covering 726 districts of the country. Supporting the governments initiative of practicing social distancing, pharmacists at the PMBJK, now popularly known as “Swasth Ke Sipahi” are undertaking delivery of medicines to patients and elderly people at their doorstep.


    ******


    RCJ/RKM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1623295) Visitor Counter : 814
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Kannada , Malayalam