      Ministry of Science & Technology

      INAE invites nomination for INAE Young Entrepreneur Award 2020
      Posted On: 15 MAY 2020 6:39PM by PIB Delhi


    Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE), Gurgaon, an autonomous institute of the Department of Science & Technology (DST), has invited nominations for INAE Young Entrepreneur Award 2020. The award would carry a citation and a cash prize of Rs 2 lakhs to the selected individual candidate or to be shared by the group of individuals not exceeding three persons.


    The award presented to upto two candidates in a year has been instituted to encourage and recognize innovation and entrepreneurship among young engineers. Engineering innovations and concepts that have been actually realized and implemented in the industry either in new processes or products are preferred, and Indian citizens not older than 45 years as on 1st of January 2020 are eligible for consideration.


    Both innovation and entrepreneurship together would be considered important and young innovators from academia/research organization or industry whose novel engineering/technology ideas have been translated into successful start-up enterprises would be given preference.


    The institute has sent a letter seeking nominations for INAE Young Entrepreneur Award 2020 to INAE Fellows. In addition, nominations have also been invited from 372 Incubation Centres and Start-ups all over India supported by various Government agencies, besides 29 IIT Research Parks, like incubators supported by DST, incubators under National Science and Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board (NSTEDB) supported by DST, Science & Technology Entrepreneurship Park (STEP) supported by DST, incubators supported by Department of Biotechnology (DBT), incubators supported by Department of Electronics & Information Technology (DeitY), Incubators under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) and Incubators supported by Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD). Apart from seeking nominations, an advertisement has also been published in CII Communique issue for May 2020.


    The nominations have been launched at INAE website, and last date of receipt of nominations is June 30, 2020. Interested candidates can visit www.inae.in for further details.


      ****


      KGS/DST/(DST)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1624124) Visitor Counter : 658
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil