      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi reviews preparedness as Super Cyclonic Storm ‘AMPHAN’ set to make landfall on 20th May 2020
      Posted On: 18 MAY 2020 7:16PM by PIB Delhi


    Cyclone ‘AMPHAN’ has developed into a super cyclone in the Bay of Bengal today. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi reviewed the preparedness of States and Central Ministries/Agencies concerned to deal with the situation arising out of the Super Cyclonic Storm ‘AMPHAN’. Union Minister for Home Affairs, Shri Amit Shah was present, along with senior officers of Government of India and officers of IMD, NDMA and NDRF.


    The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has informed that the Super Cyclone is expected to make a landfall on West Bengal coast in the afternoon of 20 th May as an extremely severe cyclonic storm with wind speeds ranging up to 195 kmph. It would be causing heavy to extremely heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of the State.


    In West Bengal, districts of East Medinipur, South & North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, and Kolkata are likely to be worst affected. The storm is also likely to impact coastal districts of North Odisha including Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapada, Bhadrak and Balasore.


    IMD has warned of storm surge of about 4-5 meters height above the astronomical tide, which would inundate low lying coastal areas of South & North 24 Parganas, and 3-4 meters height in East Medinipur, districts of West Bengal at the time of landfall. The cyclone has the potential to cause extensive damage in the Coastal Districts of West Bengal.


    Prime Minister has directed that all necessary measures be taken to complete evacuation of people from areas in cyclone path and maintain adequate quantities of essential supplies.


    All concerned have been advised to make adequate preparations to ensure maintenance of essential services such as Power, Telecommunications in the event of damages caused to them and also to review their preparedness well in time and ensure quick resumption of services in the event of any disruption.


    Indian Coast Guard and the Navy have deployed ships and helicopters for relief and rescue operations. Army and Air Force units in these States have also been put on standby.


    NDRF has deployed 25 teams in Odisha and West Bengal. Additionally 12 teams have been kept on standby. The teams are equipped with the requisite materials like boats, tree cutters, telecom equipment etc.


    IMD has been issuing regular bulletins with latest forecast to all the concerned States. MHA is also in continuous touch with the State Government.


    *****


    VG/SNC/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1624925) Visitor Counter : 503
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil , Kannada , Urdu , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Telugu