      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Lockdown4.0 - States/UTs cannot dilute restrictions imposed in MHA guidelines, can only make them stricter based on local level assessment and Health Ministry Guidelines: MHA
      Posted On: 18 MAY 2020 1:43PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), on 17.05.2020, issued the revised guidelines regarding lockdown restrictions, to contain COVID-19. As the lockdown was extended up to 31.05.2020, widespread relaxations were given in the restrictions.


    Under the new guidelines effective from today, States and UTs would now delineate the Red Orange and Green zones, taking into consideration the revised guidelines issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on 17.05.2020. Inside the red/orange zones, containment and buffer zones would be identified by the local authorities, based on local level technical inputs and Health Ministry guidelines.


    Within containment zones, strict perimeter would be maintained as earlier and only essential activities would be allowed. Limited activities would continue to be prohibited throughout the country. All other activities would be permitted except the ones that are specifically prohibited under MHA guidelines.


    In view of these points, MHA has reiterated to the States/UTs that despite widespread relaxations given in lockdown restrictions under revised guidelines, States/UTs cannot dilute the restrictions imposed in MHA guidelines. They may prohibit certain other activities or impose restrictions, as deemed necessary on the basis of ground level analysis of the situation.


    Further, it has been communicated that States/UTs must take into consideration the benchmarks/thresholds indicated in the revised guidelines issued by MoHFW, while delineating zones at local level. It has also been urged to give wide publicity to the Centre and respective State guidelines at local level for the convenience of the public.


    Click here to see the Official communication to States/UTs


    *****


    VG/SNC/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1624848) Visitor Counter : 1709
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu , Marathi , Bengali , Assamese , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam