      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NCMC reviews preparedness as Super Cyclonic Storm ‘AMPHAN’ set to make landfall on 20th May, 2020
      Posted On: 18 MAY 2020 10:08PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) under the chairmanship of Cabinet Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba met for the second time today to review the preparedness of States and Central Ministries/Agencies to deal with the Super Cyclonic Storm ‘AMPHAN’.


    The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has informed that the Super Cyclone is expected to reach the West Bengal coast in the afternoon/evening of 20 th May with wind speeds ranging up to 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph, causing heavy rainfall, accompanied by squally winds and storm surges, in the coastal districts of the State.


    The storm is likely to impact the coastal districts of Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapada, Bhadrak, Jajpur and Balasore in Odisha and East Medinipur, South & North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, and Kolkata in West Bengal.


    Officers of concerned State Governments apprised the NCMC of preparatory measures taken by them. They also assured that adequate stocks of food grains, drinking water and other essential supplies and services were available with them.


    NDRF has deployed 26 teams in Odisha and West Bengal and additionally teams are enroute to these States. The teams are equipped with boats, tree cutters, telecom equipment etc. Rescue and relief teams of the Army and Navy alongwith ships and aircrafts of the Navy, Air Force and Coast Guard have been put on standby.


    Reviewing the preparedness of the States and Central Agencies, Cabinet Secretary directed that all necessary measures be taken to complete evacuation of people from low lying areas in cyclone path and maintain adequate quantities of essential supplies such as food, drinking water and medicines etc. Agencies were directed to prevent disruptions to Power and Telecommunications services. Free facility of targeted SMSs to warn the people of the cyclone and intra circle roaming is to be provided.


    Chief Secretary, Odisha and Principal Secretary, West Bengal participated in the meeting through Video Conference. Senior Officers from the Ministries of Home Affairs, Defence, Shipping, Power, Telecommunications, Health, IMD, NDMA and NDRF also attended the meeting.


    NCMC will meet again tomorrow to take stock of the emerging situation.


    *****


    VG/SNC/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1624990) Visitor Counter : 410
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Punjabi , Urdu , Bengali , Odia , Tamil , Telugu