      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 21 MAY 2020 6:32PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks underta ken by PIB)


    COVID-19 Updates from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare


    A total of 45,299 patients are cured of COVID-19. A total of 3,002 COVID-19 patients are reported cured since last 24 hours. The recovery rate is improving continuously and is 40.32% presently.India currently has 63,624 active cases. Of the active cases, only approx. 2.94% of the cases are in ICU.The case mortality rate in India is 3.06%, which is much lesser in comparison to the global case mortality rate of 6.65%. An analysis of the deaths indicates 64% deaths in males & 36% in females. In terms of age distribution, 0.5% deaths are reported in less than 15 years age group, 2.5% in 15-30 years age group, 11.4% in 30-45 years age group, 35.1% in 45-60 years age group and 50.5% in people above 60 years. Further, 73% of the death cases had underlying co-morbidities.


    For details:


    COVID-19 Updates –II


    The period of the lockdown has been gainfully utilized to ramp up the health infrastructure in the country. As on 21.05.2020, 26,15,920 samples have been tested and 103532 samples have been tested in the last 24 hours through 555 testing labs (391 in the government sector and 164 private labs).ICMR is conducting a community based sero-survey to estimate the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 infection in Indian population.In collective efforts of Central as well as State Governments, as many as 3027 dedicated COVID Hospitals and COVID Health Centres along with 650930 COVID Care Centres have been identified. Additionally, more than 2.81 lakh isolation beds, more than 31,250 lakh ICU beds, and 109888 oxygen supported beds have already been identified in Dedicated COVID Hospitals and COVID Health Centres. Also, Government of India has supplied 65.0 lakh PPE coveralls and 101.07 lakh N95 masks to the States. Nearly 3 lakh PPE coveralls and 3 lakh N95 masks are now being manufactured per day by domestic producers, although they were not produced in the country earlier.


    For details:


    1 CRORE TREATMENTS PROVIDED UNDER AYUSHMAN BHARAT PRADHAN MANTRI JAN AROGYA YOJANA


    Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan ArogyaYojana (AB-PMJAY), the flagship health assurance scheme of the Government of India today marked 1 crore treatments. To mark this milestone, Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Minister of Health and Family Welfare inaugurated the first edition of ArogyaDhara, a series of webinars created as an open platform for discussion on topical issues of public health.The Minister conveyed his best wishes and gratitude to all the States who have ensured the scheme delivers on its promise especially in the unprecedented times of COVID-19. “Government of India is making persistent efforts to expand testing and make treatment of COVID-19 available for free to all 53 crore beneficiaries of Ayushman Bharat PMJAY, further strengthening Government of India’s resolve, scope and capability to move towards universal health coverage. Concerted efforts by every health worker and all empanelled hospitals have helped us achieve the 1 crore mark,” he said.


    For details:


    Guidelines for Train Services beginning on 1st June 2020


    Indian Railways will start operations of 200 passenger services as listed in the annexure. These trains shall run from 1/6/2020 and booking of all these trains will commence from 10 am on 21/05/20. These special services shall be in addition to the existing Shramik special trains being run since 01st May and Special AC trains (30 trains) being run since 12th May 2020. Other regular Passenger services including all mail/express, passenger and suburban services shall remain cancelled until further advice.


    For details:


    MHA amends Lockdown Guidelines to facilitate Domestic Air Travel for Stranded Persons in India


    Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), has amended the guidelines on lockdown measures to fight COVID-19, so as tofacilitate domestic air travel for stranded persons in India. Detailed guidelines for operation of airports and air travel of passengers would be issued by Ministry of Civil Aviation.


    For details:


    6.8 Crore free LPG cylinders distributed among the PMUY beneficiaries so far


    As part of the economic response to COVID-19, the Government of India has launched a pro-poor scheme “Pradhan MnatriGaribKalyan Package” (PMGKP), Under this scheme, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas is providing free of cost LPG cylinders to over 8 crore PMUY beneficiaries for 3 months w.e.f 1.4.20. During April, 2020, Oil Marketing Companies(OMCs) have delivered 453.02 lakh cylinders to PMUY beneficiaries under PMGKP. As on 20.5.20, OMCs have delivered total 679.92 cylinders to PMUY beneficiaries under the package. The beneficiaries were given funds in advance through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) in their accounts, so that there was no difficulty in availing this facility.


    For details:


    Government Trusts Industry Fully and Comprehensively: Finance Minister at Interaction with CII


    Union Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs SmtNirmalaSitharaman has stressed that the Government trusts industry fully and comprehensively. She urged industry to plan for engaging labour with a more professional approach and engage in skilling. “Mindsets in industry need to set examples in handling workers in a way that is acceptable to all,” stated the Finance Minister. On a question regarding the MSME sector, SmtSitharaman stated that before Covid19 as well, clear handholding was announced for MSME and NBFCs to help enterprises in rural areas. She stated that credit availability for additional term loan and working capital loan was intended to reach all MSME, and hence the Government has provided a guarantee to banks to overcome hesitation in lending. “When Government provides full and partial guarantees with a special purpose vehicle post-lockdown, the banks hesitation has been addressed,” she said.


    For details:


    Union Minister PrakashJavadekar to talk to community radios in country tomorrow


    In a unique outreach initiative, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting, Shri PrakashJavadekar will talk to Community Radios in the country on 22 nd May, 2020, at 7 PM. The talk will be simultaneously broadcast on all Community Radio stations of the country.The talk will be broadcast in two segments, one of each Hindi and English. Listeners can also tune in to FM Gold (100.1 MHz) to listen to the Minister,at 7:30 PM in Hindi and at 9:10 PM in English.The move comes as Government makes earnest efforts to reach all sections of the country for COVID related communication. There are around 290 Community Radio stations in the country. The talk is aimed at harnessing their power to reach the people in the remote corners of India.


    For details:


    MHRD has ensured safe shifting of stranded students of JawaharNavodayaVidyalayas


    Union Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' informed that NavodayaVidyalayaSamiti has, on 15th May, 2020, successfully completed the exercise of shifting of over 3000 students who were staying in 173 JawaharNavodayaVidyalayas in various parts of the country during the lockdown period.JawaharNavodayaVidyalayas are co-educational residential schools


    For details:


    82 UG and 42 PG Non-Engineering MOOCs to be offered in the July 2020, Semester on SWAYAM


    Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' informed that the Students enrolled in Universities and affiliated colleges may undertake SWAYAM courses and avail credits by completing these courses as per University Grants Commission (UGC)’s present regulations on credit framework for online learning courses.The Minister further said that in the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic scenario, Students, Teachers, Life-long learners, Senior Citizens and Homemakers may enrol and avail the benefits of SWAYAM courses to widen their horizon of learning.


    For details:


    HRD Minister releases three handbooks prepared by CBSE on Cybersecurity for students, 21st Century Skills and Principals’ handbook


    Union Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' has released three handbooks prepared by the Central Board of Secondary Education on measures taken by the Board to adopt value-based global standards of education, in New Delhi today. Releasing these three booklets, the Union Minister informed that the Handbook 'Cyber safety-A Handbook for Students of Secondary & Senior Secondary Schools’ is prepared to create awareness about cyber security among the students from class IX to XII. He said that the booklet will be a perfect guide for teenagers who use internet and other digital platforms frequently may face variety of security risks.


    For details:


    DoPT exempts pregnant women officials and staff members from attending office


    Department of Personnel & Training (DoPT) has exempted pregnant women officials and staff members from attending office. A circular to this effect has been issued and is expected to be followed by different Ministries/Departments as well as State/Union Territory governments. P regnant women employees who are not already on maternity leave will also be exempted from attending office. Persons with disabilities are also to be given similar exemption from attending office. The latest circular issued by the DoPT also states that Government servants who have underlying Co-morbidities and were undergoing treatment for these ailments before the lockdown, may, as far as possible, be exempted upon production of medical prescription from treating physician as per the CGHS/CS (MA) Rules, as applicable.


    For details:


    Defence manufacturing adversely affected due to COVID-19, says Raksha Mantri


    Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh has appreciated the role played by Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM) and other Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Nation’s fight against global Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Raksha Mantri termed MSMEs backbone of Indian economy that accelerate GDP growth, earn valuable foreign exchange through exports and provide employment opportunities. Keeping MSMEs strong is one of the priorities of the Government. He said, “There are more than 8,000 MSMEs, tiered partners of many of our organisations - Ordnance factories, DPSUs and service organisations. They contribute more than 20 per cent of the total production of these organisations.”


    For details:


    New calendar of examinations will be announced by UPSC after 5th June meeting


    Union Public Service Commission held a special meeting to review the situation after the third phase of the nation-wide restrictions, due to COVID-19. Taking notice of the extension of several restrictions, the Commission decided that it will not be possible to resume examinations and interviews, for the present. The Commission, however, took note of the progressive relaxations being announced by the Central Government and various States and has decided to review the situation once more, after the fourth period of lockdown. With a view to giving some clarity to candidates of various examinations and interviews, which have been deferred over the last two months, the Commission will issue a revised schedule of examinations in its next meeting to be held on June 5, 2020.


    For details:


    Local to Global: Khadi Masks to Hit Foreign Markets


    The widely popular Khadi face mask is set to go “global”. The Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) will now explore the possibility of exporting the Khadi cotton and silk face masks to foreign countries. The move comes days after the Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi’s “Local to Global” call in wake of the “Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan”. Keeping in view the huge demand of face masks during the global Covid-19 pandemic, the KVIC has developed double layered and triple-layered Cotton as well as Silk face masks respectively.The KVIC has so far received orders to supply 8 lakh masks and has already supplied more than 6 lakh masks during Lockdown period. Apart from sale, over 7.5 lakh Khadi masks have been distributed free to the District Authorities by Khadi Institutions across the country.


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Kerala: State government today informed the High Court that it has dropped out of the controversial deal with the US based big data company Sprinklr, for analysis of Covid data. It stated that all the data has been transferred to state owned Centre for Development of Imaging Technology (C-DIT). Two more Keralites in the Gulf region succumbed to Covid-19; one of them is a healthcare professional. Two other Malayalis lost their life in Mumbai. Three flights are scheduled to the state today as part of 2nd phase of Vande Bharat. Kerala’s Covid cases have increased tenfold from 16 to 161 in 12 days with the gulf repatriation.
      * Tamil Nadu: MSME sector and Construction projects to be affected as migrant workers leave for home. Chengalpattu administration's map gives away details of coronavirus patients; Collector says that according to protocol, only the name has to be withheld. Tamil Nadu records 743 new cases, tally surpasses 13,000-mark. Active cases: 7219, Deaths: 87, Discharged: 5882. Active cases in Chennai are 5345 as on 20 th May.
      * Karnataka: 116 new cases and one death reported in the State till 12pm today; with this total number of cases has gone up to 1578. Today 14 patients were discharged and so far 570 have recovered. Total Death toll till now is 41. Active cases 966. The State currently has 22 units producing PPE Kits and 4 companies manufacturing ventilators. CM directs Chief Secretary to overview the activities of the special task force to oversee new investments on a weekly basis, since industrialists from China have evinced interest to invest in other countries.
      * Andhra Pradesh : State begins bus services and issues guidelines for the operation of shops and establishments in urban areas following Centre’s guidelines. As many as 61,781 stranded people belonging to other states facilitated to go back to their respective states. 45 new cases, one death reported with 41 discharged in the last 24 hours after testing 8092 samples. Total cases: 2452. Active: 718, Recovered: 1680, Deaths: 54. Of the 153 positive cases noticed among returnees from other states 128 are active.
      * Telangana: Odd-even scheme for opening shops still a puzzle; rents huge concern for shop owners in Hyderabad. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) in coordination with the Health department has appointed nodal officers for monitoring and coordinating the inauguration of 45 BasthiDawakhanas. Total positive cases in Telangana as on 21st May are 1661. Migrants tested positive till yesterday 89.
      * Chandigarh: The UT Chandigarh Administrator appealed to the Traders Associations, Market Associations and shop owners, who have recently been permitted to open their facilities to ensure that proper social distancing and hygiene practices are strictly followed by the customers. He also directed Director General of Police to ensure that there should be no relaxation in screening at the inter-state borders to prevent entry of people who might be carrying corona virus.
      * Punjab: The Punjab Government has set up a Facilitation Centre at the Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi, to help Punjabis coming back on the special flights from abroad return to their respective districts in the state where they will have remain in institutional quarantine. Elaborate arrangements have been made to quarantine these people in hotels in the concerned districts, and free quarantine facility would be given to those students or immigrants who cannot afford the cost of hotels. The S.A.S. Nagar District Administration (Punjab) in collaboration with the IMA, Mohali, has launched helpline for providing counselling and psychological support to the people in isolation and quarantine. The main aim of the initiative is to ensure that the people share their emotions, concerns such as feeling anxiety, depression and sadness with the leading doctors and field experts.
      * Haryana: Haryana Government is committed to send willing migrant labourers to their home states. Chief Minister has directed every Deputy Commissioner to ensure that no migrant labourer or worker wishing to go to his/her home state should walk on foot. The entire expenditure of trains and buses being run to send migrant labourers to their home states is being borne by the Haryana Government. Free of cost arrangements are being made by the State Government to keep these migrant labourers in relief centres and to bring them to railway stations and bus stands.
      * Himachal Pradesh: The migrants stranded in the lockdown would be provided five kilograms of rice and Kala Chana dal per person during the months of May and June, 2020 under Aatmanirbhar Bharat scheme of the Government of India, who have no ration card under National Food Security Act or state schemes. They will have to submit the proforma to the shopkeeper signed by the representatives of Panhayati Raj Institutions, Mayor, Deputy Mayor, Councillor or gazetted officer. The proforma can be obtained from the office of district Controller or Inspector Food Supplies or from the fair price shops.
      * Arunachal Pradesh: 209 Arunachalee students stranded in Karnataka reach Guwahati. They will be taken to Itanagar by road.
      * Assam: Six patients discharged after testing COVID19 negative twice. Active cases stands at 130 in the State.
      * Manipur: In Manipur, systematic sample collection from all returnees is on. Total 139 samples have been sent for testing in Ukhrul. Transgender Quarantine Centre opened at Government Ideal Blind School,Takyelpat is now ready to receive stranded transgenders coming from other states.⁦
      * Meghalaya: An amount ofRs 69 Crore has been spent on relief measures for COVID19 to date andRs 46 Crore has been spent towards improving health infrastructure and facilities in the last 2 months: Meghalaya CM.
      * Mizoram: Villagers ofSiaha District, Mizoram donate their home grown vegetables and hard procured forest products to the Kitchen Management Committees of quarantine facilities of Siaha Town.
      * Nagaland: Western Sumi organizations decide to sponsor 200 returnees, quarantine center to be set up in Thabeku village.
      * Maharashtra: 2250 new cases have been reported, thereby taking the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the state to 39,297. However, the number of active cases in the state stands at 27,581, as per latest report. Hotspot Mumbai has reported 1372 new cases taking the total reported cases to 23,935.In the wake of the rising number of cases in Mumbai, the BMC has directed civic officials to acquire at least 100 beds, including 10 in ICUs, of private nursing homes and small hospitals in all 24 wards of Mumbai.
      * Gujarat:With 398 new cases and 30 deaths reported, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state has risen to 12,539. Presently 6,571 patients are undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in the different hospitals across the state, out of which 47 patients are in critical condition. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has sought public support in the fight against COVID-19 by launching ‘I am also a Corona Warrior’ campaign. The week-long campaign which is aimed at making people aware about three basic rules to fight coronavirus such as children and elderly citizens should remain indoors, not venturing out without mask and always maintaining social distancing.
      * Rajasthan: 83 people were tested positive for COVID 19 in the state today taking the total number of affected people to 6098. 3421 patients have recovered so far. The number of people under treatment is at 2527.
      * Madhya Pradesh:227 new cases have been reported, taking the tally of COVID-19 patients to 5875. The highest number of cases- 2774 have been reported in Indore district. The death toll from COVID-19 has also increased to 267 in Madhya Pradesh. The maximum number of 107 patients have died in Indore.
      * Chhattisgarh: 14 new cases have been reported across different districts of the state taking the total reported cases to 115
      * Goa: 4 new COVID-19 cases have been reported, which takes the tally of positive patients to 50. Two of these new patients arrived by Rajdhani Express on Sunday, one person by bus from Pune and the fourth patient is a coast guard personnel who arrived by a ship.

    ********


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1625839) Visitor Counter : 1049
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

*