      Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry & Dairying

      Cabinet approves Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana for boosting fisheries sector
      
      Scheme envisages an investment of over Rs.20 thousand crores in 5 years

      Posted On: 20 MAY 2020 8:42PM by PIB Delhi

    The Cabinet in its meeting held today has approved the “Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana - A scheme to bring about Blue Revolution through sustainable and responsible development of fisheries sector in India” with highest ever investment of Rs. 20050 crores in fisheries sector comprising of Central share of Rs. 9407 crore, State share of Rs 4880 crore and Beneficiaries contribution of Rs. 5763 crore. PMMSY will be implemented over a period of 5 years from FY 2020-21 to FY 2024-25 in all States/Union Territories.


    Aims and objectives of PMMSY

     1. Harnessing of fisheries potential in a sustainable, responsible, inclusive and equitable manner
     2. Enhancing of fish production and productivity through expansion, intensification, diversification and productive utilization of land and water
     3. Modernizing and strengthening of value chain - post-harvest management and quality improvement
     4. Doubling fishers and fish farmers incomes and generation of employment
     5. Enhancing contribution to Agriculture GVA and exports
     6. Social, physical and economic security for fishers and fish farmers
     7. Robust fisheries management and regulatory framework

    Background


    Fisheries and aquaculture are an important source of food, nutrition, employment and income in India. The sector provides livelihood to more than 20 million fishers and fish farmers at the primary level and twice the number along the value chain. Fish being an affordable and rich source of animal protein, is one of the healthiest options to mitigate hunger and malnutrition.


    The Gross Value Added (GVA) of fisheries sector in the national economy during 2018-19 stood at Rs 2,12,915 crores (current basic prices) which constituted 1.24% of the total National GVA and 7.28% share of Agricultural GVA. The sector has immense potential to double the fishers and fish farmers’ incomes as envisioned by government and usher in economic prosperity.


    Fisheries sector in India has shown impressive growth with an average annual growth rate of 10.88% during the year from 2014-15 to 2018-19. The fish production in India has registered an average annual growth of 7.53% during last 5 years and stood at an all-time high of 137.58 lakh metric tons during 2018-19. The export of marine products stood at 13.93 lakh metric tons and valued at Rs.46,589 crores (USD 6.73 billion) during 2018-19.


    Foreseeing the immense potential for development of fisheries and for providing focused attention to the sector, the Government in its Union Budget, 2019-20 has announced a new scheme, the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY).


    The scheme intends to address critical gaps in fish production and productivity, quality, technology, post-harvest infrastructure and management, modernization and strengthening of value chain, traceability, establishing a robust fisheries management framework and fishers’ welfare. It would also address issues like low productivity in inland Aquaculture, disease, sustainability of marine fisheries, sanitary and phyto-sanitary matters that impact the competitiveness of India’s exports along with global bench marking.


    Implementation strategy

     1. The PMMSY will be implemented as an umbrella scheme with two separate Components namely (a) Central Sector Scheme (CS) and (b) Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS).

     1. Under the Central Sector Scheme Component an amount of Rs. 1720 crores has been earmarked. Under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS) Component, an investment of Rs. 18330 crores has been envisaged , which in turn is segregated into Non-beneficiary oriented and Beneficiary orientated sub-components/activities under the following three broad heads:

     1. Enhancement of Production and Productivity
     2. Infrastructure and Post-harvest Management
     3. Fisheries Management and Regulatory Framework

     1. Majority of the activities under the Scheme would be implemented with active participation of States/UTs. A well-structured implementation framework would be established for effective planning and implementation of PMMSY. This inter-alia includes creation of State Programme Units in all States/UTs & District Programme Units and Sub-District Programme Unit in high fisheries potential districts.


     1. For optimal outcomes, ‘Cluster or area-based approach’ would be followed with requisite forward and backward linkages and end to end solutions. Suitable linkages and convergence will be fostered with other centre and state government schemes wherever feasible.


     1. Thrust will be given for infusing new and emerging technologies like Re-circulatory Aquaculture Systems, Biofloc, Aquaponics, Cage Cultivation etc. to enhance production and productivity, quality, productive utilization of waste lands and water for Aquaculture.


     1. Special focus on Coldwater fisheries development and expansion of Aquaculture in Brackish Water and Saline Areas.


     1. Activities like Mariculture, Seaweed cultivation and Ornamental Fisheries having potential to generate huge employment will be promoted.


     1. Focused attention would be given for fisheries development in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Islands, Northeast, and Aspirational Districts through area specific development plans.


     1. PMMSY envisages promotion of high value species, establishing a national network of Brood Banks for all commercially important species, Genetic improvement and establishing Nucleus Breeding Center for self-reliance in Shrimp Brood stock, organic aquaculture promotion and certification, good aquaculture practices, end to end traceability from ‘catch to consumer’, use of Block Chain Technology, Global Standards and Certification, Accreditation of Brood banks, Hatcheries, Farms, residues issues and aquatic health management supported by a modern laboratory network.


     1. PMSSY envisages development of Coastal fisher communities in a holistic manner through integrated modern coastal fishing villages with necessary infrastructure.


     1. Collectivization of fishers and fish farmers through Fish Farmer Producer Organizations (FFPOs) to increase bargaining power of fishers and fish farmers is a key feature of PMMSY.


    l. Aquaparks as hub of fisheries and aquaculture activities with assured, affordable, quality inputs under one roof, post-harvest infrastructure facilities, business enterprise zones, logistic support, business incubation centers, marketing facilities etc.


    m. Insurance coverage for fishing vessels has been introduced for the first time. Annual Livelihood support for fishers during ban/lean period would be provided.


     1. Well-structured extension support services are envisaged under PMMSY. Youth would be engaged in fisheries extension by creation of 3347 Sagar Mitras in coastal fisher villages. Besides, large number of Fisheries Extension Services Centers would be set up in private space to create job opportunities to young professionals.


    o. Major investments in construction and modernization of Fishing Harbours and Landing centers for hygienic handling of fish, urban marketing infrastructure to deliver quality and affordable fish, development of state of the art whole sale fish markets, retail markets. E-marketing and E-trading of Fish etc.


     1. Support will be provided for safety and security of fishers at sea, acquisition of technologically advanced fishing vessels for fishermen for promotion of deep-sea fishing, upgradation of Fishing vessels for improving the export competitiveness, communication and/or tracking devices and Bio-toilets in fishing vessels.


     1. Private sector participation, development of entrepreneurship, business models, promotion of ease of doing business, innovations and innovative project activities including start-ups, incubators etc. in fisheries sector.


    Major Impact, including employment generation potential


     1. Enhancing fish production from 137.58 lakh metric tons (2018-19) to 220 lakh metric tons by 2024-25.

     2. Sustained average annual growth of about 9% in fish production
     3. An increase in the contribution of GVA of fisheries sector to the Agriculture GVA from 7.28% in 2018-19 to about 9% by 2024-25.
     4. Double export earnings from Rs.46,589 crores (2018-19) to about Rs.1,00,000 crores by 2024-25.
     5. Enhancing productivity in aquaculture from the present national average of 3 tonnes to about 5 tonnes per hectare.
     6. Reduction of post-harvest losses from the reported 20-25% to about 10%.
     7. Enhancement of the domestic fish consumption from about 5-6 kg to about 12 kg per capita.
     8. Generate about 55 lakhs direct and indirect employment opportunities in the fisheries sector along the supply and value chain.

    Intended Beneficiaries :


    Fishers, Fish farmers, Fish workers, Fish vendors, SCs/STs/Women/Differently abled persons, Fisheries cooperatives/Federations, FFPOs, Fisheries Development corporations, Self Help Groups (SHGs)/Joint Liability Groups (JLGs) and Individual Entrepreneurs .


    *****


    APS/PK/MS/BA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1625535) Visitor Counter : 9195
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Punjabi , Odia , Telugu
    
    
    

8.