      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister interacts with the One Croreth Beneficiary of Ayushman Bharat
      
      Praises the efforts of doctors, nurses and all others associated with Ayushman Bharat
      
      Says the biggest benefit of Ayushman Bharat is portability and affordable top quality medical care

      Posted On: 20 MAY 2020 11:31AM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Narendra Modi today expressed his happiness as the number of the beneficiaries under the Ayushman Bharat has crossed one crore.


    In a series of tweets, the Prime Minister said it would make every Indian proud that the number has crossed 1 crore.


    He said, “In less than two years, this initiative has had a positive impact on so many lives. I congratulate all the beneficiaries and their families. I also pray for their good health.”


    Shri Modi said he appreciates the efforts of doctors, nurses, healthcare workers and all others associated with Ayushman Bharat.


    Prime Minister said, “Their efforts have made it the largest healthcare programme in the world. This initiative has won the trust of several Indians, especially the poor and downtrodden.”


    Explaining the advantages under Ayushman Bharat, the Prime Minister one of the biggest benefits is portability.


    In his tweet Shri Modi said, “Beneficiaries can get top quality and affordable medical care not only where they registered but also in other parts of India. This helps those who work away from home or registered at a place where they don’t belong.”


    Prime Minister said he is unable to interact with the Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries owing to the current situation. However he interacted on telephone with Pooja Thapa from Meghalaya who is the 1 Croreth beneficiary of the Ayushman Bharat.


    During my official tours, I would interact with Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries. Sadly, that is not possible these days but I did have a great telephone interaction with Pooja Thapa from Meghalaya, the 1 croreth beneficiary. Here is what we discussed. https://t.co/vsUOEEo5pM

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) May 20, 2020

    I appreciate our doctors, nurses, healthcare workers and all others associated with Ayushman Bharat. Their efforts have made it the largest healthcare programme in the world. This initiative has won the trust of several Indians, especially the poor and downtrodden.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) May 20, 2020

    One of the biggest benefits of Ayushman Bharat is portability. Beneficiaries can get top quality and affordable medical care not only where they registered but also in other parts of India. This helps those who work away from home or registered at a place where they don’t belong.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) May 20, 2020

    ************


    VRRK/VJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1625278) Visitor Counter : 1600
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam