      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railways transport more than 21.5 lac migrants to their home states through “Shramik Special” trains in 19 days and operate more than 1600 “Shramik Special” trains.
      
      Indian Railways to double the number of Shramik Trains to bring more relief to Migrants. Around 200 trains to run by tonight.
      
      Indian Railways to introduce 200 Time Tabled Daily New trains from June 1, 2020.
      
      The booking will done ONLY online and shall commence in few days. Trains will be non AC. Schedule and trains to be announced soon.
      
      Move is a major relief to migrants all across the country.
      Posted On: 19 MAY 2020 9:38PM by PIB Delhi


    Indian Railways plans to double the number of Shramik Trains to bring more relief to Migrants.


    In addition to these Shramik Special trains, Indian Railways is going to start 200 new Time Tabled trains from June 1, 2020. The routes and schedule of these trains will be intimated soon.


    The booking will ONLY online and shall commence in few days .


    Trains will be non AC. No tickets will be sold at any railway station and prospective travellers should not come to the railway station to buy tickets.


    Indian Railways appeals to the migrants not to panic. Efforts are being made to ensure that all of them are able to travel to their home states at the earliest.


    Efforts will be made such that they will be able to board trains from Railway Station Head on main line which is close to their existing location.


    Railways has asked the State Governments to identify and locate these migrants who are walking on roads to go to their home states and transport them to the nearest main line railway station after doing their registration at the nearest district hqrs and give a list of these travellers to the Railway Authorities so that arrangements can be made for their further travel through Shramik specials.


    More than 21.5 lac migrants have been transported to their home states through “Shramik Special” trains in 19 days and operated more than 1600 “Shramik Special” trains till 19th May.


    Indian Railways appeals to the migrants not to panic . Efforts are being made to ensure that all of them are able to travel to their home states at the earliest.


    ***


    DJN/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1625228) Visitor Counter : 6081
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Kannada , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Telugu