      Ministry of Coal

      Cabinet approves adoption of methodology for auction of coal and lignite mines/blocks for sale of coal / lignite on revenue sharing basis and tenure of coking coal linkage
      
      A paradigm shift in the approach from being oriented to maximum revenue from coal to making maximum coal available in the market at the earliest
      
      A move away from fixed rupees per tonne basis auction methodology to a more market oriented revenue share auction methodology
      
      Methodology enables adequate competition which will allow discovery of market prices for the blocks and faster development of coal blocks
      
      Permitting commercial exploitation of Coal Bed Methane in the mining lease area
      
      Rebates in revenue share payments in the event of early production of coal from the coal mine
      
      Clean coal options - Rebates for consumption or sale of coal for gasification or liquefaction
      
      Higher investment will create direct and indirect employment
      
      Tenure of Coking Coal linkage in the non-regulated sector linkage auction increased upto 30 years
      Posted On: 20 MAY 2020 2:15PM by PIB Delhi


    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has approved the methodology for auction of coal and lignite mines/blocks for sale of coal / lignite on revenue sharing basis and increasing the tenure of coking coal linkage.


    This methodology provides that bid parameter will be revenue share. The bidders would be required to bid for a percentage share of revenue payable to the Government. The floor price shall be 4% of the revenue share. Bids would be accepted in multiples of 0.5% of the revenue share till the percentage (%) of revenue share is up to 10% and thereafter bids would be accepted in multiples of 0.25% of therevenue share. There shall be no restriction on the sale and/or utilization of coal from the coal mine.


    The methodology is oriented to make maximum coal available in the market at the earliest and it also enables adequate competition which will allow discovery of market prices for the blocks and faster development of coal blocks. Higher investment will create direct and indirect employment in coal bearing areas especially in mining sector and will have an impact on economic development of these regions.


    Successful Bidder shall be required to make monthly payments which shall be determined as product of:


     1. percentage (%) of revenue share (final bid)

     2. quantity of coal on which the statutory royalty is payable during the month and
     3. notional price or actualprice whichever is higher.

    The Upfront Amount shall be 0.25% of the value of estimated geological reserves of the coal mine payable in 4 equal instalments. However, the upfront amount payable shall be as per actual calculation as per above method or as per ceiling mentioned here below, whichever is lower:-

                                                                          
Geological Reserves in mine (MT)  Upper ceiling of Upfront Amount (Rs. cr)
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
Upto 200                          100                                     
                                                                          
                                                                          
                                                                          
Above 200                         500                                     
                                                                          
                                                                          

    It also permits commercial exploitation of the CBM present in the mining lease area.


    This methodology provides incentives to the successful bidder by way of offering rebates in revenue share in events of early production of coal from the coal mine and the total quantity of coal consumed or sold or both for gasification or liquefaction on an yearly basis from the coal mine.


    As the entire revenue from the auction/allotment of coal mines would accrue to the coal bearing States, this methodology shall incentivise them with increased revenueswhich can be utilised for the growth and development of backward areas and their inhabitants including tribals. States in Eastern part of the country will be especially benefited.


    Tenure of coking coal linkage in the non-regulated sector linkage auction has been increased upto 30 years.


    ******


    VRRK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1625305) Visitor Counter : 624
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Telugu
    
    
    

   
   
   
   
   
   
3.