      Ministry of Earth Science

      All India Weather Forecast
      Posted On: 23 MAY 2020 4:33PM by PIB Delhi


    According to the National Weather Forecasting Centre of the India Meteorological Department:

      * The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Lat.5°N/Long.85°E, Lat.8°N/Long.90°E, Car Nicobar, Lat.11°N/Long.95°E.
      * Heat wave conditions over some parts with severe heat wave at isolated pockets very likely over Rajasthan and heat wave conditions in some parts very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi and Vidarbha during next 4-5 days.

    Heat wave conditions in isolated pockets very likely over Madhya Pradesh and southern parts of Uttar Pradesh during next 4-5 days;


    over Coastal Andhra Pradesh &Yanam and Telangana during next 3 days;


    heat wave condition likely to develop over Marathwada and Rayalseema after 24 hours.

      * Heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls likely at isolated places over parts of northeastern states and Heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over adjoining parts of east India during 24th-27th.

    Heavy rainfall at isolated places over parts south peninsular India during 26th-27th May, 2020.


    The IMD has forecast Heat wave to severe heat wave conditions over Northwest, Central and adjoining Peninsular India during next 5 days b) Intense rainfall activity over Northeast India during 25th – 27th May, 2020.


    Observed Weather:

      * Yesterday, heat wave conditions in some parts had been observed over West Rajasthan andin isolated pockets over Haryana, Delhi, East Rajasthan and Vidarbha. The highest maximum temperature of 46.6°C was reported at Churu (West Rajasthan).
      * Parts of Northeast India had been experiencing heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy falls since last 2 days. Rainfall (cm) reported in Meghalaya: Sohra-33 &Sohra(RKM)- 28.

  * 
    ****


    KGS/(IMD release)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1626396) Visitor Counter : 1361
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Urdu , Hindi , Tamil
    
    
    

*