      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      UPDATES ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 26 MAY 2020 5:26PM by PIB Delhi


    Government of India along with the States/UTs is taking several steps for prevention, containment and management of COVID-19 through a graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach. These are being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level.


    The focus of the administration continues to be on prevention and containment measures so as to limit the spread of infection. Following of required hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene and effective sanitation of frequently touched surfaces are critical to avoid getting the infection. There is a need to ensure COVID appropriate behaviour to tide over this crisis. This also includes regular use of the masks/face covers and working towards protecting the elderly and vulnerable. Maintenance of physical distancing in public is the social vaccine the world currently has against the novel Coronavirus.


    India has rapidly increased its testing capacity and is on track to meet the emerging requirements. India is now testing an approximate 1.1 lakh samples per day. Capacity has been increased by augmenting number of labs, shifts, RT-PCR machines and manpower. As of today, India has 612 total labs, 430 run by ICMR and 182 in the private sector to test the population for COVID-19 infection. Guidelines have been issued to States/UTs advising immediate testing for symptomatic and home quarantine for asymptomatic migrant workers. Most States/UTs have been working with National Tuberculosis Elimination Program (NTEP) to deploy TrueNAT machines for COVID-19 testing. Indigenous manufacturers of RT-PCR-kits, VTM, swabs & RNA extraction kits have been identified and their production facilitated in the last few months.


    Recovery rate in the country continues to improve and presently it is 41.61%. A total of 60,490 patients have so far recovered from COVID-19. The case fatality rate in the country is also showing a downward trend from 3.30% (as on 15th April) to around 2.87% at present which is amongst the lowest in the world. The global average for case fatality is presently around 6.45%.


    An analysis of case mortality per lakh population indicates that India has about 0.3 deaths per lakh population which is amongst the lowest in the world against the statistics of 4.4 deaths per lakh population for the world. The relatively low death figures, both in terms of mortality per lakh population and case fatality rate, represent timely case identification and clinical management of the cases.


    For all authentic & updated information on COVID-19 related technical issues, guidelines & advisories please regularly visit: https://www.mohfw.gov.in/ and @MoHFW_INDIA .


    Technical queries related to COVID-19 may be sent to technicalquery.covid19@gov.in and other queries on ncov2019@gov.in and @CovidIndiaSeva .


    In case of any queries on COVID-19, please call at Ministry of Health & Family Welfare helpline no.: +91-11-23978046 or 1075 (Toll-free). List of helpline numbers of States/UTs on COVID-19 is also available at https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/coronvavirushelplinenumber.pdf .


    ****


    MV/SG


    

    
    (Release ID: 1626926) Visitor Counter : 1844
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam