      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 22 MAY 2020 6:49PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    UPDATES ON COVID-19 FROM THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND WELFARE; RECOVERY RATE IMPROVES TO 40.98%


    Since yesterday, an increase of 6088 has been noted in the number of COVID-19 confirmed cases in India. The total number of confirmed cases is now 1,18,447.The number of cases under active medical supervision is 66,330.So far, a total of 48,533 people have been cured. In the last 24 hours, 3234 patients were found cured. This takes our total recovery rate at 40.98%.


    For details:


    Violations of MHA Guidelines being reported at various places across the country


    Strict Implementation of all measures in Government guidelines is essential to contain the spread of COVID-19. However, violations in the implementation of MHA Guidelines are being reported at various places across the country. Taking note of this the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has written to all States/UTs and emphasised that the Ministry’s guidelines should be strictly implemented, and all authorities in States/UTs should take necessary steps to ensure the same.


    For details:


    MHA relaxes Visa and Travel restrictions imposed in response to COVID -19, permitting certain categories of OCI cardholders stranded abroad, to come back to India


    Ministry of Home Affairs has relaxed Visa and Travel restrictions imposed in response to COVID -19, permitting certain categories of Overseas Citizen Of India (OCI) cardholders, who are stranded abroad, to come to India. Following categories of OCI Cardholders stranded abroad, have been permitted to come to India: Minor children born to Indian nationals abroad and holding OCI cards; OCI cardholders who wish to come to India on account of family emergencies like death in family; Couples where one spouse is an OCI cardholder and the other is an Indian national and they have a permanent residence in India; University students who are OCI cardholders (not legally minors) but whose parents are Indian citizens living in India.


    For details:


    RBI announces nine additional measures for strengthening the Economy; Cuts interest rates


    RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das today announced yet another set of nine measures to smoothen the flow of finance and preserve financial stability in the turbulent and uncertain times ushered in by the COVID-19 pandemic. These include Repo rate reduced by 40 basis points; Refinance Facility to SIDBI extended for another 90 days; Relaxation of Rules for Foreign Portfolio Investment under Voluntary Retention Route; Exporters can now Avail Bank Loans for Higher Period; Loan facility to EXIM Bank; More time for Importers to Pay for Imports; Extension of Regulatory Measures by another 3 Months; Provision to convert Interest on Working Capital into Interest Term Loan; Increase of Group Exposure Limit to Increase Fund Flow to Corporates. States have been allowed to borrow more from Consolidated Sinking Fund. He said that GDP growth in 2020-21 is estimated to remain in negative territory, with some pick-up in growth impulses from H2: 2020-21 onwards.


    For details:


    Refunds amounting to Rs. 26,242 crore issued since 1st April, 2020


    Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has issued tax refunds worth Rs. 26,242 crore to 16,84,298 assessees since 1st April, 2020 to 21st May, 2020.Income Tax refunds amounting to Rs. 14,632 crore have been issued to 15,81,906 assessees and corporate tax refunds amounting to Rs. 11,610 crore have been issued to 1,02,392 assessees during this period.


    For details:


    Indian Railways green lights re-opening of reservation counters & booking through Common Service Centers (CSCs) and Agents


    Indian Railways is going to open reservation counters for booking of reserved tickets in a phased manner.Zonal Railways have been instructed to decide and notify opening of reservation counters as per local needs and conditions. These reservation counters will open from tomorrow in a phased manner, along with dissemination of information about their respective locations and timings as per the local needs and conditions.Indian Railways has also allowed booking of Reservation Tickets through the Common Service Centers and Ticketing agents w.e.f Friday.


    For details:


    RPF starts nation-wide efforts to identify and act against touting activity


    As Indian Railways has started 15 pairs of AC Special trains on 12th May,2020 and announced 100 pairs of additional trains w.e.f 01 June 2020, complaints had started to pour in regarding touts of e-tickets using multiple personal Ids and cornering reserved berths in these special trains. In view of the above, RPF has started concerted nationwide efforts to identify and act against these touts. Analysis of PRS data through PRABAL module clubbed with ground intelligence is being used to identify and bring them to book.


    For details:


    Shri Dharmendra Pradhan pitches for making Aatmanirbhar Bharat a cornerstone in pipeline projects


    Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas &Steel Shri Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday reviewed pipeline projects worth approx. Rs. 8000 Crore, under various stages of implementation by oil and gas companies. Pitching for Aatmanirbhar Bharat, Minister Pradhan called for complete indigenisation in these projects.


    For details:


    PM's address on the situation in the wake of Cyclone Amphan


    For details:


    India will share its best practices and experiences in conserving biodiversity with the rest of the world: Union Environment Minister


    International Day for Biological Diversity 2020, Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Shri Prakash Javadekar today launched five key initiatives towards conservation of biodiversity.Stressing on this year’s theme Shri Javadekar stressed that “OUR SOLUTIONS ARE IN NATURE” and therefore, protecting our nature is very important especially in the present context of COVID 19 as it shields us from various catastrophe including zoonotic diseases. The Environment minister laid emphasis on the need to limit our consumption and promote a sustainable lifestyle.


    For details:


    States should ensure distribution of food grains among beneficiaries, so that no one goes hungry: Shri Ram Vilas Paswan


    Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Shri Ram Vilas Paswan held a review meeting with State/UTs Food & Public Distribution Ministers and Food Secretaries in a video conference today.Shri Paswan said they should ensure distribution of foodgrains so that no one goes hungry.The Minister emphasizedthat states like Odisha and West Bengal,affected byCyclone ‘Amphan’,should also take care of those affected by the cyclone.The Minister said that FCI has become the lifeline of food distribution and food grains and pulses are being distributed across the country by road, rail and air. The Minister took stock of the distribution of food grains and pulses in the states and UTs.


    For details:


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan elected as Chair of Executive Board of WHO


    Union Minister of Health & Family Welfare Dr. Harsh Vardhan has been elected as Chair of the Executive Board of World Health Organization for the year 2020-21. Accepting the Chair of the Executive Board, Dr Harsh Vardhan paid tribute to the lakhs of people who have lost their lives due to the global COVID-19 pandemic.He requested all dignitaries present on the occasion to give a standing ovation to all the frontline health workers and other COVID Warriors by saluting their dignity, determination and dedication.


    For details:


    Economic viability is crucial for higher educational institutions- Shri Nitin Gadkari


    Shri Nitin Gadkari has said that economic viability is crucial for higher education institutions. These institutions need to reduce their operating cost without compromising on quality.He was addressing a meeting via video conferencing with the representatives of MIT ADT University on future of higher education.The Minister said that upgradation of universities is required, and value based education is the strength of the society. He further shared that our youth should understand their strengths and weaknesses and problems faced by them can be converted into opportunities. He added that enhancing capability of the youth is critical for the country at this stage.


    For details:


    Union Minister Dr Jitendra Singh discusses steps to expedite the Corona sample testing procedure in Jammu & Kashmir


    Union Minister Dr Jitendra Singh has discussed steps to expedite the Corona sample testing procedure in Jammu & Kashmir. In a meeting with senior officers of Jammu & Kashmir Health Department as well as Heads and faculty members of Government Medical Colleges and SKIMS, Dr Jitendra Singh emphasised the need to respond to the popular demand to make the Corona sample testing more time bound and to reassure the people offering their samples that they would not be subject to any unwarranted delay or inconvenience.


    For details:


    Japanese companies invited to invest in Indian Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices industry


    A webinar on ‘Medical Devices and API sector: Challenges & Emerging Opportunities’ was held on 22nd May, 2020 at 11.30 am for business and trade collaboration between India and Japan in the post COVID-19 scenario. The webinar was organized by the Embassy of India, Tokyo in partnership with the Department of Pharmaceuticals, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, Govt. of India.


    For details:


    RNA extraction kit Agappe Chitra Magna launched commercially for detection of COVID 19


    Inexpensive, fast, and accurate testing for COVID-19 virus is the cornerstone of containing its spread and providing appropriate help to the infected. The Chitra Magna, an innovative RNA extraction kit developed by SCTIMST was transferred to Agappe Diagnostics in April 2020, and will now be available in the market as Agappe Chitra Magna RNA Isolation Kit. This product has been independently validated at National Institute of Virology for Covid19 RNA isolation.


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Maharashtra: 2,345 news cases have been reported in Maharashtra, thereby taking the state tally of COVID-19 positive cases to 41,642. While 28,454 active cases exist in the state, 11,726 have also recovered. 1382 new cases have been reported from hotspot Mumbai taking the city total to 25,500. The Maharashtra Government has come out with three slabs on per day charges on treatment of COVID-19 patients in private and charitable hospitals and also decided to regulate rates for 80 per cent of the operational bed capacity in these medical facilities. Fresh guidelines issued by the State Government today said, the fee regulation decision applies to both isolation and non-isolation beds in private and charitable hospitals.
      * Gujarat: With 371 new infections reported, the total number of COVID-19 cases rose to 12,910. The death toll in the state also jumped to 773. The rapid surge in COVID-19 cases continues in Ahmedabad. The city has reported 9,449 Corona virus cases so far, making it the second worst hit city after Mumbai.
      * Rajasthan: 150 new cases of COVID-19 infection have been reported till 2 p.m. today, taking the tally of positive cases to 6,377. While 3562 patients have recovered, 3187 of them have been discharged from various hospitals across the state. Rajasthan Roadways buses will start plying from tomorrow on selected 55 routes, after a gap of 2 months.
      * Madhya Pradesh: 248 new cases of COVID-19 have been reported, taking the state tally to 5,981. While 59 of these new infection cases are from hotspot Indore, 61 cases have been reported from Ujjain. Since April 1, more than 35.45 lakh labourers have been provided employment under MGNREGS during the Corona crisis. 42.2 per cent of them are women.
      * Chhattisgarh: The total number of positive cases rose to 132 with the reporting of 17 new cases. Migrant workers stranded in other states due to the lockdown are now returning to Chhattisgarh. These returning migrants have to be in quarantine for 14 days at the centres set up in Gram Panchayats of various districts.
      * Chandigarh: Deputy Commissioner, UT Chandigarh informed that essential items are being provided to the people confined in containment zones. He further mentioned that 69,088 cooked food packets have been distributed among the destitute and needy persons in various parts of the city and 2,94,592 persons have downloaded Aarogya Setu App in UT, Chandigarh.
      * Punjab: Gearing up for the next stage in the fight against corona virus, the Punjab Government has equipped nearly 22000 employees with various role-specific training modules on iGOT platform to fight COVID-19 pandemic. The course details and relevant instructions on registration and accessing online training module have been circulated to all Heads of the Departments, Deputy Commissioners & Managing Directors of Boards and Corporations in the state, with directions to all the state government employees to take role-specific iGOT training on https://igot.gov.in/igot/, an initiative by the Union Ministry of Personnel.
      * Haryana: Women and Child Development Department aims to create awareness among 2375 children living in 82 Child Protection Institutions regarding the COVID-19 pandemic and to engage them in constructive work during this period. Various online competitions are organized under the title 'Safe Rahona- Fight Corona'. All the District Child Protection Officers have been directed to take special care to follow social distancing norms, wear masks, clean hands repeatedly with soap or sanitizer to prevent COVID-19 and encourage children to do the same.
      * Kerala: As the State Covid tally keeps rising with new cases being reported among returnees from affected States, Kerala Health Minister said monitoring systems of those under the observation of Covid19 will be made stricter. The Minister also said that those who are coming in domestic flights will also be quarantined for 14 days. There has been widespread violation of home quarantine and social distancing norms in many parts of the state today, prompting the Police to take action. Five Keralites who attended the funeral rites of a native of Kayamkulam, in Hyderabad have been confirmed of Covid19. Three flights from Gulf are to arrive later today. There was one death and 24 new positive cases in the state yesterday.
      * Tamil Nadu and Puducherry: Covid cases rise to 19 in Puducherry after two more women test positive. State to allow auto-rickshaws to ply across Tamil Nadu from May 23 except in Chennai and containment zones. State govt. embarks on massive cost cutting measures in the wake of huge short fall in the revenue receipts due to the pandemic. With 776 new positive cases yesterday total tally reached 13,967 in Tamilnadu. Active cases: 7588, Deaths: 94, Discharged: 6282, Active cases in Chennai 5681.
      * Karnataka: 105 new cases and 17 discharges in the State till 12pm today; with this total number of cases have gone up to 1710. Active cases now in the State is 1080 and 588 have recovered so far. Total Death toll till now is 41. Chief Minister held review meeting of primary and secondary schools and instructed to take all precautionary measures during upcoming 10th standard (SSLC) exams, which is scheduled to start from June 25, 2020.
      * Andhra Pradesh: 147 passengers plus one infant arrived at Tirupati international airport today from Kuwait under Vande Bharat Mission. South Central Railways sets up 44 online reservation centers for issuing tickets in AP for train services commencing from June 1. State sanctions Rs. 1110 crore to MSMEs as part of restart package. 62 new cases, one death and 51 discharges reported in the last 24 hours. Total cases: 2514. Active: 728, Recovered: 1731, Deaths: 55. Of the 153 positive cases among returnees from other states, 128 are active.
      * Telangana: Nine bodies including eight of migrants were found in a well near Warangal town in Telangana on Friday. The dead include six members of a migrant family from West Bengal, two workers from Bihar and a local resident. Over 3 lakh migrants applied online to the Telangana police and other authorities to allow them to go back to their native states. Total positive cases in Telangana as on 22nd May are 1699. Migrants tested positive till yesterday 99.
      * Arunachal Pradesh; In Arunachal Pradesh, since April 2020, the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd has released a total of 44209 free LPG cylinders in the state.Arunachal State Transport Department declares all staff (driver and conductors) engaged in ferrying returnees from designated check points to quarantine centres as COVID19 Frontline Workers.
      * Assam: In Assam, six persons from Tezpur quarantine centre tested COVID19 positive. Total positive cases rise to 222 now, State Health Minister said.
      * Manipur: In Manipur, one more person tests positive who had returned from Delhi by road. Total active cases in the state are now 24. Manipur State Health Department has started open space collection of samples from the quarantine centres to hasten the process and to do away with dependence on the sole collection kiosk located at the district hospital.
      * Mizoram: Supplies and equipment to fight against COVID19 arrived at Lengpui Airport, Aizawl today.
      * Nagaland: In Nagaland, around 100 persons stranded outside arrived in the state; all sent to quarantine centers. Nagaland Planning Minister appeals to people to warmly welcome returnees. Says obstruction may invite penal action.
      * Sikkim: State Education Department mulling over conducting exams in Sikkim itself for students studying outside the State as CBSE announces remaining class XII board examinations from July 1, 2020. Quarantine centres and screening facilities enhanced by Sikkim State authorities as around 3000 stranded Sikkimese expected to reach in the next 3-4 days.

    PIB FACTCHECK


    ********


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1626144) Visitor Counter : 921
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

*