      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 26 MAY 2020 6:36PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    UPDATES ON COVID-19 FROM THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND WELFARE


    India is now testing an approximate 1.1 lakh samples per day. Capacity has been increased by augmenting number of labs, shifts, RT-PCR machines and manpower. As of today, India has 612 total labs, 430 run by ICMR and 182 in the private sector to test the population for COVID-19 infection. Most States/UTs have been working with National Tuberculosis Elimination Program to deploy TrueNAT machines for COVID-19 testing. Indigenous manufacturers of RT-PCR-kits, VTM, swabs & RNA extraction kits have been identified and their production facilitated in the last few months.


    Recovery rate in the country continues to improve and presently it is 41.61%. A total of 60,490 patients have so far recovered from COVID-19. The case fatality rate in the country is also showing a downward trend from 3.30% (as on 15th April) to around 2.87% at present which is amongst the lowest in the world. The global average for case fatality is presently around 6.45%.An analysis of case mortality per lakh population indicates that India has about 0.3 deaths per lakh population which is amongst the lowest in the world against the statistics of 4.4 deaths per lakh population for the world. The relatively low death figures, both in terms of mortality per lakh population and case fatality rate, represent timely case identification and clinical management of the cases.


    For details:


    Health Secretary interacts with 5 States that are seeing upsurge in incoming returning migrant workers


    Ms Preeti Sudan, Health Secretary held a high-level review meeting with the Chief Secretaries, Health Secretaries and NHM Directors of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. These states are witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases since the last three weeks as lockdown rules have been eased and inter-state migration has been allowed. It was reiterated that States need to pay focused attention on assessing the existing the available health infrastructure in terms of quarantine centres, hospitals with ICU/Ventilator/oxygen beds etc., and to strengthen them looking at the need assessment for the next two months. Regarding non-COVID essential health services, States were reminded that immediate measures need to be taken to continue essential health programs for TB, Leprosy, COPD, Non-communicable diseases like hypertension, diabetes, treatment for injuries and trauma due to accidents need to be continued.


    For details:


    Indian Railways operationalises 3274 “Shramik Special” trains across the country and transports more than 44 lacs passengers to their home states


    As on 25th May 2020, a total of 3274 “Shramik Special” trains have been operationalized from various states across the country. More than 44 lacs passengers have reached their home state by these “Shramik Special” trains. On 25.05.2020, 223 Shramik Specials were moving 2.8 lacs passengers. IRCTC distributed more than 74 lakh free meals and more than 1 crore water bottles to travelling migrants. It may be noted that trains running today are not facing any congestion.


    For details:


    Indian Railways operationalises 3060 “Shramik Special” trains till 25th May, 2020 (10:00 hrs) across the countryand transports more than 40 lacs passengers to their home states through “Shramik Special” trains in 25 days .


    As on 25th May 2020 (till 10:00 hrs), a total of 3060 “Shramik Special” trains have been operationalized from various states across the country. More than 40 lacs passengers have reached their destinations by these “Shramik Special” trains. The rail route congestion which was being witnessed on 23rd/24th May, 2020, is over. The congestion had occurred due to convergence of more than two third rail traffic on routes to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and late clearance of the terminals due to health protocolsetc that needed to be completed by State Authorities. The matter has resolved through active consultation with State Governments and also finding other feasible routes for the journey.


    For details:


    Ministry of Tourism extends validity period of Approval/Classifications of Hotels & other accommodation units till 30th June 2020


    The Ministry of Tourism classifies hotels under the star rating system to conform to the expected standards for different classes of tourists. The classification/ certification is valid for period of five years.Considering the current situation, it has been decided that validity of approval or certifications of hotels and other accommodation units whose project approvals/reapprovals and classification/reclassification have expired/are likely to expire during the period (24.03.2020 to 29.6.2020) are deemed to be extended till 30.06.2020.Similarly, the Ministry has a scheme of approving Travel Agents, Tour Operators, Adventure Tour Operators, Domestic Tour Operators and Tourist Transport Operators etc.Due to postponement of inspection work and application scrutiny during the lockdown period from March 2020 onward in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Tourism has decided to allow six months’ relaxation or extension to all categories of Tour Operators (Inbound, Domestic, Adventure) Travel Agents and Tourist Transport Operators for their approval with the Ministry of Tourism subject to certain conditions.


    For details:


    Telephone conversation between PM and Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi


    In a telephonic conversation with His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, Prime Minister Modi conveyed greetings on Eid-ul-Fitr to the Government and people of the UAE. The leaders expressed satisfaction about the effective cooperation between the two countries during the COVID-19 pandemic situation. Prime Minister Modi thanked the Crown Prince for the support extended to Indian citizens in UAE.


    For details:


    Phone call between Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and H.E. Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of the People's Republic of Bangladesh


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi spoke on phone with H.E. Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of the People's Republic of Bangladesh. Prime Minister Modi conveyed greetings on Eid-ul-Fitr to Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and the people of Bangladesh.
    The leaders also discussed the COVID pandemic situation and the ongoing collaboration between the two countries in this regard. Prime Minister Modi reaffirmed India’s support to Bangladesh in addressing these challenges.


    For details:


    Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh speaks with Australian Defence Minister over phone on mitigating COVID-19


    Shri Rajnath Singh today held a telephone conversation with Australian Minister of DefenceMs Linda Reynolds. The two Defence Ministers had discussions on their respective responses against the COVID-19 pandemic. Shri Rajnath Singh informed Ms Linda Reynolds on India’s contribution to international efforts against COVID-19 and discussed areas of mutual cooperation in the global fight against the pandemic. They also agreed that India-Australia Strategic Partnership provides a good basis for both countries to work together alongwith other countries in this regard to deal with the post COVID-19 related challenges.


    For details:


    Proto-type test samples of PPE Coveralls are now being tested and certified by Nine authorized laboratories


    The PPE Coveralls in India are manufactured keeping in view of the safety of the health professionals as the most important criteria. The proto-type test samples of PPE Coveralls are tested and certified by Nine (9) authorized laboratories as per the technical specifications prescribed by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. The test standards are in conformity with the WHO Guidelines for COVID-19, and tested in accordance with ISO 16603 Class 3 and above for ‘Synthetic Blood Penetration Resistance Test’. The PPE is designed to be resistant to passage of any fluid or aerosol particle for complete protection of its user.


    For details:


    LG of Ladakh Sh. R K Mathur calls on Union Minister DrJitendra Singh and discusses COVID situation & developmental activities in the UT


    Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh Shri R K Mathur today called on DrJitendra Singh and discussed COVID situation and other issues including revival of development activity in the newly created Union Territory. DrJitendra Singh formally conveyed to the Lieutenant Governor, the Government’s appreciation for the consistent diligence and effort with which the Union Territory administration had dealt with the COVID pandemic and also succeeded in containing it. He noted that it was Ladakh which had caused initial alarm for the entire country when suddenly a number of cases reported Corona positive from among the returnees, who were coming back from Iran pilgrimage, but it goes to the credit of the administration and the civil society that Ladakh is among the first to gradually come out from the Corona assault.


    For details:


    Government is exploring new financial lending institutions to support small-scale units – Shri Nitin Gadkari


    Union Minister for MSME and Road Transport and Highways, Shri NitinGadkari has said that the government is exploring new financial lending institutions to support small-scale units in terms of financial support. Shri Gadkari said that government is working towards strengthening the NBFCs which will help small businesses to avail easy credit in the coming time..


    For details:


    REC Limited ties up with TajSATS to provide nutritious meals to frontline healthcare workers


    REC Foundation, the CSR arm of REC Limited, has partnered with TajSATS (a joint venture of IHCL and SATS Ltd) to distribute specially-made nutritious meal packets for medical staff in Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi. Every day, 300 food packets are being delivered as a gesture of gratitude to the frontline healthcare warriors of New Delhi. Over 18,000 meals will be delivered in New Delhi through this initiative.


    For details:


    CSIR-IIIM & Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) to develop RT-LAMP based test for Coronavirus
    RT-LAMP a rapid, accurate and cost-effective test can be done with indigenous components and set up with minimal expertise and instrumentation


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Kerala: Chief Minister in a VC with MPs and MLAs in the state urged them to fully support the state in the fight against Covid, as more cases are emerging from among the returnees from other States and abroad. The postponed SSLC and Higher Secondary exams resumed in the state today adhering to strict Covid protective measures. Google has granted permission for the BevQ the virtual queue management app for liquor sale; liquor sales to resume this week. Meanwhile, three more Keralites have succumbed to Covid19 in the Gulf with the toll crossing 120. The state recorded its sixth Covid death and 49 new cases yesterday.
      * Tamil Nadu: Puducherry reports two more Covid19 cases, total count rises to 34. Relief for Tamil Nadu fishermen, as annual trawling ban to be lifted 14 days in advance on May 31. Health Minister says that of the 118 persons who died after testing positive for Covid19 in the State, 84% had co-morbidities. In highest single-day spike, State reported 805 fresh cases yesterday. Total cases till yesterday: 17082, Active cases: 8230, Deaths: 118, Discharged: 8731. Active cases in Chennai are 5911.
      * Karnataka : 100 new Covid cases & 17 discharges till 12pm today; Chitradurga 20, Yadagiri 14, Hassan 13, Belagavi 13, Davangere 11, Bidar 10, Bangalore 7, Vijayapura 5, two each in Udupi&Kolar and one each in Bellary, Koppala&Chikkaballapur. Total positive cases in the State rise to 2282. Active cases: 1514, Recovered: 722, Deaths: 44, Active cases 1433, Deaths 44. CM conducted review meeting related to higher education and directed maximum use of online platforms to teach students. Meanwhile Health Minister said a committee is being set up to examine the demands of Ayush doctors.
      * Andhra Pradesh: State aims to bail farmers out of all hardships - extends financial support of Rs.13,500 to farmer under RythuBharosa. Domestic flights resume operations in AP, 79 passengers from Bengaluru arrived at Vijayawada. Institutional quarantine mandatory for flyers from six places. 48 new cases, one death reported with 55 discharged in the last 24 hours after testing 8148 samples. Total cases: 2719. Active: 759, Recovered: 1903, Deaths: 57. Cumulative +ve cases from other states 153 of which active are 47. Cumulative +ve cases from abroad are 111.
      * Telangana: No clarity on full pay for government staffers this month. State yet to decide on Schools reopening date. Total positive cases in Telangana as on 26th May are 1920. Migrants tested positive till yesterday 159. 38 foreign returnees tested positive for Covid19.
      * Punjab: Punjab Health Department has issued detailed advisory for maintaining of hygiene and sanitization of Barber shops/hair-cut saloons during the COVID-19 pandemic. The owners of the Barber shops/ Hair-cut saloons would have to ensure that any staff member who has symptoms of COVID-19 (Fever, Dry Cough, breathing difficulty etc.) is not engaged at work and stays at home on sick medical advice. Similarly no client having such symptoms should be attended.
      * Haryana: Chief Minister has said that due to the global pandemic of COVID-19, the state government daily runs Special Shramik Trains from the various railway stations of the state to send the migrant workers from Haryana to their home states. He said that so far 2.90 lakh migrant labourers have been sent from Haryana to their home states through 77 Special Shramik Trains and 5,500 buses. In addition, a total of 11,534 persons have returned to Haryana from different states. He said that realizing the difficulties of these migrant labourers the Haryana government has made arrangements to send them to their home states free of cost.
      * Himachal Pradesh: In order to stop the transmission of COVID-19, the Chief Minister has appealed to the residents of the state to follow the Quarantine Rules strictly. He also asked everyone to first verify the facts about any COVID related news circulating on social media, before forwarding it.
      * Maharashtra: 2,436 new cases have been reported in Maharashtra, taking the tally of COVID-19 positive patients in the state to 52,667. While there are active 35,178 active cases in the state now; 15,786 patients have been discharged after full recovery till date. Hotspot Mumbai reported 1430 new cases.A heartening news is that the doubling rate in the slum cluster of Dharavi has gone up to 19 days from earlier 3 days, indicating that the containment strategy adopted by the government has been working.
      * Gujarat: The total number of Covid 19 cases has reached to 14,468 after 405 fresh cases reported from 20 districts, as per latest report. Among the total active cases in the state, 109 patients are critical who are on ventilator system. Meanwhile, approximately 6.80 lakh workers are employed in more than 29,000 development works under the MNREGA scheme across the state amid the lockdown. The tribal dominant Dahod district is on the top in giving jobs to nearly 1.06 lakh people under MNREGA.
      * Rajasthan: After 75 new Corona patients have been found in the state today, the number of COVID-19 infected persons has gone up to 7,376. Out of which, 1,844 persons are migrants who recently returned from other states. So far, the highest 1,844 cases have been reported in Jaipur, while 1,271 cases from Jodhpur and 505 cases have been reported from Udaipur so far. The State Government has given permission for operation of taxis and auto-rickshaws in a limited number in the Red Zone areas with effect from today. These are being operated only from the airport, railway stations and hospitals.
      * Madhya Pradesh: 194 new cases have been reported in the last 24 hours. As a result, the number of people infected with the Corona virus has increased to 6,859.
      * Chhattisgarh: 40 new corona virus cases have been reported in the state on Monday, taking the number of active cases to 220. Mungeli alone registered 30 of these new cases.
      * Goa: One new case has been reported, taking the number of active cases to 48 out of the 67 confirmed cases reported so far.
      * Assam: In Assam, institutional quarantine is mandatory for people coming from outside, no home quarantine is allowed as a preventive measure against COVID19, decided in State Council of Ministers meeting chaired by CM.Financial assistance of Rs. 2000 under 'Assam Care' to 3.6 lakh people of Assam stranded outside for every month from April to June 2020, decision taken at the meeting of Council of Ministers chaired by Assam CM.
      * Manipur: Three persons from Imphal West tested COVID19 positive in Manipur.Total number of cases rise to 39, and 35 active cases undergoing treatment.
      * Mizoram: The Governor of Mizoram gave his assurance for help to the teachers and students from Rajasthan, Kerala, Arunachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana stranded in Mizoram due to COVID19 after their meeting at Raj Bhavan.
      * Nagaland: No immediate plan to re-open schools in Nagaland. Adequate arrangements are being made to ensure students continue learning through TVs & digital platforms. Nagaland Govt makes testing mandatory for all entering the state on first day of arrival.
      * Sikkim: 79 Sikkimese people arrived at New Jalpaiguri Station by Special Shramik Train from Kerala. After arrival, they were taken back by Sikkim Nationalised Transport buses to their respective districts.

    PIB FACT CHECK


    ******


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1626956) Visitor Counter : 746
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

  
  
  
  
*