      Ministry of Earth Science

      All India Weather Bulletin
      
      Present heat wave conditions very likely to continue to prevail mainly during next 2 days over plains of northwest India, Central India & adjoining interior parts of eastern India
      
      Conditions are favourable for further advance of Southwest Monsoon into some more parts of South Bay of Bengal, Andaman Sea & adjoining Central Bay of Bengal during next 24 hours
      Posted On: 26 MAY 2020 6:54PM by PIB Delhi

    
    According to the National Weather Forecasting Centreof the India Meteorological Department: 

    ♦ Due to prevailing dry northwesterly winds over plains of northwest India, Central India & adjoining interior parts of eastern India, present heat wave conditions very likely to continue to prevail mainly during next 2 days.


    ♦ Meteorological sub-division wise, isolated severe heat wave conditions with heat wave at many places very likely over Vidarbha during 26th-27th and with heat wave over some parts over Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and East Madhya Pradesh on 26th May. Heat wave conditions likely at a few places over Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh, East Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh and at isolated places over Punjab and East Uttar Pradesh on 27th May. Isolated heat wave conditions also likely over Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Marathawada and Madhya Maharashtra during next 2-3 days.


    ♦ Under the influence of a Western Disturbance and formation of east-west trough in lower levels and likely occurrence of rain/thunderstorm from 28th-29th May, maximum temperatures over plains of north India likely to recede from 28th onwards with substantial reduction of Heat wave conditions from 29th May. Under favourable wind conditions over parts of central & adjoining eastern parts of India, heat wave conditions also likely to reduce from these areas from 29th May.


    ♦ Due to strong southerly wind from Bay of Bengal to northeast India at lower tropospheric levels; Heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls likely at isolated places over parts of Assam & Meghalaya during next 5 days and over Arunachal Pradesh on 26thMay. Heavy to very heavy rainfall likely at isolated places over Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram &Tripura during next 5 days and over adjoining parts of east India during next 48 hours. Heavy rainfall at isolated places over parts of south peninsular India during 26th-30th May, 2020.


    ♦ The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Lat.5°N/Long.85°E, Lat.8°N/Long.90°E, Car Nicobar, Lat.11°N/Long.95°E. Conditions are favourable for further advance of Southwest Monsoon into some more parts of south Bay of Bengal, Andaman


    Sea & adjoining central Bay of Bengal during next 24 hours.


    
    ****


    KGS/(IMD release)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1626959) Visitor Counter : 802
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Urdu , Hindi , Tamil