      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 23 MAY 2020 7:55PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    UPDATES ON COVID-19 FROM THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND WELFARE


    Union Health Secretary along with senior officers of the Health Ministry held a high level review meeting with the Pr. Health Secretaries, Urban Development Secretaries, Municipal Commissioners, Mission Directors (NHM) and other officials from the 11 municipal areas which have high case load of Covid-19. It was told that major challenge lies in those corporations having shorter doubling time, higher mortality rate and a higher confirmation rate than the national average. It was pointed out that testing needs to be stepped up in some municipal areas to ensure early detection of cases, timely clinical management and a reduction in fatality rate.


    So far, a total of 51,783 people have been cured. In the last 24 hours, 3,250 patients were found cured. This takes the total recovery rate to 41.39%. The total number of confirmed cases is now 1,25,101. Since yesterday, an increase of 6654 has been noted in the number of COVID-19 confirmed cases in India.


    For details:


    Indian Railways to operationalise 2600 More Shramik Special Trains in next 10 days


    In a constant endeavour to provide relief to migrants to reach home State, in a major decision, Ministry of Railways has decided to operationalise 2600 more Shramik Special Trains in next ten days across the country as per the needs of State Governments.This initiative is expected to benefit 36 lakh stranded passengers across the country.It may be noted that Indian Railways started running “Shramik Special” trains from 01 May 2020, to move migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places due to lockdown. These special trains are being run from point to point on the request of both the concerned State Governments. Indian Railways has run 2600 Shramik Special Trains in last 23 days. Around 36 lakhs stranded migrants have been transported till now to their home States.


    For details:


    Booking of tickets for 200 Trains which are being introduced wef 01st June, in full swing


    Indian Railways will start operations of 200 daily passenger trains across the country from 1 June 2020 and booking of all these trains commenced from 21 May 2020. These special services shall be in addition to the existing Shramik special trains being run since 01st May and Special AC trains (30 trains) being run since 12th May 2020. Booking of tickets for these trains started from 21st May and as on 22nd May 2020 at 20:14 hours, all the 200 trains were available in system for booking and 652644 online tickets were booked for these trains having 1413277 passengers.


    For details:


    More areas under Summer Crops over last year, procurement too rises despite lockdown


    The Sowing Area Coverage of Summer Crops of Rice, Pulses, Coarse Cereals and Oilseeds has been more this time compared tothe corresponding period of last year. In Rabi Marketing Season (RMS) 2020-21, a total of 337.48 Lakh MT wheat arrived in FCI out of which 326.96 Lakh MT is purchased.Under the Pradhan Mantri KisanSammanNidhi (PM-KISAN) Scheme during the lockdown period from 24.3.2020 till date, about 9.55 crore farmer families have been benefitted and an amount of Rs. 19100.77 crore has been released so far.


    For details:


    India Post delivers over 2000 tonnes of medicines and medical equipment across the country


    Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, Union Minister of Communications, Electronics and IT instructed the senior officers of India Post to work towards realising the vision of the Prime Minister for an AatmaNirbhar Bharat. The VC was conducted on first “Make in India” VC Solution developed by C-DOT. As such, it was also a first successful trial run of the VC solution. The Covid efforts of India Post include: More than 2000 tonnes of medicines and medical equipment being booked and delivered to needy individuals and hospitals across the country; Road Transport Network running more than 25000 Kms daily and carrying more than 75 tonnes of mails and parcels, being introduced to strengthen the supply chain; Around Rs.1500 Crore being disbursed at the door step using Aadhar enabled Payment Systemof India Post Payments Bank to around 85 lakh beneficiaries.


    For details:


    Telephone conversation between PM and Prime Minister of Mauritius


    Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi had a telephone conversation with H.E. PravindJugnauth, Prime Minister of Mauritius. Prime Minister Jugnauth conveyed his condolences for the losses caused in India by Cyclone Amphan. He thanked PM for sending the Indian Naval Ship 'Kesari' to Mauritius as part of 'Operation Sagar', with a consignment of medicines and a 14-member medical team to help the Mauritian health authorities fight the COVID-19 pandemic. Prime Minister recalled the special people-to-people ties between India and Mauritius and said that India is duty-bound to support its friends during this time of crisis.


    For details:


    Telephone Conversation between PM and President of Sri Lanka


    Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi spoke on phone today with H.E. GotabayaRajapaksa, President of Sri Lanka, regarding the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and its likely health and economic impacts in the region.Prime Minister assured the Sri Lankan President that India would continue to provide all possible support to Sri Lanka for mitigating the effects of the pandemic.


    For details:


    In less than 72 hours, more than 2,00,000 students downloaded the National Test Practice App


    Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' has informed that the National Test Abhyaas App launched by the National Testing Agency for students preparing for JEE (Mains) and NEET has become very popular among the students and within less than 72 hours of its launch, more than 2,00,000 students have downloaded this app. He also informed that more than 80 thousand students have also given mock tests for JEE (Mains) and NEET. He added that students give maximum mock test between 10 am and 12 noon.


    For details:


    Consultations ongoing to raise advertisement air time on community radios to 12 minutes per hour: Sh. PrakashJavadekar


    Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting, Shri PrakashJavadekarhas said that he was eager to raise air time for advertisements to 12 minutes from 7 minutes on Community Radios currently to bring them at par with TV channels. Addressing listeners of all Community Radio stations, the Minister exhorted people to keep up their fight against Coronavirus. He said that we will drive it away the way we have driven away other diseases. However, he highlighted that we have a new normal, one that consists of 4 steps viz, staying at home as much as possible, frequent washing of hands, wearing face mask in public and social distancing.


    For details:


    Monthly Production Report for April 2020


    During the Covid-19 Lockdown period of April’20, the domestic crude oil production, production of natural gas and the refinery output went down.


    For details:


    Post-COVID India will emerge more confident and gain esteem in the world arena: Dr.Jitendra Singh


    Union Minister, Dr Jitendra Singh has said that Post-COVID India will emerge more confident and gain esteem in the world arena.In an interview to a private TV channel, Dr Jitendra Singh said, notwithstanding all the apprehensions and anticipations at this hour of crisis, he is confident that six months later from today, the world will look up to India with respect and seek to engage with us. Not only this, he said, India will also emerge as a safe destination for business and trade.


    For details:


    Comfortable face mask designed by CeNS could encourage public to use it for long hours


    A team of researchers at Centre for Nano and Soft Matter Sciences (CeNS), Bangalore, has developed a cup-shaped design (patent filed) of the mask that helps to create enough space in front of the mouth while speaking. It has been transferred to a Bangalore based company for mass production.


    For details:


    Ajmer Smart City’s war room instrumental in fight against Covid-19


    AMC has set up Covid-19 War room at Nagar Nigam which is headed by the Senior Ajmer Administrative officials, Medical and Police officers to monitor the existing Covid-19 situation and take further action to reduce the spreading of Covid-19 among its citizens. War Room is also instrumental in planning and implementation of various innovative strategies in order to create awareness among its citizens for following Covid-19 precautionary steps issued by WHO and MHA


    For details:


    “HunarHaat” to restart from September 2020 with the theme of “Local to Global”


    After a gap of about 5 months due to the Corona pandemic, “HunarHaat”, which has become “Empowerment Exchange” of artisans and craftsmen from across the country, will restart from September 2020 with the theme of “Local to Global” and comparatively larger participation of artisans.


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Chandigarh: The UT Administrator again advised that the Administration must focus on BapuDham Colony area to ensure that the spread of infection is contained. Aggressive and intensive checking should be done, so that all cases could be detected early for medical treatment.
      * Punjab: As part of the efforts to bring back people stranded abroad, the first evacuation flight from USA landed at the Mohali International Airport on 22.05.2020. As per the health department protocol, all the passengers were subjected to medical screening with strict compliance with the social distancing norms and nobody was found symptomatic. All the passengers were also impressed upon by the Health Department teams deployed at the airport to take all health related precautions such as covering their face with masks, using hand sanitizers, washing hands as much as possible and observe social distancing guidelines.
      * Haryana: Haryana Government has issued guidelines regarding seating capacity limits for taxis, cab aggregators, maxi cabs and auto rickshaws for the period of lockdown 4.0 in accordance with the guidelines issued by Union Ministry of Home Affairs. Taxi and cab aggregator will be allowed to ply with two passengers in addition to the driver. This means that there will be three persons in the vehicle. One pillion rider will be allowed on the two-wheelers and it shall be mandatory for both the persons to wear helmets, masks and gloves and the manually driven rickshaw shall carry not more than two passengers. All drivers and passengers are advised to install the AarogyaSetu application on mobile phones and regularly update their health status on the application.
      * Himachal Pradesh: Chief Minister directed the officers to provide all protective equipment to the doctors, paramedical staff, police personnel and other staff dealing with the persons arriving in the State by trains from various parts of the country. Chief Minister also directed the Deputy Commissioners to create additional facilities for institutional quarantine in their respective districts keeping in view large number of people still expected to reach the State in coming days. Chief Minister said that home quarantine mechanism must also be made robust and effective so that persons in home quarantine remain isolated and help in breaking the cycle of the virus.
      * Assam :Kalapahar hospital in Guwahati to be converted into fully functional COVID19 facility to work under GMCH with 20 doctors, 30 nurses, 25 grade 4 staff and 9 cleaners, Assam Health Minister said.
      * Manipur: In Manipur, all bank and telecom related workers will be allowed to move freely without curfew passes.One more person tested COVID19 positive in Manipur. The patient returned to the state from Chennai on 13th May.
      * Mizoram: Chief Minister said the cabinet has decided to withhold some portion of the salaries of employees which would be released after sometime due to COVID19 pandemic.
      * Nagaland: Automatic disinfectant booths installed at Dimapur Railway Station. Facility donated by Nagaland Chamber of Commerce. Nagaland Govt directs DCs to take stringent action against persons/individuals issuing unwarranted directives on returnees entering their localities.
      * Kerala: CM to convene an all-party meeting on Wednesday via video conferencing to discuss Covid crisis; will meet MLAs and MPs from the state on Thursday. Criticizing Central govt's plan to impose a calamity cess on GST above 5 per cent, State Finance Minister alleged that the Centre is trying to set new precedence to take away the powers of the state. Ahead of Eid-ul-Fitr tomorrow, a few relaxations allowed today and tomorrow; shops for essential commodities to stay open till 9pm today. Special squads deployed at all border check posts to check quality of fruits and vegetables being brought in. Six Vande Bharat flights to arrive today. Two more Keralites succumb to the Covid19 in the Gulf. At least 149 Keralites have lost their lives to the virus outside the state. In a single day biggest hike so far, 42 persons tested positive for Covid 19 yesterday, increasing the number of active cases in state to 216.
      * Tamil Nadu: State extends dates for GST compliances in view of the pandemic by promulgating ordinance amending TN Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. Amma canteens served food to 6 lakh persons in 58 days. Salons, beauty parlours to open from May 24 across Tamil Nadu except in Chennai and containment zones. 786 new positive cases reported yesterday in the State. Total cases till now: 13,967, Active cases: 7524, Deaths: 94, Discharged: 7128. Active cases in Chennai are 5681.
      * Karnataka : 196 new Covid cases reported till 12pm today which is the highest spike in a day; Gadag 15, Yadagiri 72, Bengaluru 4, Chikkaballapura 20, Kalaburgi 1, Raichur 39, Dakshina Kannada 3, Hassan 4, Mandya 28, Davanagere 3, Kolar 2, Belgavi 1, Uttar Kannada 2, Dharwad 1, Udupi 1. 2 deaths and one discharged today. Total positive cases in the State reach 1939. Active cases: 1297, Recovered: 598, Deaths: 42. Yesterday 116 who returned from Maharashtra tested positive. State to bear the cost of migrant workers’ travel on Shramik Special trains up to May 31.
      * Andhra Pradesh: Farmers stage protest in Nellore on the Mumbai National Highway, demanding support price for tobacco. 47 new cases, one death reported with 47 discharged in the last 24 hours after testing 9136 samples. Total cases: 2561. Active: 727, Recovered: 1778, Deaths: 56. Of the 153 positive cases noticed among returnees from other states, 127 are active. On average, 5,486 samples per million are being tested in the state.
      * Telangana: State government, in coordination with South Central Railway, on Saturday will transport nearly 70,000 migrant workers to their respective States in Shramik Special trains. Accordingly, authorities have readied 41 special trains, which will be operated from 4 pm on Saturday till early hours on Sunday. Total positive cases in Telangana as on 23rd May are 1761. Migrants tested positive till yesterday 118.
      * Maharashtra: 2940 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the state, taking the tally of positive cases in the state to 44,582. Hotspot Mumbai has alone reported 1751 new cases. With 63 COVID-19 patients dying, 27 of them in Mumbai, the death toll due to the pandemic in the state reached 1,517.
      * Gujarat: 363 new cases have been reported from the state, while 392 patients have also been discharged on the same day in the state. The total number of cases in the state now stand at 13, 273. The State Health Department said the rate of recovery in the state has improved to 44.3 per cent. With the number of cases in Ahmedabad on a rise, the civic administration has asked 42 private hospitals to provide 50 percent beds for the treatment of COVID-19.
      * Rajasthan:163 new cases have been reported till 2 p.m. today, taking the tally of positive cases in the state to 6657. While a total of 3695 patients have recovered, 3260 of them have been discharged so far. Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation has started operation of buses today on 55 important routes of state, providing great relief to the people.
      * Madhya Pradesh:189 new Corona patients have been found in the last 24 hours while 246 patients have returned home after recovering. The number of cases in Indore, the worst-hit district of MP, rose to 2,850 with 109 deaths. Bhopal now has 1,153 COVID-19 patients, Ujjain 504, Burhanpur 209 and Jabalpur has reported 194 cases.
      * Chhattisgarh: With 40 new cases, the tally of positive cases in the state has gone up to 173. The sudden spike in cases is being seen as to have occurred because of the return of migrant workers, students and others to the state.
      * Goa:Two new positive cases have been reported, taking the tally of COVID-19 cases in the state to 54. With the recovery of 9 patients in ESIC Hospital, the number of active cases in the state came down to 38.

    PIB FACTCHECK


    *****


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1626455) Visitor Counter : 770
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

*