      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 27 MAY 2020 6:15PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    UPDATES ON COVID-19 FROM THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND WELFARE ;


    Recovery rate improves to 42.4%; 1,16,041 samples tested yesterday


    Lockdown has garnered multiple gains, and primarily among them is that it has decelerated the pace of spread of the disease. At the same time, during the lockdown period, development of COVID-19 specific health infrastructure; capacity development of human resource; increased testing capacity; increase in supplies, equipment, oxygen; issuing of relevant guidelines, standards prepared, circulated, adopted, practiced; development of diagnostics, drug trials, vaccine research; and on the technical side surveillance systems strengthened with more contact tracing, house to house surveys along with tools like AarogyaSetu was achieved.


    The testing capacity has increased in the country through 435 Government laboratories and 189 private laboratories (total of 624 labs). Cumulatively, 32,42,160 samples have been tested so far for COVID-19, whereas, 1,16,041 samples were tested yesterday.A total of 1,51,767 cases have been reported from the country in which 64,426 persons have been cured and the recovery rate is pegged at 42.4%. The fatality rate is 2.86% whereas the world average is 6.36%.


    Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has issued a Guidance Note on Provision of Reproductive, Maternal, Newborn, Child, Adolescent Health + Nutrition services during & post COVID-19 Pandemic.


    For details:


    AarogyaSetu is now open source


    On 2nd April 2020, India launched AarogyaSetu mobile App for helping augment the efforts of limiting the spread of COVID19, with an objective of enabling Bluetooth based contact tracing, mapping of likely hotspots and dissemination of relevant information about COVID19. The App has over 114 million users as on 26th May, which is more than any other Contact Tracing App in the world. The App is available in 12 languages and on Android, iOS and KaiOS platforms. The key pillars of AarogyaSetu have been transparency, privacy and security. In line with India’s policy on Open Source Software, the source code of AarogyaSetu has now been made open source. The source code for the Android version of the application is available for review and collaboration. iOS version of the application will be released as open source within the next two weeks and the server code will be released subsequently.


    For details:


    Phone call between Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi and His Highness Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani, Amir of the State of Qatar


    Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi spoke on phone with His Highness Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani, Amir of the State of Qatar, to convey Eid-ul-Fitr greetings to the friendly people of Qatar.Prime Minister warmly appreciated the personal care taken by H.H. the Amir for ensuring the welfare of the Indian citizens in Qatar during the COVID-19 pandemic. H.H. The Amir appreciated the contributions of the Indian community in Qatar, especially the role being played by Indian health workers.
    For details:


    Phone call between Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi and His Excellency Abdel Fattah Al-Sisi, President of Egypt


    In a telephone conversation, Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi conveyed greetings for Eid-ul-Fitr to H.E. Abdel Fattah Al-Sisi, President of Egypt, as well as to the people of Egypt.Prime Minister expressed his appreciation for the support extended by Egyptian authorities for the safety and welfare of Indian nationals in Egypt during the COVID-19 crisis.Referring to his earlier planned visit to Egypt this year, which had to be postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Prime Minister conveyed his desire to meet President Sisi as soon as circumstances permit.


    For details:


    Phone call between Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi and H.E. (Dr.) Alexander Van der Bellen, Federal President of the Republic of Austria


    Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi had a telephone conversation with H.E. (Dr.) Alexander Van der Bellen, Federal President of the Republic of Austria.The leaders exchanged views on measures taken in their countries to manage the adverse health and economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. They agreed on the importance of international collaboration to deal with the present challenges. Both the leaders reiterated their shared desire to further strengthen and diversify India-Austria relations in the post-Covid world. The Prime Minister highlighted the opportunities for enhanced cooperation in sectors like infrastructure, technology, research and innovation, SMEs, etc.
    For details:


    Government is committed to provide quality education and educational infrastructure for students of the North –Eastern States of the country:HRD Minister


    The government has granted permission for the establishment of permanent campus of Sikkim University (a Central University) at Yangyang at a cost of Rs. 986.47 crore . The government of Sikkim has allotted 300 acres of land at cost of Rs. 15 crore, out of which 265.94 acres of land has already been handed over to the University. The Minister also informed that Government has already sanctioned revised cost estimates of 6 NITs at Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Delhi and Puducherry at Rs. 4371.90 crore. These NITs will be fully functional from their respective permanent campuses by 31st March, 2022.


    For details:


    Union Minister DrJitendra Singh reviews the current status of COVID 19 in J&K


    Union Minister Dr Jitendra Singh today reviewed the status of COVID 19 outbreak in J & K in view of large number of persons returning back to the UT and spike in cases.


    For details:


    To deal with COVID-19, CIPET to take up R&D initiatives in the areas of Health Care; manufacturing and Certifying PPE and other relevant products as per WHO/ ISO guidelines


    To deal with COVID-19 pandemic Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology (CIPET) a premier national institution under the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, is to take up Research and Development ( R&D) initiatives in the areas of Health Care, like Manufacturing and Certifying PPE and other relevant products as per WHO/ ISO guidelines. CIPET Centres at Muruthal, Jaipur, Madurai and Lucknow have developed face shield as a protective equipment to fight against 'Coronavirus'


    For details:


    PFC to provide lunch to Doctors and other Medical Staff engaged in treatment of COVID-19 patients


    In yet another step to battle COVID-19 pandemic, Power Finance Corporation Ltd, central PSU under Ministry of Power, has tied up with TajSats, one of Asia’s largest food companies, to provide hygienic and nutritious food to frontline COVID warriors. As part of this endeavor, PFC will provide packed lunch boxes to Doctors and other Health Medical Staff engaged in treatment of COVID-19 patients at Dr. Ram ManoharLohia Hospital, New Delhi.


    For details:


    NCSTC brings out popular COVID Katha in Hindi


    T he National Council for Science & Technology Communication, Department of Science & Technology has brought out the Hindi version of the Popular Multimedia Guide for Mass Awareness carrying important information on A-to-Z of COVID-19 pandemic.The English version has already been released early this month. In order to fulfil the great demand of the Hindi version of COVID Katha especially from the Hindi heartland, the Hindi edition of the COVID Katha has been brought out with added and revised information for the benefit of the people.


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Chandigarh: The UT Administrator has directed all government staff including Municipal, Police and Health officials to use proper protective gears, while performing their duties in Containment Zones. The Administrator has also directed Deputy Commissioner to ensure that adequate ration items are distributed in Containment Zones. Private donors and NGOs should also be associated to contribute to the cause. The Administrator directed Commissioner, Municipal Corporation to ensure regular sanitization in the Containment Zones and also to ensure that the waste, particularly medical waste of Sample Centres, is properly disposed of.Today one pregnant lady with her husband and one child came to the Holding Centre to take Shramik Special Train to UP. After Medical Screening she was sent to Railway Station to board the Train. There she started delivery pains. An ambulance was arranged to take her to GMCH-32. Considering acute pains she was taken to nearest Hospital at Manimajra where she has delivered a baby boy. Both mother and child are doing fine.
          + Punjab: Punjab Government has issued consolidated and comprehensive guidelines for all International as well as Domestic travellers coming by Air, Rail and by Road. As per the state government, aggressive testing, tracing and isolation is the only way to restrict the spread of virus. For general surveillance purpose, the Government may test more domestic inbound persons on random basis, for example at Amritsar and Mohali airports few domestic passengers have been tested on random basis.
          + Haryana: Chief Minister said that the people's patience and support in following the restrictions during the lock down period and efficient arrangements made by the State Government have helped in dealing with the pandemic.
              o Himachal Pradesh: In wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the state government had decided to impose curfew in the entire state from 24 March, 2020. State Cabinet in its meeting held on 23 May, 2020 had decided to authorise the District Magistrates to extend curfew under Section 144 up to 30 June, 2020, if the situation so requires.
              o Kerala: State govt is mulling changes in its decision for paid institutional quarantine, following widespread protests from various quarters. State Cabinet concludes that there has been widespread violation of lockdown curbs by people misusing the relaxations. There has been a spike in the number of cases in the state and of the present 415 cases, 231 have been registered in the past four days, including 67 of yesterday, the highest recorded in a day. Of these, 133 have come from abroad and 178 from other states. Only 11,189 of the 1.35 lakh registered from abroad have returned so far.
              o Tamil Nadu: State govt signs 17 investment MoUs worth Rs 15,128 crore having a potential to generate about 47,150 jobs. SC asks Tamil Nadu government to use top four floors of Chennai-based Billroth Hospitals Ltd for treating Covid19 patients; Madras HC’s order for demolition of top five floors of the eight-storey block of the hospital for alleged violation of the approved building plan, was stayed by top court. Tiruchy Central Prison inmate tests positive for Covid19; 28 other inmates who were in the same block were isolated by the authorities. Total cases till yesterday: 17728, Active cases: 8256, Deaths: 127, Discharged: 9342. Active cases in Chennai are 6056.
              o Karnataka: 122 new Covid cases, 14 discharges & one death till 12pm today; Today new cases are from Kalburgi 28, Yadagiri 16, Hassan 15, Bidar 12, Dakshin Kannada 11, Udupi 9, Uttara Kannada 6, Raichur 5, Belagavi 4, Chikkamagalur 3, Vijayapura 2 and one each in Mandya, Tumkur and Bellari. Total positive cases in the State rise to 2405. Active cases: 1596, Recovered: 762, Deaths: 45.
              o Andhra Pradesh:HC to investigate petition filed against opposition leader Chandrababu Naidu over violation of lockdown rules. State grants permission to food stalls, textile, jewellery stores to re-open, except in containment zones. 68 new cases, one death reported with 10 discharged in the last 24 hours after testing 9664 samples. Total cases: 2787. Active: 816, Recovered: 1913, Deaths: 58. Cumulative +ve cases from other states 219 of which active cases are 75. Cumulative +ve cases from abroad stands at 111.
              o Telangana : Border districts of Telangana with Maharashtra put on high alert against locusts attack. Socialising on the sly leads to spurt in Covid cases in Hyderabad and Rangareddy. Total positive cases in Telangana as on 27th May are 1991. Migrants tested positive till yesterday 172. 42 foreign returnees tested positive for Covid19.
              o Maharashtra: 2,091 new cases have been reported, taking the tally of COVID-19 positive cases to 54,758, while 36,004 active cases remain in the state. Hotspot Mumbai reported 1,002 cases, which takes the total number of positive cases in Mumbai alone to 32,791. There are 72 testing laboratories operational in Maharashtra and 27 new will become operational soon. Meanwhile, the Covid 19 doubling rate in the state has increased to 14 days, while the death rate has also come down to 3.27.
              o Gujarat: 361 new cases have been reported from around 19 districts, taking the tally of positive cases to 14, 829, while there are 6,777 active cases in the state now.
              o Rajasthan: 144 new cases have been reported today, taking the tally of COVID-19 positive cases to 7680, while 4341 patients have recovered in the state till date. A total of 172 deaths have also been reported from the state till date. Jaipur figures in ICMR’s list of cities where COVID-19 sero-survey will be held.
              o Madhya Pradesh: 165 new cases have been reported, taking the tally of COVID-19 positive cases to 7,024, out of which 3030 cases remain active. Hotspot Indore has reported maximum number of 3103 positive cases till date. Shops and business establishments in Bhopal opened today as part of staggered lifting of lockdown restrictions. The Government has permitted the shops to be kept open from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
              o Chhattisgarh: 50 new Corona positive cases have been reported, taking the number of active cases in the state to 271. The state government has classified thirteen development blocks in the state as the Red zone and 39 as orange zone to contain the spread of corona virus. Apart from this, 95 areas of the state, from where COVID-19 cases were recently detected have already been declared as containment zones.
              o Arunachal Pradesh: NAFED has delivered 313.956 MT of pulses so far for May and June to Arunachal Pradesh.
              o Assam: Sonapur district hopital is functional now with 108 beds for the facilitation of COVID19 patients, State Health Minister said.18 new cases of COVID19 positive in Assam. Total cases 704, active 635, recovered 62, death 4. Tweets State Health Minister.
              o Manipur: Govt funds ex-gratia of Rs. 500 under Pradhan Mantri GaribKalyanYojana for the beneficiaries of Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme (IGNOAPS), Indira Gandhi National Widow Pension Scheme (IGNWPS) and Indira Gandhi National Disability Pension Scheme (IGNDPS) as an assistance to the underprivileged in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.
              o Mizoram: Mizoram Board of School Education scheduled the re-commencement of HS School Leaving Certificate exam and HSLC exam (compartmental) 2020 on 16th June at 11 centres.
              o Nagaland: Govt arranged special trains from Goa, Andhra Pradesh, Bengaluru, Rajasthan and special buses from West Bengal, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Daman & Diu and Lucknow to transport stranded citizens. COVID-19 Horticulture Special Drive Team conducts Agricultural & Horticultural activities during lockdown with the theme "Grow More, Produce More, Earn More".

    PIB FACT CHECK


    *****


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1627207) Visitor Counter : 794
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada
    
    
    

  
  
  
  
o