      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 29 MAY 2020 6:31PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    UPDATES ON COVID-19 FROM THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND WELFARE


    Through a graded, pre-emptive and pro-active approach, Government of India is taking several steps along with the States/UTs for prevention, containment and management of COVID-19. These are being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level.The number of cases under active medical supervision is 89,987. So far, a total of 71,105 people have been cured. In the last 24 hours, 3,414 patients were found cured. This takes the total recovery rate to 42.89%.


    For details:


    Appeal from Ministry of Railways to passengers


    Indian Railways has been running Shramik special Trains on a daily basis throughout the country to ensure that migrants can travel back to their homes. It has been observed that some people who are availing this service have pre-existing medical conditions which aggravates the risk they face during the COVID-19 pandemic. A few unfortunate cases of deaths related to pre-existing medical conditions while travelling have happened.​In order to protect the vulnerable persons from COVID-19, Railways appeals that persons with co-morbidities (for example - hypertension, diabetes, cardio-vascular diseases, cancer, immune deficiency conditions), pregnant women, children below the age of 10 years and persons above 65 years of age may avoid travel by rail, except when it is essential.


    ​ For details:


    Indian Railways distributes more than 85 lakh free meals and about 1.25 crore free water bottles to nearly 50 lakh migrants travelling in Shramik Special Trains


    Indian Railways has distributed more than 85 lakh free meals and about 1.25 crore free water bottles to migrants travelling in Shramik Special Trains since 1 st May 2020. IRCTC is providing puri vegetable pickle, roti vegetable pickle, banana, biscuits, cake, biscuit namkeen , cake, veg pulao , paobhaji , lemon rice pickle, upma, poha pickle etc. kind of meals to travelling migrants along with Rail Neer water bottles.As on 28 th May 2020, 3736 “Shramik Special” trains have been operationalized from various states across the country while about 67 are in the pipeline. On 27.05.2020, 172 Shramik Specials were originated. Till now, around 50lakh migrants have been transported through Shramik Special Trains in 27 days. It may be noted that trains running today are not facing any congestion.


    For details:


    Indian Railways modifies instructions for 30 Special Rajdhani type train and 200 Special Mail Exp trains


    Indian Railways has modified instructions for 30 special Rajdhani type trains started w.e.f. 12.05.2020 and 200 Special Mail Express to be introduced w.e.f. 01.06.2020 (total 230 trains). Ministry of Railways has decided to increase the advance reservation period (ARP) of all Specials notified from 30 days to 120 days. Booking of Parcel and luggage shall be permitted in all these 230 trains.The above changes shall be implemented with effect from 08:00 hrs of train booking date of 31st May 2020 onwards.


    For details:


    Shri PiyushGoyal meets the representatives of traders associations


    Minister of Commerce and industry Shri PiyushGoyal met the representatives of traders associations. He said that during the lockdown period, the nation geared itself to fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and built capacities. The Minister said that several indicators show that the economic recovery is on the anvil. He said that Aatmanirbhar package announced by the Union Finance Minister to fight Covid-19 provided for Rs 3 lakh Crore credit guarantee for MSME, also covers traders. He said that under the Prime Minister NarendraModi, the Government has taken transformational initiatives, which will help India become a strong nation.


    For details:


    Tribal Affairs Ministry announces inclusion of 23 additional Minor Forest produce items in Minimum Support Price List


    Ministry of Tribal Affairs has announced Inclusion of 23 additional Minor Forest Produce (MFP) items and stipulation of their Minimum Support Price (MSP) under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme titled "Mechanism for Marketing of Minor Forest Produce (MFP) through Minimum Support Price (MSP) and development of value chain of MFP". This decision enhancing the coverage from 50 to 73 items comes in view of the exceptional and very difficult circumstances currently prevailing in the country on account of the COVID-19 Pandemic, and the potential of the Ministry of Tribal Affairs scheme to offer the much needed support to the tribal MFP gatherers.


    For details:


    Provisional Estimates of Annual National Income, 2019-20 and Quarterly Estimates (Q4) of Gross Domestic Product, 2019-20


    Real GDP or Gross Domestic Product (GDP) at Constant (2011-12) Prices in the year 2019-20 is now estimated to attain a level of ₹ 145.66 lakh crore, as against the First Revised Estimate of GDP for the year 2018-19 of ₹ 139.81 lakh crore, released on 31 st January 2020. The growth in GDP during 2019-20 is estimated at 4.2 percent as compared to 6.1 percent in 2018-19.GDP at Current Prices in the year 2019-20 is estimated to attain a level of ₹ 203.40 lakh crore, as against the First Revised Estimates of ₹ 189.71 lakh crore in 2018-19, showing a growth rate of 7.2 percent as compared to 11.0 percent in 2018-19. GDP at Constant (2011-12) Prices in Q4 of 2019-20 is estimated at ₹ 38.04 lakh crore, as against ₹ 36.90 lakh crore in Q4 of 2018-19, showing a growth of 3.1 percent.


    For details:


    INDEX OF EIGHT CORE INDUSTRIES (BASE: 2011-12=100) FOR APRIL, 2020


    The growth rate of Index of Eight Core Industries for April 2020 declined by 38.1% (provisional) compared to decline of 9 percent (provisional) previous month of March 2020.In view of nationwide lockdownduring April 2020 due to COVID-19 pandemic, various industries viz. Coal, Cement, Steel, Natural Gas, Refinery, Crude Oil etcexperienced substantial loss of production.


    For details:


    Free online career skills training launched on National Career


    Ministry of Labour and Employment under its National Career Service (NCS) project has now started offering free online “Career Skills Training” in partnership with TCS ION for its registered job-seekers. This course on soft skills assists the learners in enhancing personality development with modules on corporate etiquette, improving inter personal skills, making impactful presentation including other necessary soft skills demanded by the industry today. The training module is available in Hindi and English on the NCS portal.


    For details:


    Shri Dharmendra Pradhan dedicates 56 CNG stations spread over 11 States/UTs


    Expanding the reach of environment friendly Compressed Natural Gas, Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas & Steel Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, through an online ceremony, today dedicated to the nation 48 CNG stations and inaugurated 8 other CNG stations in the country. These 56 stations are spread over 11 States/UTs. Completion of work at these stations was affected due to the countrywide lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of coronavirus. However, after easing of restrictions last month, the work gathered pace and was carried out ensuring all safety and social distancing norms. This ensured minimum delay in commissioning of these stations as against the original schedule.


    For details:


    Shri Ram Vilas Paswan addresses media on the One Year Achievements of the Ministry


    Shri Paswan said at the time of COVID-19 pandemic the main focus of the Ministry is to provide food grains and pulses to all PDS and Non-PDS card holders, migrant labourers and those who are not covered under anyfood grain scheme of the Central or the State Governments.He informed that the Ministry is regularly communicating with State Food Ministers and Secretaries, so that no State/UTfaces any hurdle in lifting of food grains. He informed that sufficient quantity of food grains is available in buffer stock.


    For details:


    INS Kesari at Port Antsiranana, Madagascar


    As part of Mission Sagar, Indian Naval Ship Kesari entered Port Antsiranana, Madagascar on 27 May 2020. The Government of India in these difficult times is providing assistance to Friendly Foreign Countries in dealing with the COVID-19 Pandemic and towards the same INS Kesari carried a consignment of COVID related essential medicines for the people of Madagascar.


    For details:


    Army Commanders Conference: 27 – 29 May 2020


    The Army Commanders' Conference, an apex level biannual event which facilitates conceptual level deliberations culminating in important policy decisions scheduled for April 2020 and postponed due to COVID-19 pandemic is being organised in two phases. First phase of the Conference was conducted at South Block, New Delhi from 27 to 29 May 2020.


    For details:


    Union HRD Minister interacts with heads of 45,000 Higher Educational Institutions through a Webinar


    Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal‘Nishank’ interacted with Heads of more than 45,000 Higher Educational Institutions(HEIs) across the country today through Webinar. Shri Pokhriyal called upon the HEIs in the country to treat the current situation as an opportunity to overcome limitations in the system. He called upon the educationists, students, parents to switch-over to the online method and make the most of the situation so that the academic session of the students and the HEIs are not interrupted. He said there is an urgent need to improve and enhance the Online ecosystem in India & educators should contribute to enhance the reach so that online education reaches even the rural areas.


    For details:


    Ultraviolet Disinfection Facilities Developed AT Western Naval Command


    Naval Dockyard (Mumbai) has manufactured a UV sanitisation bay to meet this emerging requirement. The UV bay will be utilised for decontamination of tools, clothes and other miscellaneous items, to control spread of the coronavirus. The challenging task required ingenuity to convert a large common room into a UV bay by fabrication of aluminium sheets electrical arrangements for UV-C lighting.


    For details:


    Researchers culture novel coronavirus, may help in drug testing and vaccine development


    Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) has established stable cultures of coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) from patients’ samples. Virologists at CCMB have isolated infectious viruses from several isolates. The ability to culture the virus in lab enables CCMB to work towards vaccine development and testing of potential drugs to fight COVID-19.


    For details:


    Surat Smart City takes key IT initiatives in COVID -19 management and containment


    Surat Municipal Corporation has taken various IT initiatives to fight COVID-19. SMC has developed SMC COVID-19 Tracker System which includes a web portal and Mobile application named “SMC COVID-19 Tracker” to track people who have abroad or interstate travel history and persons who have come in direct contact with positive COVID-19 individuals.


    For details:


    INPUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Punjab: The Punjab Government today issued the additional guidelines for persons travelling by trains (Incoming/Outgoing). All passengers must wear a mask and maintain social distancing. Only passengers with confirmed tickets will be allowed to enter the railway platform to avoid unnecessary crowding (No Attendants are allowed). It is also mandatory that all such passengers will undergo thermal screening before entry into the platform and passengers will reach 45 minutes before the departure time.
      * Haryana: Home Minister has said that curbing the spread of COVID-19 infection is the priority of the State Government. Several steps are being taken to ensure strict adherence of all the guidelines issued by the Union Home Ministry. He said that it would now be mandatory for everyone to wear masks in public places to prevent the spread of this infection. Similarly, there would be a ban on anyone spitting in a public place. Those who are found violating these rules would have to face a fine of Rs. 500 each for both the offences. The offender has to pay this fine amount in cash, not through the court.
      * Himachal Pradesh: The Standard Operation Procedures for movement of travellers by domestic flights and trains to Himachal Pradesh has been issued by the State Government. Installing of AarogyaSetu App has been made mandatory for all individuals with Android and iOS phones before boarding the flight/trains and entering the State. The full protocol of social distancing and other guidelines issued by Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare while boarding and de-boarding must be maintained.
      * Maharashtra: 2,598 new cases have been reported, taking the tally of COVID-19 positive cases in the state to 59,546. With 85 COVID-19 patients dying, 38 of them in Mumbai, the death toll due to the pandemic rose to 1,982. Number of Corona virus cases is increasing day-by-day in many districts of Maharashtra after many citizens started returning to their respective home towns. New cases have been reported from Ahmednagar, Sindhudurg and Nanded.
      * Gujarat: 367 new cases have been reported from 21 districts, taking the tally of COVID-19 cases in the state to 15,572. Also, the total number of patients recovered from coronavirus infection crossed 8000 mark on Thursday. While the number of cases are rising in Ahmedabad, the number of discharged patients are also on the rise, which 381 patients getting discharged, as per latest report.
      * Rajasthan: 91 new infections have been reported in the latest update, which takes the state tally of COVID-19 positive cases to 8,158, out of which 4,855 people have recovered so far. Jhalawar district reported 42 of these new infections. More than 3.65 lakh tests have been done in the state so far.
      * Madhya Pradesh: 192 new cases have been reported, taking the state tally of COVID-19 positive cases to 7,453. Hotspot Indore reported maximum number of new infections- 78 new cases. While 4,050 patients have recovered in the state till date, there are 3,082 active cases now.
      * Chhattisgarh: 5 new COVID-19 positive cases have been reported today, taking the number of active cases in the state to 321. These new patients are from Bilaspur (2 of them),Durg, Mahasamund and Jagdalpur. One positive case was reported on Thursday night fromMungeli district.
      * Kerala: State’s Covid-19 death toll rose to eight today after a 68-year-old man – diabetic & obese- died at Kottayam Medical College Hospital early morning. Health Minister has reiterated that there is no community transmission of Covid-19 in the state. Despite continuing glitches and operational inconsistencies, the state government has decided to continue with the BevQ app for sale of liquor in the state; officials instructed to fix the issues at the earliest. Meanwhile, two more Keralites died of Covid-19 in Jeddah. Eighty four persons were tested positive yesterday taking the number of active cases in the state to 526.
      * Tamil Nadu: Nine passengers test positive for Covid-19 at the Coimbatore Airport; five persons from Tiruchy, two from Namakkal and one each from Coimbatore and Erode. The Southern Railway headquarters in Chennai and two ICF offices have been shut down after officials there tested positive. CM lays foundation for Noyyal Renovation Project; Rs 230-crore project project is likely to benefit 7,000 acres of agricultural lands. 827 new Covid cases reported yesterday. Total cases: 19372, Active cases: 8676, Deaths: 145, Discharged: 10,548. Active cases in Chennai are 6351.
      * Karnataka: 178 new Covid cases & 35 discharges till 12pm today; Today new cases are from Raichur 62, Yadagiri 60, Udupi 15, Kalburgi 15, Bangalore city 10, Davangere 4, two each in Mandya& Mysore and one each in Bangalore rural, Shimoga, Chitradurga and Dharwad. Total positive cases in the State rise to 2711. Active cases: 1763, Recovered: 869, Deaths: 47.
      * Andhra Pradesh:High Court sets aside ordinance promulgated by State amending Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 to reduce tenure, eligibility & method of appointment of the State Election Commissioner (SEC); directs State to reinstate N Ramesh Kumar, removed as SEC following unilateral decision of postponing local body elections due to nationwide lockdown induced by Covid-19 pandemic. 33 new cases, one death reported with 79 discharged during last 24 hours. Total cases: 2874. Active: 777, Recovered: 2037, Deaths: 60. Cumulative positive cases from other States are 345 of which 156 are active. Total cases of people returning from abroad stand at 111.
      * Telangana: Shopping Centres Association of India has written to CM urging to immediately allow malls and shopping centres to reopen just like other shops that have been allowed to reopen. A native of Hyderabad has died of Covid-19 in Saudi Arabia but the family has said that despite giving consent for his last rites to be performed there itself, this has not been done so far. Hyderabad is among the 14 hotspot metro cities selected for the sampling to monitor the pattern of Covid-19 transmission and help generate evidence on the role of asymptomatic and mild infections in transmission. Total positive cases in Telangana as on 29th May are 2,256. As on date 175 migrants, 173 foreign returnees tested positive for Covid19.
      * Arunachal Pradesh: Itanagar DC has said that all the hotels and other quarantine centres are regularly sanitised and strict protocols are being followed to keep everyone safe.More than 491 MT pulses has already been delivered to designated godowns for April to June by NAFED in Arunachal Pradesh.
      * Assam: 6 patients have been discharged today from GMCH in Assam after being tested COVID-19 negative twice.
      * Manipur: Manipur University COVID-19 Task Force Committee meeting chaired by Education Minister discusses ways to take academic calendar ahead in the state.
      * Mizoram: A special train with Mizos from Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat reached Bairabi railway station in Kolasib district, Mizoram this afternoon.Earlier, a special train with Mizos from Karnataka reached Bairabi, Mizoram this morning, 77 co-passengers of a sick individual in this train, have been isolated; RT-PCR and RAT will be administered to all of them, said CMO Kolasib.
      * Nagaland: Deputy CM orders sealing of borders with Assam including Bhandari check post in Wokha district which borders Assam's COVID-19 hotbed Merapani area.Ganeshnagar quarantine center, Dimapur ready to house 1070 persons; CM Neiphiu Rio lauds state police for their help in setting up the facility.
      * Tripura: The first passenger flight today landed at MBB Airport of Agartala from Kolkata with 170 arrival passengers & 170 departure passengers.

    PIB FACT CHECK


    ******


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1627697) Visitor Counter : 809
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam
    
    
    

*