      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr. Jitendra Singh launches e-booklet on DARPG achievements for the period May 30, 2019 to May 30, 2020 on the occasion of 1st year of Modi Government 2.0.
      
      DARPG lived up to Prime Minister Modi’s vision of Good Governance and adopted the Mantra of Reform, Perform and Transform: Dr. Jitendra Singh

      Posted On: 30 MAY 2020 7:27PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions Dr. Jitendra Singh has launched the e-booklet on DARPG achievements for the period May 30, 2019 to May 30, 2020 on the occasion of 1 st year of Modi Government 2.0. Dr. Singh complimented the Department for being the first one to present its achievements to the people and interacted with senior officials through video-conferencing.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Jitendra Singh said that the DARPG had lived upto Prime Minister’s vision of Good Governance and adopted the mantra of Reform, Perform and Transform in letter and spirit. He highlighted the fact that DARPG had provided immense impetus to e-Governance in Indiaby

     1. Intense pursuit of implementation of e-Office in the Central Secretariat and States and
     1. The conduct of the 22 nd and 23 rd National e-Governance Conferences at Shillong and Mumbai in 2019 and 2020 respectively.

    Further Dr. Jitendra Singh recognized that DARPG had undertaken significant reforms in handling Public Grievances by pursuing CPGRAMS reforms in several Ministries and Departments.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh said that success of the systemic reforms undertaken by DARPG was witnessed in the COVID 19 pandemic period where in several Ministries/ Departments could work from home without disruption in work by using e-Office and timely redressal of 0.87 lac COVID 19 Public Grievances in a record average time of 1.45 days/ grievance.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh complimented the DARPG’s engagement with Government of Jammu & Kashmir in conducting a series of Regional Conferences and Capacity Building programs which were participative and innovative in taking forward Government’s agenda for good governance in J&K.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh commended DARPG for bringing out 3 important publications - the Good Governance Index (GGI) 2019, the National e-Services Delivery Assessment 2019 and the Central Secretariat Manual of Office Procedure 2019. These publications were rich in their academic content and provided immense inputs for taking good governance forward like enabling the march towards a digital central secretariat.


    Looking at the future, Dr. Jitendra Singh said DARPG has a massive responsibility in meeting new challenges of providing timely grievance redressal by improving its tool kit with feed-back call centers, upgraded software solutions and taking forward the Government’s good governance agenda with focus on e-Governance and e-Services. He also urged the DARPG to expedite putting in place an effective work from home policy.


    Secretary DARPG, Dr. KshtrapatiShivaji, Additional Secretary DARPG V.Srinivas, Joint Secretaries Smt. Jaya Dubey and N.B.S.Rajput along with senior officials of the Department participated in the event which was conducted through video conferencing facility.


    Please click here to see the DARPG e-booklet-


    <><><><><>


    VG/SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1627953) Visitor Counter : 864
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu
    
    
    

1.