      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister interacts with heads of 45,000 Higher Educational Institutions through a Webinar in New Delhi
      
      Shri Nishank urges all Higher Educational Institutions to take part in NAAC accreditation process
      
      
      All Universities must constitute a special cell to address various issues of students arising out of special circumstances due to Covid 19- Shri Nishank

      Posted On: 28 MAY 2020 7:37PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Human Resource Development Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank interacted with Heads of more than 45,000 Higher Educational Institutions across the country today through Webinar hosted by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), Bengaluru. The Minister addressed and Interacted with a Galaxy of Academicians comprising participation from Vice Chancellors / Registrars / Professors / IQAC heads / Principals / Faculty from across the Nation.


    While lauding the initiatives taken by NAAC at this time of the Pandemic, Shri Pokhriyal called upon the HEIs in the country to treat the current situation as an opportunity to overcome limitations in the system. He called upon the educationists, students, parents to switch-over to the online method and make the most of the situation so that the academic session of the students and the HEIs are not interrupted. He said there is an urgent need to improve and enhance the Online ecosystem in India & educators should contribute to enhance the reach so that online education reaches even the rural areas.


    Covid 19 - Turning Crisis into Opportunity https://t.co/RatWLLRNhM

    — Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank (@DrRPNishank) May 28, 2020

    In the hour long interaction and address, the Union Minister reflected on various issues and concerns raised by educationists related to Academic Calendar, Online Education, examinations, Fees, Mental health of students, problems of students, fellowships, NEET, entrance examinations etc. He dwelt upon at length on the initiatives taken by the Government with regard to Swayam Prabha, Deeksharambh, Paramarsh and a host of other special initiatives taken during the pandemic period. He also urged all Higher Educational Institutions to take part in NAAC accreditation process. He reiterated that the Prime Minister of India Shri Narendra Modi is very concerned about the well being of Higher Educational Institutions and assured of all help in furthering the academic activities of student fraternity.


    The Union Minister asked all Universities to constitute a special cell which will be empowered to address the issues of students related to academic calendar and examinations arising out of special circumstances due to Covid 19. He said that a task force has been created in UGC and NCERT to resolve the different issues of students. Shri Nishank assured that Ministry is committed to provide all assistance to students in the time of crisis. During the interaction the Union Minister highlighted the process of how the new session will be commenced, at the same time he specified that the priority will be given to the safety of the students.


    Shri Nishank called educational fraternity as Corona Warriors because in this extraordinary situation they are working round the clock to provide quality education to students.


    The event was also graced by Chairman, UGC, Prof D P Singh, Prof Virander S Chauhan, Chairman, EC, NAAC. Prof S C Sharma, Director, NAAC spoke & coordinated the event.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1627487) Visitor Counter : 647
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Telugu , Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Odia , Tamil , Kannada