      Ministry of Defence

      India Navy empowers the country with Maritime Security and Indigenisation
      Posted On: 05 DEC 2018 6:41PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, December 05, 2018.


    Two celebrated warships of the Eastern Fleet under the Eastern Naval Command of the Indian Navy were berthed at the Kidderpore Docks in Kolkata as part of Navy Day Celebrations. Conducted tours were carried out by Navy personnel aboard the ships “INS Sumedha” and “INS Kirch” for school children, fishing communities of the state, serving and retired Defence personnel and their dependants and central and state government employees . Visits were also organized for groups of college students as well. This year’s theme for the Navy Day celebrations was “Indian Navy-Mission Deployed and Combat Ready”.


    Interacting with the media persons, Rear Admiral D K Tripathi, Flag-Officer-Commanding, Eastern Fleet said here today that the visit of these ships to Kolkata is an important part of the naval calendar during the Navy Week celebrations. The ships provided an opportunity to the civil population to visit these ships and foster better understanding of the Indian Navy. He informed that Indian Navy is the prime agency responsible for overall maritime security, which includes offshore and coastal security. Rear Admiral Tripathi stated that the country’s economic growth, sustenance and the well being of the people is linked to safe and secure seas. Therefore, Indian Navy is monitoring closely and is ready to secure maritime interests and ensure security of the country, he added.


    INS Sumedha is an indigenously developed naval advanced offshore patrol vessel of Saryu class and was commissioned in 2014. The ship, constructed at Goa Shipyard, is equipped with several weapon systems, sensors and state of the art-navigation and communication systems. The INS Kirch is a 91.10-metre-long Kora-class missile corvette that was built by Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers in Kolkata and commissioned in 2001.


    Navy Day celebrations are held on 04 th December every year. The celebrations include various events held as an endeavour to bring the Navy close to citizens of the nation.


    ******


    CC/MSA/bb/Kol…

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554811) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali