      Ministry of Education

      Dr. Satya Pal Singh Emphasizes Accessibility, Affordability and Accountability for Quality Higher Education
      
      
      Need for inculcating, identifying and encouraging scientific temper, habit and acumen among children for nation’s progress, says Dr. Satya Pal Singh

      Posted On: 06 DEC 2018 5:12PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata December 06, 2018


    Dr. Satya Pal Singh, Minister of State for Ministry of Human Resource Development has emphasised the need for inculcating, identifying and encouraging scientific temper, habit and acumen among children from childhood for nation’s progress. He was speaking at a function organized on ‘Higher Education Scenario in India’ here today. He said that Atal Tinkering Labs have enabled and built a platform for encouraging the spirit of scientific talent, creativity and know-how. He said that initiatives of the Central Government like the ‘Smart India Hackathon’, ‘Global Initiative of Academic Networks’ and ‘Digital India’ are redefining the knowledge network which are enabling an environment of quality and high-end technology driven educational and digital progress in the country.


    Dr. Singh said that the pillars of growth and progress of higher education should essentially involve Accessibility, Affordability and Accountability along with Equitable and Quality Education to set new benchmarks in the arena of education. He said that it is imperative that school education be the best for effective higher education. He said that the scenario of quality higher education in the country needs to be analyzed in totality including the social scenario of the country. He emphasized that quality teachers’ education and teachers’ training programmes are equally essential for long term development of education and progress of the country. He said encouraging academia and industry linkages is the need of the hour in the context of Industry 4.0 initiatives of present Government. Dr. Singh emphasized that the technology, digital know-how and academic growth are inter-related and have to be the central fulcrum on which the student education curriculum should be based. With equitable education, girls should also be encouraged in higher education and lead into startups and entrepreneurial initiatives, he added.


    Dr. Singh further said that accessibility, affordability of higher education and accountability of stakeholders in education value chain is essential for the holistic development of education. He also touched upon the importance of planning and long term vision for the progress of education.


    *****


    CC/SB/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554875) Visitor Counter : 62
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali