      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Kolkata-Patna becomes India’s second container cargo sector on Inland Waterways
      Posted On: 06 DEC 2018 6:05PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, December 6, 2018


    Bihar’s capital Patna will be witness to a new landmark in India’s Inland Water Transport (IWT) sector with 16 TEUs of container cargo (equivalent to 16 truckloads) belonging to private enterprises in food industry will reach the city’s Gaighat IWT terminal from Kolkata on river Ganga next week. On Thursday, December 6, 2018, Inland Waterways Authority of India’s (IWAI) vessel MV RN Tagore sailed from Kolkata’s Garden Reach Jetty with food products. It will reach the IWT terminal at Patna in 6-7 days after a 815 kms long voyage on river Ganga (National Waterway-1). The cargo will be unloaded at IWAI’s inter-modal terminal at Gaighat, Patna from where onward cargo will be loaded.


    Opening up of Kolkata-Patna IWT sector for containerised cargo movement, especially in the lean season of low water depth in river Ganga, stands testimony to IWAI’s commitment towards making the National Waterway-1 navigable round-the-year. Kolkata-Patna is India’s new IWT origin-destination pair for containerised cargo movement on the National Waterway-1. Plans are at an advanced stage to operationalise Patna-Varanasi sector of NW-1 for container cargo movement.


    Notably, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi had received country’s first IWT containerised cargo that reached Varanasi from Kolkata on November 12, 2018.


    Container cargo transport comes with several inherent advantages. Even as it reduces the handling cost, allows easier modal shift, reduces pilferages and damage, it also enables cargo owners to reduce their carbon footprints. The movement will be a fillip for the region’s growth and employment.


    The government is developing NW-1 (River Ganga) under Jal Marg Vikas Project (JMVP) from Haldia to Varanasi (1390 Km) with the technical and financial assistance of the World Bank at an estimated cost of Rs 5369 crore. The project would enable commercial navigation of vessels with capacity of 1500-2,000 DWT.


    *****


    CC/AM/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554889) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali