      Ministry of Defence

      Indian Navy to set up Naval Aircraft and submarine museum on the lines of the Vizag Naval museum in Kolkata. Naval ships on display for school children and government employees at Kidderpore.
      Posted On: 03 DEC 2018 3:29PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, December 03, 2018.


    To motivate young school children to join Indian Navy, Indian Navy will set up a permanent Naval museum and a submarine museum in Kolkata on the lines of the Vizag Naval museum, said Naval Officer-in-Charge, West Bengal, Commodore Suprobho De. He informed that MoU with the state government for the proposed museums would be signed very soon. He was briefing the media on the eve of Navy Day celebrations here today . He reiterated that Indian Navy is committed to protect Indian coasts and so far, 70% of fishing boats in West Bengal have been fitted with Automated Information System (AIS). Proactive measures are being taken to protect Indian fishermen and bio-metric IDs are being provided to them so that careful watch can be kept upon their movement, revealed Commodore De.


    Captain Sumanta Roy, Chief Staff Officer informed that as part of Navy Week Celebrations, Navy warships of the Eastern Fleet “INS Sumedha and INS Kirch” will be open for organized visit at Kolkata Port (Kidderpore Docks) by school children, fishing communities of the state, serving and retired personnel and their dependants and central and state government employees from 9 AM to 5 PM on 4th and 5th December 2018. All visitors will be provided a guided tour of the both the warships which would be berthing at KDS 11. Due to security concerns, entry is restricted to Indian Nationals only and visitors are requested to carry valid photo identification cards such as Aadhaar Card, PAN Card, Biometric Card or Driving License. Entry to Kidderpore Docks would be from Gate No. 3 only. Visitors are also advised not to carry cameras, webcams, hand bags, any kind of electronic storage devices for security reasons. Reporting point for visitors will be at the Reception cum Liaison Cell being set-up at the KDS 11 jetty next to Gate No. 3 of Kidderpore Docks. Naval personnel in uniform would be present to ensure that all visitors are ushered to the warships.


    ******


    CC/MSA/bb/Kol…

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554507) Visitor Counter : 70
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali