      Ministry of Railways

      UTS MOBILE APP CAN BE USED IN SOUTH-EASTERN RAILWAY’S SUBURBAN SECTION BY USING QR CODE
      Posted On: 04 DEC 2018 2:25PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 4 th December, 2018


    For the convenience of the daily Passengers of Suburban sections of South Eastern Railway, the facility of Unreserved Ticket Booking System via Mobile App has been made more easier and passenger friendly by UTS on Mobile App using QR Code, i.e., Quick Response Code. Previously the UTS on mobile App cannot be used from the station having a geo-fencing of 20 metres. By this system passenger now can buy tickets after arriving their originating stations area. The suburban passengers of South Eastern Railway now can purchase Unreserved Tickets through Mobile APP by using QR code with effect from 1 st December, 2018 without any hurdle from railway statioin. The system is, in the 1 st phase Download UTS App and QR code Scanner (2) Scan QR code for departure stations and UTS app will ask for destination, (3) Pay for ticket with mobile wallet.


    At present 56 suburban stations of Kharagpur Division of South Eastern Railway have been taken under purview of this facility for daily commuters encircling Howrah-Midnapur, Panskura-Haldia, Santragachi-Amta, Santragachi-Shalimar and Panskura-Tamluk ( in Digha line) sections.


    Passengers can now book tickets through Mobile App using the QR Code option for Paperless UTS Ticket in the Application to select the originating station, which will take much lesser time than that of the erstwhile GPS detection of passenger position for section of originating station. QR codes of station concerned are provided at every entrance, Booking Windows and through Display Boards at the concourse. However, the system of GPS Detection of originating station in paperless mode is also available like earlier. As many as 3.83 lakh Passengers travel everyday in suburban sections of SER and this unique facility will be more helpful to the passengers without hassle and hardship of queuing before Booking Counter.


    ******


    SB/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554623) Visitor Counter : 43
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali