      Ministry of Finance

      Taxpayers Lounge of Income Tax Department set up at India International Mega Trade Fair in Kolkata
      Posted On: 14 DEC 2018 4:06PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, December 14, 2018


    Taxpayers’ Lounge has been set up by the Income Tax Department in India International Mega Trade Fair (IIMTF) organized here from 14th to 25th December, 2018. It will help foster public awareness regarding various services provided by the Income Tax Department to the Taxpayers. It will also educate them for ensuring better compliance of Direct Tax Laws. The Directorate of Income Tax (PR, P&P), CBDT has set up this Lounge at Kolkata for the first time. Several Taxpayer Lounges have been set up in the past at New Delhi, Mumbai and Bhubaneswar.


    The Taxpayers’ Lounge seeks to create a bond between the Department and school going children/ students and youth who are future taxpayers. Various facilities/activities provided at the Taxpayers’ Lounge includes:


    (i) Apply for PAN, Aadhar-PAN linking and PAN related queries.


    (ii) E-filing and Form 26AS related queries.


    (iii) Availability of services of TRPs, free of cost.


    (iv) Taxpayer Information Series brochures on various topics, available both in e-format and paper format.


    (v) Taking online pledge to support ‘Clean Money’ movement.


    (vi) Virtual Reality Game to convey the importance of paying Income Tax to younger age-group visitors, in an engaging manner.


    (vii) Nukkad Natak, Quiz shows, among others, to make the public aware about the need to pay taxes and their contribution to nation building.


    (viii) Drawing competitions for young children accompany visiting adults.


    The Lounge will be utilized to obtain feedback about the problems being faced by the tax-payers. The Lounge is not only a focus outreach program, but also a platform for enhancing the brand value of the Department among the residents in Kolkata.


    *****


    SB/CG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555946) Visitor Counter : 8
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali