      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Outreach programme on Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) held at Naihati
      Posted On: 07 DEC 2018 6:08PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata December 07, 2018.


    A special outreach campaign on Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban)organised by Field Outreach Bureau, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting was held at Naihati, North 24 Parganas today.


    Speaking at the programme, Sri Rajendra Gupta, CIC Conservancy, Naihati Municipality elaborated the aim of the awareness programme. Sri Manas Pal CIC, PWD, Sri Sambhunath Biswas, Councillor and Smt Deepa Mukherjee, Councillor were present. Councillors from more than fifteen wards attended the programme along with public works department and conservancy department officials and staff to deliberate on the issues of Swachhta and civic amenities.


    In the seminar organised as part of the campaign, Field Publicity Officer of Medinipur, Sri Sudipta Biswas, underlined the importance of the mission mode of Swachh Bharat and its highlights- segregation of waste at source and use of blue and green bins, decentralised solid waste management, importance of composting- how to compost at home, anti-littering, significance of 3Rs (reduce, reuse and recycle) and it’s application in citizens’ daily life. An open quiz on the subject of cleanliness was also held and prizes were awarded. The campaign included a slogan writing competition and a performance on environment awareness by Song and Drama Division’s troupe.


    The experts deliberated on Swachhta objectives and challenges in bringing about behavioural change in people.


    Sri Bhajan Mukherjee, Vice Chairman, Naihati Municipality was present among the dignitaries. He thanked Field Outreach Bureau for the awareness campaign. More such awareness programmes on Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) will be held in the wards under Naihati Municipality.


    *****


    AM/SC/bb/Kol……

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555233) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali