      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB, Kolkata organizes media workshop ‘Vartalap’ in Barrackpore, North 24 Parganas
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2018 5:45PM by PIB Kolkata


    Barrackpore, North 24 Parganas, December 20, 2018.


    Press Information Bureau, Kolkata organized Vartalap – the Media Workshop in Barrackpore, North 24 Parganas today. The media-persons of the district including small and medium newspapers participated in large numbers in this programme meant for dissemination of news related to Central government sponsored welfare schemes and programmes and media-services related to Press Information Bureau.


    The Additional Director General (M&C) of Press Information Bureau in Kolkata, Ms. Jane Namchu addressed the journalists working in North 24 Parganas to update them about the functions of Press Information Bureau which is to provide them authentic information related to Central Government’s schemes and programmes which reaches them through digital media and other means as well. In an interactive session held as part of the programme, the journalists shared their concerns and problems faced in their day-to-day functioning.


    Veteran journalists who participated in this media workshop shared their rich professional experiences and stated as to how PIB’s press releases, feature service, photos can be beneficial for them in their quest of making authentic news about Government and the welfare schemes meant for people. Senior journalist Shri Rathindra Mohan Bandopadhyay urged the media persons to use information provided by PIB to sensitize common citizens about how they can avail benefits from the Centrally-sponsored schemes. Shri Ashoke Sengupta, another senior journalist narrated the history of evolution of newspapers right from the 18 th century upto the present digital era. He stated as to how news in now made available in real time by means of internet and social media. In this context, PIB Officials informed that PIB press releases, photos, info graphics and other media contents can be obtained directly from PIB’s website, facebook page as well as twitter handle in Bangla, apart from Hindi, English and other Indian languages. Senior journalist of North 24 Parganas Shri Uday Basu explained PIB’s significance for small newspapers with limited resources when it comes to obtaining news on Central Government.


    Shri Deepak Dey, Chief Manager, lead Bank in North 24 Parganas- Allahabad bank informed the journalists about the various banking sector schemes started by the Central Government like PMJDY, PMAY, PMSBY, PMMY among others.


    Around 50 media persons including five lady-journalists participated in the workshop which became so lively and participative in nature that it was appreciated by most of the media persons present.


    Smt. Chitra Gupta delivered the welcome speech highlighting PIB’s functions and then moved the vote of thanks too. Media and Communication Officer, PIB, Kolkata, Smt. Srijata Saha Sahu conducted the event Smt. Sriyanka Chatterjee gave an audio visual presentation of PIB utilities including the diversified multilingual pages of reference matter that has been made available on the revamped PIB website.


    *****


    CC/CG/SSS/SC/MSA/bb

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556849) Visitor Counter : 108
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali