      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      National Sample Survey on agricultural households to kickstart from first day of 2019 NSSO to study unpaid and voluntary workers for the first time
      Posted On: 17 DEC 2018 5:44PM by PIB Kolkata


    - Kolkata, December 17, 2018


    The 77 th round of National Sample Survey (NSS) will kickstart from the first day of 2019, with focus on situation assessment of agricultural households. In a regional training camp organised for the statistical officers who will carry out the survey at the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) Eastern Zone in Kolkata today, the Director General – Survey, Shri D.K. Mandal said, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare is looking forward to findings of household survey since Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given a call to double farmers’ income by 2022. The DG-Survey further stated, though earlier this survey used to be conducted once in every ten years, this time it is being repeated within a span of five years since it was last conducted in 2013. Shri Mandal urged the field functionaries who will be using a software for browser based digital data capture methods for the first time, to gain clear conception and understanding of the steps that will form primary source of various indicators used by the Government for planning, policy formulation and decision-making. The nation-wide sample size for this survey is 9950, while the sample size of the survey in West Bengal is 724, informed Deputy Director General- Field Operation Division-Kolkata Region, Shri A.K. Biswas.


    The survey will collect detailed information on receipts and expenditures of the agricultural households’ farm and non-farm businesses and receipts from all other economic activities pursued by their members so as to arrive at an estimate of average monthly income per agricultural household. The results will be of use to the Departments of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare, Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, Commission for Agricultural Cost and Prices (CACP) among others including policy-makers and researchers.


    In another first, Time Use Survey will be launched along with 77 th Round of NSS. The primary objective of this survey is to measure participation of men, women and other groups of persons in paid and unpaid activities. This particular survey will be an important source of information on the time spent in unpaid care giving activities of the household members, unpaid domestic service producing activities and also voluntary workers.


    This apart, 77 th Round of NSS also includes a schedule to capture data on debt and investment related rural credit survey that studies demand for credit from rural families and supply of credit by credit agencies, both institutional and non-institutional. It goes to form banking policies. At the request of the RBI, this particular survey is being carried out opnly 6 years after last such survey. The All-India sample size to be taken for this study is 10,000, while the sample size in West Bengal will be kept at 728, further informed DDG- Kolkata Region Shri Biswas.


    Senior officers of NSSO including Additional Director General – Sample Survey and Research Division Shri T.K. Sanyal were present at the inuaugural session of the regional training camp.


    *****


    CG/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556251) Visitor Counter : 595