      Ministry of Railways

      DHR introduces Steam Hauled Evening Daily Toy Train Service
      Posted On: 17 DEC 2018 7:34PM by PIB Kolkata


                Kolkata, December 17, 2018.


                Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) has introduced the first evening daily toy train service hauled by steam engine on Sunday (December 16, 2018). This will provide an opportunity to tourist having short stay at Siliguri area to experience the UNESCO World Heritage DHR toy train during second half of the day. The UP Steam evening safari will leave Siliguri at 3PM to reach Rongtong at 4.20 PM with 10 minute stoppage at Sukna for visiting the museum.


                The DN Steam evening special will start from Rongtong at 4.45 PM after refreshment of tourist and engine reversal. There will be one Dining car and one First class coach. The seating capacity of the Dining Car is 12 and that of the first class is 17. The up and down fare for journey by First class is Rs. 1000.00 only and in the Dining Car Rs. 1200.00 only. The train will have onboard catering service like snacks, tea and other ready to serve items on payment basis. Manual booking of full journey tickets for round trips can be made at the originating station. Ticket for one way journey is not issued.


                To provide tourist with more and more facilities; Vistadome coaches and AC coaches were also introduced in DHR by N.F. Railway. In this connection, a first class AC coach has been added in DHR few months back. This is the first instance in India of a narrow gauge railways having air-conditioned coach. The first class AC coaches have bigger and wider windows so that a visitor to the hills can have better view, a music system that can play local music or radio, ergonomic and comfortable seats, a new improved design toilet, emergency battery back-up and announcement system.


                Similarly, one of the stand-out features of the Vistadome coach is the transparent glass roof to enable the passengers to get a panoramic view of their journey. The Vistadome coach can accommodate 40 people. All the seats in the Vistadome coaches are rotatable with pushback chairs. The coaches also boast other features like automatic sliding compartment doors, multiple television screens providing infotainment to passengers; wide side door for Divyangs, GPS based info system, LED lights and more.


                It is to be mentioned that the Railway Ministry has already given more powers to Divisional Railway Managers and Directors of the five iconic Heritage Hill Railways of Indian Railways for enhancing their tourist potential and scientific preservation.


                ******


                CG/SSS/bb/Kol………………………

      Reply Forward
                   

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556284) Visitor Counter : 5