      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      RDSO and CII announce collaboration to host link of Expression of Interest uploaded on RDSO website for vendors.
      Posted On: 19 DEC 2018 3:50PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata December 19, 2018


    Indian Railways has taken big initiatives to promote Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). It is also doing a great job in technology upgradation and inviting the vendors to come up with new, suitable and adoptable technologies, said Dr. Lakshmi Raman, Executive Director of Research Designs & Standards Organization (RDSO), the research arm of Ministry of Railways here today. He said, aiming at the ease of doing business, Railway Minister and railway officials have been holding vendor meets across the country to welcome them to register online. Speaking at the CII MSME Conclave-Public and Private Procurement held by the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII), Dr. Raman said that RDSO has launched New Online Vender Registration System t o make systems and procedures digital and transparent. The system was evolved after Minister of Railways, Shri Piyush Goyal undertook comprehensive review of the functioning of the RDSO. Dr. Raman said, this new system provides major improvements and paradigm shifts in the registration system from the earlier system. Public access to the information, expeditious process completion with defined timelines, simplification of procedures, round-the-year services, availability of all related information on RDSO Website, constant monitoring at all levels, reduction in cycle timelines, regular updation of online data, user friendly interface etc. are the hallmarks of the new system, he added and informed that there are huge opportunities for MSMEs in the country. The growth of MSMEs is crucial for India’s economic development and support of the organized and formal sectors like railways will help them unleash their true potential, he stated.


    During the event, new collaboration between CII and RDSO was announced wherein CII will host a link of Expression of Interest uploaded on RDSO website, inviting all the industries to register for any of the 640 items, controlled by RDSO.


    *****


    CC/MSA/bb

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556643) Visitor Counter : 33
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali