      Ministry of Earth Science

      New Coastal Research Vessel SAGAR TARA launched
      Posted On: 25 DEC 2018 6:30PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, December 25, 2018


    Built with state-of-the-art technology, new Coastal Research Vessel (CRV) SAGAR TARA was launched by Mrs Nutan Goel, wife of Dr. Harsha Vardhan, Union Minister of Science, Technology and Earth Sciences very early morning at the Titagarh Wagons Ltd. Shipyard today.


    Speaking at the pre-launching ceremony of CRV SAGAR TARA yesterday, Dr. Vardhan said, such vessels will be extremely helpful in India's search for Blue Economy. He said that this vessel is by far one of the most remarkable developments in the history of India's coastal research. Even more, when India's private sector participation in partnering the Government is seen at an optimal high boosting the vision of "Make in India", Dr. Vardhan added.


    Highlighting the scientific progress of the country Dr. Vardhan informed that India under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made remarkable developments in advanced technologies. We are very close to the best in Tsunami early warning and weather forecasting and have achieved number three and number six positions in Nano Technology and in Scientific Research respectively, he added.


    Dr. Vardhan said, equipped with the advanced scientific equipments and latest navigational equipments with a role of measuring oceanographic and atmospheric data within the Exclusive Economic Zone [EEZ] of India, CRV Sagar Tara will be utilized for shallow water operations [Surface Water Quality Monitoring (SWQM), shallow water testing of various underwater components, technology demonstration, Tsunami early warning systems, Deep sea technology development, Drugs from sea, Bathymetry survey of Exclusive Economic Zone [EEZ], Environmental indexing of ships and coastal zones and etc. This research vessel will be a national facility for ocean research and at least 60 research institutes from India are expected to utilize these ships, he added.


    CRV SAGAR TARA was built by M/s Titagarh Wagons Ltd. at its shipyard under the initiative of the Central Government to promote"Make in India" policy in the country.


    **********


    CG/MSA/bb/Kol

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557306) Visitor Counter : 116
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali