      Ministry of Earth Science

      Launching of New Coastal Research Vessel CRV SAGAR TARA of National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT)
      Posted On: 24 DEC 2018 12:49PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, December 23, 2018


    Union Minister of Earth Sciences, Science & Technology & Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Dr Harsh Vardhan will participate in the pre-Launching ceremony of Coastal Research Vessel (CRV) SAGAR TARA at Titagargh Wagons Ltd (TWL) Shipyard, in Kolkata tomorrow (Monday) at 1730 hrs. Dr. Harsh Vardhan will address a press conference at 1800 hrs.


    The Coastal Research Vessel (CRV) SAGAR TARA will be officially launched on 25th December, 2018 at 04:00 hrs.


    Another identical Coastal Research Vessel (CRV) Sagar Anveshika is expected to be launched during March/April 2019. The acquisition of the two Coastal Research Vessels is carried out by Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) through National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT), an autonomous institute under MoES.


    Both these ships are being built by M/s Titagarh Wagons Ltd (TWL) at their Shipyard in Kolkata under the ‘Make in India’ initiative of the Central Government at a total cost of Rs. 99.5 crore.


    CRV Sagar Tara is equipped with the advanced scientific equipments and latest navigational equipments with a role of measuring oceanographic and atmospheric data within the Exclusive Economic Zone [EEZ] of India. This ship will also be utilized for shallow water operations [Surface Water Quality Monitoring (SWQM), shallow water testing of various underwater components, technology demonstration, Tsunami early warning systems, Deep sea technology development, Drugs from sea, Bathymetry survey of Exclusive Economic Zone [EEZ], Environmental indexing of ships and coastal zones and etc.,] along the entire Indian coasts for the various programmes of MoES. This research vessel will be a national facility for ocean research. At least 60 research institutes from India are expected to utilize these ships.


    The CRV Sagar Tara is about 43 m in length, 2.5 m draught, with a capacity to accommodate 8 scientists and 12 crew members for an endurance period of 15 days.


    The Ship is expected to be commissioned by March/April 2019 after satisfactory sea trials and will join the fleet of scientific research vessels of MoES viz. Sagar Kanya, Sagar Samapada, Sagar Nidhi, Sagar Manjusha and Sagar Purvi. This will significantly enhance the capacity in respect of acquisition of marine scientific data and ocean observations for various programmes of Ministry of Earth Sciences.


    **********


    CC/CG/SC/bb/Kol.....

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557132) Visitor Counter : 2