      Cabinet

      Approval for land monetisation at Pragati Maidan to build a five-star hotel
      
      ITPO’s mega project to redevelop Pragati Maidan into a world class
      
      International Exhibition and Convention Centre
      
      ITPO authorised to transfer 3.7 acres of land at Pragati Maidan on a 99 year fixed leasehold basis
      
      Special Purpose Vehicle to be formed by ITDC and IRCTC for development and operation of a five-star hotel with modern amenities
      
      Hotel facility will add value to IECC project and promote India as a global destination for trade & commerce along with employment generation
      
      Gives fillip to the landmark International Trade Fair which champions various flagship initiatives like ‘Make in India’, ‘Skill India’ and ‘Invest India’
      
      Implementation of IECC project is in full swing and it is scheduled to be completed in 2020-21
      
      Posted On: 04 DEC 2019 1:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the plan and authorised India Trade Promotion Organisation (ITPO) to transfer 3.7 acres of land at Pragati Maidan on a 99 year fixed leasehold basis at a price of Rs. 611 crore in favour of the SPV, which will be formed by India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) and Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) for development and operation of a five-star hotel.


    The implementation of the International Exhibition and Convention Centre (IECC) project is in full swing and is scheduled to be completed in the year 2020-21.


    In order to ensure completion of the hotel project at Pragati Maidan in a fast track mode, the SPV will take necessary steps including selecting a suitable developer and operator third party through a transparent competitive bidding process to construct, run and manage (directly or through a professional brand) the hotel on a long-term fixed lease basis.


    In line with the vision of Government to revolutionise India’s infrastructure and tourism with the best of standards and service, ITPO is implementing its mega project of redevelopment of Pragati Maidan into world-class IECC. Throughout the World, a hotel facility is an integral part of any Meetings, Initiatives, Conferences and Exhibitions (MICE) hub/destination.


    The hotel facility is an integral part of IECC project which will promote India as a global Meetings, Initiatives, Conferences and Exhibitions (MICE) hub and promote trade & commerce along with employment generation. The hotel will add value to IECC project and will benefit Indian trade & industry.


    Additionally, the International Trade Fair which has lakhs of visitors and small traders participating every year will also benefit from this transformation of Pragati Maidan. Increased facilities and modern amenities will greatly benefit the participating traders, entrepreneurs and visitors. This will ensure higher turnout at the Trade Fair, revitalising it and providing a vibrant platform to expand their business horizons and promote Indian goods and services.


    *******


    VRRK/SC/PK/SH


    

    
    (Release ID: 1594820) Visitor Counter : 1027
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada