      Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

      Measures to Increase Solar Energy Generation
      Posted On: 03 DEC 2019 6:26PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government have taken, inter alia, following steps to increase solar energy generation in the country:


    (i) Announcement of a target of installing 100 GW of solar energy capacity by December, 2022. (ii) Waiver of Inter State Transmission System (ISTS) charges and losses for inter-state sale of solar power for projects to be commissioned up to December, 2022.


    (iii) Permitting Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) up to 100 percent under the automatic route.


    (iv) Notification of standard bidding guidelines to enable distribution licensees to procure solar and wind power at competitive rates in cost effective and transparent manner.


    (v) Declaration of trajectory for Renewable Purchase Obligation (RPO) up to year 2022.


    (vi) Implementation of Green Energy Corridor project to facilitate grid integration of large scale renewable energy capacity addition.

     1. Notification of Quality Standards for deployment of solar photovoltaic system/devices.
     2. Launch of various schemes including. Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha evam Utthan Mahabhiyan Yojana (PM-KUSUM), CPSU (Government Producers) Scheme -Phase II and Solar Rooftop Phase II program.

    Salient features of the tender for setting up of solar projects linked with manufacturing facilities are given in Annexure.


    In last three years, Ministry has not sanctioned any Model Solar City.


    This information was provided by Union Minister of State (IC) New & Renewable Energy, Power and Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri R.K. Singh, in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ***** ***** *****


    RCJ/RP


    ANNEXURE


    A tender for “Selection of Solar Power Developers for Setting up of 7GW ISTS Connected Solar PV Power Plant linked with 2GW (Per Annum) Solar Manufacturing Plant under Global Competitive Bidding” was launched by SECI with bid submission date as 13.11.2019.


    2. The salient features of the tender : - The Solar manufacturing plant completion period was mentioned as 2 years, while solar PV project completion period was mentioned as 5 years and 4 years for Package-A and Package-B respectively.


    (i). A single stage two envelope followed by e-Reverse Auction bidding mechanism on E tendering portal (ETS) of ISN-ETS was adopted for this bidding.


    (ii). The entire tender is splitted into 02 (Two) Bidding Packages as detailed below: -

     1. Bidding Package A : This Package was meant for setting up of Solar Manufacturing Plants related to Cells and Modules only. Under this Package 02 (Two) Blocks shall be awarded.

    Each Blocks having minimum Annual Production Capacity as given below:

                                                                    
S. No.  Description  Minimum Annual Production Capacity             
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
1.      Cells        Corresponding to 500MW of Modules Manufacturing
                                                                    
                                                                    
                     Facility                                       
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
2.      Modules      500MW                                          
                                                                    
                                                                    

     1. Bidding Package B: This Package was meant for setting up of Solar Manufacturing Plants related to Ingots and Wafers only. Under this Package, 02 (Two) Blocks were be awarded. Each Blocks having minimum Annual Production Capacity as given below:

                                                                    
S. No.  Description  Minimum Annual Production Capacity             
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
1.      Ingots       Corresponding to 500MW of Modules Manufacturing
                                                                    
                                                                    
                     Facility                                       
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
2.      Wafers       Corresponding to 500MW of Modules Manufacturing
                                                                    
                                                                    
                     Facility                                       
                                                                    
                                                                    

     1. A cumulative annual Solar Manufacturing Capacity of 2GW per year was allowed, which was to be setup over a maximum period of 02 (Two) Years’ from the effective date of Package-I PPAs. The SPDs shall be provided assured PPAs (i) up to 2000MW against 500MW of Solar


    Manufacturing Plant under Bidding Package-A and (ii) up to 1500MW against 500MW of Solar Manufacturing Plant under Bidding Package-B. Thus, the total Solar PV Power Plant capacity would be maximum of 7000MW for manufacturing capacity of 2000MW.

     1. Under Bidding Package-A, any bidder can quote up to 2000MW of Solar PV Projects Capacity linked to 500MW of Solar Manufacturing Capacity corresponding to 01 Block. Under Bidding Package-B, any bidder can quote up to 1500MW of Solar PV Projects Capacity linked to

    500MW of Solar Manufacturing Capacity corresponding to 01 Block. A total of 02 Blocks (each Block comprising up to 2000MW of Solar PV Projects Capacity linked to 500MW of Solar Manufacturing Capacity) under Bidding Package-A and a total of 02 Blocks (each Block comprising up to 1500MW of Solar PV Projects Capacity linked to 500MW of Solar Manufacturing Capacity) under Bidding Package-B are under the bidding process. However, any bidder would be free to bid for all the 04 Blocks.


    ***** ***** *****


    RCJ/RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594759) Visitor Counter : 892
    
    
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
1.