      Ministry of Education

      Fit India School Rating System launched as part of Fit India Campaign
      
      India’s youth power will infuse life into Fit India Campaign: Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’
      
      Shri Kiren Rijiju congratulates Kendriya Vidyalayas for promoting sports alongwith education

      Posted On: 04 DEC 2019 6:46PM by PIB Delhi

    Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ and Minister of State for Youth Affairs & Sports Shri Kiren Rijiju jointly inaugurated the newly constructed Cricket Stadium at KV No. 1, Delhi Cantt in Delhi today. They also launched the Fit India School Rating System. Member of Parliament Smt Meenakshi Lekhi graced the occasion along with other dignitaries.


    Union HRD Minister in his address said that healthy India is the cornerstone in making New India. He said that the Fit India program is an innovative initiative launched by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi to increase the awareness among the masses and to encourage people to adopthealthy lifestyle.He said that health does not only mean absence of disease in body, but also implies how happy and full of energy we are. The Minister was delighted to know that there is already a program going on in the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan called 'Healthy Children Healthy India', this Fit India program will give it a new dimension.


    Shri Pokhriyal said that the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) and Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) are playing an important role in every field related with School education. We have more than 16 lakh Schools and over one thousand Universities catering education to over 33 crores students. This is a huge Youth Power which will infuse life into Fit India Campaign,he said. Shri Nishank complimented the efforts of KVS in Fit India Campaign and admired KV students as Brand Ambassador of the campaign.


    Speaking on the occasion Shri Rijiju said that Fit India school rating system as per certain parameters will enhance the image of the schools. He also complimented the Kendriya Vidyalayas for their active participation in Fit India Movement. He said KVs are ahead of other schools in promoting culture and sports along with education. He called upon all the students to do physical exercise daily in order to remain fit. Because only fit people can make the nation fit, he added. He also complimented CBSE for joining hands with Sports Ministry in making Fit India Movement a success through active participation of schools.


    The Ministers also played a token match of one over on the newly constructed stadium and motivated the students presenting Archery, Judo and Taekwondo.


    The new stadium constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 294.41 lakhs has a facility of three pitches, automatic sprinkler system of ground watering, Ground Drainage, Viewers gallery and underground water reservoir. The oval shaped Pavilion gives a miniature look of the International Cricket Stadium of Lords in London. This stadium is going to facilitate around 5000 children every year.


    Three Kendriya Vidyalayas of Delhi KV Sector 8 RK Puram, KV Andrewsganj and KV No. 1 Delhi Cantt were awarded with Fit India Flag during the event.


    *****


    NB/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594997) Visitor Counter : 574
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi