      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Organizations and activists which are part of Hurriyat are behind stone-pelting incidents in Jammu and Kashmir: Shri G. Kishan Reddy
      
      All essential services functioning normally in the Valley: Shri G. Kishan Reddy
      
      5,161 persons taken into preventive custody in Kashmir Valley since 4th August, 2019: Shri G. Kishan Reddy

      Posted On: 04 DEC 2019 3:37PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri G. Kishan Reddy, in a written reply to a question regarding militancy in Jammu and Kashmir, in Rajya Sabha today, said that to prevent commission of offences involving breach of peace, activities prejudicial to the security of the State and maintenance of public order, 5161 persons including political leaders/workers, stone pelters, OGWs, separatists, etc. were taken into preventive custody in Kashmir Valley since 4th August, 2019. He added that out of these, presently 609 persons are under preventive detentions which include 218 stone pelters. He further noted that after 5th August, 2019, 194 cases have been registered in Jammu and Kashmir for breach of peace.


    Commenting on the financing of militants and separatists, Shri Reddy said that illegal money is being sent through hawala channels from across the border to finance terror related activities, stone pelting and attack on Security Forces in Jammu and Kashmir. He added that investigation has revealed that various separatist organisations and activists which are part of Hurriyat have been behind the incidents of stone pelting in Kashmir valley and that the NIA has chargesheeted 18 persons in the terror funding cases so far.


    The Minister also remarked that due to the recent decisions, certain precautionary measures taken initially have already been substantially relaxed and it has been reported by Government of Jammu and Kashmir that all essential services are functioning normally in the Valley.


    ******


    SNC/VM/HS/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594853) Visitor Counter : 260
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu