      Ministry of Railways

      Ministry of Railways signs an MoU with Department for International Development (DFID), United Kingdom
      
      The MoU envisages co-operation with DFID for Energy Efficiency & Energy Self Sufficiency for Indian Railways
      
      The effort is to reduce carbon footprint and transform Indian Railways into “Green Railways”

      Posted On: 03 DEC 2019 4:48PM by PIB Delhi

    With a goal of transforming Indian Railways into “Green Railways”, complete electrification of Railway network has been approved by Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) which will reduce its carbon footprint and will also improve its finances through reduction in fuel cost.


    As part of its obligations & commitment to reduce carbon footprints, Indian Railways is taking several initiatives in the field of Green Energy to achieve the same. In line with this, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between Ministry of Railways, Government of India and Department for International Development (DFID), United Kingdom on 2 nd December, 2019 for collaboration on energy and sustainability. The MoU was signed in the presence of Mr. Rajesh Tiwari, Member (Traction), Railway Board by Mr. Rajesh Kumar Jain, Executive Director/Electrical Engineering (Development), Indian Railways and by Mr. Gavin McGillivray, Head, DFID-India.


    Through Power Sector Reform (PSR) programme, the MoU with DFID envisages to include co-operation for Energy Efficiency & Energy Self Sufficiency for Indian Railways. The MoU will broadly cover:

     1. Energy planning for Indian Railways in line with Governments’ policies and regulations as applicable from time to time including 100% greener sources of electricity supply through
      * Renewable energy planning and deployment
      * Off shore wind and solar energy
      * Energy storage and new energy technologies
      * Off-grid renewable energy services

     1. Promoting energy sustainability initiatives like

      * Adopting energy efficiency practices
      * Enabling Fuel efficiency

     1. Electric Vehicle charging infrastructure deployment


     1. Battery operated Shunting Locomotives


     1. Capacity development like training programmes, industrial visits, field visits etc.


    The collaboration of Indian Railways with DFID, United Kingdom will go a long way in ensuring self-sufficiency and efficiency in terms of energy and greener Indian Railways.


    *****


    SG/MKV/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594713) Visitor Counter : 499
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

1.