      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Setting up of National Investment & Manufacturing Zones
      Posted On: 04 DEC 2019 4:54PM by PIB Delhi


    Government notified the National Manufacturing Policy(NMP) in 2011. The Policy is based on the principle of industrial growth in partnership with the States. National Investment & Manufacturing Zones (NIMZs) are one of the important instruments of the policy. Government has already granted final approval to the NIMZ in Sangareddy district, Telangana. Further, the proposal for granting final approval of establishment of Hyderabad Pharma City NIMZ in Rangareddy district, Telangana has been considered and recommended by the High Level Committee (HLC).


    A letter of Chief Minister of Telangana was received in which CM has requested to release an amount of Rs. 500 Crores for development of external and internal infrastructure under Phase-1 of Zaheerabad NIMZ in Sangareddy district of Telangana. In this regard, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade(DPIIT) had already conveyed to the State Government of Telangana that DPIIT’s financial commitment is limited to extending assistance of Rs. 3 crores for funding the cost of master planning. For development of infrastructure in the NIMZ, the role of DPIIT is limited to coordination and no finances from DPIIT are committed for this purpose. The project proposals need to be prepared by the State Government and processed for approval as per norms and procedures applicable to Central Sector/ Centrally Sponsored/State Sector schemes/projects. DPIIT will forward such requisitions to the concerned Ministries and coordinate between State Government and line Ministries.


    DPIIT has already released Rs. 3 Crores to the SPV of NIMZ for funding the cost of master planning of NIMZ in Sangareddy district of Telangana. The Department had also forwarded the proposals, submitted by TSIIC, of External infrastructure linkages, i.e. Road linkages and Rail linkages, for phase-1 of the said NIMZ to the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways and Ministry of Railways respectively. The comments of Ministry of Railways have already been conveyed to Government of Telangana. Further, no proposal for internal infrastructure in the NIMZ has been received from the State Government.


    The progress of NIMZ in Sangareddy district of Telangana was further reviewed on 14 th November, 2019, in the 6 th meeting of High Level Committee.


    This information was given by the Minister of Commerce and Industry, Piyush Goyal, in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594920) Visitor Counter : 3669