      Ministry of Finance

      Soma Roy Burman takes charge as new Controller General of Accounts
      Posted On: 01 DEC 2019 10:27AM by PIB Delhi


    Smt. Soma Roy Burman, a 1986-batch Indian Civil Accounts Service (ICAS) Officer, took charge as the new Controller General of Accounts here today.


    Smt. Burman is the 24 th Controller General of Accounts (CGA) and is the seventh woman to hold this coveted position.


    The Government of India appointed Smt. Burman, as the Controller General of Accounts (CGA), Ministry of Finance, Department of Expenditure with effect from December 1, 2019.


    Smt. Burman holds the degree of M.Phil in Mathematical Statistics from the University of Delhi.


    During her 33-year long career, she has held cadre positions at different levels in Ministries such as Home Affairs, Information & Broadcasting, Industry, Finance, Human Resource Development and Shipping, Road Transport & Highways. She has headed the Central Pension Accounting Office (CPAO) as the Chief Controller (Pension) and the Institute of Government Accounts and Finance (INGAF), New Delhi, as Director.


    She has also handled important portfolios while on Central deputation to the Government of India, where she served as Deputy Secretary/Director in the Department of Economic Affairs (Budget Division) and as Joint Secretary and Financial Adviser, NATGRID, Ministry of Home Affairs. She has also held charge as Director in the office of Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India on deputation.


    Prior to assuming the charge of CGA, Smt. Burman served as Additional Controller General of Accounts in the office of CGA handling the critical areas of Accounting Rules, Policy and reforms, Financial Reporting, Data Analytics, Cash and Budget Management. Smt. Burman has been actively involved in the formulation of wide ranging reforms in these areas for strengthening Public Financial Management in the Union Government.


    ****


    RM/KMN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594404) Visitor Counter : 1176
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Tamil