      Department of Atomic Energy

      Welfare of People affected by TAPS Project
      Posted On: 04 DEC 2019 5:45PM by PIB Delhi


    The Land acquisition for the project was carried out in the first phase in 1960s and the second phase in early 2000s. The Project Affected Persons (PAPs) at Tarapur have been rehabilitated in line with the rehabilitation package formulated by the Maharashtra Government as per the then prevalent laws/acts.


    In addition, Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL) undertakes several programmes for the welfare of neighbourhood including PAPs, as a part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). These include providing civic amenities, Healthcare, Education & Skill Development, Infrastructure, Sanitation and Sustainable Development.


    The Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) and NPCIL have made efforts to employ as many eligible people from among PAPs as possible, considering the requirements of the qualifications and skills required for various jobs in the nuclear power plants. Diversified initiatives to enable PAPs for securing employment/livelihood are implemented. These include relaxation in age and percentage of marks in qualifying criteria in recruitment to Group C posts advertised by Tarapur Atomic Power Station (TAPS), award of services and maintenance contracts to PAPs and special dispensation for allotment of shops in TAPS Township.


    NPCIL as a Public Sector Enterprise of the Department of Atomic Energy follows all the orders/guidelines issued by the Central Government for recruitment. As per the extant rules, no quota is specifically earmarked for Local (Home District/Home State) candidates. However, NPCIL has provided question papers for recruitment in the posts to be carried out at the site (Group B technical and all Group C) in Marathi, in addition to English & Hindi.


    This information was provided by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    VRRK/NK/JM/PJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594970) Visitor Counter : 904