      Prime Minister's Office

      PM Modi and President of Maldives jointly inaugurate development projects in Maldives via video conference
      Posted On: 04 DEC 2019 5:34PM by PIB Delhi


    The Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President of Maldives Ibrahim Mohamed Solih today jointly inaugurated several key development projects in Maldives via video conference.


    These included gifting of Made in India Coast Guard Ship Kaamiyaab to Maldives, launch of RuPay card, lighting up of Male using LED lights, High Impact Community Development Projects, launch of fish processing plants.


    Congratulating President Solih on completing the first year of his Presidency, Prime Minister said it was a significant year for the India – Maldives relationship.


    Prime Minister said, India’s Neighbourhood First Policy and Maldives’ India first Policy has strengthened the bilateral cooperation in all sectors.


    Speaking about the Fast Interceptor Craft Coast Guard Ship Kaamiyaab, Prime Minister said, it would help in enhancing Maldives’ maritime security, and promote blue economy and tourism.


    Prime Minister also expressed happiness at partnering through High Impact Community Development Projects for supporting livelihood of the islands community.


    Prime Minister noted that People-to-People contact is one of the keys aspects of close relations between both the countries. In this context, he said India’s tourist figures in Maldives has more than doubled, 3 direct flights from Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru have also started this week. He said launch of RuPay payment mechanism would further ease travel of Indians to Maldives.


    Prime Minister said Government is working on building a cancer hospital and cricket stadium in Hulhulmale while work on the water and sanitation project in 34 islands will begin soon.


    Prime Minister reiterated his commitment to continue partnering with Maldives for strengthening of democracy and development. Prime Minister said both the countries would enhance cooperation for peace and security in Indian Ocean Region.


    *****


    VRRK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594962) Visitor Counter : 848
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada