      Cabinet Secretariat

      Cabinet Secretary reviews the issue of Onion Prices in the Country
      
      Chief Secretaries of major onion producing states apprise of the situation
      
      States advised to make efforts to improve the supply of Onions
      Posted On: 02 DEC 2019 8:15PM by PIB Delhi


    Cabinet Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba today chaired a meeting of the Committee of Secretaries to review the issue of rising prices of Onions across the country.


    In a video conference held with the Chief Secretaries of the 11 major onion producing states, the Cabinet Secretary was briefed about the various steps being taken by the States to tackle the rising prices of Onions.


    Chief Secretaries from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana participated in the video conference.


    The Cabinet Secretary directed the States that the overall availability of the Onions has to be beefed up, considering the temporary shortage, to stabilise the prices.The Centre has already taken a decision on not allowing the export of Onions during the current season.


    The States were further directed to maintain considerable buffer stocks, impose stock limits on traders and to ensure strict action against hoarding.


    Shri Rajiv Gaubasaid that the Union Government has approved the import of 11000 Metric Tonnes of onions from the 29 th November to tide over the situation. The deliveries are expected from the last week of December, 2019.


    This is in addition to the decision of the Government to import 6090 Metric Tonnes of Onions from Egypt on the 22 nd November 2019. The deliveries are expected from 2 nd Week of December.


    Cabinet Secretary directed the States to utilise their Food and Civil Supply Departments to procure and distribute Onions at reasonable prices.


    Secretary Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Secretary Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Secretary Food & Public Distribution along with other senior officials of Government of India also attended the meeting.


    ***


    APS/VRRK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594604) Visitor Counter : 715
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi