      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Shri Dharmendra Pradhan Exhorts Captains of Oil and Gas Industry to Support Innovation by Young Professionals
      Posted On: 02 DEC 2019 9:35PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas & Steel, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan last evening addressed FIPI (Federation of Indian Petroleum Industry)’s annual summit and awards ceremony in New Delhi. Speaking about innovation, Shri Pradhan said, “Technology, innovation are order of the day. I am of firm belief that youngsters can drive innovation. Industry must work on creating framework to support young employees on driving innovation and creating new business models."


    Shri Pradhan complemented FIPI for completing three years and congratulated the award winners. Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, speaking on the occasion, said that India is an aspirational society and with a large market and aspirational population, India is going to be the epicentre of global growth.


    Speaking about Government’s reforms efforts, Minister Pradhan said, “Government is working on the paradigm of continuous reform. Recent reduction in Corporate Tax, India’s huge jump in World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business rankings are cases in point.”


    Speaking about India’s energy demand, Shri Pradhan said, “Indian appetite for energy is growing. I appeal to industry to work on innovative energy delivery in a sustainable way.”


    Speaking about energy for social change, he said, “Energy sector has the potential to improve the lives of people. We must work on making energy more affordable and accessible. Energy sector must act as a catalyst of social change.”


    Speaking about role of technology, Shri Pradhan said, “We must leverage technology to create new models of business and governance. In form of Direct Benefits Transfer, we have created largest model in the world in digital governance.”


    The Federation of Indian Petroleum Industry (FIPI) is an apex Society of entities in the hydrocarbon sector and acts as an industry interface with Government and regulatory authorities. The event saw participation from oil and gas industry leaders and senior officials of Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas.


    ****


    SK/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594614) Visitor Counter : 253
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi