      Ministry of Defence

      Shri Hari Mohan takes over as Chairman, Ordnance Factory Board
      Posted On: 01 DEC 2019 3:58PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Hari Mohan has taken over the charge as Chairman, Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) w.e.f. December 01, 2019 from Shri Saurabh Kumar who superannuated from the services. A 1982-batch Indian Ordnance Factories’ Service (I.O.F.S.) officer with Post Graduate Degree in Mechanical Engineering, Shri Hari Mohan had been a topper of University of Allahabad & University of Pune while obtaining his Bachelor & Masters in Mechanical Engineering. He holds an M. Phil in Public Administration.


    In a career spanning 39 years, Shri Hari Mohan has contributed significantly in various positions in Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) Hardwar, Vehicle Factory Jabalpur, Engine Factory Avadi, Heavy Vehicle Factory Avadi, Ammunition Factory Khadki, Ordnance Factory Bolangir, Ordnance Factory Chanda, Ordnance Factory Dehu Road, OFB New Delhi Office and Ministry of Steel & Mines.


    The I.O.F.S. officer has a versatile experience in the field of manufacture of Armoured Vehicles, Artillery, Tank and Ammunition, Small Arms Ammunition, Projects Management and Corporate Governance, among other areas. He has made significant contributions in improving the production of Armoured Fighting Vehicles like Ajeya Tanks, MBT Arjun, Bridge Layer and Trawls Tanks. He has also made significant contribution to the modernisation of steel plants of the Steel Authority of India limited (SAIL) during his tenure in Ministry of Steel & Mines.


    Shri Hari Mohan has held various senior positions as General Manager, Dehu Road (Pune, Senior General Manager, Heavy Vehicles Factory, Avadi (HVF, Chennai). He was also awarded the ‘Ayudh Ratna’ award in 2018 for his services at the HVF. Before taking over as DGOF and Chairman, he was holding charge as Member of the OFB and was in charge of the Weapons, Vehicles and Equipment (WV&E) division of the OFB.


    ***


    ABB/Nampi/DK/Savvy/MTJ/ADA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594418) Visitor Counter : 841
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil