      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Schemes for Women and Youth
      Posted On: 02 DEC 2019 3:03PM by PIB Delhi


    To create an enabling ecosystem for Entrepreneurship Development through entrepreneurship education and training across the Country, Pilot project on Pradhan Mantri Yuva Udyamita Vikas Abhiyaan (PM YUVA) Yojana 2.0 is under implementation through the Institutes in the Skill Ecosystem of the Ministry i.e. Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendras (PMKKs), Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs), Polytechnics, Jan Shikshan Sansthan (JSS) and Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) Training Centres.


    Further, to promote a culture of entrepreneurship among India’s youth and inspire them to set-up their own enterprise and create employment opportunities for others, Government has instituted National Entrepreneurship Awards Scheme (NEAS) in 2016. Under the Scheme, awards are conferred to the aspiring first generation entrepreneurs to recognize and honour their efforts and achievements and those individuals/organizations who are working as eco-system builder in the field of entrepreneurship development. Under the Scheme, there is a provision of 3 awards in sub-category under Enterprises Track exclusively for Women Entrepreneurs.


    Besides, Government is providing financial support to the aspiring entrepreneurs through Stand-up India Scheme in the form of Bank Loan of between Rs. 10 lakh and 1 crore to at least one Scheduled Caste (SC) or Scheduled Tribe (ST) borrower and at least one woman borrower per bank branch for setting up a greenfield enterprise in trading, services or manufacturing sector. As on 15.11.2019, a total of Rs. 14,761.97 crore as loan amount has been given to women entrepreneurs.


    Furthermore, with the objective to enable aspiring entrepreneur/existing entrepreneurs to setup or expand their business activities, under the Scheme Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana (PMYY), aspiring entrepreneur/existing entrepreneurs can avail a collateral free loan upto Rs. 10 lakh in the non agricultural sector for activities allied to agriculture. Under the Scheme, a total of Rs. 4,62,115.61 crore of loan amount has been provided to women entrepreneurs as on 15.11.2019.


    In addition to the above , a loan facilitator and skill training programme is going on through Rural Self Employment Training Institutes (RSETIs) under which assistance is given to aspiring entrepreneurs in the form of bank credit and skill training through RSETI to become self-employed and start their own micro enterprises with focus on rural poor. Presently, 583 RSETIs are functioning in 27 States (expect Goa) and 6 UTs (except Delhi, Chandigarh and Daman & Diu).


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri R.K. Singh in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SK/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594478) Visitor Counter : 1007
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu