      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Pedestrian Deaths in Road Accidents
      Posted On: 02 DEC 2019 3:44PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Road Transport & Highways has formulated a multi-pronged strategy to address the issue of road safety based on Education, Engineering (both of roads and vehicles), Enforcement and Emergency Care. Further, the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways has constituted a Parliamentary Constituency Committee on Road Safety in each district of the country to promote awareness amongst road users under the chairmanship of Hon’ble Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha). The National Road Safety Policy outlines various policy measures such as promoting awareness, establishing road safety information data base, encouraging safer road infrastructure including application of intelligent transport, enforcement of safety laws with regard to Road Safety. In addition, the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 provides for Road Safety Councils and Committees at National, State and District level to discharge function relating to Road Safety Programmes.


    The Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019 focuses on road safety and includes, inter-alia, stiff hike in penalties for traffic violations and electronic monitoring of the same, enhanced penalties for juvenile driving, computerization/automation of vehicle fitness and driving, tests, recall of defective vehicles, extending the scope of third party liability and payment of increased compensation for hit and run cases etc.


    In addition to the above, the initiatives of the Ministry to promote road safety are listed as below:


     1. Advocacy/Publicity campaign on road safety through the electronic media and print media to create awareness.

     2. Issue of Guidelines for protection of Good Samaritans.
     3. Setting up of model driving training Institutes in States.
     4. Sanction of 24 Inspection and certification Centres for testing the fitness of the commercial vehicles through an automated system
     5. Launch of mobile app for highway users i.e. “Sukhad Yatra 1033” which enables highways users to report potholes and other safety hazards on National Highways including accidents.
     6. Observance of Road Safety Week every calendar year for spreading awareness and strengthening road safety.
     7. Road safety has been made an integral part of road design at planning stage.
     8. The threshold for four laning of national highway has been reduced from 15,000 Passenger Car Units (PCUs) to 10,000 PCUs.
     9. Safety standards for automobiles have been improved.
    10. High priority has been accorded to identification and rectification of black spots (accident prone spots) on national highways.
    11. Ministry has delegated powers to Regional Officers of MORTH for technical approval to the detailed estimates for rectification of identified Road Accident black spots for expediting the rectification process to ensure safety of road users.
    12. Guidelines for pedestrian facilities on National Highways for persons with disabilities have also been issued to all States / UTs.
    13. A Certification Course for Road Safety Auditors has been commenced in Indian Academy of Highway Engineers (IAHE) and 42 Auditors are certified.
    14. Removal of Liquor Shops as per directions of Hon’ble Supreme Court vide circular of F. No. RW/NH-33044/309/2016/S&R dated 06-04-2017 and 01-06-2017.

    This information was given by the Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Shri Nitin Gadkari in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    RCJ/MS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1594490) Visitor Counter : 465
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

14.