      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Shri Dharmendra Pradhan Calls for Focus on Bio Energy to Mitigate Air Pollution
      Posted On: 05 DEC 2019 3:40PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas and Steel Shri Dharmendra Pradhan participated in the India Gas Infrastructure Conference 2019 organised by FICCI, here today. Theme of the event was ‘Indian Gas Sector- Ushering in an era of growth’.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Pradhan said, “25-30 years ago crude oil was the only priority of our exploration activities, but today the dynamics have changed. Gas has now become an important and essential part of our energy basket and is driving our energy transition.”


    Talking about India’s transition towards gas based economy, Minister Pradhan said, “We are moving towards a gas based economy. Domestic production of gas in India is set to grow. We are investing $60 billion in gas based infrastructure. The speed and scale at which City Gas Distribution ecosystem in the country has grown in recent times is remarkable.”


    Speaking about reforms in energy sector, Shri Pradhan said, “In the last 5 years, various reforms have been introduced to promote the growth of the gas sector in India, including, pricing & marketing freedom, diversification of fuel sourcing, etc.” He also said government is taking steps to develop infrastructure for pipe lines, city gas distribution and LNG terminals.


    Speaking about market scenario, Shri Pradhan said, “Shift has happened in the market and focus has shifted from producer to consumer. We are working with the industry closely to create value for consumers. We must intensify our efforts to reach out to our people in the industrial clusters and give them a comparative analysis of the benefits of gas over conventional fuel, this will further improve people's awareness about gas and promote usage of gas, especially by our industries.”


    Speaking about Bio energy, Minister Pradhan said, “Just like Natural Gas, Bio energy also possesses huge potential, especially in addressing the rising environmental concerns and providing a solution to the menace of air pollution. Bio energy will contribute significantly to the nation’s ambitious target of producing 450 GW of renewables.” Shri B.C. Tripathi, former CMD, Gail (India) Ltd. & Chairman, FICCI Hydrocarbons Committee and Shri Prashant Modi, MD & CEO, GEECL & Co-Chairman, FICCI Hydrocarbons Committee also addressed the gathering.


    *****


    SK/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595067) Visitor Counter : 484
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi