      AYUSH

      Promotion of AYUSH in Rural Areas
      Posted On: 06 DEC 2019 3:40PM by PIB Delhi


    Under National AYUSH Mission an amount of Rs. 1768.98 crore has been allocated / released to the various Stats/ UTs as per the proposal received from them since 2014-15 to 2018-19. Further, as per the expenditure report submitted by State / UT Governments, an amount of Rs. 769.61 crore has been spent.


    As on 1 st January 2018, there are 7,99,879 registered AYUSH doctors/practitioners in India. Out of these 4,43,704 belong to Ayurveda, while 2,93,455 and 51,110 belong to Homoeopathy and Unani systems respectively. 9125 and 2425 doctors belong to Siddha and Naturopathy systems respectively.


    The Ministry is implementing Centrally Sponsored Scheme of National AYUSH Mission (NAM) through States/UTs for the promotion of AYUSH system including Homoeopathy.


    The Ministry has setup an apex autonomous National Institute of Homoeopathy at Kolkata which is conducting under-graduate & post-graduate courses in Homoeopathy and is also providing health care services through its OPD/IPD.


    The Ministry of AYUSH through its apex autonomous Research Council namely, Central Council for Research in Homoeopathy (CCRH) which has a network of 24 institutes/units and 06 treatment centres all over India is undertaking scientific research in Homoeopathy. The research is undertaken in the broad areas of clinical research, drug standardization, drug proving, clinical verification, fundamental research and public health & epidemics. CCRH has also been providing health care services through the OPDs/IPDs of its institutes.


    Swasthya Rakshan Program:- CCRH launched Swasthya Rakshan program which is being undertaken in 55 villages/ urban colonies through 11 institutes under the Council. In this programme the local population is given health education and are sensitized about adopting hygienic measures and are motivated about benefits & adopting healthy life style; screening for early diagnosis and first line of treatment by holding camps periodically in 55 identified villages.


    Integrated NPCDCS Program:- Integration of Homoeopathy and Yoga in National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular Diseases & Stroke (NPCDCS) has been taken up at Community Health Centre levels in–Krishna district, Andhra Pradesh , Darjeeling district, West Bengal, Sambalpur, Odisha and Nashik , Maharashtra . The program has been undertaken in collaboration with Ministry of Health and Family Welfare under NPCDCS programme.


    SC Camps:- For the benefit of SC population, Health camps are conducted in the villages having more than 40% SC population. Under this programme 46 villages during the year 2017-18, 53 villages during the year 2018-19 and 28 villages during 2019-20 have been adopted to undertake the activity. The objective of the programme is to provide free medical facilities to the people at their doorstep and create awareness/ educate people about the healthy lifestyle through health promotion activities.


    CCRH has proposed for increasing the number of homoeopathic doctors for its following institutes/Units:

                                                                                                                    
S. No.  Name of the Institute                                                             Number of doctors proposed
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                    
1       Dr. D.P. Rastogi Central Research Institute of Homoeopathy, Noida, Uttar Pradesh  40                        
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                    
2       Dr. Anjali Chatterjee Regional Research Institute of Homoeopathy, Kolkata         01                        
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                    
3       National Homoeopathy Research Institute in Mental Health, Kottayam                60                        
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                    
4       Regional Research Institute of Homoeopathy, Agartala                              32                        
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                    

    The activities undertaken for capacity building of the doctors are through:

     1. Continued Medical Education.
     2. Participation in seminars, conferences, workshops.
     3. Participation in training programs.

    Ministry of AYUSH is implementing Centrally Sponsored Scheme of National AYUSH Mission (NAM) through States/UTs for the promotion of AYUSH in the Country including rural areas. The Mission envisages better access to AYUSH services, strengthening of AYUSH educational institutions, and enforcement of quality control of Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani & Homoeopathy (ASU &H) drugs and promotion of medicinal plants for sustainable availability of raw-materials for ASU & H drugs in the States/UTs. The National AYUSH Mission (NAM) inter-alia makes provision for the following activities: -


    (i) Co-location of AYUSH facilities at Primary Health Centers (PHCs), Community Health Centers (CHCs) and District Hospitals (DHs).


    (ii) Up gradation of exclusive State Government AYUSH Hospitals and Dispensaries.


    (iii) Setting up of up to 50 bedded integrated AYUSH Hospital.


    (iv) Upgradation of State Government Educational Institutions.


    (v) Setting up of new State Government AYUSH Educational Institutions in the State where it is not available.


    (vi) Strengthening of State Government/ Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathy (ASU&H) Pharmacies and Drug Testing Laboratories (DTL).


    (vii) Cultivation and Promotion of Medicinal Plants.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****************


    RJ/SK

    

    
    (Release ID: 1595266) Visitor Counter : 766
    
    
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
3.