      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Recommended Dietary Allowance
      Posted On: 06 DEC 2019 3:21PM by PIB Delhi


    The addition of micronutrients to food, i.e., food fortification is one of the strategiesto address micronutrient deficiencies in addition to dietary diversificationand micronutrient supplementation. In order to reduce the prevalence of micronutrient deficiencies, emphasis is given to strategies through the Schemes/programmes implemented by the various departments/ministries, which include iron and folic acid supplementation, calcium supplementation, Vitamin-A supplementation, mandatory use of iodized salt and nutrition education to promote the use of healthy balanced diets through dietary diversification . Ministry of WCD has advised all the States/UTs to ensure use of relevant fortified food articles (wherever supplied) in the administration of the Supplementary Nutrition Programme.


    Further, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India(FSSAI) has notified Food Safety and Standards (Fortification of Foods) Regulations, 2018, which specifies standards for fortification of staple foods such as wheat, rice, maida (with Iron, Folic Acid and Vitamin B 12), Salt (with Iron and Iodine), and Oil and Milk (with Vitamin A and Vitamin D). These standards specify minimum and maximum levels of micronutrients which can be added to these staples. The levels of addition of micronutrients have been kept such as to provide 30%-50% of Recommended Daily Allowance of micronutrients.


    FSSAI has set up Food Fortification Resource Centre (FFRC) as a resource and support centre, which provides requisite support in the form providing awareness material, list of pre-mix suppliers and technical support to States/Industry, etc. FFRC is a part of many technical groups both at the State level and CII-Nutrition Committee to ensure support to the State and the Food Industry.


    Some of the challenges faced by the States/UTs are availability of fortified grains, i.e., Rice and Wheat, through Food Corporation of India for supply in ICDS and MDM; supply chain management issues to meet the demand of fortified food items through open market and the incremental cost of fortification to be borne by the States.


    This information was given by the Minister of Women and Child Development, Smriti Zubin Irani, in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    MM/ SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1595249) Visitor Counter : 457