      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      MoS (PP) Dr Jitendra Singh interacts with IAS officers of State Civil Services
      
      MoS urges states to follow DoPT guidelines for postings & transfers
      
      Minister emphasises upon the feedback system to improve the training modules
      Posted On: 06 DEC 2019 6:41PM by PIB Delhi


    The MoS (PP) Dr Jitendra Singh urged the states to follow DoPT guidelines for postings &transfers. Hesaid that timely cadre-review should be done by the states. He was addressing the IAS officers of the State Civil Servicesform different statesundergoing the InductionTraining Programme, here today.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said that technology needs to be optimally utilised for acquiring knowledge by the officers. There are ample opportunities in the area of training in the internet era, he added. He said that learning is a dynamic process and the officers should optimally utilise the training skills acquired during their careers. India is an evolving nation and certain systemic issues need to be addressed in the long run to optimally utilise the available resources, he added. The Minister emphasised upon the feedback system that will help in making improvement in the training modules in future. Dr Singh also spoke about the ‘Anubhav’ initiative of the Government where superannuating officers give account of their experiences during the job. These will help the policy makers and shall enable them to make improvements in the system, he added.


    The Minister said that certain initiatives have been taken by the Government to make improvements in the training for officers. He quoted the example of ‘AARAMBH’ initiative launched by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi at Kevadia on 31 st October this year. The Minister also emphasised upon the capacity building, skill upgradation and mid-career training programmes for the officers. He also said that a possibility can be explored to bring uniformity in the training modules and also imparting specialised training wherever required.


    On the occasion, Additional Secretary, DoPT,Shri K. Srinivas, spoke about the iGOT (Integrated Government Online Training Programme) and COMMIT training programme developed by Department of Personnel and Training . He said that the states can always give their suggestions to DoPT so that new modules can be introduced in these programmes.


    There are a total of 55 Officers undergoing the InductionTraining Programme.The representation of women in the officers is 20% (11 out of 55).The officers belong to cadresof Assam, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal participated in the Induction Training Programme.


    The 121(A) ITP started on 4th November, 2019 and will culminateon 14th December, 2019. The participants have undergone4 weeks of academic inputs in the faculties of Management,Economics, Public Administration and ICT during their stay atthe Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration,Chandigarh. Thereafter, they had gone on a one-week Domestic Study Tour,called the “Bharat Darshan” to different States of thecountry other than their own cadre. During the Bharat Darshan,the participants had attachments with NGO’s, Urban LocalBodies and District Administrations.The Domestic Study Tour is followed by a 2-day stay in Delhi on 6th & 7th December 2019. The officers will alsovisit the RashtrapatiBhawan, New Delhi.The officers would be proceeding ona Foreign Study Tour to Seoul, South Korea from 7th to 14 th December, 2019. In Seoul, they will have 6-days’ training withthe Korean Development Institute in order to get exposure tobest practices and administrative efficiencies.On completion of the Foreign Study Tour, the officers will berelieved from the Course on 14th December, 2019 from Delhi forjoining their respective cadres.


    The Secretary, Government of Punjab-cum-Director and Course Coordinator, Mrs JaspreetTalwar and Punjab Resident Commissioner, Mrs Rakhee Gupta Bhandari were also present on the occasion.


    *******


    VRRK/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595359) Visitor Counter : 373
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi