      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Skill Development in Agriculture Sector
      Posted On: 09 DEC 2019 3:08PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship is implementing its flagship scheme Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) through National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC), a Public Private Partnership organization. NSDC has facilitated creation of Sector Skill Councils (SSCs) which are industry led bodies to ensure addressing skill requirements of various sectors. The scheme promotes skilling of manpower in various sectors including agriculture through the Agriculture Sector Skill Council. There are three kind of training routes under the scheme: Short term Training (STT) for fresh skilling of school / college drop outs and unemployed youth, Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) to recognize the existing skills and Special Projects to address skilling requirements of the vulnerable groups and permit flexibility in conduct of Short Term Training. RPL under PMKVY has been able to undertake up-skilling of farmers via bridge course training through some of the projects. The scheme is being implemented across the country spanning 37 sectors including agriculture sector. Under PMKVY2016-2020, as on 11th Nov 2019, more than 5 lakh candidates have been trained under Agriculture sector. More than 300 candidates have been trained in Beekeeper Job role. In last three years, 67 training courses in Beekeeping & 60 training courses in Animal husbandry has been done by NSDC Training Provider. The beneficiaries have been oriented in skills such as 'Group Farming Practitioner' which enables farmers to increase productivity and income by establishing market linkages and buy – back arrangements. Beneficiaries are being enrolled pan India including for job roles such as Dairy Farmer, Organic Grower, Floriculturist, Gardener and Pulses Cultivator etc.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri R.K. Singh in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SK/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595529) Visitor Counter : 471