      Ministry of Education

      Several steps have been taken by the Government to impart health and physical education to students across the country : HRD Minister
      Posted On: 05 DEC 2019 5:50PM by PIB Delhi


    As per the National Curriculum Framework, 2005, Health and Physical Education is a Compulsory subject from Class I to X. In this regard, National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) has brought out material for Class VI, VII and VIII as Teachers Guide and for Class IX Textbooks on Health and Physical Education (HPE). In addition, Central Board of Secondary Examination (CBSE) has introduced a streamlined and well designed Health and Physical Education (HPE) Program to mainstream health and physical education in schools for students of class I - XII. CBSE has made Health and Physical Education compulsory in all classes from I-XII. The Board has directed schools to keep one period of HPE for classes I-XII each day. All students from these classes are compulsorily required to participate in at least two sports activities as per their interest and capability and this has been included in the eligibility criteria to appear in Board Examinations of classes X and XII . The Department of School Education and Literacy in co-ordination with Department of Sports, is organising activities on ‘‘Fit India Movement-Fit India School” in schools to inculcate physical activity and sports into daily life of students.


    Department of School Education and Literacy has launched an Integrated Scheme for School Education-Samagra Shiksha, with effect from 1st April, 2018. Realizing the need for holistic development of children, under the Samagra Shiksha, Sports and Physical Education component has been introduced for the first time for encouragement of Sports, Physical activities, Yoga, Co-curricular activities etc. in all States and UTs including NCT of Delhi.


    Further, majority of schools including Government schools in NCT of Delhi are affiliated to CBSE and the HPE programme is compulsory for all CBSE affiliated schools.


    University Grants Commission (UGC) has also prepared guidelines for institutional fitness plan. These guidelines encourage higher educational institutions to adopt policies and practices towards fitness and well being of students and staff. The indicative guidelines inter-alia suggest denoting minimum one hour per day on fitness activities.


    This information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595137) Visitor Counter : 385