      Ministry of Textiles

      Monitoring of Textile Industry
      Posted On: 05 DEC 2019 4:40PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government is responsible for policy formulation, planning and development of the textile industry by providing a conducive policy environment and creating enabling conditions for promotion of the textile industry all over the country including state of Rajasthan.


    In order to promote and develop various sectors/ segments of the textiles industry, the Government has been implementing various policy initiatives and schemes which support/ improve the lives and livelihoods of textile weavers through employment generation and promotes production and export competitiveness of the textile industry such as Schemes for the development of the Powerloom Sector(Power-Tex), Schemes for Technical Textiles, Scheme for Integrated Textile Parks (SITP), Scheme for Additional Grant for Apparel Manufacturing Units under SITP (SAGAM), SAMARTH- The Scheme for Capacity Building in Textile Sector (SCBTS), Jute (ICARE- Improved Cultivation and Advanced Retting Exercise), Integrated Processing Development Scheme (IPDS), National Handloom Development Progarmme, Comprehensive Handloom Cluster Development Scheme (CHCDS), Silk Samagra, Integrated Wool Development Programme (IWDP), North East Region Textiles Promotion Scheme (NERTPS) and Rebate of State and Central Taxes and Levies (ROSCTL) .


    Further, to encourage the domestic apparel sector including Rajasthan to compete in International market, Government announced key reforms under a Special Package that includes additional incentives under the Amended Technology Upgradation Fund (ATUFS), relaxation of Section 80JJAA of Income Tax Act and introduction of fixed term employment for the apparel sector. Under Pradhan Mantri Rojgar Protsahan Yojana (PMRPY), Government is providing entire 12% of employer’s contribution.


    The textile sector schemes mentioned above support the promotion of commercial ventures, setting up of new units as well as expansion of the existing units in the country including Bhilwada, Rajasthan. However, indicative physical targets are allotted to States/implementing agencies including in the State of Rajasthan and funds are released based on viable proposals received and utilization of previous funds.


    The state-wise data of exports is not maintained. In the state of Rajasthan there are 38 cotton and man-made spinning textile mills (NON-SSI). As per the data available the estimated production of spun yarn and cloth in Rajasthan during last two years is given below:

                                    
                    2017-18  2018-19
                                    
                                    
                                    
Spun Yarn (Mn. Kg)  495      524    
                                    
                                    
                                    
Cloth (Mn.Sq.mtr)   281      254    
                                    
                                    

    The following activities have been implemented in the State of Rajasthan in the last five years (2014-15 to 2018-19) to promote Handloom sector: -


    i) As per 4 th All India Handloom Census (2019-20), there are 6446 handlooms, 8687 handloom weavers and 1403 allied workers in Rajasthan.


    ii) Rs. 38.00 lakh has been released for one Block Level Cluster covering 554 beneficiaries.


    iii) Rs. 99.00 lakh has been released for 4 marketing events covering 5820 beneficiaries.


    iv) Loan worth Rs. 66.00 lakh has been disbursed under Weavers’ MUDRA Scheme covering 380 beneficiaries.


    v) 10.03 lakh kg of yarn worth Rs. 9.42 crore has been supplied at mill gate price and 9600 kg of yarn worth Rs. 16.71 lakh has been supplied to the weavers of Rajasthan under 10% subsidy scheme of Yarn Supply Scheme (YSS).


    vi) 1963 beneficiaries have been enrolled under Mahatma Gandhi Bunkar Bima Yojana (MGBBY) and 18 beneficiaries have been enrolled under Pradhan Mantri Jivan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY)/Pradhan Mantri Surakha Bima Yojana (PMSBY).


    This information was given by the Union Minister of Textiles, Smriti Zubin Irani, in written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595103) Visitor Counter : 335