      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railways organizes “Parivartan Sangosthi” to discuss next level of reforms for improving performance and efficiency of Railways
      
      Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal emphasized on the need for transforming and improving Indian Railways to make it world class and most modern

      Posted On: 07 DEC 2019 8:28PM by PIB Delhi

    Accentuating on the agenda of reform & perform, Indian Railways is organizing a twodays conclave “Parivartan Sangosthi” in New Delhi which aims to deliberate on the suggestions received from the officers of various Zonal Railways to take Indian Railways to the next level of reforms. On this occasion, Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of State of Railways, Shri Suresh C. Angadi, Chairman, Railway Board, Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav, all Board Members, Additional Members, Railway Board, Principal Executive Directors, Railway Board, All General Managers/Director Generals, PHODs and DRMs from Zonal Railways were present.


    In his opening remarks, Shri Piyush Goyal complimented entire Indian Railways administration for installing free Wi-Fi at 5500 stations till yesterday. He said that it is a spectacular achievement and has benefitted thousands of people across the country. Referring to the progress made by Indian Railways over the last 167 years of its existence, Shri Piyush Goyal said that it has been a remarkable journey of transformation and there is perceptible change everywhere in the functioning of Railways including total reorientation in its work culture.


    Referring to the enthusiastic response from Railway officers in submitting suggestions for ‘Parivartan Sangosthi’, Shri Goyal said that the self-confidence, will power and capabilities of Railwaymen will definitely take Railways to the next level of development and growth and will further accelerate the pace of improvements and modernization. He said that the new suggestions presented by young officers should be thoroughly scrutinized, discussed threadbare and should be taken to logical conclusion and then implemented for transforming and improving railway system to make it world class and most modern.


    In his remarks, Minister of State of Railways Shri Suresh C Angadi said that this kind of interaction on new ideas is a very useful initiative. He said these ideas will further take Railways to next generation of reforms.


    In response to the directions received from Minister of Railways, Railway officers from Zones, Production Units, Divisions and other units had submitted more than 2000 suggestions to Railway Board. Sixty young officers from Divisions presented suggestions to Shri Piyush Goyal today.


    The suggestions received from officers have been screened and most impactful and promising suggestions have been shortlisted and were brainstormed by officers in 12 groups headed by a General Manager. Chairman of each group (General Manager) will present the recommendations on second day i. e. December 08th, 2019 to Chairman, Railway Board and Board Members.


    *****


    SG/MKV/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595439) Visitor Counter : 445
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi