      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Biofuels
      Posted On: 09 DEC 2019 3:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Biofuels are derived from renewable biomass resources and wastes such as Used Cooking Oil, Plastic, Municipal Solid Waste, waste gases, etc. and provide higher degree of national energy security in an environmentally friendly and sustainable manner by supplementing conventional energy resources, reducing dependence on imported fossil fuels and meet the energy needs of India’s urban and vast rural population. Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) are procuring biodiesel for the biodiesel blending program since August 2015 and during Apr 19 - Oct 19, 8.62 crore litres of biodiesel have been procured by the OMCs.


    Ethanol is produced by distilleries from various feed stocks. In order to encourage production of ethanol, the Government has announced remunerative prices for manufacture of ethanol depending on the feed stocks.


    Government of India has notified the National Policy on Biofuels-2018, which inter alia envisages a crucial role for Village Panchayats and communities in augmenting indigenous feedstock supplies for biofuel production. The Policy has also envisioned plantation of non edible oil seeds bearing trees and crops for feedstock generation from wasteland through local communities under Gram Panchayats and Talukas. Farmers are encouraged to grow variety of different biomass as well as oil seeds on their marginal lands, as inter crop and as second crop wherever only one crop is raised by them under rain fed conditions.


    As per National Policy on Biofuels-2018, this Ministry has constituted a National Biofuel Coordination Committee (NBCC), under the Chairmanship of Minister, Petroleum & Natural Gas (P&NG) to provide overall coordination, effective end-to-end implementation and monitoring of biofuel programme. In addition, a Working Group has also been set up by this Ministry consisting eminent and technical experts in the field of biofuels to monitor the implementation of biofuel programme.


    National Policy on Biofuels-2018 has inter alia envisaged production of biodiesel from Used Cooking Oil (UCO). In order to encourage large scale production of biodiesel from UCO, OMCs have floated Expression of Interest for procurement of biodiesel produced from UCO from 200 locations across the country.


    This information was given by the Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas Shri Dharmendra Pradhan in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SK/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595524) Visitor Counter : 898