      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Skills Build Platform
      Posted On: 09 DEC 2019 3:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Skills Build is a digital platform developed by IBM enabling holistic learning and aligning it with Skills India initiative by Government of India. India is the 4th country where this Skills Build platform has been launched on 4th Nov’19, in alliance with the Directorate General of Training (DGT), Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship (MSDE), after being launched in UK, Germany and France.


    It will be accessible online through bharat skills ( https://bharatskills.gov.in ) – a Learning Management System for ITI/NSTI Students and Teachers) and free to use.


    Skill Build will focus on personalised coaching and experiential learning and will help develop the skills required to join the workforce in these “New Collar” roles. Also bring untapped talent to the fore, opening roles to individuals often excluded from the labour market due to disadvantaged backgrounds, or because of lack of knowledge, skill or experience that has seen them become under-employed or unemployed.


    As part of the programme, a two-year advanced diploma in Information Technology (IT), Networking and Cloud computing will be offered at the Industrial Training Institutes (ITI) and the National Skill Training Institutes (NSTIs). The platform will also be extended to train ITI and NSTI faculty in basic Artificial Intelligence (AI) Skills.


    This Skill Build platform will also provide personal assessment for cognitive capabilities and personality via MyInnerGenius to youths/students. They will learn basics about digital technologies as well as professional skills like resume writing, problem solving and communication. Youths/Students will also be received recommendations on role-based education for specific jobs that include technical and professional learning. Also it will be collaborated with other Indian and global partners.


    IBM has agreed for the placement support for some of the students/youths those who are completing the two-year advanced diploma in IT, Networking and Cloud computing course in IBM/through its channel partners based on merits.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri R.K. Singh in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SK/TFK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1595528) Visitor Counter : 1419
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu