      Ministry of Railways

      Head on Generation (HOG) - A Giant Leap forward through an environment friendly and energy efficient technology
      
      Over 500 trains are running with HOG scheme
      
      There are savings to the tune of over Rs.1100 crores per annum with conversion of 500 trains into HOG system

      Posted On: 05 DEC 2019 5:17PM by PIB Delhi

      Indian cities are struggling with air and noise pollution. The respiratory diseases are increasing at alarming rates in cities. Premium passenger trains fitted with Air-Conditioned coaches and running traditionally on the End-on-Generation (EOG) system are also contributing towards air and noise pollution. These trains are using 2 diesel power cars for feeding power to air-conditioning and lighting load in the passenger coaches which produce an unbearable noise of around 100dB. Further, these power cars guzzle on an average 3000 liters of diesel per trip per train contributing to the pollution in the cities.


      Indian Railways have come up with an energy efficient and environment friendly innovative solution to address the issues of air & noise pollution and energy efficiency in running of passenger trains. An improvised converter has been developed, which is fitted in Electric locomotives which can replace these diesel generators. It uses power from overhead catenary to feed auxiliaries in the coaches hauled by Electric locomotives. It saves up to 1 Million liters of diesel per train per annum.


      This requires locomotives as well as coaches to be modified for making them suitable for HOG. Locomotives have been manufactured by Chittaranjan Locomotive Works (CLW), over the years, which are HOG compliant. To harness the benefits of this high-end technology, pace of HOG conversion works of LHB coaches has been increased from April 2018 onwards. During April 2018 to 5th November 2019, 436 trains (cumulatively over 500 trains) have been converted into HOG compliant trains. It is planned to convert balance End-On-Generation (EOG) LHB rakes into HOG system on accelerated pace to harness the benefits of energy efficient and environment friendly technology. The major advantages of HOG system include:


      i. Reduction in noise- from 100dB noise to noise less ,


      ii. Significant reduction of CO 2 (over 2500Ton) & NO X (over 10Ton) emissions till now,


      iii. Reduced Diesel Consumption leading to huge savings in operational costs to the tune of over Rs.1100 crores per annum,


      iv. Economical- EOG Power Rs 22/unit, HOG Power Rs 6/unit.


      Indian Railways has travelled long way since 2010 when Chittaranjan Locomotive Works (CLW) turned out first HOG based electric loco No.30277 (WAP7) having 2X500 KVA Hotel Load Converter installed in the locomotive,which is in regular train service since then . As of now more than 550 Electric locomotives have been provided with HOG converter technology and are yielding benefits of savings on fuel bills to Indian Railways, besides being a noise less and emission less solution to the EOG variant.


      All passenger Electric Locomotives being produced in Production Units of Indian Railways namely CLW, Diesel Locomotives Works (DLW) & Diesel Loco Modernization Works (DMW) and all passenger coaches manufactured in Integral Coach Factory (ICF), Rail Coach Factory (RCF) & Modern Coach Factory (MCF) are now HOG compliant.


      *****


      SG/MKV/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595128) Visitor Counter : 664
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi