      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Setting Up of Indian Institute of Skills
      Posted On: 06 DEC 2019 3:36PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government of India has approved the proposal for setting up of Indian Institute of Skills (IISs) in 3 locations in the country namely Mumbai, Kanpur and Ahmedabad. The vision behind setting up IIS is to build world-class skill training centres by learning from and imbibing best practices from internationally renowned existing skill institutions. The existing skill ecosystem of the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) consists of Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs), Polytechnics, Advanced Training Institutes (ATIs) which are now known as National Skill Training Institutes (NSTI) besides a large number of short duration skill training providers. The proposed IIS will be established in PPP mode. These proposed IIS would have the following features which would uniquely distinguish them from the other MSDE training institutions:


     1. State-of-art skill centre uniquely conceptualized to bring in best in class infrastructure and facilities to meet the aspirations of students, who directly enter the skill learning domain after class X/XII (like ITI / diploma courses) instead of the traditionally preferred pathway of higher education.


     2. Strong industry/employer connect through collaboration with both public and private sector leading industry, both for supporting latest training facilities in these institutes and also opportunities for on-the-job trainings in their industries for students of these institutes.


     3. Modern training methodology with extensive use of tools such as simulators, virtual learning and augmented learning platforms.


     4. Autonomy in governance to enable innovation & promote seamless adoption of modern curricula, emerging technologies & learning methodologies.


     5. Promote delivery of qualifications in modular fashion with clear and multiple entry-exit pathways.


     6. Promote apprenticeship-embedded courses by leveraging better industry connect,


     7. Offer higher order qualifications leading up to certificates, diplomas, advanced diplomas, and even degrees in conjunction with Universities.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri R.K. Singh in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    SK/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595259) Visitor Counter : 492
    
    
    
    
    

7.