      AYUSH

      CSIR Developed Anti-Diabetes Medicine
      Posted On: 06 DEC 2019 3:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The diabetic population in the country is close to hitting the alarming mark of 69.9 million by 2025, which denotes that the country is expected to witness an increase of 266%.


    Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), through its constituent laboratories namely CSIR-Central Institute of Medicinal & Aromatic Plants (CSIR-CIMAP), Lucknow; and CSIR-National Botanical Research Institute (CSIR-NBRI), Lucknow developed scientifically validated herbal product NBRMAP-DB as anti-diabetic formulation and the knowhow for the product was licensed to M/s AIMIL Pharma Ltd., Delhi who are manufacturing and marketing it as BGR-34, across the country.


    M/s AIMIL Pharmaceuticals, the licensee carried out the clinical study of BGR-34 and the trial was registered in clinical trial registry of India (Registration number: CTRI/2016/11/007476). Further, the formulation has shown therapeutic efficacy for treating newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes, as found in independent clinical trials conducted at Banaras Hindu University (BHU), Varanasi.


    The Central of Research in Ayurveda Sciences (CCRAS), and autonomous body under Ministry of AYUSH has been engaged in extending research oriented Ayurveda based on integrative health care services for the management of Madhumeha which is Diabetes Mellitus. The following are the core activities

     1. CCRAS in collaboration with Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare has implemented and executed a programme viz. Integration of AYUSH (Ayurveda) component with NPCDCS(National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular diseases & Stroke ) programme in the identified districts of 3 states viz. Bhilwara (Rajasthan), Surendranagar (Gujarat) and Gaya (Bihar) to cater health care services and to reduce the burden of NCDs including Diabetes by combining the strength of Ayurveda and Yoga. The programme was launched during 2016 and continuing in 3 districts viz. Bhilwara (Rajasthan), Surendranagar (Gujarat) and Gaya (Bihar). The aforesaid programme is now successfully functional in 52 centres (49 CHCs and 3 District Hospitals) of the all 3 identified districts, through AYUSH- NPCDCS Clinic/Lifestyle modification Clinics, established for prevention and management of selected NCDs by Ayurvedic intervention, Lifestyle modifications and Yoga Advice.

     1. CCRAS had developed the AYUSH82 formulation for diabetes through scientific process of drug development and commercialized through National Research Development Corporation (NRDC) for wider public utility.


     1. Generation of evidences on efficacy & safety of classical Ayurveda formulation on Diabetes Mellitus. CCRAS has done efficacy and safety on formulations viz. Nishamalki churna, Saptvinsti Gugullu, Yasad bhasm, Guduchi churna, Chandraprabha vati, Haridra churna anmd Gokshuradi Gugullu.


     1. CCRAS has published the documents viz. Protocol on Prevention and Management for Diabetes Mellitus and compendium on research articles on Diabetes Mellitus which are made available in the public domain for benefit of practitioner’s, physician and researchers


    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *************


    RJ/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1595264) Visitor Counter : 1077
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

1.