      Ministry of Defence

      Startups in Defence
      Posted On: 11 DEC 2019 3:51PM by PIB Delhi


    Department of Defence Production deals with matters such as defence production and indigenisation of imported equipment.


    Innovations for Defence Excellence (iDEX) framework, was launched with the aim to achieve self-reliance and to foster innovation and technology development in Defence and Aerospace Sector by engaging Industries including MSMEs, start-ups, individual innovators, R&D institutes and academia. Initially, 15 problem statements were launched. 44 iDEX winners have so far been identified for 14 problem statements. 3 new problem statements have been launched recently to expand the network.


    Furthermore, DRDO has launched a program termed as “Technology Development Fund (TDF)” for meeting the requirements of Tri-Services, Defence Production and DRDO. The scheme has been established to promote self-reliance in Defence Technology as part of the 'Make in India' initiative by encouraging participation of public/private industries especially MSMEs.


    Further, ‘Make-II’ procedure has been simplified to encourage wider participation of Indian industry, with impetus for MSME/Start-ups and timely induction of equipment into Indian Armed Forces. The ‘Start-ups’ recognized by Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), are eligible to participate under ‘Make-II’ procedure. In addition, the framework for implementation of ‘Make II’ at OFB and DPSU level has also been notified.


    The Challenges given so far under iDEX are as follows:-


    DISC I

     1. Individual Protection System with in-built sensors
     2. See Through Armour
     3. Carbon Fibre Winding (CFW)
     4. Active Protection System (APS)
     5. Secure hardware based offline Encryptor Device for Graded Security
     6. Development of 4G/LTE based Tactical Local Area Network
     7. Development of Advanced Technology Based Desalination System (Water Purification) and Bilge Oily Water Separation System
     8. Artificial Intelligence in Logistics & Supply Chain Management (SCM)
     9. Remotely Piloted Airborne Vehicles
    10. Laser Weaponry (No winner identified)
    11. Unmanned Surface and Underwater Vehicles

    DISC II

     1. GPS Anti Jam Device

    ii. Data Analytics for Air Trajectory


    iii. Illegal usage of Drones


    iv. RADAR - IQ Signal Generator


    DISC III

     1. Four-axis stabilized antennae for C & KU band operation
     2. To create a Portable Spoof Emitter for surveillance and ground-based air defence weapons

    Friend or Foe Identification System


    Maker Village, Kochi is now a Partner Incubator in the iDEX program.


    This information was given by Raksha Rajya Mantri Shri Shripad Naik in a written reply to Dr Shashi Tharoor in Lok Sabha today.


    ***************


    SS/Nampi/DK/Savvy/MTJ/ADA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1595875) Visitor Counter : 537
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

2.