      Ministry of Home Affairs

      DGsP/IGsP Conference - 2019
      Posted On: 07 DEC 2019 11:02PM by PIB Delhi


    The 54 th DGsP/IGsP Conference was inaugurated by the Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah yesterday. This year the Conference is being held in the premises of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research/IISER, Pune, Maharashtra.


    Delivering the inaugural address, Shri Shah termed it a “Vaicharik Kumbh”, wherein the top Policemen of the country come together on one platform and formulate policy decisions pertaining to national security. He appreciated Police forces across the country for their good work and paid homage to Police martyrs. Announcing the Government’s plans to set up an All India Police University and All India Forensic Science University, with affiliated colleges in the States, he underscored the Government’s resolve to initiate changes in the IPC and CrPC to make them more conducive to today’s democratic set up. The Home Minister also awarded trophies for best Police Stations to the Station House Officers of Aberdeen (Andaman & Nicobar Islands), Balasinore (Gujarat) and AJK Burhanpur (Madhya Pradesh).


    So far, the Conference has deliberated on a gamut of Policing and Security issues, including border protection, the linkage of narcotics and terrorism, up gradation of forensic capability, threat from radicalisation in the digital era, and evidence-based policing. While specific cases were highlighted, roadmaps for implementation of key recommendations were also framed.


    As part of the Prime Minister’s vision for bringing Policing closer to people, since 2014, the DGsP/IGsP Conference has been taken to various parts of the country, including Guwahati (North-East), Kevadia (Gujarat) and Tekenpur (Madhya Pradesh) in the past. The format of the Conference has also undergone significant changes in terms of duration and the presence of the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister. Prior to the Conference, Committees of DGsP are established to formulate the contours of presentations, which are on contemporary security threats. Additionally, during the Conference, break-out sessions are held to further refine policy issues.


    ******


    SNC/HS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1595445) Visitor Counter : 487