      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Skill Training Certificate
      Posted On: 09 DEC 2019 3:09PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Policy for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, 2015 provides an umbrella framework for all skilling activities including skill development schemes/programmes being carried out in the country. As per the National Policy for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, 2015, 40 crore workforce are required to be skilled by 2022. To achieve this objective, the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) imparts employable skills to the youth through long term and short term training. The Ministry is implementing its flagship scheme Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY 2.0) 2016-20 on pan-India basis with an objective to provide skilling to one crore people under Short Term Training (STT), Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) and Special Project (SP).


    Under PMKVY 2.0, the candidates are assessed and certified by the Sector Skill Councils as per the criteria and parameters defined in policy guidelines. The list of Sector Skill Councils is given at Annexure-I. As on 11.11.2019, under the scheme, 59.02 lakhs have been assessed and 52 lakh candidates certified. Under the scheme, during Financial Year 2019-20, 7.92 lakhs (STT + SP) and 3.82 lakhs candidates have been certified and placed respectively. The following measures are taken to ensure the quality of training:


    i. Accreditation and affiliation of training centres through SMART portal for ensuring compliance to standardized infrastructural requirements, tool and equipments etc.


    ii. Mandatory conduct of training through Training of Trainer (ToT) certified trainers


    iii. Mandatory Aadhaar enabled attendance for trainers, candidates and assessors etc.


    iv. Informational posters at every Training Centre to ensure information symmetry to candidates for making informed post training decisions


    v. Interactive mobile-based tool, “My Job, My Career (Mera Job, Mera Career) - enabling candidates to make well-informed decisions to join appropriate training courses as well as apply for job opportunities, post the training process


    vi. Online learning enabled through the e-Skill India Portal, e-Book Reader application etc.


    viii. Re-designing of certain modules to keep pace with industry and market requirements – such as the EEE (English, Employability & Entrepreneurship) Module which has been implemented to enhance the employability potential of the candidates.


    Long term training is imparted through Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs). Assessment and Certification of trainees under Craftsmen Training Scheme (CTS) of Directorate General of Training is done by National Council for Vocational Training (NCVT). Under the scheme, 5.74 lakhs certificates have been issued during the last six months.


    Annexure-I


    List of Sector Skill Councils

                                                       
Sl. No.  Sector Skill Councils                         
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
1        Aerospace and Aviation Sector Skill Councils  
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
2        Agriculture Sector Skill Councils             
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
3        Apparel Sector Skill Councils                 
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
4        Automotive Sector Skill Councils              
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
5        Beauty and Wellness Sector Skill Councils     
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
6        BFSI Sector Skill Councils                    
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
7        Capital Goods Sector Skill Councils           
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
8        Construction Sector Skill Councils            
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
9        Domestic Worker Sector Skill Councils         
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
10       Electronics and Hardware Sector Skill Councils
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
11       Food Processing Sector Skill Councils         
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
12       Furniture and Fittings Sector Skill Councils  
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
13       Gems and Jewellery Sector Skill Councils      
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
14       Green Jobs Sector Skill Councils              
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
15       Handicrafts and Carpet Sector Skill Councils  
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
16       Healthcare Sector Skill Councils              
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
17       Hydrocarbon Sector Skill Councils             
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
18       IASC Sector Skill Councils                    
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
19       Infrastructure Equipment Sector Skill Councils
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
20       Iron and Steel Sector Skill Councils          
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
21       IT-ITeS Sector Skill Councils                 
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
22       Leather Sector Skill Councils                 
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
23       Life Sciences Sector Skill Councils           
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
24       Logistics Sector Skill Councils               
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
25       Management Sector Skill Councils              
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
26       Media and Entertainment Sector Skill Councils 
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
27       Mining Sector Skill Councils                  
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
28       Paints And Coatings Sector Skill Councils     
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
29       Plumbing Sector Skill Councils                
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
30       Power Sector Skill Councils                   
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
31       Retail Sector Skill Councils                  
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
32       Rubber Sector Skill Councils                  
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
33       Sports Sector Skill Councils                  
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
34       Telecom Sector Skill Councils                 
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
35       Textiles And Handlooms Sector Skill Councils  
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
36       Tourism & Hospitality Sector Skill Councils   
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
37       Persons with Disability Sector Skill Councils 
                                                       
                                                       

    This information was given by the Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri R.K. Singh in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SK/TFK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1595530) Visitor Counter : 378