      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Shri Dharmendra Pradhan experiences hydrogen fuel cell car;
      
      Calls for exploring new sources of energy to diversify energy mix
      
      Exhorts auto makers to develop economical, innovative and sustainable solutions towards achieving greener and safer mobility ecosystem in the country

      Posted On: 05 DEC 2019 7:05PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas and Steel, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan experienced the test drive of Hydrogen Fuel Cell based car manufactured by Toyota Kirloskar in Shri Dhyan Chand National Stadium here today.


    Shri Pradhan mentioned that in the rapidly evolving energy landscape, hydrogen offers an eco-friendly & innovative solution for sustainable & green transport fuel. He expressed happiness on learning that the only emission from this car is water. He further stated that hydrogen can be produced from various sources including biomass, renewables, LNG etc. and possesses high energy density and long time storage.


    Calling for greater cost efficiency as the technology evolves, the minister said that while hydrogen and hybrid technologies are promising, the manufacturing cost of this high end technology still needs to be worked upon to make it more affordable in the Indian scenario.


    Shri Pradhan also emphasized that it is imperative for auto makers to develop economical, innovative and sustainable solutions towards achieving greener and safer mobility ecosystem in the country.


    Talking about energy transition, and switch to cleaner fuel, he said, “India is undergoing energy transition and impacting global energy transition in a big way. We are exploring new sources of energy to create a sustainable and responsible model of energy transition. Switch to cleaner forms of energy will also contribute towards ensuring a cleaner environment for our people”.


    The Minister also suggested to plan a workshop for brainstorming with experts and all stakeholders for a greater understanding of hydrogen technology in Indian context.


    ****


    SK/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595175) Visitor Counter : 486
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi