      Ministry of Defence

      New Sainik Schools
      Posted On: 11 DEC 2019 3:49PM by PIB Delhi


    Government is considering to set up new sainik schools in various states across the country. Status of proposals for opening of new Sainik Schools requested by different States is as under:-

                                                                   
S. No.  District     State          Remarks/Status                 
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
1.      Amethi       Uttar Pradesh  Will commence w.e.f. 01.04.2020
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
2.      Sambalpur    Odisha         Will commence w.e.f. 01.04.2020
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
3.      Alwar        Rajasthan      Memorandum of Agreement signed.
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
4.      Rudraprayag  Uttarakhand    Memorandum of Agreement signed.
                                                                   
                                                                   
                                                                   
5.      Warangal     Telangana      Memorandum of Agreement signed.
                                                                   
                                                                   

    Sainik Schools are established on receipt of a request from State Government agreeing to provide land alongwith funds for the creation and maintenance of basic infrastructure, purchase of equipments and other facilities besides scholarships for the cadets belonging to the State. On receipt of proposal from the State Government, an inspection of the proposed site is carried out by the officials of Sainik Schools Society to ascertain its suitability.


    Sainik Schools have produced some of the best officers in the Indian Armed Forces and eminent personalities in the field of public service, administration and media.


    The Government is satisfied with the performance/standard of education of Sainik Schools. Sainik Schools have proven their utility by providing a large number of cadets joining the National Defence Academy/Indian Naval Academy/Officers Training Academy etc. Further, regular in-service programmes are conducted to the teaching staff to keep them abreast with the evolving educational requirements.


    This information was given by Raksha Rajya Mantri Shri Shripad Naik in a written reply to Shri Sudarshan Bhagat and others in Lok Sabha today.


    SS/Nampi/DK/Savvy/MTJ/ADA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595870) Visitor Counter : 286
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu