      Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry & Dairying

      Traditional Fish Farming
      Posted On: 10 DEC 2019 6:56PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Fisheries, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying has been implementing a Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS) on Blue Revolution: Integrated Development and Management of Fisheries under which financial assistance is provided to the State Governments/UTs to support the fishermen for procurement of Craft & Gear for fishing, Establishment of Hatcheries, setting up of Fish Seed Rearing units including input cost, Cage/Pen culture, post harvest facilities such as ice plants, cold storages, insulated and referigirated trucks, fish marketing facilities, Saving-cum-Relief during fishing ban period, Housing for Fishers, Insurance to fishers. Besides, National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) has also supported for stocking of fingerling in Loktak Lake during two financial years, which includes stocking of 50 lakh fingerling during 2015-16 and stocking of 12.50 lakh fingerling during 2018-19 in the Loktak Lake.


    Government of Manipur has reported that the Loktak Development Authority (LDA), Manipur has been implementing livelihood improvement programmes for the fisher folks from time-to-time. Fishers are also assisted in alternative income generation programmes through poultry, Piggery and Paddy cum Pisciculture activities by the LDA. It is further reported that as a community based fish farming approach in the peripheral areas of the Lake, Hatcheries have been established at various locations and through these infrastructures, fish stocking and liberation in the Lake has been taken up from time-to-time by LDA, Manipur. It is also intimated that a feed mill has also been established by the Department of Fisheries, Government of Manipur to ensure continuous supply of quality fish feed at Government controlled rate. It is further reported that in order to facilitate availing of financial credit loans, the Department of Fisheries, Government of Manipur has tied up with 17 Nos. of Banks. Further, as reported by Government of Manipur, though there is no policy, fishing rights are given to all fisherfolks in and around the Loktak Lake. The Government of Manipur has reported that any commercial activities undertaken in Loktak Lake are regulated under the provisions of ‘The Manipur Loktak Lake (Protection) Act, 2006’.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Shri Pratap Chandra Sarangi in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595792) Visitor Counter : 628
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu