      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister addresses the 54th DGsP/IGsP Conference
      Posted On: 08 DEC 2019 6:20PM by PIB Delhi


    The Prime Minister participated in the 54th DGsP/IGsP Conference in Pune on December 7-8, 2019. Apart from leading the discussions and giving valuable suggestions over the past two days, he addressed the valedictory session of the Conference this evening. The Prime Minister also awarded the President’s police medals for distinguished service to officers of the Intelligence Bureau.


    With the guidance of the Prime Minister, in order to encourage meaningful exchange of views and experiences, the Conference, which earlier used to be a one day event, was changed to a three day affair starting from 2015. Moreover, the Conference was taken out of Delhi and organized in different parts of the country. The format of the Conference has also undergone significant changes in terms of the presence of the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister. In the lead-up to the Conference, Committees of DGsP are established to formulate the contours of presentations, which are on contemporary security threats. Additionally, during the Conference, break-out sessions are held to further refine policy issues. This year, eleven core groups were formed for holding brain storming sessions on key aspects of internal and external security such as terrorism, naxalism, coastal security, cyber threats, combating radicalization and narco-terrorism etc.


    Commending the Conference for generating good inputs for policy planning and implementation, Prime Minister laid emphasis on emergence of concrete outcomes from the finalized action points.


    The Prime Minister, while appreciating the meticulous efforts made by the country’s police forces for maintaining general peace and tranquility in the country and ensuring normalcy, said that we must not forget the contribution of their families who stood firmly behind them. At all times, he said, they must strive to improve the image of the police force to inspire confidence amongst all sections of society including women and children. The Prime Minister emphasized the role of effective policing in making sure that women feel safe and secure.


    Prime Minister urged the heads of police departments to carry forth the spirit of the Conference to the lowest level-from state to District to the police station (thana). After listening to the presentations given by different state police forces, Prime Minister mentioned that a comprehensive list of best practices could be prepared and adopted by all the states and UTs.


    Prime Minister further commented that technology provides us with an effective weapon to ensure pro-active policing that factors-in the feedback of the common man.


    PM expressed his special interest for the development of North Eastern States which is critical for Act East Policy of the government and urged the DGPs of these states to make extra efforts to create a conducive environment for the development programs.


    Prime Minister concluded his remarks by recognizing the pulls and pressures confronting the police officer in the day to day discharge of duties. However, he said, that whenever they are in doubt they should remember the ideals and the spirit with which they appeared for the civil services exams and continue to work in national interest, keeping in mind the welfare of the weakest and poorest sections of society.


    ****


    VRRK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595471) Visitor Counter : 750
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Marathi , Kannada , Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil