      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Statement of Union Environment Minister at UNFCCC COP25
      Posted On: 10 DEC 2019 6:39PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC), Shri Prakash Javadekar delivered India’s Statement at the 25th session of Conference of Parties under the UN framework convention of Climate Change (UNFCCC COP25), in Madrid, Spain today.


    Following is the Statement:


    Madam President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,


    At the outset I would like to quote Mahatma Gandhi who said


    “The future depends on what we do today”.


    Excellencies,


    I would like to convey our appreciation to the Government of Spain for hosting COP 25 at a short notice and for making excellent arrangements. We assure the Presidency of Chile of our full support for a successful COP.


    Excellencies,


    limate change is real. The world recognized it and adopted a comprehensive agreement in Paris. Let us concentrate on implementation of Paris Agreement and not digress. If there is an inconvenient truth in the form of climate change, we are providing a convenient action plan. We are walking the talk.


    India has reduced emissions intensity of GDP by 21 percent and is on track to achieve the goal of 35% emissions reduction as promised in Paris.


    Prime Minister Modi announced 175 Giga Watts targets for renewables under Paris Agreement. We have already achieved 83 Giga Watts. Prime Minister has subsequently increased the target to 450 Giga Watts at the recent UN Climate Action Summit. We are simultaneously progressing on solar, biomass and wind energy.


    We have put carbon tax on coal production at the rate of Dollars 6 per tonne. Even with 36 parties represented in parliament, we could achieve this unanimously.


    The headline is that a commercial flight was operated on 100 percent biofuel and we are targeting blending of 20% ethanol in petrol by 2030. We have leapfrogged from Bharat Standard IV to Bharat Standard VI for vehicle emission norms and from 1st April 2020, vehicles will be BS VI compliant.


    360 million LED bulbs have been fitted in homes, and 10 million conventional streetlights have been replaced with LED lights. There is also a strong push for use of e-vehicles by introducing multiple policy interventions and incentives. We have provided 80 million LPG gas connections replacing conventional firewood cooking stoves. Our cooling action plan and adaptation plan are working well and will achieve our targets.


    We have promised creation of additional carbon sinks of 2.5 to 3 billion tonnes of carbon equivalent through increasing green cover. In last five years, our green cover has increased by 15,000 sq.km . We are undertaking special projects like urban forests, school nursery, agroforestry, water and fodder augmentation in the forest area.


    India priortises adaptation as an integral part of climate actions. Therefore, India will be investing about 50 million Dollars in water conservation. India has taken up a target for restoration of 26 million of degraded land by 2030 during the 14th COP of UN Convention to Combat Desertification in Delhi. This is one of the largest programs in the world to ensure carbon sink in land resources. 100% neem coating of urea fertilizer is appreciated by the world and 170 million soil health cards are taking care of the soil health, thus creating more carbon sinks.


    Excellencies,


    Internationally, we launched the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure which is a partnership to support countries through knowledge exchange and provide technical support on developing disaster and climate resilient infrastructure.


    Ladies and Gentlemen,


    Only 6 countries are on track to meet their NDCs announced in Paris. We are leading the pack. Sustainable lifestyle is a part of the ethos of India.


    Excellencies,


    It is time for reflection and assessment as we near the end of Pre- 2020 period. It is time to look in the mirror. Has developed world delivered on its promises? Unfortunately, annexed countries have not met their Kyoto Protocol targets. Neither their NDCs reflect ambitions nor they have shown willingness to enhance their commitments. I propose that we have three more years to fulfill pre- 2020 commitments till the global stocktake takes places for bridging emission gaps.


    Excellencies,


    I draw your attention to very important issue of finance. Developed world promised 1 trillion dollar in last 10 years, and not even 2 percent has materialized. It has to be public finance and there should be no double accounting. The world that benefited from carbon emissions that made them developed, must repay.


    Technology development and transfer at affordable costs is crucial for developing countries. If we are dealing with a disaster, nobody should profit from it. So, my proposal is to have more joint research and collaboration, grant finance made available for meeting the targets.


    Madam President,


    COP 25 is an important step in our collective journey towards a clean, green and healthy planet. Market and non-market mechanisms play an important role. We expect that guidelines for Article 6 will ensure transition of Clean Development Mechanism under Kyoto Protocol and provide the incentives and positive signals to private sector, which had invested in it. We also urge support for the vulnerable communities worldwide with a strong Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Damage with provision for financial support.


    Excellencies,


    This is the time for ownership and this is the time for responsible action. India has and will continue to do its bit - expecting commensurate multilateral action with developed countries taking the lead.


    Let me end by quoting Thoreau, “What is the use of a house, if you haven’t got a tolerable planet to put it on?”


    THANK YOU FRIENDS!


    ***


    GK/LV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1595787) Visitor Counter : 1098
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi