      Ministry of Defence

      MoD to organise series of webinars in run up to DefExpo 2020
      Posted On: 10 DEC 2019 2:34PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Defence (MoD) is organising a series of web seminars (webinars) from December 10, 2019 (1500 Hrs to 1600 Hrs IST) in the run up to DefExpo 2020. The 11 th edition of the biennial flagship event will be held in Uttar Pradesh capital Lucknow between February 05-08, 2020. The webinars will be conducted by leading luminaries namely Secretary, Department of Defence R&D and Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) Chairman Dr G Satheesh Reddy, Padma Shri Dr Kota Harinarayana, Chairman & MD Bharat Forge Ltd Shri Baba Kalyani, Founder & President of Synergia Foundation Shri Tobby Simon, IIT Bhilai Director/Member of Artificial Intelligence Task Force for Defence Dr Rajat Moona and officials from MoD/Department of Defence Production & Invest India.


    The webinars will focus on path breaking topics and will be streamed worldwide. The topics would be of academic interest and relevance to Defence, Aerospace and Security Industry, academia and student fraternity.


    The details of the webinars, schedule, speakers’ profile, brief on the topics and the link for participation for each session is available on DefExpo 2020 website ( www.defexpo.gov.in ). The webinars will be streamed live on YouTube. The recordings will also be made available on DefExpo 2020 website as well.


    The DefExpo 2020 will cover the complete spectrum of the country’s aerospace, defence and homeland security interests. The theme is ‘India – The Emerging Defence Manufacturing Hub’ and ‘Digital Transformation of Defence’. The event will focus on bringing to the forefront digital advances in the industry and provide a platform for drivers of such transformation to come together. India, with its strength in Information Technology and Software development, stands poised to further bolster the Digital Transformation trend.


    SS/Nampi/DK/Savvy/MTJ/ADA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595701) Visitor Counter : 426
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi