      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Dr. Jitendra Singh says Prime Minister has described Northeast as a new engine of a New India.
      
      Shri KirenRijiju says Hornbill festival a symbol of Northeast India.
      Posted On: 07 DEC 2019 6:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (IC) for Development of Northeastern Region ( DoNER), Minister of State in Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Pension and Public Grievances, Atomic Energy & Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh today attended the ongoing Hornbill festival at Kisama near state capital Kohima.


    Addressing a colourful cultural programme , Dr. Jitendra Singh said Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given the highest priority to Northeast and to state like Nagaland in the last five years. While stating that Prime Minister Modi visited Northeast more than 30 times in five years , Dr. Singh said the Prime Minister has described Northeast as new engine of New India. He said because of the Prime Minister’s personal indulgence and personal outreach, northeastern culture, food, dance and music have reached every part of the country.


    While stating that Nagaland has become the ambassador of Northeast for the rest of India through the medium of Hornbill festival, Dr. Singh said today the festival has become a new torch bearer of a new cultural journey of northeast which is going to unite entire India with a message from a state like Nagaland.


    Earlier, Union Minister of State (IC) for Youth Affairs & Sports and Union Minister of State for Minority Affairs, Shri KirenRijijualso attended the ongoing Hornbill festival.


    Addressing a cultural programme at Kisama , he said the Prime Minister of India is giving special emphasis for Northeastern Region and for the Naga people . He said the Act East Policy is taking shape. Shri Rijiju added that basic infrastructure, which is the foundation for better development, is being laid and in the next few years we will see the result.


    Maintaining that Nagaland has the potential to become one of the hub for adventure activities, ShriRijiju said besides sports, his ministry wants to promote adventure activities in Nagaland to ensure that youth are engaged in gainful employment.


    Pointing out that Hornbill festival has become a symbol of Northeast India, the Minister also assured to extend help to promote indigenous sports of Northeast.


    Various Cultural troupe, dressed in their colourful traditional attires, performed songs and dances during the event.


    ***


    VRRK/ NK/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595422) Visitor Counter : 340
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi