      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      500 Bee Boxes, 500 Pottery Wheels and 200 Leather Kits Distributed in Boondi District by KVIC
      Posted On: 09 DEC 2019 5:50PM by PIB Delhi


    To commemorate 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and to support the weaker section of the society in Boondi District, Rajasthan, Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) organized an event yesterday, in which Shri Om Birla, the Speaker of Lok Sabha distributed 500 Bee Boxes, 500 Electric Pottery Wheels and 200 Leather Tool Kits in presence of Shri V. K. Saxena, Chairman, KVIC and MLA Shri Ashok Dogra.


    Complementing the efforts of KVIC, Shri Om Birla said, “Bapu had always dreamed of encouraging the rural talents and providing livelihood opportunities at their doorsteps. KVIC is fulfilling Bapu’s dream in its true sense. KVIC’s initiative of reviving the bee keeping, pottery and leather industry would go a long way, in helping the rural youth earn their respect and dignity.”


    Quite noticeably, KVIC has been spear heading a mass campaign for the revival of bee keeping, pottery and leather industry since last 2 years under Honey Mission, Kumhar Sashaktikaran Mission and Leather Mission respectively. KVIC has distributed around 1.15 Lakh Bee boxes, 13000 Electric Pottery Wheel, 2500 Leather Kits across India so far, thus generating a livelihood for 17,000 bee keepers, 52,000 potters and 2500 Leather artisans so far.


    Shri V K Saxena, Chairman KVIC said, “The objective of this event is to empower the rural artisans and help them gain confidence in bee keeping, pottery and leather artistry. Aligned with the vision of Prime Minister, our endeavor is to provide livelihood opportunities as well as alternate source of income to the rural farmers who otherwise adopt to menial labor or migrate to big towns or cities for daily wage jobs.”


    The event witnessed a huge turnout of artisans from Jhalawad, Kota and Boondi Districts of Rajasthan. Beneficiaries thanked Om Birla Ji and VK Saxena Ji for coming all the way from Delhi to distribute electric pottery wheels in the village. The new wheel is less effort consuming and will yield high quality products while reducing the number of man hours quite considerably.


    *****


    RCJ/SKP/JK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595606) Visitor Counter : 356
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi