      Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA)

      Cabinet approves extension by three years and revision of PM’s Development Package for Horticulture in UTs of J&K and Ladakh
      Posted On: 11 DEC 2019 6:08PM by PIB Delhi


    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for extension of timeline upto 31.03.2022 and revision/ re-appropriation of approved components of Prime Minister’s Development Package (PMDP) for development of Horticulture in the UTs of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh under Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH).


    CCEA approved the following:


    (i) To extend the timeline for implementation of PMDP approved in 2016 beyond 31st March 2019 by 3 years i.e. up to 31st March 2022 with provision of further extension of time by a maximum period of 12 months, if required, with approval of Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare.


    (ii) Revision/Re-appropriation of earlier approved components of PMDP within the approved outlay of Rs. 500 crore between UTs of J&K and Ladakh with the provision of further revision, if required, with the approval of Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare within the overall financial limit of Rs. 500 crore.


    (iii) Revalidation of unspent amount of Rs. 59.07 crore remaining with undivided State of Jammu & Kashmir including Ladakh.


    The action plan under PMDP has therefore been modified within the approved outlay of Rs. 500 crore earmarking Rs. 39.67 crore for UT of Ladakh and Rs. 460.33 crore for UT of Jammu & Kashmir.


    The implementation of PMDP in the UTs of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh Region, is expected to generate an estimated 44 lakh mandays employment and will also result in employment in allied sectors such as grading/packing units, Cold Atmosphere (CA)/Cold storage units and transportation sector etc. As the high density plantation involves technology and regular upkeep of orchards, therefore, it will also result in overall wage enhancement in the horticulture sector due to the increase in the farmers’ income as a result of the increase in productivity.


    Background:


    PM's special package for J&K for Rs.500 crore with Rs. 450 crore Gol Share towards restoration of damaged horticulture areas and development of horticulture in the State of Jammu & Kashmir was approved in 2016 for implementation over a period of three years upto 31.03.2019. The special Package included one- time relaxation in MIDH cost norms for import of planting material of special varieties of apple plants for better survival, early flowering and enhanced fruiting and four wire trellies system expected to increase the productivity 3-4 times.


    However, due to time consuming process for import of planting material and quarantine issues, the implementation of PMDP was delayed and the State of J&K requested for extension of time-line for implementation and also revision/ re-appropriation in the components of the approved Action Plan.


    Further, the State of J&K was bifurcated into two Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh w.e.f. 31.10.2019 which required revision of physical & financial targets under PMDP separately between the UTs of J&K and Ladakh.


    ******


    SC/PK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595941) Visitor Counter : 655
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali