      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      15 days Aadi Mahotsav at Dilli Haat, INA registers record sale of Rs.20 crore
      Posted On: 06 DEC 2019 5:41PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Aadi Mahotsav held at Dilli Haat, INA in New Delhi from 16 th to 30 th November, 2019 has registered record footfall and sales. The Mahotsav was a roaring success and in the course of 15 days, the participating 500 plus tribal artisans transacted business of worth Rs.20 Crore. Another 500 plus tribal artists mesmerized the visitors with their cultural performances.


    Union Home Minister Sh. Amit Shah inaugurated the Aadi Mahotsav on 16 November 2019. Tribal Artisans displayed a wide range of handicrafts and handlooms at Dilli Haat. These included handwoven cotton, wool and silk fabrics, woodcrafts, metal craft, terracotta, bead-work, masques and other objects. They also showcased compelling tribal paintings. The Government seeks to promote interaction between the tribal artisans and the mainstream designers from reputed design organizations to expand the product range and designs. The synergy between these two can generate marketable products of art and handicraft for the top-end global market. It was with this intention that TRIFED invited renowned professionals to interact with the Tribal Artisans.


    (Felicitation of Chief Guest Sh. Amit Shah, Home Minister by Sh. Arjun Munda, Minister for Tribal Affairs)


    (Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah lightning the lamp at the inaugural of Aadi Mahotsav 2019)


    A number of important dignitaries graced the Aadi Mahotsav like Governor of Chhattisgarh, Smt Anusuiya Uikey; Speaker, Lok Sabha, Shri Om Birla; Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas and Steel, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan; Minister of Agriculture & Famers’ Welfare, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar; Minister of State for Steel, Shri Faggan Singh Kulaste; Members of Parliament Smt Hema Malini and Shri Manoj Tiwari. Flute player, Shri Hari Prasad Chaurasia; Sitar Player, Ustad Shahid Parvez Khan and Brand Ambassador and Member of Parliament, Smt Mary Kom; eminent fashion personalities, member of India Hockey Team and former cricket stars also visited the Aadi mahotsav.


    (Speaker, Lok Sabha, Shri Om Birla at Aadi Mahotsav 2019)


    (Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan at Aadi Mahotsav 2019)


    (Minister of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar at Aadi Mahotsav 2019)


    The theme of Aadi Mahotsav was: A Celebration of the Spirit of Tribal Culture, Craft, Cuisine and Commerce. The festival featured exhibition-cum-sale of tribal handicrafts, art, paintings, fabric, jewellery and much more through 240 stalls.


    (Sh. Pravir Krishna, MD, TRIFED with Zafar Iqbal, a former Indian field hockey player and captained the national team with Chanchal Bharti)


    (Pt. Hari Prasad Chaurasia performing on the at Aadi Mahotsav,Dilli Haat, INA)


    Shopping extravaganza


    The tribal textiles manufactured by Master tribal Craftsmen from Jammu & Kashmir in the North to Tamil Nadu in the South and from Gujarat in the West to Nagaland/Sikkim in the East won the heart of Delhities.



    (Member of Parliament, Smt Hema Malini at Aadi Mahotsav 2019 at Dilli Haat, INA)


    Shopping extravaganza


    The tribal textiles manufactured by Master tribal Craftsmen from Jammu & Kashmir in the North to Tamil Nadu in the South and from Gujarat in the West to Nagaland/Sikkim in the East won the heart of Delhities


    In line with the national aspiration to go cashless, for the tribal artisans accepted payment through major credit / debit cards for which Point of Sale (POS) machines were provided at each stall. A special training was conducted by State Bank of India for smooth operation of this. The Mahotsav displayed the rich digital commerce and e-commerce being promoted by Tribes India.


    TRIBES India proudly carried forward its business with Amazon, Snapdeal, Flipkart, PayTM and GEM, a Government of India Portal for e-commerce of the tribal products. Besides TRIBES India has also has its own e-com portal: www.tribesindia.com.


    Army Wives Welfare Association President Smt. Madhulika Rawat and other Eminent Fashion Personalities were chief guest at Aadi Mahotsav at Dilli Haat, INA


    A highlight of the festival was the signing of MOU with Facebook to train 5000 TRIFED Van Dhan Interns from forest areas to promote enterprise in 27 states of the country.


    *******


    NB/SK/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595318) Visitor Counter : 268
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi