      Ministry of Textiles

      Comprehensive Handloom Development Programme
      Posted On: 06 DEC 2019 3:15PM by PIB Delhi


    The Comprehensive Handloom Cluster Development Scheme (CHCDS) is targeted at development of Mega Handloom Clusters in clearly identifiable geographical locations covering atleast 15000 handlooms with the Government of India contribution up to Rs.40 crore per cluster over a period of 5 years. Components such as conducting diagnostic study, corpus for raw material, etc., are fully funded by the Government of India whereas components like lighting units, technological up-gradation of looms and accessories are 90% funded by the Government of India. Other components such as creation of infrastructure for design studio/ marketing complex/garmenting unit, marketing development, assistance for exports and publicity are 80% funded by the Government of India.


    Pursuant to the announcements made by the Hon’ble Union Finance Minister in the respective annual budgets, 08 Mega Handloom Clusters viz. Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh), Sivasagar (Assam), Virudhunagar(Tamil Nadu), Murshidabad (West Bengal), Prakasam & Guntur districts (Andhra Pradesh), Godda & neighbouring districts (Jharkhand), Bhagalpur (Bihar) and Trichy (Tamil Nadu) have been taken up for development. Under the CHCDS, around 1.75 lakh handloom weavers have been covered for which Rs. 131.91 crore has been released for various interventions during the last four financial years and the current financial year.


    Furthermore, under National Handloom Development Programme (NHDP), based on the viable proposals received from the State Governments, 294 Block Level Clusters (BLCs) have been sanctioned in the country covering around 1.6 lakh handloom weavers for which Rs. 165.99 crore has been released for various interventions during the last four financial years and the current financial year.


    This information was given by the Union Minister of Textiles, Smriti Zubin Irani, in written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595240) Visitor Counter : 299