      Ministry of Textiles

      Restructuring of Central Silk Board Units
      Posted On: 12 DEC 2019 1:23PM by PIB Delhi


    In accordance with decision of Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA), Central Silk Board (CSB) is rightsizing its branches by relocating/merging/closing their activities. A Committee was constituted at CSB during 2018-19 to address the issues related to restructuring/multitasking of the CSB units through relocation/merger and closure of field units to right size the number of units and thereby staff.


    As on 01.09.2019, 112 CSB units have been merged/relocated/closed in different states based on recommendations of the Committee and inputs received from the Directors of Research and Development (R&D) institutes of CSB and at present, 176 branches of CSB are functioning.


    However, on closure of the CSB field units, their activities are being continued as detailed below:


     1. Most of the extension field units functioning for over ten years in the said places, have already demonstrated the required technologies in sericulture sector and the farmers are well versed in technologies and require minimum extension support. However, where the Extension support is required the same has been undertaken by State Sericulture Departments’ extension machinery under the technical supervision of CSB.


     1. CSB research institutes are committed to extend required support in technology dissemination and other support to build capacity of states’ Extension Personnel, as and when required through its Capacity Building & Training (CBT) programme.


     1. Seed supply as per mandate of CSB is being met from the nearby CSB units.


    Measures adopted by Government of India through CSB for increasing production of silk and to impart skills are given below:


    Silk Production:


     1. CSB has been implementing a restructured Central Sector Scheme Silk Samagra for development of sericulture in the Country, which mainly focuses on improving production, quality and productivity of silk to meet the domestic requirement and thereby reducing the country’s dependence on imported silk.


     1. Under North East Region Textile Promotion Scheme (NERTPS), 38 sericulture projects are being implemented in North Eastern States to increase silk production in these states.


     1. Besides, CSB and State Governments mobilize additional funds for sericulture development through convergence by availing the schemes such as Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY).


     1. With the above interventions, the raw silk production has reached to 35,470 MT and is expected to reach 38500 MT by 2019-20.


    Skill Development:


     1. Central Silk Board under Capacity Building and Training activities of Central Sector Scheme Silk Samagra, organizes various training programmes for the stakeholders across the country. These programmes focus on skill upgradation in silk sector so as to create employment opportunities and increase income level of the existing entrepreneurs by adopting improved package.


     1. Under NERTPS farmers have been imparted training under orientation programme.


    This information was given by the Union Minister of Textiles, Smriti Zubin Irani, in written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ***


    MM/ SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1596109) Visitor Counter : 500
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Bengali
    
    
    

1.