      Ministry of Culture

      Union Culture Minister Shri Prahlad Singh Patel Visits National School of Drama and attends meeting of National School of Drama Society
      
      Government will take all the measures to strengthen the premier institute: Shri Prahlad Singh Patel

      Posted On: 11 DEC 2019 7:24PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State for Culture & Tourism (I/C) Shri Prahlad Singh Patel paid a visit to National School of Drama in New Delhi today. He also attended a meeting of National School of Drama Society in the campus. The members of National School of Drama Society and Chairman brought to the attention of Shri Prahlad Singh Patel, t the pending work of National School of Drama such as the demand of National School of Drama to be made an institute of national importance, re-development of National School of Drama campus and revision of salary of Director, Faculty Members and Registrar.


    Speaking on the occasion Shri Prahlad Singh Patel assured all the members of the society that government will take all the measures to strengthen the premier institute. He also agreed to look into the matter if revision of the pay scales of teaching staff and other staff members of National School of Drama. Shri Patel also assured that he will look into all the other issues sympathetically.


    The Minister expressed his gratitude and said that he is very glad to get this opportunity to attend the meeting of National School Drama Society and to meet experts from all over the country. During the meeting a short film on National School of Drama was shown to Culture Minister. After watching the film Shri Patel said that the short film is very informative.


    Acting Chairman of National School of Drama Society, Dr. Arjun Deo Charan, welcomed him to the meeting of National School of Drama Society and thanked for sparing his valuable time to come to National School of Drama and to spend some time with members of National School of Drama Society.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596023) Visitor Counter : 228
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi