      Ministry of Power

      International workshop by BEE on “Energy Efficient Cooling”
      
      The Workshop Aims to promote development and deployment of Energy Efficient Cooling Systems
      Posted On: 13 DEC 2019 1:13PM by PIB Delhi


    As part of “Energy Conservation Week”, being celebrated from 9 th to 14 th December 2019, Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), a statuary body under the Ministry of Power, conducted an International Workshop on 12-13 th December 2019 on “Energy Efficient Cooling” at Scope Convention Centre, New Delhi. The two-day international workshop was organised in association with International Energy Agency (IEA) under SEAD initiative of Clean Energy Ministerial (CEM).


    Commenting on the development and implementation of cooling sector, policies and programmes, Secretary, Ministry of Power, Govt. of India, Shri Sanjiv Sahai, said,” The rising demand for space cooling in buildings, vehicles and cold chain sector is a challenge to be addressed. There is a need to have effective policies and schemes in this sector for deployment of new efficient technologies. BEE has been implementing initiatives towards promoting Energy Efficient Cooling and has conducted several studies for developing policy framework in new sectors like Cold Chain.”


    The workshop served as a platform for global experts, industries, and policy makers to explore opportunities to accelerate deployment of on energy efficient cooling, across different sectors and establishments. Objective of the workshop was to chart out steps towards accelerating the development and deployment of efficient cooling appliances, equipment and systems. It helped to explore policies, technologies, innovation, new approaches and business models across space cooling and cold chains. The event highlighted action plans, international best policy practices, measures to stimulate innovation and deliberations on steps forward. These initiatives and knowledge sharing sessions help in framing best policies and support industry bodies to adopt technologies from across the globe.


    The workshop was attended by various delegates involving regulatory bodies, policy makers, Govt. officials, PSUs, etc. from across the world. Different sessions were attended by officials and experts from different international bodies related to Energy Efficient Cooling. The thoughtful discussions were very fruitful and acted as platform for the stakeholders to adopt new technologies and policy frameworks for an Energy Efficient Cooling environment. The two-day event also witnessed an exhibition showcasing new and innovative technologies in Energy Efficient Cooling sector. The objective of such initiatives is to reduce energy intensity in the country by optimizing energy demand and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) which are responsible for global warming and climate change. India has committed to reduce 33-35% of GHG emission by 2030 as part of document submitted to UNFCCC.


    ***


    RCJ/M

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596315) Visitor Counter : 1042
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi