      Ministry of Mines

      India to Host 36th International Geological Congress in March 2020
      Posted On: 13 DEC 2019 3:28PM by PIB Delhi


    India is gearing up to host the 36 th International Geological Congress (IGC) in the capital during the first week of March next year. The theme of the forthcoming conference is ‘Geosciences: The Basic Science for a Sustainable Development’. Popularly described as the Olympics of Geosciences , the IGCs are a prestigious global geoscientific events held once in four years and participated by around 5000-6000 geoscientists from all across the world.


    In a bid to gear up for the same, a half-day interactive workshop was held in the capital yesterday which was inaugurated by the Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences Dr. M. Rajeevan, and Secretary Coal & Mines, Shri Anil Kumar Jain, Secretary, Coal & Mines. Speaking on the occasion, Shri Jain said that the 36 th IGC is expected to provide a platform for international cooperation in all major field of geosciences including launching of collaborative programs, provision of investment opportunities in mining, mineral exploration and environmental management and related enterprises. Dr. M. Rajeevan said that the forthcoming IGC would help us in dealing with the problems of sustainability, energy crisis, water crisis, climate change, environmental issues and resource management.


    Dr.M.Rajeevan, Secretary, Earth Sciences (left) and Shri Anil Kumar Jain, Secretary, Coal & Mines (right) addressing the workshop


    Informing about the highlights of the forthcoming 36 th IGC, it was said that it has an exhaustive Science program and an impressive range of field excursions. A state-of-the-art geo exposition will be held alongside the Congress where leading companies in the mines and mineral sector will showcase their products and services. Considering the scale and importance of the event, an emphatic participation from states was sought as they stand to benefit immensely from the scientific conclave.


    It may be noted that India is the only Asian country to host the event twice. In 1964, India had hosted it for the first time, which was the 22nd IGC. The event was inaugurated by the then President of India Dr.SarvepalliRadhakrishnan. The IGC is making a comeback to the Indian soil after 56 long years much to the enthusiasm of the entire geoscientific community. The event is being funded by the Ministry of Mines (MoM) and Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) with the support of the Indian National Science Academy (INSA) and the national Science Academies of Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nepal and Sri Lanka. Geological Survey of India is the nodal agency for organizing the event


    The interactive half day conference held in the capital was attended by Dr.K.Rajeswara Rao, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Mines, Padma Shri V.P. Dimri, President, 36 th IGC and Shri Alok Chandra, Economic Adviser, Ministry of Mines. The workshop was attended by senior level officers of 14 State Governments who evinced great interest in all aspects of the Congress.


    ***********************


    SP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596323) Visitor Counter : 1226
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Urdu , Hindi