      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh visits Naval Air Station Oceana & Naval Station Norfolk during his US visit
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2019 10:56AM by PIB Delhi


    Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh visited the Naval Air Station (NAS) Oceana and Naval Station Norfolk on December 17, 2019 during his visit to the United States of America. The visit highlighted the depth of the US-India defence partnership and the close ties between the Navies of the two countries.


    During the visit to NAS Oceana, Raksha Mantri inspected a Boeing Mobile Flight Simulator, static display and F/A-18E flight demonstration. The Indian delegation also toured the Nimitz-class aircraft carrier USS Dwight D. Eisenhower (CVN 69), which is located at Naval Station Norfolk.


    Shri Rajnath Singh was accompanied by Ambassador of India to the US Shri Harsh Vardhan Shringla, Defence Secretary Dr Ajay Kumar, other senior officials of the Government of India and active-duty military officers.


    The Indian delegation was greeted by Dr James Anderson, who is performing the duties of Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy; Commander, Naval Air Force Atlantic Rear Adm. Roy Kelley; Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy for International Programs Rear Adm. Francis Morley; and Commanding Officer, NAS Oceana Capt. John Hewitt.


    Raksha Mantri said his visit reflected on the strong defence ties between India and the United States and hoped that the relations will further strengthen in the near future.


    The US officials said they were honoured to host Shri Rajnath Singh and the Indian delegation to Naval Air Station Oceana and onboard USS Dwight D. Eisenhower, adding that the visit will further bolster the partnerships between the two countries.


    India and the United States continue to build defence cooperation ties through military exercises, defence trade and official visits & exchanges, including this visit to the largest US naval base in the world.


    ABB/SS/Nampi/DK/Savvy/MTJ/ADA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596802) Visitor Counter : 477
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Tamil