      Ministry of Defence

      Air Marshal D Choudhury is the new Commandant of National Defence College
      Posted On: 16 DEC 2019 7:28PM by PIB Delhi


    Air Marshal D Choudhury took charge as Commandant of National Defence College from Vice Admiral Srikant here today. Prior to this appointment Air Marshal Choudhury was senior Air Staff Officer at the Headquarters of Western Air Command, New Delhi.


    Air Marshal Choudhury is an alumnus of the National Defence Academy and was commissioned into the fighter stream of the India Air Force on 22 nd December 1983. The Air Marshal also an alumnus of the Royal College of Defence studies, UK, Post Graduate in Strategy and International Security from King’s College London and also holds an M.Phil degree in Defence and Strategic Studies.


    He has a vast operational flying experience on all variants of the MiG-21, MiG-27, MiG-29 and Su-30 aircrafts. He is a Fighter Combat Leader and Instrument Rating Examiner. He has commanded a frontline fighter Squadron and two frontline fighter bases apart from heading the prestigious Tactics and Air Combat Development Establishment and the Composite Battle Response and Analysis (COBRA) Group. He has been actively involved in planning and execution of air operations at Strategic, Operational and Tactical levels. He has held important appointments at the Air Headquarters and operational Command Headquarters.


    The National Defence College, established on 27 th April 1960, is a premier Institution under the Ministry of Defence and is the highest seat of Strategic Education of the Nation. It’s prestigious annual Course of 47 weeks duration on “National Security and Strategic Studies” is therefore in great demand both nationally and internationally. Its present Alumni strength is nearly 4000 includes Four Heads of State, numerous Chiefs of Armed Forces in India and abroad, substantial number of high ranking military and civilian officers, statesmen and public servants.


    SS/Nampi/DK/Savvy/MTJ/ADA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596662) Visitor Counter : 376
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali