      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President asks Mining Industry to accord top priority to the safety, health and life of all workers;
      
      Make mining sector a secure workplace as well as a powerful driver of the growth by upholding all safety and welfare standards: VP;
      
      Calls for efforts to keep the environment free from pollution;
      
      Says environment protection is everybody’s duty;
      
      Presents National Safety Awards (Mines) for the years 2015 & 2016
      Posted On: 16 DEC 2019 6:59PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu today asserted that Mining Industry must accord top priority to the safety, health and life of all the workers by developing the ‘culture of prevention’ across the industry.


    Addressing the gathering after presenting National Safety Awards for the years 2015 and 2016, he suggested making the mining sector a secure workplace as well as a powerful driver of the growth of the Indian economy by upholding all safety and welfare standards.


    “The concepts of ‘Self-supervision’ and ‘duty of care’ should become the keyword for the mining industry in place of the present system of External Supervision,” he said.


    The Vice President asked the industry to make good use of technological tools and e-governance for continuous surveillance of workplace hazards in addition to the present system of using the naked eye and experience. He called for exploring options to achieve the goal of ‘zero harm’, by eliminating human and skill-based errors in the mining area.


    On matters pertaining to effective regulation and monitoring, the Vice President advised synchronizing legislative measures with the emerging technologies.


    Observing that keeping the environment free from pollution was essential for the sustainability of mining industry, the Vice President said that there was an urgent need to provide a better environment to workmen and to local inhabitants in mining areas by improving the ecological conditions.


    “It’s my firm belief that mine safety should not remain confined to human-beings, rather it should encompass all living beings and natural ecosystems. It is our duty to protect our environment,” he added.


    Stating the Mining sector has contributed greatly towards the development of the Nation, the Vice President said that the mining sector counted for 2.6 percent of our national GDP and provided direct and indirect employment to over 10 million people. (2 million in coal and major metals and 8 million in minor minerals).


    Shri Naidu said that India must aspire to further expand the value chains of its key minerals to leverage these resources for faster economic development and at the same time focus more on aspects such as safety, sustainability, and impact on the environment.


    Stressing the need to strengthen emergency preparedness of all mines to reduce the damage due to disasters and other incidents, the Vice President asked the mining industry and the government to frequently check the disaster preparedness of district administration, rescue services, State Disaster Response Force and others by conducting mock rehearsals at mines.


    The Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Secretary (L&E), Shri Heera Lal Samariya, Joint Secretary (L&E), Ms Kalpana Rajsinghot, the Director General (officiating), DGMS, Shri R. Subramanian were in attendance at the venue where more than 90 people received National Safety Awards.


    The Following is the full text of the speech:


    It gives me immense pleasure to be amidst you today to felicitate the winners of National Safety Awards (Mines) for the years 2015 & 2016.


    I heartily congratulate each of the award winners for making exemplary contributions in the area of mines safety.


    I know your job is not an easy one because mining is considered to be one of the most hazardous occupations. But it is also a fact that no country can develop without the contribution of mining industry.


    Our country is blessed with abundant mineral deposits. India produces as many as 95 minerals, which includes 4 fuel, 10 metallic, 23 non-metallic, 3 atomic and 55 minor minerals (including building stones and other materials).


    Country’s mining sector forms an important segment of the economy contributing around 2.6 percent of our national GDP. In the year 2018-19, the Gross Value Addition by mining and quarrying sector was Rupees 4 lakh and 10 thousands crore. It also provides direct and indirect employment to over 10 million people.


    Since independence, there has been a phenomenal growth in mineral production both in terms of quantity and value. Today, we are ranked between 4 th to 6 th in the global production of minerals, such as bauxite, chromite, iron ore and manganese ore.


    We should further aspire to expand the value chains of our key minerals to leverage these resources for faster economic development.


    Dear sisters and brothers,


    In recent past, mining sector has witnessed major policy interventions to promote exploration and enhance private sector participation that has aided in sector’s growth.


    With this increase in scale and width of mining operations, Mining Safety assumes utmost significance. It is heartening to know that there has been a steady decline in fatality rates over the years. DGMS deserves appreciation for this.


    But despite technological advances, mining operations are subject to safety and health hazards for workers such as inhalation of dust; inhalation of toxic fumes and gases; exposure to radiation; noise induced hearing loss; heat stroke; exhaustion etc. Added to these are accidents at mining sites such as roof collapse, inundation , explosions and fires.


    The unfortunate incident where 15 miners died in an illegal rat-hole mine in Meghalaya is still fresh in our memory.


    The fact is that, safety issues and complexities are increasing with the increased scale of mining operations, intensification of mechanization and the extension of mining work to difficult geographical areas.


    Dear sisters and brothers,


    The Indian mining industry is currently standing at the threshold of change.


    To meet the demand for minerals such as coal and oil, core mining operations are increasingly being outsourced to contractors.


    Many times these contractors adopt a risk taking attitude as they focus solely on maximizing the output. Consequently, investments in safety are often ignored purely for short term gains.


    This is not acceptable. Every worker has a right to safe and decent work environment.


    Our aim should be to constantly endeavor towards the goal of “zero harm”.


    Studies indicate that a large number of incidents in mining industry take place because of human error. It is also observed that skill-based errors are the most critical factor and require immediate attention from the point of view of safety.


    Researchers have found a significant correlation between worker’s age, experience, shift of work with unsafe acts performed that lead to accidents.


    So this aspect needs to be addressed on priority.


    Faulty management and work practices should be identified and corrective steps taken.


    The role of the leadership assumes significance in an organization in providing adequate training and guidance to the team members to perform the assigned task efficiently and safely.


    This can lead to a considerable reduction in accidents and will help create a safe working environment.


    Second issue pertains to effective regulation and monitoring.


    In the rapidly changing world, we’ll have to ensure that legislative provisions and regulations are continuously updated and remain in sync with the emergence of new technologies.


    Safe operating procedures should be developed without delay for new technologies so that it does not lead to unsafe operations.


    Dear sisters and brothers,


    Legislative approach towards safety regulations may not be the only way to deal with the issue.


    Experience shows us that creating a “culture of prevention” across all employees of an organization is critical for progress of the mineral industry towards “zero harm”.


    This will not result from safety programmes that are superimposed upon the industry, but only when safety is fully accepted as an integral part of the industry and its mission.


    Effective safety programmes will only become a reality when the management at all levels fully integrate safety responsibility into the industry’s mainstream.


    The concepts of “Self-supervision” and ‘duty of care’ should become the keyword for mining industry in place of the present system of “External Supervision”.


    Similarly, workers’ participation should be promoted in Safety Management, and “Safety Management Systems” should be created based on assessment of risks.


    Latest technological tools and e-governance should be used for continuous surveillance of work place hazards.


    Dear sisters and brothers,


    In order to achieve this culture, operators, employees, the Government and all stakeholders need to be committed to it as a ‘value’. The process would move the organizations from a “culture of reaction” to a “culture of prevention”. Rather than responding to an accident or injury that has occurred, the organizations have to proactively address potential problem areas before they occur. Thus, a comprehensive approach, founded on culture of prevention, need to be used to focus on the prevention of all accidents, injuries and occupational diseases in mines.


    Mining contributes significantly to employment generation, therefore, we should focus on gender parity in the mining sector at all levels.


    I am happy to note that Central Government has relaxed the restriction on the employment of women in mines and allowed their employment in above ground and opencast workings in all hours of day and in below ground workings during day hours in technical, supervisory and managerial category.


    Also, I am glad that the Code on occupational safety, health and working condition has been introduced in the parliament.


    I am happy to note that in view of inherent risks in mining, a risk based inspection system has been introduced through Shram Suvidha Portal.


    Dear sisters and brothers,


    In spite of the best efforts, disasters may occur in mines as it is a continuous fight against adverse conditions. To reduce the damage of such disaster and to rescue trapped persons, emergency preparedness plays vital role. Crisis Management Plan of Government of India addresses this issue.


    I appreciate that Directorate General Mines Safety is taking proactive steps like sensitizing mine management and district administration, rescue services, State Disaster Response Force by conducting mock rehearsals at mines.


    I would urge that steps should also be taken to minimize the adverse impact of mining on the health of the surrounding population. There is a need to provide a better environment to workmen and to local inhabitants in mining areas.


    I would be happy to see that through the collaborative efforts of the mining fraternity in our country including industry, government, business and academics we can turn our mines into more secure work places as well as transform mining into safe and powerful driver of the growth of the Indian economy.


    I am confident that the National Safety Awards in Mines have been and will continue to prove to be an excellent motivator for upholding safety and welfare standards in the mines of our country.


    Thank You.


    Jai Hind.


    ***********


    VRRK/MS/MSY/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1596659) Visitor Counter : 356