      Ministry of Railways

      FICCI India Sports Award 2019 presented to Railway Sports Promotion Board in the category of Best Company Promoting Sports (Public Sector)
      Posted On: 12 DEC 2019 6:51PM by PIB Delhi


    The coveted FICCI India Sports Awards 2019, an attempt by FICCI to acknowledge and recognize the contribution of sports persons and various stakeholders who deliver excellent results during the year, has been awarded to Railway Sports Promotion Board under the category of Best Company Promoting Sports (Public Sector) on 11 th December, 2019 at New Delhi.


    The FICCI India Sports Awards 2019 have been conferred by a jury headed by Justice Mukul Mudgal, Retired Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court. The event was graced by Hon’ble Minister of Sports, Government of Odisha Shri Tusharkanti Behera and senior Government and Industry representatives.


    Railway Sports Promotion Board has been awarded for its immense contribution in the field of providing sports eco-system within the organization for the budding sports athletes to nurture and expose themselves to their optimum limits and bring laurels to the nation.


    It is important for any Sports entity to bring a friendly policy for developing the sports infrastructure and give all possible support to fulfil the needs of athletes so that they may be able to compete internationally and achieve greater success and performance in sports. Indian Railways, apart from serving the nation in terms of traffic transportation, has also been contributing in the field of Indian Sports as a social initiative.


    With affiliation of 28 National Sports Federations and member of International Sports Union for Railways, Railway Sports Promotion Board functions with the help of its 33 Zonal Railway and other associated Units. Indian Railways sportspersons have contributed immensely in the medals won by India in many of international sports events including Asian Games, Commonwealth Games and Olympic Games. Not only this, Indian Railways has a strong hold over World Railways Sports as well and its athletes have won a number of World Railway Championships.


    Indian Railways has not only participated in a number of national and international tournaments but has also contributed to encourage sports by way of hosting various national and international championships, the latest being the World Railways Cycling Championship, National Weightlifting Championship and recently concluded National Cycling Championship. Continuing with its tradition, Railway Sports Promotion Board will host National Handball Championship for Women in New Delhi during the current month.


    Railway Sports Promotion Board is not only providing all facilities and coaching to its in-serving and active 8000 athletes but also have started Summer Coaching Camps for school children to attract them towards field of Sports and help them with mental and physical fitness. RSPB has introduced Sports academies at Pan-India level and is providing proper sports infrastructure and supporting staff. At present, Indian Railways is running Sports Academies in the Games of Archery, Hockey, Wrestling and Athletics. Not only this, RSPB been imparting NIS coaching training to its senior players who are at the verge of completing their playing life. At present, Indian Railways have 230 qualified coaches in various Zones.


    Indian Railways have reformed old sports policies and is striving to make it dynamic to meet rising expectations from time to time. Indian Railways have liberalized its Sports Recruitment Policy including Out of Turn Promotions, Cash Awards and other incentives to the talented players, coaches and supporting staff.


    Today, Indian Railways is endowed with a number of national and international champions including veterans like Shri Kishan Lal, Sardar Harvinder Singh, Rajender Singh, Nani Contractor, Lala Amarnath, Diana Edulji, P.T. Usha, Bahadur Prasad, Shakti Singh and modern Sports Icons including Sushil Kumar, Sakshi Malik, Bajrang Poonia and with many more on the cards, Indian Railway athletes have always been forerunners in bringing laurels to the country in the field of sports. Recently, Ms. Bombayla Devi Laishram, Archer and Shri Bajrang Punia, Wrestler have been felicitated with Padma Shree. Shri Bajrang Punia has also been awarded Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award. S/Shri S. Bhaskaran, Sonia Lather, Poonam Yadav, Chinglensana Singh Kangujam are awarded Arjuna Awards and Shri Nitten Kirrtane has been awarded with Dhyanchand Award for the year 2019.


    It is a matter of pride for Indian Railways that Railway Sports Promotion Board is replete with 23 Padamshree, 166 Arjuna Awardees, 11 Dhyanchand, 9 Dronacharya and 6 Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Awardees which is a rare feat for any sports organisation in India.


    *****


    SG/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596258) Visitor Counter : 272
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi