      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management
      Posted On: 13 DEC 2019 4:03PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry set up the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), Chennai to undertake studies and research in the area of Coastal Zone Management including coastal resources and environment.


    The aims and Objectives of the Center are:


    (i) Strive for being a World Class Knowledge Institution related to coastal zones, environment, resources and processes,


    (ii) To promote integrated and sustainable management of the coastal and marine areas in India for the benefit and wellbeing of the traditional coastal and island communities, and


    (iii) Advice the Union and State Governments and other associated stakeholder(s) on policy, and scientific matters related to Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM).


    The six (06) research divisions of the NCSCM are: Geospatial Sciences, Remote Sensing and Geographic Information Systems (GIS), Integrated Social Sciences & Economics, Coastal environmental impact assessment, Conservation of Coastal & Marine Resources, Knowledge, Governance and Policy, and Futuristic Research and Integrated Island Management Unit.


    Survey of India and NCSCM have mapped the Hazard Line for the entire coast of India, which includes vulnerability mapping of flood, erosion and sea level rise. The outputs will be used by all the coastal States and UTs in managing coastal vulnerability in the coming years and as a tool for preparation of disaster management plans.


    The Government of India is committed to taking all necessary steps in supporting NCSCM to achieve its goals, in its efforts to developing into a world class institution. NCSCM is partnering with leading national and international research institutions and agencies through advanced research, networking, scientific committees and peer reviewed publications in international journals. NCSCM is mandated to disseminating knowledge pertaining to coastal management by capacity building at all levels for the benefit of coastal communities and stakeholders. NCSCM’s Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) Plan has been developed on international standards that can be replicated in other parts of the World. Science based knowledge on coastal management developed by the Centre is used extensively for policy decisions. For the first time, Integrated Island Management plans including holistic island development plans have been prepared by NCSCM for implementation by coastal States/ UTs. NCSCM’s cutting-edge research infrastructure provides for world class research outputs and decision support system that directly enables policy decisions. NCSCM’s state-of-the-art laboratory facility provide an excellent opportunity to other Indian universities, Research Institutes, Government agencies for a collaborative research with NCSCM in the field of integrated coastal management.


    This information was provided by Minister of State, Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change Shri Babul Supriyo in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    GK/LV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1596334) Visitor Counter : 1545