      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Youth in Skill Development Programmes
      Posted On: 13 DEC 2019 3:39PM by PIB Delhi


    Under Skill India Mission, the Government is implementing various schemes for imparting employable skills to the youth through short term and long term training. Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) is implementing its flagship scheme Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY 2.0) for imparting short term training across the country. Long term training is provided through Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs).


    Under PMKVY, Training Partners (TPs) use variety of channels for mobilisation, namely, Mass Media (radio, television, newspapers, mobile phones etc.), Small Media (posters, flyers, leaflets, guidelines, training materials, standalone banners etc.) and Kaushal Melas /Mobilisation Camps (camp-based approach). TPs are mandated to conduct Kaushal and Rozgar Melas every six months with press/media coverage; they are also required to participate actively in National Career Service Melas and on-ground activities.


    According to ‘Young India And Work- A Survey Of Youth Aspirations’ conducted by Observer Research Foundation and World Economic Forum published in October 2018, 76% of youth reported high interest in enrolling themselves in skill development programmes. 71% of the youth reported being unaware of government-run skills development programmes in their area. 51 percent of youth perceive the lack of professional guidance in identifying jobs that match their skills to be the main barrier in finding a desirable job. The report presents findings from the Youth Aspirations in India Survey in which 5,764 youth between the ages of 15 and 30 years were asked about their employment, education and skilling aspirations. Data was collected from seven states in India, including Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Maharashtra, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, and Delhi.


    MSDE’s Skills Career Counselling Scheme aims to counsel one crore candidates from the age group of 15-35 years focusing on School & College dropouts, young adults from the community, college students, polytechnic students, ITI students, Diploma students, Graduates, Post-Graduates, NEET category (Not in Employment education or Training), etc. pan India from August 2018. The above mentioned initiatives are undertaken to generate awareness and provide professional guidance, thereby enhancing enrolment of youth in the skill development schemes.


    MSDE organizes India Skills competition at State and regional levels to penetrate these competitions to the remotest part of the country and also participates in World Skills competition. The Ministry has been implementing National Entrepreneurship Awards (NEA) to recognize and honour outstanding young first generation Entrepreneurs and their Ecosystem Builders for their outstanding contribution to entrepreneurship development. The Ministry has also announced “Kaushalacharya Awards” to recognize the contribution made by skill trainers in the vocational training ecosystem.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri R.K. Singh in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    SK/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596327) Visitor Counter : 420