      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Dr Jitendra Singh chairs meeting of Consultative Committee for Ministry of DoNER
      
      Issues related to utilisation of 10% GBS for NER by Central Ministries/Departments discussed

      Posted On: 12 DEC 2019 8:25PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances &Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh chaired a meeting of the Parliamentary Consultative Committee for Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), here today.


    The meeting was attended by the Members of Parliament from Lok Sabha:Shri Rebati Tripura, Shri C. Lal Rosanga, Dr RajkumarRanjan Singh, Shri Tapir Gao and MP from Rajya Sabha:SmtRaneeNarah. Senior officers and representatives from M/o DoNER, Health, Rural Development, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare & Panchayati Raj , Shipping, Women & Child Development, R oad Transport & Highways, Youth Affairs & Sports, Civil Aviation, Power, Human Resource Development, D/o Telecom and Posts etc. were also present at the meeting. The Secretary (DoNER) Dr InderJit Singh and Secretary, North Eastern Council (NEC) Shri K. Moses Chalai were also present.


    During the meeting, various issues related to the development of North Eastern region were discussed. The issue of utilisation of 10% GBS in NER by Non-exempt Central Ministries/Departments was discussed in detail.


    Addressing the meeting, Dr Jitendra Singh said that Ministry of DoNER should play a role of facilitator and guide for other ministries. He said that the ministries can approach DoNER Ministry for identifying the projects. The Government provides high priority to the development of North East, he added. The Minister also discussed the need to sensitise the ministries about the fund utilisation. He said that senior officers of DoNER/NEC have been appointed as Nodal Officers for each Aspirational District in addition to the Prabhari Officers. The need for spending funds for Bamboo Mission was also discussed. The Minister further emphasised that technology can be optimally utilised in bridging the gaps. The video-conferencing can be done between the state governments and Central ministries to understand the needs and issues on the ground.


    During the meeting, it was informed that the BE allocation for 2019-20 for NER under 10% GBS is Rs 59369.90 crores. It was emphasised that the ministries should review the schemes from time to time and should fully utilise the allocated funds for NER in accordance with the laid down policy of the Government.


    It was decided in 1996 that Central Ministries/Departments, unless specifically exempted, will set apart 10% of their Plan Gross Budgetary Support (GBS) for the North Eastern Region (NER) to ensure a quantum jump in budgetary resource flows to the region and to fill the backlog and gaps in basic minimum service and infrastructure. 10% of Annual Plan Budget of non-exempt Ministries has been earmarked every year for spending in NER since 1998-99.


    *******


    VRRK/NK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1596279) Visitor Counter : 283
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi