      Ministry Of Law & Justice

      Year Long Activities related to Citizens Duties: A Step towards New India
      Posted On: 13 DEC 2019 5:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Indian nation witnessed a jubilant celebration of Constitution Day on 26 th November, through mass reading of Preamble to the Constitution as a commitment to extol and imbibe the principles and values enshrined in our Constitution and to pay tribute to its founding fathers. Heralding towards New India, it is decided that a continuous and gradual transmission of constitutional values in the lives of every individual is the need of the hour.


    For this purpose, in its responsibility as the nodal coordinating department, Department of Justice, Ministry of Law and Justice is undertaking specific concerted initiatives to create awareness for organizing year long activities and programmes related to Citizens’ Duties including Fundamental Duties. Inter- ministerial meetings at the level of Secretaries have been pioneered by Secretary (Justice), DoJ. Recently, interactions have been instituted to involve various community based platforms, NGO partners and utilization of CSR funds available with Ministry of Corporate Affairs (M/o CA), Ministry of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Ministry of Roads, Transport and Highways (MORTH), M/oHRD and CSC e- Governance Services to ensure decentralized dissemination of messages on Citizens’ Duties. Possible suggestions are being invited through video conference with Nodal Officers appointed by the governments of States and UTs for preparation of annual calendar and its effective implementation. Till date 25 States/UTs and 22 Central Ministries and Departments have designated Nodal Officers.


    In addition a repository of resource related to ‘Constitution and Citizens’ Duties’ has been created on DoJ Website. A special “Constitution Day and Citizens Duties” Web page has been created on the Homepage of Department of Justice website wherein Ministries, State Governments and UT Administration can upload / images/videos and reports and an annual calendar for organizing series of activities related to Citizens’ Duties. Brochure, Posters and Standees designed on the above subject have also made available on its website. The process of translating these various IEC materials in 22 Scheduled languages is in process. List of Resource persons from 20 SLSA/DLSA through NALSA and 8 State Bar Councils for delivering Talks and Lectures on Constitution and Citizens Duties have been made available on DoJ website. Online Quiz and National Essay Contest on My Gov.in has been launched in collaboration with Department of Legal Affairs.


    Need for concerted, piecemeal endeavour on Citizens’ Duties will enable the Ministries (Central and States) to break their silos and work towards unified and Constitutional literate India.


    *****


    RCJ/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1596376) Visitor Counter : 425
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi