      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Connecting Skill with Enterprise
      Posted On: 13 DEC 2019 3:40PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Policy on Skill Development and Entrepreneurship 2015 envisages enabling entrepreneurship Eco-System by catalyzing and co-ordinating entrepreneurship efforts across the country to ensure sizeable and measurable outcomes. In order to achieve the targets and objectives of the Policy, the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) started its flagship scheme, ‘Pradhan Mantri Yuva Udyamita Vikas Abhiyan (PM-YUVA)’ in April, 2017. The scheme targeted to create an enabling ecosystem for Entrepreneurship Development through entrepreneurship education and training across the country in the Institutes of Higher Learning. First phase of PM-YUVA scheme was conducted in 239 empanelled Institutes of Higher Learning viz. Universities, Colleges and Polytechnics under the scheme throughout the country. Implementation of this scheme has since been stopped in June, 2018 and the implementation strategy is being revamped. In the meanwhile, a pilot project has been launched in 10 States and 2 Union Territories i.e. Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Bihar, West Bengal, Assam, Meghalaya, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Kerala, Delhi and Puducherry with a view to accelerating job creation by providing end to end entrepreneurship education, handholding and mentoring support to potential and existing entrepreneurs who aspire to start or scale –up their existing enterprises.


    In order to enhance employability of trainees graduating from Industrial Training Institutes (ITI) from the session 2019-20, duration of curricula of employability skill has been increased from 110 hours to 160 hours in the 1 st year of ITIs. In addition to this web based employability skills would be additional components of 80 hours in the 2 nd year courses of ITIs.


    The Ministry is also been implementing a flagship Scheme, ‘Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY), 2016-20’ which has an end to end customized entrepreneurship orientation module of 40 hours integrated training under the Life Skill Course module in the PMKVY courses so that trainees undergoing will receive orientation in Entrepreneurship. Additionally, dedicated Entrepreneurship Cells under PMKKs would serve as a hub/nodal point for facilitating entrepreneurship. Under State- Engagement Component of PMKVY (2016-20), 25% of the funds and corresponding physical targets of PMKVY 2016-20 have been allocated to the States/UTs for the implementation of the scheme through the State Skill Development Missions.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri R.K. Singh in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    SK/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596329) Visitor Counter : 449