      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      A High Level Delegation Led by Shri Raosaheb Patil danve, Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution visits Australia
      
      
      Decisive Visit for Australia-India Collaborative Consumer Protection Project
      Posted On: 14 DEC 2019 4:06PM by PIB Delhi


    A high level delegation of the Government of India led by Raoshaheb Patil Danve, Minister of state for Consumer affairs, Food and Public distribution left for Australia today for taking part in phase two of the Australia-India Collaborative Consumer Protection Project under Sydney University.


    Under the funding from the Australia-India Council (AIC) established in 1992 and the support from the Department of Consumer affairs, Government of India, Sydney University has undertaken the Australia-India collaborative Consumer Protection Project.


    The project will be implemented in four stages viz. workshops and round-table in New Delhi (by Sydney University) followed by a high level delegation from India to Australia. The third stage is the secondment of one person from India to Australia to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission while the fourth stage is specialized workshops in New Delhi (by Sydney University).


    Minister of State Raosaheb Patil Danve, leader of the Government of India’s delegation to Australia said, “Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it is our priority to protect all the rights of the consumers of the nation. The consumer protection act 2019 passed by the parliament, is a giant leap towards safeguarding consumers from all the unfair trade practices. While, the bill has already been passed by the parliament, the process of formulation of rules and regulations is currently underway.”


    Shri Raosaheb Patil Danve further added, “In this process the Australian-India Council and the Department of Consumer Affairs have been working very closely. Our basic aim through this project is to understand international practices in this field and further strengthen the rules and regulations of the new Consumer Protection Act 2019 which will eventually make the consumers of this country more empowered and self-sufficient. I am sure that this collaborative efforts taken by both Sydney University and the Government of India will yield excellent results which will serve the interests of the consumers. Government under the guidance of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is committed to work on the mantra of ‘Grahak Devo Bhava’


    *****


    APS/AS/AP/JS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596485) Visitor Counter : 670
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi