      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President lauds Gujarat Police for 33 percent reservation for women, asks all states to follow the same
      
      Police should be extra sensitive to crimes against women and children
      
      Register every FIR without delays in such matters and investigate every such case – VP to Police
      
      Judiciary should also deliver justice without delays
      
      Appeals to politicians not to politicise the crimes against women
      
      Presents President’s Colours to Gujarat Police
      Posted On: 15 DEC 2019 6:39PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President, Shri M. Venkaiah naidu today asked the police forces to be extra sensitive in the matters relating to the crimes against the women and children. He asked police to register every FIR without delays in such matters and investigate every such case thoroughly.


    Addressing the gathering after presenting the ‘President’s Colours’ to Gujarat Police today, the Vice President lauded Gujarat Police for providing 33 percent reservation for women and asked all states to follow this example. This will be very helpful in creating a gender sensitive force, he said.


    Expressing concern over the rise in the number of crimes against women and children, especially the heinous crimes, Shri Naidu opined that along with setting up of fast-track courts to deal with such cases, it was important that special teams of police officers were set up to investigate such crimes.


    “Your actions must be such that no woman should fear or hesitate to seek the help of police when a crime is committed against her,” he said.


    Observing that low conviction rates in the country are already a cause for concern, Shri Naidu said that there was an urgent need to augment investigation and intelligence gathering capabilities of our police departments.


    Shri Naidu also said that it was paramount that we carry out judicial reforms to reduce the delays in justice delivery. He called for augmenting judiciary’s infrastructure and human resources to reduce pendency in courts, along with police reforms to create a robust justice system.


    The Vice President called upon people, especially the police forces to make collective create in creating a law-abiding society. Stressing that respect for law must become culture and way of life, Shri Naidu asked police forces to lay special emphasis on the prevention of crime.


    He also suggested introducing incentive and sanction-based models of motivation to ensure that citizens abide by the law.


    Stating that the presentation of Presidents Colors was recognition of the tireless, longstanding and meritorious service, gallantry and dedication of the Gujarat Police to the nation, Shri Naidu appreciated all the officials and personnel of Gujarat Police for equipping itself with modern technology, skills and training to improve its efficiency in maintaining law and order and peace.


    The Vice President wanted police to be proactive, service oriented as well as be people-oriented so that public confidence in the system was always maintained. He suggested grading infrastructure, addressing the manpower shortages, training personnel on ICT, training in fields like forensics, law, cyber-crime, financial aptitude, and others to deal with modern crimes.


    In this context, the Vice President said that the recently announced umbrella scheme on “Modernisation of Police Forces” to strengthen the law and order and modernize the police was indeed a welcome step.


    Earlier, Shri Naidu paid homage to the martyrs of Gujarat Police and said that their blood and sacrifice had secured the sovereignty, brought glory to the nation and protect people from harm.


    The courage and resilience showed by officers of the Gujarat Police during the testing times of the Indo-Pak Wars, Akshardham attack, and Ahmadabad serial blasts can never be forgotten, he said.


    Shri Naidu lauded the contributions of Gujarat Police in the socio-economic growth of the state by maintaining peace and order. “Progress could only be built on the firm foundations of peace and stability,” he added.


    On this occasion, a new logo of the Gujarat Police was also unveiled.


    Shri Vijay Rupani, Chief Minister of Gujarat, Shri Nitinbhai Patel, Deputy Chief Minister of Gujarat, Shri Pradipsinh Jadeja, Minister of State, Home, Govt of Gujarat, Shri K. Kailashnathan, Chief Principal Secretary to Chief minister, Smt. Sangeeta Singh, Addl Chief Secretary, Home, Gujarat, Shri Shivanand Jha, DGP, Gujarat were among the dignitaries who graced the occasin.


    ****


    VRRK/MS/MSY/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596535) Visitor Counter : 955
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Gujarati