      Ministry of Jal Shakti

      Inter-Linking of Rivers
      Posted On: 12 DEC 2019 7:14PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Perspective Plan (NPP) was prepared by the then Ministry of Irrigation (now Ministry of Jal Shakti) in August 1980 for water resources development through inter basin transfer of water, for transferring water from water surplus basins to water-deficit basins. Under the NPP, the National Water Development Agency (NWDA) has identified 30 links (16 under Peninsular Component & 14 under Himalayan Component) for preparation of Feasibility Reports (FRs). Under the Peninsular Component, the Godavari(Inchampalli)-Krishna(Nagarjunasagar) link and Godavari(Inchampalli)-Krishna(Pulichintalla) link projects envisage to provide benefits to Telangana State. NWDA have prepared the FRs of these two links.


    Subsequently, alternate studies for diversion of unutilised waters of Indravati sub-basin to Krishna, Pennar and Cauvery basins have been carried out and accordingly draft Detailed Project Report (DPR) of Godavari-Cauvery link project consisting of three links viz; Godavari (Inchampalli/Janampet) – Krishna (Nagarjunasagar), Krishna (Nagarjunasagar) – Pennar (Somasila), Pennar (Somasila)-Cauvery (Grand Anicut) link projects has been completed and circulated to party States in March 2019 for comments. As per the draft DPR, this link project will benefit about 9.38 lakh ha of area, out of which 1.84 lakh ha lies in Telangana.


    The stage of implementation of a project would be reached after its DPR is prepared with the consensus of concerned States and the requisite statutory clearances are obtained.


    An enabling allocation of Rs.100 lakhs for inter-linking of river programme has been made in the budget of each of the last three years including current year. No fund has been utilized as no inter-linking of rivers project has reached the stage of execution.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Jal Shakti & Social Justice and Empowerment, Shri Rattan Lal Katariain a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    RCJ/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1596264) Visitor Counter : 1039