      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Computerization of Fair Price Shops
      Posted On: 13 DEC 2019 5:45PM by PIB Delhi


    Department in association with all States/UTs is implementing a scheme on ‘End to End Computerization of PDS Operations’ under PDS reforms. The scheme includes automation of Fair Price Shop (FPS) automation by installation of electronic Point of Sale (ePoS) devices at FPSs for electronic recording of sale transactions and authentication of beneficiaries at the FPS, etc. Out of total 5.35 lakh FPSs across the country, about 4.58 lakh FPSs have been automated so far.


    Department has notified the ‘Cash Transfer of Food Subsidy Rules, 2015’ under the National Food Security Act, 2013 on 21-08-2015 for providing food subsidy in cash directly into the bank accounts of entitled households/beneficiaries to enable them to purchase foodgrains from open market. The Direct Benefit (Cash) Transfer scheme is implemented in 3 UTs namely Chandigarh, Puducherry and in urban areas of Dadra & Nagar Haveli.


    Department, in pursuance of the provisions of Section 7 of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016, has issued a notification dated 8th February, 2017 (as amended from time to time) for use of Aadhaar for delivery of subsidised foodgrains under NFSA. An individual/household eligible to receive the subsidised foodgrains under NFSA and having valid Ration Card issued by State Governments/UT Administration is required to furnish proof of possession of Aadhaar number or undergo Aadhaar authentication. Any new eligible beneficiary who is selected by State Governments/UT Administration for receiving subsidised foodgrains under NFSA is also required to furnish proof of possession of Aadhaar number or undergo Aadhaar authentication.


    As per last amendment, the eligible beneficiaries who do not possess the Aadhaar number or, are not yet enrolled for Aadhaar, but are desirous of availing subsidised foodgrains under NFSA are required to make application for Aadhaar enrolment by 31 st December, 2019.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Minister of State for Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, Shri Danve Raosaheb Dadarao in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596388) Visitor Counter : 348