      Ministry of Science & Technology

      CSIR and the National Centre for Scientific Research (CNRS), France ink MoU for Promotion and Support of Scientific and Technological Research
      Posted On: 17 DEC 2019 3:45PM by PIB Delhi


    A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed here today between the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR), India and the National Centre for Scientific Research (CNRS), France to establish a framework for cooperation between the two towards promotion and support of scientific and technological research. A team led by Director General, CSIR, DrShekhar C Mande met delegation from CNRS France, led by its President and CEO, Prof Antoine Petit.


    In view of the potentially beneficial and synergistic cooperation possibilities for translating science into technology CSIR and CNRS may explore strengthening their cooperation to foster joint innovation and transfer of technologies applicable to India or/and France and to other nations. This cooperation could include sharing good practices, promoting technology transfer and enhancing industry-academia cooperation. The broad research areas of mutual interest include biotechnology including plant and marine biotechnology; health research; environment and climate change studies; engineering science and technology; material science and technology;energy science and technology and water research.


    DG, CSIR, Dr Shekhar C Mande, highlighted that India and France have been natural partners and CSIR and CNRS have had longstanding relations starting from 1975 and that CSIR labs CSIR-IICT and CSIR-NCL are currently implementing joint programmes with CNRS, which have generated several joint publications, patents and Ph.Ds.


    Prof A. Petit, Head of CNRS, said that CSIR is a valued and trusted partner and believes that the MoU will boost cooperation even further and contribute to many critical areas such as health, water, energy and climate change among others and contribute towards addressing the global challenges.


    About CNRS :


    Founded in 1939, CNRS is the largest fundamental research organization in Europe. CNRS is an interdisciplinary public research organisation under the administrative supervision of the French Ministry of Higher Education and Research. CNRS carries out research in the areas of Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Earth Sciences and Astronomy, Ecology & Environment, Engineering & Systems Sciences, Mathematical Sciences, Physics, Nuclear & Particle Physics, Information S&T, and Humanities & Social Science through its ten institutes. CNRS performs fundamental research on applied objectives with French companies in France and also abroad. CNRS ranks among the leading global research institutions for its excellent research and innovation achievements and has 22 Nobel Laureates and 12 Field medal recipients. CNRS is funded by public money and also receives competitive funding. Though CNRS is a fundamental research organization, it performs fundamental research on applied objectives with French companies in France and also abroad. CNRS has set up four such co-funded centers with industry partnership in China, Japan and Singapore to address local needs.


    About CSIR:


    Set up in 1942 as an autonomous body, CSIR is now the largest publically funded multi-disciplinary industrial R&D organization in India under the administrative supervision of Ministry of Science and Technology, GOI. The 37 R&D institutes of CSIR being manned by around 3600 scientists with support from about 5100 S&T staff, conduct research in a wide spectrum of science and technology from aerospace, instrumentation, environmental engineering, mining, minerals & materials, housing and structures to oceanography, chemicals, drugs, and biotechnology. CSIR provides technological intervention in many areas with regard to societal efforts including environment, health, drinking water, food, housing, energy, and farm and non-farm sectors. CSIR India caters to the technological needs of Indian as well as foreign industries based in India and abroad. CSIR is technologically strong, has a vast network of world-class research institutes spread across the country.


    *****


    RCJ/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596719) Visitor Counter : 1281
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi