      Ministry of Education

      Record of the discussion held in MHRD on resolving the JNU issue on 10th and 11th December 2019
      Posted On: 12 DEC 2019 6:53PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry has issued the following record of discussion held in MHRD on resolving JNU issue:


    A series of meetings were held in MHRD with the Administration of JNU and JNUSU in order to find a solution for the ongoing impasse in JNU, primarily arising out of the revised IHA Manual.


    2. During the meeting, it was emphasised that all the stakeholders in the JNU shall adopt a flexible approach in order to find a satisfactory solution, and end the confrontationist situation prevailing in the campus since the last month or more. Not only shall the campus return to normalcy immediately, but a foolproof system shall be put in place for non-recurrence of such issues in future.


    3. After detailed discussions, the following agreements have been reached:-


    a) The hostel fee as revised from Rs. 10 per month to Rs. 300 per month (double room), and from Rs. 20 per month to Rs. 600 per month (single room) will be payable. The BPL students will get 50% concession. The UGC will bear the cost of service and utility charges proposed till further orders. The above proposal of change in the fee structure shall be ratified by convening IHA meeting as per the university Statutes.


    b) To provide a platform for dialogue and discussion in an orderly manner, the administraiton and students would follow the orders of High Court for notification of JNUSU.


    c) order to compensate for the lost academic period, the Academic Council will be requested to sympathetically consider and give relaxation upto 2


    weeks.


         1. The JNUSU will call off the current student agitation and facilitate the normal functioning of the university. Further, students should hold no dharnas around the administrative, academic blocks and in the residential areas of the faculty and administration; and maintain discipline.

         1. The JNU adminstration will take a lenient view of the incidents that occured

    since October 2019 as a part of the current agitation.


    4. In accordance with the above, each of the parties, namely the JNU administration and the JNUSU will take immediate steps for restoration of the normal functioning of the university. Any further issues shall be resolved only through dialogue as per university Statutes.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596259) Visitor Counter : 386
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

1.