      Ministry of Home Affairs

      37th National Symposium of Heads of Police Training Institutions organized by Bureau of Police Research & Development at New Delhi
      Posted On: 13 DEC 2019 6:13PM by PIB Delhi


    The 37 th National Symposium of Heads of Police Training Institutions was organized by Bureau of Police Research & Development (BPR&D) in New Delhi. It was inaugurated by the Chief Guest, Smt. Archana Ramasundaram, Member, Lokpal, Government of India, yesterday. The theme of the two day Symposium was ‘Optimal Utilization of Resources-Through Sharing and Networking’.


    The Chief Guest appreciated the efforts of the BPR&D in capacity building and shaping of the Indian Police. She highlighted the fundamental requirement of annual recruitment policy for the police, so that their training at the State or organizational level could be planned better. Delayed and sporadic recruitment in huge numbers puts excessive burden on the existing training infrastructure and trainers.


    A Directory of Indian Police Training Institutions (DIPTI) was released by the Chief Guest that has information on the resources of around 300 Police training institutions all over the country. Revised Police Drill Manual (Hindi version) and Compendium of Trial Court Judgements in grave cases like rapes, murders, etc., were also released. The Chief Guest also felicitated Sh. Shashi Kant Upadhyay, DIG (SPD), BPR&D, for winning the Gold Medal, by attaining the 1 st position in MBA (Disaster Management), from the IP University.


    The Valedictory session was presided over by Shri Rajiv Jain, former Director, Intelligence Bureau,today. While speaking on the occasion, he appreciated the theme chosen, which signifies the need of the hour, i.e., sharing and ensuring optimal utilization of the police training resources. He further mentioned that such type of networking creates better synergy and also helps in adopting the best practices of others.


    While speaking during the inaugural session, Shri V.S.K. Kaumudi, DG, BPR&D, reminded the delegates about the expectations of the common man from the police and emphasized the need for a clear-cut training policy. He apprised the house of the efforts of the BPR&D in the direction of enhancement of training capacity through its CDTIs, DSI courses, VICs, etc., with special focus on crime against women and children.


    Speaking during the valedictory session, Shri Kaumudi informed that the Resolutions of the 37 th Symposium will be circulated to all the States/UTs/CAPFs/CPOs for follow-up. He also emphasized the need of sharing of common resources and best practices and offered that BPR& D has been working as a hub for the training institutions all over the country.


    The two day symposium was attended by the Heads of Police Training Institutions of States/UTs/Central Armed Police Forces/Central Police Organisations, academia and domain experts.


    *****


    SNC/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1596426) Visitor Counter : 265
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi