      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      About 35 Lakh Passengers flown under RCS-Udan scheme till date
      
      Aviation jobs portal launched
      
      Country’s tallest Air traffic control tower inaugurated
      
      New Airports at Hindon & Kalaburagi operationalised
      
      Air traffic flow Management control and command center operationalized
      
      Approval granted for leasing out 6 AAI airports on PPP
      
      85 airports now single use plastic free airports

      Posted On: 23 DEC 2019 2:25PM by PIB Delhi

    UDAN-RCS

      * 134 routes commenced from 1.1.2019 to 10.12.2019
      * 10 Airports operationalized in 2019 (till 07.12.2019) out of which 4 airports are underserved and 6 airports are unserved.
          + Underserved – Lilabari, Belgaum, Pantnagar& Durgapur.
          + Unserved – Kullu, Kalaburgi, Kannar, Dimapur, Hindon&Pithoragarh.
      * 335 routes awarded during the year 2019 covering 33 airports (20 unserved, 3 underserved, 10 water aerodromes).
      * 34,74,000 approx. numbers of passengers were flown under RCS-UDAN Scheme till date. It has a direct bearing on major Airports since the smaller airports have been connected to various big cities. The travelling time has reduced drastically and public at large is benefitted for the purpose of tourism, medical emergencies and religious shrines, etc.
      * Rs. 304.49 crores has been spent for upgradation of existing and new airports from April to November, 2019
      * Belgaum, Prayagraj, Kishangarh, Hubli&Jharsuguda are the busiest airports commenced under UDAN

    Air Traffic Flow Management Control and Command Center (ATFM-CCC)


    New Air Traffic Flow Management Control and Command Center (ATFM-CCC) with state of art displays has been operationalized at Vasant Kunj, New Delhi in June, 2019.ATFM Implementation - Nationwide Central Air Traffic Flow Management [ATFM] system operational since 2017. The Central Command Center (CCC) has become operational from Vasant Kunj premises from 22nd June 2019. The CCC is supported by Flow Management Positions (FMPs) at all major airports (36 in number) which include 8 defence airports. The ATFM system monitors the air traffic flow at all major airports and across all airspace sectors. Whenever any air traffic overload conditions are predicted at any airports / airspace sectors, the ATFM managers, proactively implement ATFM regulations (by delaying the aircraft on ground at departure airports) so that the traffic overloads are “managed”. Thus, ATFM helps in maintaining safety while ensuring optimal use of airports and airspace. India also has hosted the ICAO APAC ATFM Steering group meeting in Delhi in May 2018 wherein 13 APAC countries participated.


    CNS/ATM modernization roadmap for India


    In May 2019, Boeing and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) have signed a technical assistance agreement for developing a comprehensive 10- year Communication, Navigation and Surveillance/Air Traffic Management (CNS/ATM) modernization roadmap for India. The objective of the agreement is to develop a roadmap for AAI to use as guidance in the modernization of the Indian National Airspace System (NAS) based on global and local best practices to optimally utilize airspace capacity, enhance communications and invest in navigation, surveillance and air traffic management. This 18- month project will be undertaken with a grant from the U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA). AAI has formed a Technical Working Group (TWG) comprising of nominated members from Airlines, Airport Operators, DGCA, IAF, IMD and AAI officers to jointly work with Boeing experts during the project. The first kick-off meeting took place at Delhi from 22nd to 25th July 2019.


    Airports - AAI airports awarded ‘in principle’ on PPP –


    'In principle' approval for leasing out of 6 airports of AAI i.e. Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram, Lucknow and Mangaluru through Public Private Partnership (PPP). Letter of Award has been issued on 15.07.2019 in respect of three airports viz. Ahmedabad, Lucknow and Mangaluru to the highest bidder for a period of 50 years. Thiruvananthapuram, Guwahati and Jaipur airports are yet to be awarded.The proposal for leasing of next round of airports viz. Bhubaneswar, Varanasi, Indore, Amritsar, Raipur and Trichy Airports through PPP got recommended by AAI Board for which Transaction Advisor is being finalized.


    AAI’s Futuristic Telecommunications Infrastructure initiative


    The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has awarded M/s Harris, USA, a 15-year, Rs. 945 Crores contract on Build Own Operate (BOO) Model to serve as the prime contractor and systems integrator for AAI’s Futuristic Telecommunications Infrastructure initiative. The initiative will upgrade Communication network operations, enhance security, and improve the performance, reliability and quality of India’s air traffic management (ATM) telecommunications network.This communication backbone infrastructure will also play a pivotal role in deployment of Remote Towers for managing air traffic services at RCS airports


    Digital Initiatives

     1. eGCA

    The function & process of DGCA is being moved to an online platform to provide faster delivery of services & regulation oversight. The first module on pilot licensing shall be launched in December 2019.

     1. DigiSky

    DigiSky online portal has been launched for flying Civil Drones. The Beta version of DigiSky is available and captures the entire gamut of activities relating to drones viz. registration of drones and pilots, approval of flight path, post flight analysis etc. based on the distinctive features of No Permission No Take off (NPNT).

     1. E-sahaj

    100% security clearances pertaining to the Ministry have been made online on E-sahaj online portal launched by the Ministry of Civil Aviation. The portal is operational for granting clearances in respect of 24 categories.

     1. DigiYatra

    Trial for rollout of DigiYatra has been started at Bengaluru and Hyderabad airports. It envisages seamless and hassle free passenger travel using biometric technologies to improve passenger experience, reduce queue waiting time as passengers can walk through e-gates. It will remove redundancies at check points and enhance resource utilization.

     1. Dashboard of MoCA

    The Dashboard of Ministry of Civil Aviation was developed on17 August 2019. It provides real-time data across a number of parameters on air transportation, including RCS-UDAN.

     1. Aviation Job Portal (https://aviationjobs.co.in)

    A unique web-based portal, which seeks to bring together job seekers and prospective employers in the Indian civil aviation sector.

     1. Air Sewa

    An initiative by MoCA to bring all aviation stakeholders to a common platform so as to address the grievances of the air travellers. The status of the issues raised can be tracked online. The platform also provides updated flight status and is linked to social media.

     1. Lost & Found online portal (https://www.aai.aero/en/lost-found/item-list)

    Lost & Found online portal has been commissioned in June 2019 to ease out the passenger claiming process for Lost & found Property.


    Tallest ATC tower


    Delhi Air Traffic Service Complex (DATS- Complex) - country’s tallest Air Traffic Control tower has been inaugurated on 02.09.2019 at the Indira Gandhi International Airport. This iconic infrastructure will ensure up-scaled services and systems for efficient, smooth and uninterrupted air traffic management.


    Construction of Hindon and Kalaburagi Airport –


    New airports built at Hindon, Ghaziabad (U.P.) and Kalaburagi, Karnataka and made operational.


    Robust growth in Aviation Fleet –


    Aviation sector has seen a robust growth despite grounding of Jet Airways. After discontinuance of operations of Jet Airways, major scheduled airlines were operating 529 aircrafts. The total number of operational aircraft of major scheduled airlines is 624 which is more than the aircraft operational at the time of when Jet was functional.


    Amendments in the AERA ACT, 2008


    Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India Act, 2008 has been amended, now the threshold annual passenger traffic criteria for classifying ‘major airport’ is ‘three and half million’. The Authority shall adopt the tariff in respect of an airport if such tariff has been notified by the central Government as a part of the bidding document or has been determined through transparent process of bidding in accordance with the guidelines issued by the central Government.


    Security component of ASF rationalized –


    Aviation Security Fee (ASF), charged as a part of passenger fare, has been rationalized and a National Trust has been created to pool all the ASF collections across airports. The trust is to be managed by AAI. The collection of ASF in a single pool account will serve the purpose of cross subsidizing the smaller airports of AAI.


    Inflight WiFi Connectivity –


    Inflight WiFi connectivity standards have been established and necessary security requirements worked out.


    Ban of Single use Plastic –


    Airports Authority of India has declared 85 airports as Single Use Plastic Free airports. Air India is in process of procuring items made of alternate material as a substitute for various plastic inflight catering items.


    The CAP Directorate of AAI, which was established in 2017, has been nominated as Nodal Point for coordination with DGCA on licencing issues and implementation of licencing of controllers of AAI. Since examination and assessment tasks in respect of controllers are complex and require a high level of experience and expertise in the area of air traffic control, these tasks have been delegated to AAI under the oversight of DGCA. These high level specialized tasks are being done by the Directorate of CAP in AAI.


    The Ministry of Civil Aviation, after ICAO audit under Universal Safety Audit Oversight Program (USOAP) and Coordinated Validation Mission (ICVM), decided to licence air traffic controllers in India. The Aircraft Rules 1937 was amended on 5 th November, 2018 enabling licensing of controllers by the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).


    ***


    RJ/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597205) Visitor Counter : 975
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu , Bengali , Kannada
    
    
    

1.