      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Two Day Regional Conference on “Improving Public Services Delivery – Role of Governments” to begin tomorrow at Nagpur
      
      Union Ministers Shri Nitin Gadkari and Dr. Jitendra Singh to address the Valedictory Session of the Conference

      Posted On: 20 DEC 2019 5:57PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways and Minister for Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, Shri Nitin Jairam Gadkari and Minister of State (Independent charge) of the Ministry of DONER, Minister of State for PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space Dr Jitendra Singh, will address the Valedictory Session of the Regional Conference on “Improving Public Services Delivery – Role of Governments” on 22 nd December, 2019. The 2-day conference will be inaugurated tomorrow in Nagpur. The event is being organised by the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) in collaboration with the Government of Maharashtra and the Maharashtra State Commission for Right to Public Services.


    The Regional Conference would be attended by nearly 300 officials representing 22 States and Union Territories and also officials from the State Administration. Discussions would be held in 6 Technical Sessions. The Technical Sessions in the Regional Conference are:

     1. How the Enactment of the Right to Services Law has helped in Improving Delivery of Public Services
     2. Electronic Delivery of Public Services
     3. Creating Awareness in Society regarding Right to Public Services
     4. Centralized Public Grievances – Redress and Monitoring System (CPGRAMS)
     5. Innovative Practices regarding delivery of Public Services
     6. Ek Bharat-Shresht Bharat with focus on Improving Public Services Delivery in the Districts of Maharashtra and Odisha.

    The conference would be attended by senior officials from the Government of India and participating States. The Senior officials attending the Regional Conference include Secretary to the President of India, Shri Sanjay Kothari, Additional Secretary DARPG, Shri V.Srinivas, Right to Services Commissioners of the States of Maharashtra, Punjab and Haryana namely Shri S. S. Kshatriya, Shri Mandeep Singh Sandhu and Shri Hardeep Kumar, Principal Secretary (IT), Govt of Maharashtra, Shri S. V. R. Srinivas, Commissioner RTS, Konkan, Maharashtra Smt. Medha Gadgil, Commissioner of Information Technology Tamil Nadu Shri Santosh Mishra, Member Administrative Reforms Commission of Kerala Smt. Sheela Thomas, Executive Director Railways Shri Vivek Srivastava, and Secretary GAD Maharashtra Smt. Anshu Sinha. Several District Collectors would be presenting their successful district level innovations during the technical sessions.


    The Regional Conference would adopt in the valedictory session the “Nagpur Resolution: A Holistic Approach for Empowering Citizens" on December 22, 2019, which would seek to bring about significant improvements in service delivery and further empowerment of the citizens by ensuring timely services are delivered in a transparent manner, beneficial to the citizens.


    ********


    RCJ/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597096) Visitor Counter : 332
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi
    
    
    

6.