      Vice President's Secretariat

      Cattle wealth is national wealth – Vice President
      
      Says urgent need to conserve indigenous cattle breeds
      
      More investment required in research in sectors such as dairy, poultry, fisheries, and food processing - VP
      
      Visits ABC Semen Station-Veeravally
      
      All governments should give priority to enhance per capita availability of milk

      Posted On: 24 DEC 2019 9:01PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu today stressed the need to conserve indigenous cattle breeds and strengthen bull mother farms to conserve high merit indigenous breeds. He suggested employing scientific methods in dairying to increase the milk production of dairy animals by scientifically feeding and breeding indigenous nondescript dairy animals.


    The Vice President visited the ABC Semen Station, dedicated to ensuring animal breeding and production of quality semen at Veeravally near Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh today and went around facilities such as Semen Production Station, Semen Processing Laboratory, Semen Quality Control Laboratory, Feed the manufacturing plant and a highly mechanized Fodder Farm.


    Describing the dairy sector as the backbone of the rural economy after agriculture and plays an important role in the country's socio-economic development, the Vice President said that Indian Cooperatives in the Dairy sector such as Amul in Gujarat have already become role models for other states and have been providing employment for farmers.


    Describing Cattle wealth as national wealth, he said that farmers could achieve financial sustainability and value addition by investing in allied activities such as dairy, fisheries and food processing.


    Given the fact that the economy of milk producers largely depends on the potential of the animals they keep, Shri Naidu stressed the need to improve the genetic-merit of our animals by the introduction of superior germs plasm.


    He opined that there was an urgent need to invest more and enhance research on sectors such as dairy, poultry, fisheries and other allied activities of agriculture to create an ecosystem where the farmers should not depend only on agriculture of economic sustainability.


    Shri Naidu lauded the organization for producing doses of disease-free frozen semen from genetically superior bulls of cattle and buffaloes for the development of the breeds for increasing the milk productivity of bovines in Andhra Pradesh. He asked organizations Such as ABC Veeravalli to take lead in training dairy farmers in using technology.


    Opining that enhancing milk production, providing self-employment and sustainable income generation to the rural farmers, enhancing the per capita availability of milk should get special attention from all governments.


    He called upon farmers’ cooperatives, agriculture Universities, colleges and scientists along with Kisan Vigyan Kendras must encourage farmers to diversify into allied services, including milk production.


    Shri Naidu appreciated the noble intention of the organization for creating a co-operative to add value to farmers as a whole and also for providing great genetics at the best possible price for milk producers in the region. “ A visit to this place is a must to enlighten ourselves about the scientific advancements in Cattle care,” he said.


    Founded by Mr. Rajeev the ABC mutually Cooperative society Ltd in early 2016, the center has been working with a noble intention of ensuring a fair return to the milk producers and also to help in the production of high yielding dairy animals throughout the country.


    ABC is engaged in producing genes of the world’s best bulls, scientifically selecting livestock whose offspring are designed to increase the profitability of our farmers. Murrah, Ongole, Sahiwal, Punganur, Gir are part of the Sire directory of the station.


    *****


    VRRK/MS/MSY/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597606) Visitor Counter : 262
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi