      Ministry of Finance

      FM releases postage stamp to commemorate distinguished service and contribution of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence in protecting the nation
      Posted On: 26 DEC 2019 5:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman formally released a postage stamp to commemorate the distinguished service and glorious contribution by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in protecting the nation.


    After releasing the stamp, the Union Finance Minister congratulated DRI on the excellent performance of its officers. She remarked that DRI continues to play an immense role in countering smuggling as well as in preserving the cultural heritage and environment of the country. The challenges faced by the organisation continue to grow with the adoption of innovative modes of smuggling and called for increasing the concerted efforts of DRI. She stressed on the critical need for training the officers of DRI in using technology and data analytics to be able to inspire confidence of its citizens and deter smugglers. Smt. Sitharaman congratulated all officers and staff of DRI on their commitment to duty and determined and collaborative efforts to counter smuggling activities in the country.


    Besides the Finance Minister, Shri Anurag Singh Thakur, Union Minister of State for Finance & Corporate Affairs; Dr Ajay Bhushan Pandey, Revenue Secretary; Shri Pradipta Kumar Bisoi, Secretary, Department of Posts, and Members of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs and officers of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence were also present on the occasion.


    About Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI)


    The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) was constituted on 4 th December, 1957 to function as an apex intelligence agency of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs to counter the menace of smuggling. Through the years, DRI has established itself as the premier intelligence agency commanding the trust of international and national agencies with its intelligence inputs on myriad subjects inter alia ranging from FICN, narcotics, gold, arms & ammunitions, wildlife, cultural heritage and commercial fraud. Over the years, the organisation has sought to reorient itself to new and emerging challenges, such as those relating to black money, money-laundering and narco-terrorism.


    The DRI has also been designated as the lead agency for S-CORD, the national Anti-smuggling co-ordination centre. Being the apex anti-smuggling enforcement organisation and given its track record in collaborative endeavours, DRI is expected to carry along the Border agencies towards the common objective of thwarting smuggling activities that pose a grave threat to national security and economic well-being of the country.


    ****


    RM/KMN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597709) Visitor Counter : 842
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi