      Ministry of Railways

      Indian Railways has created 72000+E-File over 58 establishments Replacing Manual Files
      
      NIC e-Office implemented by RailTel is helping Indian Railways go Paperless
      Posted On: 24 DEC 2019 6:05PM by PIB Delhi


    E-Office has been implemented over 58 establishments of Indian Railways to provide reliable, efficient, and effective way to handle office files & documents. Quick disposal of files and systematic, timely monitoring of pending files has been the other immediate advantage of NIC e-Office.


    72000+Digital Files have been created in mere 6 months’ time over 58 establishments of Indian Railways replacing manual file. The NIC e-office, implemented by RailTel for Indian Railways is helping Indian Railways to adapt paperless work culture saving tons of paper every day. In the phase I of the project RailTel has created 50000+ users in these 58 establishments of Indian Railways and trained executives to handle the platform.NIC e-Office is a cloud enabled software developed by National Informatics centre (NIC) that is being deployed/hosted from RailTel Tier III certified data centres at Secundrabad and Gurgaon. It is based on Central Secretariat Manual of e-Office Procedure (CSMeOP). e-Office fosters paper-less culture which not only saves operational cost but also reduces the carbon foot print.


    Talking about the project, Sh. Puneet Chawla, CMD/RailTel, said –‘Implementation of e-Office has not only helped in saving paper but also increased pace and efficiency of the users. More than 2,50,000 receipt has been created in the past few months. After the success of phase I, we have started working on the Phase 2 of the project in which 39 more establishments of Indian Railways will be converted into Digital workspace through NIC e-office.’


    It is a big challenge to transfer the entire manual filing system of Indian Railways on to one digital platform. However, the bigger challenge is to condition the users to give up the habit of using manual file system and adapt the new system of paperless working. RailTel team has managed to complete the implementation before the deadline and also managed people by retraining and handholding for roll out .


    *****


    SG/MKV/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597439) Visitor Counter : 379
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi