      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President asks policy makers to place citizen welfare at the center of governance
      
      Calls upon every Indian to commit to accountability and transparency on Good Governance Day
      
      Pays rich tributes to Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary
      
      Attends Telugu poetry recital program "Padya Vaibhavam"
      
      Emphasizes the need to protect and promote Indian languages
      
      Posted On: 25 DEC 2019 7:34PM by PIB Delhi


      The Vice President of India Shri M Venkaiah Naidu today called upon policy makers to place the welfare of the citizens at the center of governance and strive to uplift the poor and downtrodden sections of society. He said that improving the service delivery mechanism so that the benefits of schemes reach the most deserving one was an important aspects of good governance.


      Speaking after paying floral tributes to former Prime Minister of India, Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary at Swarna Bharat Trust in Vijayawada today, Shri Naidu called upon every citizen to commit to accountability and transparency in all aspects of life and strive to uplift the poor and downtrodden sections of society.


      Describing Shri Vajpayee as a true statesmen and charismatic leader, the Vice President lauded him for the invaluable contributions for the country’s progress.


      "His inspirational speeches, peppered with wit and poetry helped him connect with millions of Indians across class and caste divides. As Prime Minister, he won accolades for reducing the role of government in running businesses and for pioneering a connectivity revolution in India," he said


      The Vice President also witnessed the Telugu poetry recital performance by Shri Sharat Chandra during the event "Padya Vaibhavam" at Swarna Bharat Trust. He said that the best way to preserve or promote any language was to use it extensively in everyday life. He stressed the need to protect and preserve Indian languages and said the language was lifeline of a culture.


      Describing "Padyam" as an invaluable asset inherited by Telugu People, the Vice President said that legendary poets like Nannaya, Potana, and others have taught life lessons, values, and ethics through their writings.


      Stating that the tradition of poetry recital dates back to thousands of years, Shri Naidu said that the specialty of Telugu poems lies in their ability to reach literary geniuses and masses at the same time. He also said that one must know about "Padyam" and the tradition of Telugu Poetry for better understanding of Telugu literature and heritage.


      Emphasizing the need for promotion of the rich and unique tradition of Padyams, Shri Naidu said that efforts must be made to take it to youth and children of the present generation. He asked the youth to learn as many languages as possible without ignoring their native language. “You should speak in your mother tongue at your home”, he said.


      During the event, the Vice President also inaugurated a medical camp organized by Capital Hospitals at Swarna Bharat Trust.


      Supreme Court Judges Justice N V Ramana, L. Nageswara Rao, Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court, Shri J.K Maheshwari and Madhya Pradesh High Court Judge and Justice Satish Chandra Sharma were among the dignitaries who graced the occasion.


      *****


      VRRK/MS/MSY/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597605) Visitor Counter : 572
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi