      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      MoS (PP) DR Jitendra Singh chairs review meeting of Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions
      
      75 Central Ministries/Departments actively using the e-Office platform
      
      Minister appeals to State Governments to expedite e-office implementation
      Posted On: 27 DEC 2019 6:25PM by PIB Delhi


    In total, 75 Central Ministries/Departments are actively using the e-Office platform, with Ministry of AYUSH being the recent Ministry to go live on the e-Office platform. Out of them, 57 Ministries/Departments have achieved the desired target of 80% on e-Office platform, with Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries being the latest to have achieved this. This was informed during a review meeting of Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, chaired by MoS (PP) Dr Jitendra Singh here today. The Secretary (DoPT and DARPG) Dr C. Chandramouli and senior officers of the Department of Personnel & Training (DoPT), Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances (DARPG) and Department of Pension and Pensioners Welfare were also present during the meeting. He said that this is a step towards Digital Secretariat.


    The Minister also appealed to the State Governments to expedite the implementation of e-Office in their respective States/UTs. He said that the Government has offered State Governments all guidance in implementation of e-Office, the latest being the newly created UTs of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh.


    During the meeting, various issues were discussed, which included Vision Document of the Ministry, 100-day agenda of the departments, vacancy position in the departments, grievance redressal status, training programmes under National Centre for Good Governance (NCGG), status of e-Office implementation by Central Ministries/Departments, e-HRMS, web portals, dashboards, among others.


    Among other activities, it was mentioned that the DARPG has organised Regional Conference on the theme ‘Improving Public Services Delivery – Role of Governments’ in collaboration with the Government of Maharashtra on 21-22 December, 2019 at Nagpur, Maharashtra. The Ministry has also launched the Good Governance Index (GGI) and the 15 th edition of Central Secretariat Manual of Office Procedure (CSMOP) on Good Governance Day i.e 25 th December, 2019. Besides, the workshops and Pension Adalat to be organised in future were also discussed.


    During the meeting, various initiatives of the Ministry towards digitisation and e-governance were discussed. These included: e-service books, e-HRMS, e-Civil List, Pensions Portal and RTI Portal, among others.


    ********


    NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597845) Visitor Counter : 219
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi