      Vice President's Secretariat

      VP Naidu asks people to place national interest at the center of their actions and not to indulge in violence
      
      Says people must follow peaceful, democratic methods and function according to the spirit of the Constitution
      
      Releases the book “Turbulence and Triumph – The Modi Years”
      
      Impressed by Shri Modi’s Mantra of “Reform, Perform and Transform”: Vice Prescient
      
      India’s outreach to the world enhanced under Shri Modi’s leadership: Vice President
      
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2019 1:47PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India Shri M Venkaiah Naidu today urged people to place national interest at the center of their actions and not to indulge in violence.


    Addressing the gathering after releasing the book “ Turbulence and Triumph – The Modi Years” written by Rahul Agarwal and Bharti S Pradhan at Uparashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi today, he said that while dissent was the basic quality of democracy, people must follow peaceful, democratic methods and function according to the spirit of the Constitution.


    Observing that unity, safety, integrity and sovereignty of the nation were of paramount importance, the Vice President said that people must move forward in a constructive and positive manner. He said people should not do anything that would be detrimental to the image of the country.


    He also wanted public representatives to live up to the expectation of people and effectively utilize forums such as Parliament and state legislatures to highlight people’s issues.


    Shri Naidu said that he was impressed by Shri Modi’s Mantra of “Reform, Perform and Transform” and added, “Transformation of the nation is the need of the hour and that is what is happening now.”


    Vice President applauded the reforms undertaken by the Prime Minister and referred to the profile on Shri Narendra Modi penned by the former President of the United States of America, Mr. Barack Obama, in which he described him as the ‘reformer-in-chief’.


    Shri Naidu said that Prime Minister was translating the vision of Mahatma Gandhi into a reality through several schemes such as Swachh Bharat, Make in India, Skill India, Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao and the initiatives on environmental protection that combat the deleterious effects of climate change.


    Appreciating the initiatives launched by the Prime Minister to improve agricultural productivity and double farmers' income by 2022, the Vice President lauded the administration headed by the Prime Minister for achieving a significant number of milestones that his administration has achieved in a short span.


    “Modi Ji gave a new impetus to the economy through a number of initiatives such as the Goods and Services Tax (GST). Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas Sabka Vishwas is an eloquent expression of his world view,” he added.


    Stating that India’s outreach to the world has been enhanced under Shri Modi’s leadership, the Vice President said “I am happy to note that the world is recognizing and respecting India much more than earlier,” he added.


    Congratulating the authors for bringing out the book, he expressed the hope that it would inspire the people to imbibe some of the qualities of head and heart as exemplified by Shri Narendra Modi Ji.


    Shri Ajay Mago, Publisher of Om Books International, members of the publishing house, Authors and several other eminent dignitaries were present at the book release event.


    The following is the full text of the speech:


    On the special occasion of the launch of the book Turbulence & Triumph: The Modi Years, it is a pleasure for me to recall the extraordinary journey of Shri Narendra Damodardas Modi, the 14 th and current Prime Minister of India who is now serving a second term in office.


    At the outset, let me extend hearty congratulations to the authors of this book, Shri Rahul Agarwal and Bharthi S Pradhan for chronicling the life of Shri Narendra Bhai Modi.


    A politician, a statesman, an orator, a leader, an ascetic committed to the idea of New India, he is truly a multifaceted personality.


    My dear sisters and brothers,


    Mahatma Gandhi once observed, “The history of the world is full of men who rose to leadership, by sheer force of self-confidence, bravery and tenacity”.


    Modi Ji’s life is an embodiment of these virtues.


    It is by this sheer force of self-confidence, bravery, and tenacity that Shri Narendra Damodardas Modi made the extraordinary transition from an ordinary man with a humble background to become a popular Prime Minister of the world’s largest and most vibrant democracy.


    Modi ji led the BJP in the 2014 General Elections which gave the party a majority in the Lok Sabha, a first for any single party since 1984.


    When he became Prime Minister of India with such an overwhelming mandate, we began to see so much more of the ‘People’s Prime Minister’—he undertook extensive travels, meeting people within India, meeting world leaders across the globe, never resting for a moment.


    I have personally known Modi ji for several decades.


    I have seen Modi ji as a worker with wonderful organizational skills, never shying away from rising to the task, paying attention to every detail.


    He proclaims himself as ‘pradhan sevak’ of the people and is striving hard to live up to that ideal.


    He is always known for his discipline, dedication, devotion and development--4Ds.

     1. ability to communicate and connect so effectively with people is truly remarkable.

    It is through reading and travelling that he could broaden his worldview and become such a repository of cultural, historical and political knowledge.


    To reach where he is today, Shri Narendra Modi has gone through many trials and tribulations, both as Chief Minister of Gujarat and Prime Minister of India. I applaud the authors for capturing all these tribulations with clarity and honesty.


    My dear Sisters and brothers,


    He is also a reformist and I recall that the former US President, Mr. Barack Obama had in a profile penned by him on Modi Ji in Time Magazine, described him as the ‘reformer-in chief’.


    I am impressed by his Mantra of Reform, Perform and Transform. Transformation of the nation is the need of the hour and that is what is happening now.


    India’s outreach to the world has been enhanced under his leadership. I am happy to note that the world is recognizing and respecting India much more than earlier.


    Modi Ji also passionately promoted Yoga and is spearheading the need for health and wellbeing of people, especially the youth, through the Fitness India campaign.


    He is translating the vision of Mahatma Gandhi into a reality through several schemes such as Swachh Bharat, Make in India, Skill India, Beti Bahchao, Beti Padhao and the initiatives on environmental protection that combat the deleterious effects of climate change.


    He has played a pioneering role in promoting clean energy and the leadership provided by India in the formation of International Solar Alliance is a testimony to his commitment to the protection of environment.


    I also appreciate the initiatives launched by the Prime Minister to improve the agricultural productivity and double farmers’ income by 2022.


    One need only look at the significant number of milestones that his administration has achieved in a short while to understand his commitment to transform people’s lives.


    Proclaiming that “a clean India would be the best tribute India could pay to Mahatma Gandhi on his 150 birth anniversary in 2019,” Modi ji launched the Swachh Bharat Mission. India was declared Open Defecation Free in October 2019, an incredible achievement.


    Modi ji gave a new impetus to the economy through a number of initiatives such as the Goods and Services Tax (GST). ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas Sabka Vishwas’ is an eloquent expression of his world view.


    He ushered in game-changing reforms such as the Jan Dhan Yojna to promote inclusive growth and introduced many social security schemes such as Ayushman Bharat.


    Recognizing the potential demographic dividend that India has at its disposal, India is now revamping its education system to improve quality, access and affordability. Modi ji once said, “I dream of a young India that is not constrained by any limitations whatsoever. I want the youth of this country to lead a life filled with hope and opportunity.”


    Determined to protect and empower women, the motto ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padao’ given by the Prime Minister now echoes all through the country.


    The progressive mindset of the Prime Minister can be gleaned through a number of forward-looking legislations passed by the Parliament in recent times, including the abolition of Triple Talaq.


    His staunch belief in breaking the shackles of the past and moving forward to a brighter tomorrow is reflected in each one of these bold decisions.


    We now dream of building a 5 Trillion Dollar economy. We wish to partner with the international community to achieve Sustainable Development Goals and at the same time usher in inclusive development in our country.


    The times call for a strong, determined and agile leader to be at the helm of affairs. We are fortunate to have an able leader and a stable government.


    Let me once again congratulate the authors of the book. I hope the book will inspire the people to imbibe some of the qualities of head &heart exemplified by Shri Naredra Bhai Modi, so that we can collectively shape a New India.


    Thank you!


    Jai Hind!


    *************


    VRRK/MS/MSY/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597036) Visitor Counter : 605
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi
    
    
    

1.