      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      MoS (DoNER) Dr Jitendra Singh chairs review meeting of Ministry of DoNER
      
      Bamboo workshop-cum-exhibition to be organised in Jammu in January next year
      
      Workshop to focus on North-East experience with Bamboo in UT of J&K
      
      Nearly 65% of M/o DoNER budget spent for current Financial Year

      Posted On: 27 DEC 2019 6:48PM by PIB Delhi

    The Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr.Jitendra Singh chaired a review meeting of the activities of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), here today. The Secretary (DoNER), Dr InderJit Singh and senior officers of Ministry of DoNER and North Eastern Council (NEC) were present during the meeting.


    During the meeting, Dr Jitendra said that the North Eastern Council (NEC), Ministry of DoNER, in collaboration with Government of Jammu and Kashmir will organise a workshop cum exhibition on 'Bamboo - A wonder grass: Opportunity for Sustainable Development in Jobs' in Jammu in January next year. The workshop is being organised through Cane and Bamboo Technology Centre (CBTC), Assam and Department of Social-Forestry, Government of Jammu and Kashmir. The workshop will focus on NE experience with bamboo in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir.


    The Minister said that the development of North Eastern region has been on the priority of the Government under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. He said that the experience of North Eastern states will help the artisans of UT of Jammu and Kashmir. This will help them in their economic development and job opportunities, he added. He said that this will also assist in commercial exploitation of bamboo grown in this region. A Bamboo Industrial Park has already been approved to be set up in the Dima Hasao district of Assam, he said.


    Besides above, it was informed that nearly 65 percent Ministry of DoNER budget has been spent for the current financial year. The possibility of providing digital/virtual class rooms in districts of North eastern states was also discussed during the meeting. Dr Jitendra Singh said that it is an initiative towards digitisation of North east Region. During the meeting, the status of JNU hostel, Dwarka and Rohini projects was also discussed.


    *****


    RCJ/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597852) Visitor Counter : 287
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi