      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah lays the Foundation stone of Directorate General Building of CRPF in New Delhi
      
      CRPF played an important role in wiping out terrorism from Punjab and Tripura in decades of 1980 & 1990: Shri Amit Shah
      
      Modi Government’s mantra-jawans should take care of India’s borders, Government will take care of their Families-Shri Shah
      
      Modi Government committed to welfare of paramilitary forces; jawans to spend 100 days with their families and set to get health cards for family members: Shri Shah
      
      New CRPF Headquarters with modern facilities will strengthen their operational capability: Home Minister

      Posted On: 29 DEC 2019 4:04PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Home Minister Sh. Amit Shah today said that Central Reserve Police Force, CRPF had played an important role in wiping out terrorism from Punjab and Tripura in the decades of 1980 and 1990 and to restore complete peace in the border States. Speaking at the foundation laying ceremony of the CRPF Headquarters in New Delhi, he said that neighbouring countries tried to foment terrorism in the two States by misleading the youth to dismember the country but all their efforts were neutralised by CRPF.


    Shri Shah said that whether it is a Naxal theatre or a riot situation, or for conduct of peaceful AmarnathYatra in Jammu and Kashmir or providing security ring to India’s Parliament, CRPF jawans always remain at the forefront.


    Referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s commitment for the welfare of paramilitary forces, the Home Minister said that by August-September, 2020, all such schemes will be given a final shape, the prominent among them would be a measure that all jawans should remain at least 100 days out of 365 days with their family members. A Committee is working on this and suggestions sought from DGs of paramilitary forces to implement this scheme soon. Shri Shah said, Ministry of Home Affairs is working with AIIMS to provide electronic Health Cards to family members of jawans for health check-up and facilities. Expansion of Air Carrier facilities for travel and transportation, creation of over 35,000 vacancies for faster promotion, announcement of new awards and more administrative and financial powers to DG, CRPF are steps in that direction, he added. Shri Shah said that it is the mantra of Modi Government that jawans should take care of India’s borders, the Central government will take care of their families.


    Recalling the supreme sacrifices made by about 2184 CRPF personnel for internal security duties including at the war theatres with China in October,1959 and with Pakistan at Sardar Post, Kutch in Gujarat in 1965, Shri Shah said that he is more than happy to inaugurate the new headquarters of the World’s largest and the bravest force. He informed that in 2019 also CRPF bagged 75 bravery medals, which is the highest for any force.


    Shri Shah said that new building at a cost of Rs 280 crore will have all modern facilities and green amenities, besides effective control and command system with modern training modules for 3.5 lakh strong force to enhance their operational capability.


    The Home Minister also launched a new logo “Garud” for those engaged in providing security to the common man and VIPs and said that it would give them a new identity.


    <><><><><>


    VG/SNC/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597899) Visitor Counter : 1017
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil