      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      DAY-NULM organises consultative workshop with States /UTs on DAY-NULM Pakhwada "SHEHRI SAMRIDDHI UTSAV 2020" scheduled during March 28- April 12, 2020
      Posted On: 31 DEC 2019 5:34PM by PIB Delhi


    Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana- National Urban Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NULM) under Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) organised a consultative meeting here yesterday with the States/UTs and other stakeholders viz. Flipkart, Sector Skills Councils and State Skill Development Missions (SSDMs) with regard to celebration of Shehri Samrddhi Utsav (SSU) 2020. The workshop focused on learnings from the first edition of the SSU 2019 and chalking out the strategy and roadmap for the SSU 2020, scheduled from March 28 to April 12, 2020.


    The planned activities for SSU 2020 include onboarding of SHG products on e-commerce portals, skill development in plumbing sector, saturation of top 100 cities with Smart ID cards and certificates of vending to Street Vendors; national competition on implementation of Street Vendors Act and Swachhata Excellence Awards.


    While appreciating the States for their active participation, Shri Durga Shanker Mishra, Secretary, MoHUA shared, “The set of activities planned for Shehri Samriddhi Utsav 2020 would not only provide momentum to the Mission but will also be contributing towards realising the dream of making India a $ 5 trillion economy”.


    Speaking about the workshop, Shri Sanjay Kumar, Joint Secretary cum Mission Director, DAY-NULM shared, “While the SSU 2019 focussed on reduction of the social vulnerabilities of the urban poor; the focus of SSU 2020 is on activities which seek to reduce the occupational vulnerabilities of the urban poor.”


    An MoU was signed between DAY-NULM and Flipkart for on- boarding of high-quality products made by Self Help Groups (SHGs) on Flipkart portal. The initiative looks to build capacities of the women entrepreneurs in the skills of branding, digital marketing and financial management in addition to providing access to a wider customer base to locally made products of SHGs.


    Another MoU was signed between DAY-NULM and Indian Plumbing Skills Council to give boost to skill development in plumbing sector. The initiative seeks to train 30,000 candidates in different job roles of plumbing sector by March 2020 as part of SSU.


    Good performing States in implementation of DAY-NULM in 18-19 were felicitated. These included Andhra Pradesh- Winner, Kerala – Ist Runner up & Gujarat – 2nd Runner Up. Himachal Pradesh and Arunachal Pradesh were felicitated as winner and Ist Runner up respectively amongst the Himalayan and North Eastern States.


    Aiming at protection of interests of urban street vendors, a detailed session on Street Vendors’ Act and its effective implementation was also undertaken.


    Shehri Samriddhi Utsav is a platform of making a more significant, out of the ordinary impact in the lives of the most vulnerable and the poorest of the poor urban natives.


    About DAY-NULM


    Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana – National Urban Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NULM) is one of the flagship schemes of Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs that works towards alleviating urban poverty through strong community institutions, skill training, access to affordable credit for self-employment, support for street vendors and provision of permanent shelters for the urban homeless.


    ******


    RJ/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1598074) Visitor Counter : 678
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi