      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President calls for inculcating scientific temper from young age
      
      Science, technology and innovation are key drivers for economic & social progress: VP
      
      Research and inventions must go beyond labs and solve common man’s problems: VP
      
      India historically a lighthouse of knowledge: VP
      
      VP addresses 27th edition of National Children’s Science Congress
      
      Asks children to eat healthy and focus on physical fitness

      Posted On: 30 DEC 2019 6:27PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu today called for inculcating scientific temper and nurturing the spirit of inquisitiveness among the children from a young age as science provides answers to challenging problems and contributes to the technological progress of a nation.


    Addressing the 27th edition of the National Children’s Science Congress in Thiruvanathapuram, he said that scientific thinking involves curiosity, reasoning, and open-mindedness. “Science education will motivate children to seek truth without any bias or prejudice. It will make children to rely on analysis, questioning and reasoning before arriving at a judgment”, he added.


    Observing that the Science Congress was a platform for the young children to interact with scientists and develop a scientific attitude, he said that such events would encourage students to develop prototypes and models on aspects such as renewable energy, pollution and cleanliness. “You must take science and technology as a mission. Innovation must be a culture”, he added.


    Pointing out that we are living in an era of unprecedented technological change, Shri Naidu described science, technology and innovation as the key drivers of economic and social development. “Innovative and appropriate technologies can ensure steady improvements in living conditions and ensure rising incomes”, he added.


    The Vice President told the child prodigies in science that India can make a true impact on global innovation in the years to come with their intellectual contributions in innovation and creativity.


    Stressing that Science and technology will be an important factor in transforming India into a developed nation, he told the young scientific minds to develop curiosity, knowledge, core competence, determination, perseverance and the courage to pursue their dreams for inventions and to make path-breaking discoveries.


    Emphasizing that advancements in Science and Technology will be of no use if they remain in laboratories, he said that research and inventions must go beyond labs and try to solve the problems faced by the common people. “You must constantly come up with innovative solutions to tackle the most pressing problems of our times”, he told the students.


    Referring to the ill-effects of climate change and global warming, Shri Naidu said “We not only have to find sustainable solutions but we must protect and preserve nature”. He also called upon the young innovators to come up with the solutions to problems faced by the agriculture.


    Asking the young children to draw inspiration from the words of the former President A P J Abdul Kalam, he said that historically India has been a lighthouse of knowledge and added that innumerable legendary scientists of ancient India have enriched the world’s scientific treasure. “We need to take pride in their achievements and share the knowledge we have inherited from them with the entire world”, he added.


    Shri Naidu expressed concerns over the increasing incidences of non-communicable diseases due to changing lifestyle specially among the youth.


    Stressing that ‘only a healthy nation can be a wealthy nation’, VP urged the youngsters to eat healthy and focus on physical fitness alongwith the intellectual development.


    The Vice President said that he was filled with joy to see the young and igniting minds of India showcasing their small but significant research activities.


    Shri. Arif Mohammed Khan, Governor of Kerala, Shri V K Prasanth MLA, Cardinal Baselios Cleemis, Prof Sudheer and other dignitaries were present at the event.


    Around 658 student scientists from 28 states, Nine Union Territories besides 15 from various Indian Schools in the Middle East are showcasing their prototypes, projects, and inventions at the Science Congress.


    Following is the full text of the speech –


    “I am delighted to be present here at the National Children's Science Congress, the flagship programme of National Council for Science and Technology Communication (NCSTC), Department of Science & Technology (DST), Government of India.


    I understand that the primary objective of the National Children’s Science Congress is to make a forum available to children both from formal and informal school systems, to exhibit their creativity and more particularly their ability to solve a societal problems using science.


    I am happy to note the theme of the Children’s Science Congress 2019 is “Science, Technology and Innovation for a Clean, Green and Healthy Nation”.


    I was filled with joy to see the young and igniting minds of India who have gathered here to showcase their small but significant research activities. My best wishes to all the participants who are taking part in this event.


    The innovative mind of the youth is the most powerful resource on the earth in this knowledge era. You have the invaluable treasure of creativity and imagination within you. You should draw inspiration from the words of former President APJ Abdul Kalam, who had said “Dream, dream, dream.


    Dream transforms into thoughts. Thoughts result in action” in the ‘Ignited Minds’.


    I was informed that around 658 child prodigies from 28 states, Nine Union Territories and 15 from various Indian Schools in the Middle East are participating in the event.


    Dear Children,


    Historically, India has been a lighthouse of knowledge. Our Ayurveda system of medicine can be traced back to 5000 BC, Indus Valley Civilization had irrigation and sewerage systems as far back as 2500 BC. By 200 BC, South India was making high quality wrought iron and, of course, the invention of ‘zero’ and contributions to astronomy are well known.


    Let us look at some of the invaluable contributions made by our ancestors. Aryabhatta’s ‘Aryabhattiyam’ is considered a seminal work; equally pioneering work is Panchasidhhantika of Varahamihira. Of course, Charaka and Sushruta are known as Fathers of Surgery. Rishi Kanad first spoke of “anu’’ (atom) as an indestructible particle of matter in Kanada Sutra, while Patanjali is considered as Father of Yoga. There are innumerable legendary scientists of ancient India who have enriched the world’s scientific treasure.


    We need to take pride in their achievements and share the knowledge we have inherited from them with the entire world.


    India’s contribution to science in modern era is also quite significant. In early 20th century, Prof. Satyendranath Bose’s ‘BOSON’, Prof. Subramanian Chandrasekhar’s ‘Chandrasekhar limit’, Sir C.V. Raman’s ‘Raman effect’ and Prof. Jagadeesh Chandra Bose’s ‘wireless communication’ have earned global recognition. As a matter of fact, there is no dearth of talent in India. The only thing required is to create the right ecosystem for innovation to thrive.


    The Children Science Congress, an important event of the Indian Science Congress, is organized to provide a unique opportunity to children in the age group of 10-17 years to use their scientific knowledge and creatively address the problems identified by them.


    Students must be made aware that the real purpose of science is to make people’s lives comfortable and happy.


    It is important to inculcate scientific temper in our young minds which will go a long way in the technological progress of this country.


    We must understand that advancements in Science and technology and innovation will be of no use if they remain in laboratories.


    All our research and inventions must go beyond labs and try to solve the problems faced by the common people.


    Events such as these are important to encourage students to develop prototypes, projects and models on aspects such as renewable energy, pollution and cleanliness.


    I appreciate the organizers and the young students for presenting models on themes such as Ecosystem, Health, Hygiene and Sanitation and Waste to Wealth.


    I was informed that the Department of Science and Technology (DST) announced that they would prepare a data base of the participants at the National Children's Science Congress (NCSC) and also would showcase success stories to motivate the children.


    Dear children,


    The world is facing the ill-effects of climate change and global warming. We need not only need to find sustainable solutions but we must protect and preserve nature.


    I am happy to note the theme of the Children’s Science Congress 2019 is “Science, Technology and Innovation for a Clean, Green and Healthy Nation”.


    Dear students,


    Science provides answers to challenging problems. Hence, science education is important for the development and growth of a nation.


    Scientific thinking involves Curiosity, Reasoning, and Open-mindedness. This science congress is a platform for the young children to understand scientific principles and interact with scientists and develop a scientific attitude.


    We are living in an era of unprecedented technological change. This is an age of innovation and scientific temperament from a young age will lay the foundation for innovative thinking.Science education will make children to seek truth without any bias or prejudice. It will make children to rely on analysis, questioning and reasoning before arriving at a judgement.


    Science, technology and innovation are key drivers of economic and social development. Science, technology and innovation can contribute to the sustainable and inclusive development. Innovative and appropriate technologies can ensure steady improvements in living conditions and ensure rising incomes.


    In the global innovation landscape, India continues to be the most innovative economy in the Central and Southern Asia. India can make a true impact on global innovation in the years to come only with your intellectual contributions in innovation and creativity.


    Dear friends,


    Science and technology will be an important factor in transforming India into a developed nation. The young scientific minds assembled here represent a cross section of the 300 million youth of the nation. You should all develop curiosity, knowledge, core competence, determination, perseverance and the courage to pursue your dreams for inventions and make path-breaking discoveries.


    I take this opportunity to wish you all a brilliant and bright future.


    My best wishes for the success of the scientific pursuits all the participants from different States. Let me also take this opportunity to wish you all a happy and prosperous New Year 2020.


    Jai Hind!”


    ****


    VRRK/MS/MSY/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1598007) Visitor Counter : 417
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Urdu , Hindi