      Ministry of Education

      HRD Minister lauds the exceptional performance of Kendriya Vidyalayas at KVS Rashtriya Ekta Shivir-Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat
      
      KVS is a role model for School Education in India: Shri Prakash Javadekar

      Posted On: 01 NOV 2018 6:00PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of HRD Sh. Prakash Javadekar visited ‘KVS Rashtriya Ekta Shivir-EK Bharat Shreshth Bharat’ at Vigyan Bhawan Lawns on the second day of the Shivir today. While addressing the gathering the minister applauded the attempts of Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan. He said that Unity in Diversity is the speciality of India and KVS has very well presented this speciality in this three day event.


    The HRD Minister expressed his happiness and satisfaction at the wondrous ways in which KVS is creating an environment which promotes learning between states by sharing best practices and experiences. He said such ventures of KVS instill mutual respect and acceptance for diversity of ethos, culture, food etc. He re-iterated that Unity in Diversity is indeed the strength of KVS and of the Nation. He stressed upon learning 5 to 6 words of another language of a state daily by the students, this will help in materializing the concept of Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat on ground. Minister also lauded the exceptional performances of Kendriya Vidyalayas in every field. He said that KVS is a role model for not only government schools, but also for private schools too. He mentioned the highest CBSE results obtained by KVS in class XII which was around 98% this year.


    Commissioner KVS, Sh. Santosh Kumar Mall greeted the Chief Guest Shri Prakash Javadekar with Green Welcome by gifting him a plant. In his address he said that every KV is a mini India in itself, because we have children from various states studying under one roof. He also highlighted some major schemes of KVS going before the august gathering.


    Students of Guwahati region presented the Haryanvi Dance and Students of Delhi Region presented the Egyptian Dance on the occasion. Vote of thanks was proposed by Shri U N Khaware, Additional Commissioner (Acad).


    This ongoing KVS event will culminate on 2 nd November at Vigyan Bhawan Lawns, where Secretary (SE&L) MHRD Ms. Rina Ray will grace the occasion as Chief Guest in Closing Ceremony.


    The Concept


    The very concept of National Integration Camp is unique in many ways. The 25 regions of KVS cover 25 Indian States and 25 Countries altogether in terms of the cultural heritage- Dance, Music, Song, and Socio-Economic progress. This mega-event is a broad platform for the students to display their creativity, originality, artistic skills, etc. It gives them an opportunity to know about the culture, tradition, art and architecture of not only the other states of India but of the various countries of the world. In the process of satiating the thirst for information, they overcome many challenges and linguistic and geographical barriers and awaken a strong sense of national pride and widen their horizons with a better cosmopolitan outlook. In nut-shell, the programme not only encompasses performing arts but also provides a glimpse of the processes through which they learn and acquire knowledge.


    This year following competitions will be conducted during KVS National Integration Camp – “Ek Bharat Shresth Bharat” & “Lit-Fest”


    “Ek Bharat Shresth Bharat”

     1. Group Song
     2. Group Dance ( State & International)
     3. Theatre
     4. On the Spot Painting
     5. Solo Singing
     6. Solo Classical Dance
     7. Display of Artefacts

    “LitFest”

     1. Debate (Hindi & English)
     2. Quiz
     3. Sanskrit Shloka Recitation
     4. Hindi KaavyaPaath
     5. English Elocution
     6. Creative writing
     7. Spell-Bee

    This year 1600 students with 175 escorts are coming together to be the part of this mega event. The unique feature of this event is that the students of one part of the nation exhibit the cultural diversity of the other part of the country and the world.


    KVS National Social Science Exhibition–cum-National Integration Camp is organized at School, Cluster, Regional & National level every year. All the 25 regions of KVS are allotted one State different from their own State and one Country. The students prepare projects/exhibits on the culture, customs, dress, crops, economy, climate etc of the State and of the Country allotted to them. The States and Countries are exchanged/rotated each year.


    *****


    NB/AKJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551621) Visitor Counter : 781
    
    
    
    
    

7.