      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Mantri Launches ‘Mission Raksha Gyan Shakti’
      Posted On: 27 NOV 2018 6:03PM by PIB Delhi


    Raksha Mantri Smt Nirmala Sitharaman has formally launched ‘Mission Raksha Gyan Shakti’, here today. The event showcased salient inventions and innovations achieved by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs) and Ordnance Factories (OFs) which have resulted in successful filing of Intellectual Property Right (IPR) applications. Smt Sitharaman also felicitated some of the scientists, who invented and innovated useful products for the nation. A panel discussion was held with participation of Chairman and Managing Directors of all DPSUs to formulate a strategy for the future in this regard.


    While addressing the audience,Raksha Mantri lauded the efforts of Department of Defence Production and Directorate General Quality Assurance (DGQA) for focused efforts in spreading awareness about IPR, thus promoting a culture of innovation and creation of Intellectual Property. Smt Sitharaman highlighted that while India has always been a knowledge hub since ancient times, however, due to lack of awareness on modern legal framework for protection of IP rights, our knowledge and creativity have often not been utilised to its full potential. Delivering the keynote address, Secretary Defence Production Dr Ajay Kumar highlighted the need to migrate from the culture of seeking Transfer of Technology (ToT) from foreign sources to generating Intellectual Property in India, to achieve the goal of self-reliance in Defence sector.


    The IPR has emerged as a key ingredient of an ecosystem which stimulates innovation and ingenuity. An IP Facilitation Cell was established in April this year which has worked tirelessly to achieve ambitious targets of training 10,000 personnel of OFB and DPSUs on IPR and to facilitate filing of at least 1,000 new IPR applications.


    As part of the ongoing initiatives to enhance self-reliance in defence, the Department of Defence Production has instituted a new framework titled ‘Mission Raksha GyanShakti’ which aims to provide a boost to the IPR culture in indigenous defence industry. The Directorate General of Quality Assurance (DGQA) has been entrusted with the responsibility of coordinating and implementing the programme. The event brought out that the end objective of ‘Mission Raksha Gyan Shakti’ is to inculcate IP culture in Indian defence manufacturing ecosystem.


    The event was attended by Secretary, Department of Defence R&D and Chairman DRDO Dr G Satheesh Reddy, senior officers of the three Services, Chairman Ordnance Factories Board and Managing Directors of all DPSUs, amongst a large number of other dignitaries.


    AA/Nampi/DK/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554034) Visitor Counter : 1991