      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Distribution of nutritional and Hygienic food to people
      Posted On: 02 FEB 2018 4:32PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government is implementing the National Food Security Act, 2013 (NFSA), which provides for coverage of 75% of the rural and 50% of the urban population to receive foodgrains at highly subsidized prices of Rs.1/2/3 per kg for coarse grains/wheat/rice respectively. The Act is being implemented in all the States/UTs and 80.72 crore persons are covered for receiving highly subsidized foodgrains. The Act also has provision for nutritional support to pregnant women and lactating mothers and children upto 14 years of age.


    Further, for safe and healthy food, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has developed science-based standards for various categories of food products under the Food Safety and Standards (Food Products Standards and Food Additives) Regulations, 2011 in order to ensure availability of safe and wholesome food in the country.


    FSSAI has also operationalized draft regulations on fortification of food articles that include standards for fortification of food staples - oil, milk, double fortified salt, wheat flour and rice, and also introduced +F Logo for fortified foods. To ensure that the most vulnerable sections of the society receive appropriate and timely nutrition, the use of fortified wheat flour, oil and double fortified salt have been mandated under Mid-Day-Meal and Integrated Child Development Schemes.


    To promote awareness among consumers on Nutrition, mandatory labeling requirements for pre-packaged foods, including list of ingredients, nutritional information, energy value in Kilo calorie etc. is prescribed under Food Safety and Standards (Packaging and Labeling) Regulations, 2011.


    FSSAI has also undertaken ‘Safe and Nutritious Food (SNF)’ initiative to promote awareness towards consumption of safe and nutritious food.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, Shri C.R. Chaudhary today in Rajya Sabha.


    *****


    AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1518939) Visitor Counter : 189