      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Odisha, Chandigarh record big wins in Boys Hockey Competition
      Posted On: 01 FEB 2018 4:02PM by PIB Delhi


    It rained goals in the boys hockey competition of the Khelo India School Games as 37 goals were scored in four matches with Odisha smashing 14 while conceding three against Rajasthan at the Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium, New Delhi on Thursday. Chandigarh drubbed Delhi 8-0 to complete the day’s proceedings.


    In the first Pool A match Punjab drowned Haryana 4-2 while in Pool B Uttar Pradesh accounted for Karnataka 5-1.


    The Odisha team, comprising mostly talented players from Rourkela’s Panposh hostel, displayed awesome fire power to decimate Rajasthan and in the process made themselves a strong contender for the title.


    Playing in the second Pool A match, Odisha chalked up a 5-1 lead at the half time and then pumped in nine more in the second session to take their tally to 14. Rajasthan pulled back two more in this session to reduce the gap.


    The match turned out to be no contest with Odisha boys scoring at will. Shushil Dhanwar, Sudip Chirmako scored three goals each, Amandeep Lakra contributed two while Bikash Kujur, Laban Lugun, George Tirkey, Samir Ekka, Matiyas Dang, Birsa Xalxo chipped in one goal each.


    In the morning, Punjab looked a dominating side against Haryana as they took a solid 3-0 lead in the first session.


    The winners surged ahead in the 5 th minute through Prateek Sharma who scored off a penalty corner. Angadbir made it 2-0 and then Prateek scored his second and team’s third goal just before interval.


    Haryana came back strongly in the next half and scored two goals through Abhimanyu and Pankaj to narrow the lead, but three minutes before the end Sudarshan scored the fourth goal to seal the match .


    Karnataka started strongly against Uttar Pradesh with R.Kariappa Althanda giving them the lead in the 6 th minute. The lead lasted barely six minutes as Uttar Pradesh hit back with ferocity. Ali Akhtar drew the parity and Amit Yadav made 2-1.


    In the second half, Saurabh Khushwaha (2) and Arun Sahani (1) scored to enable their team earn full points.


    Chandigarh thrashed Delhi 8-0. For the winners who led 2-0 at the break the goal scorers were Amandeep (3) and Hashim, Sukhman, Arashdeep,Harpreet and Harpant Preet (one each ).


    Boys: Pool A:


    Punjab beat Haryana 4-2


    Goal Scorers for Punjab : Prateek Sharma (2) Angadbir Singh, Sudarshan Singh (one each);


    For Haryana : Abhimanyu, Pankaj (one each)


    Odisha beat Rajasthan 14-3


    Goal Scorers for Odisha : (Shushil Dhanwar , Sudip Chirmako - 3each; Amandeep Lakra (2) Bikash Kujur, Laban Lugun, George Tirkey, Samir Ekka Matiyas Dang, Birsa Xalxo one each);


    For Rajasthan : Shivam (2) Pawan Kumar Jat (1)


    UP v Karnataka 5-1


    Goal scorers for UP : (Saurabh Kushwaha (2), Ali Akhtar, Amit K Yadab, Arun Sahani)


    Goal scorer for Karnataka : R Kariappa Althanda


    Chandigarh v Delhi 8-0


    Goal scorers for Chandigarh : Amandeep (3) Hashim, Sukhman, Arashdeep, Harpreet and Harpant Preet


    ******


    PP/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1518927) Visitor Counter : 70