      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Environment Minister Terms Budget As All-Inclusive, Growth Oriented New India Budget
      
      “Special Scheme to Address Air Pollution in Delhi-NCR Region to Support Efforts of Neighbouring States”: Dr. Harsh Vardhan

      Posted On: 01 FEB 2018 4:53PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Environment, Forest & Climate Change and Science & Technology, Dr. Harsh Vardhan has termed the General Budget 2018-19 presented in Parliament today as “A growth-oriented New India Budget for Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas.” In a statement here today, the Minister said that the Budget gives further muscle to Modiji's fight against corruption will bring down the rural-urban divide. He said that it is an all-inclusive budget and interests of every section of the society have been taken care of.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan referred to the special scheme to be implemented to address Air Pollution in Delhi-NCR Region in a bid to support efforts of the governments of Haryana, Punjab, UP and Delhi. “Machinery required for institutional management of crop residue will be subsidized. Our scientists are also working to develop a viable process to handle stubble”, the Minister added.


    The Minister emphasised that no earlier government thought of amending the vintage Indian Forest Act and give some relief to small and marginal bamboo farmers, mainly from the North East. “Removal of bamboo from the definition of ‘tree’ was historic; the amendment was made after 90 years, which would now legally help cultivation and monetisation of bamboo through Restructured National Bamboo Mission and help the rural economy, especially in the North Eastern region,” Dr. Vardhan said.


    The Minister mentioned that DST will launch a Mission on Cyber Physical Systems to support establishment of centres of excellence. “Allocation doubled for Digital India programme to Rs. 3073 crore in 2018-19”, stated Dr. Harsh Vardhan.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan also added that the Budget pushes Innovation Ecosystem to the forefront, with investment in research, training and skilling in Robotics, Artificial Intelligence, Digital Manufacturing, Big Data Analysis, Quantum Communication and Internet of Things will give an opportunity to Indian computer professionals to take on competition in these sunlight areas.


    ***


    KSP/HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1518656) Visitor Counter : 927
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi