      Ministry of Coal

      Health Facilities Available to Coal Mine Workers
      Posted On: 02 FEB 2018 6:31PM by PIB Delhi


    The focus of welfare activities of Coal India Limited (CIL) is welfare of its employees and their families. The subsidiaries are paying great attention to the welfare of their workers. Every effort is being made to improve the living conditions of coal miners. In order to create a sense of belonging and involvement in work, top priority is given by the management in the following areas:


    HOUSING FACILITIES


    To provide shelter is the main thrust area of the organization. CIL has achieved the goal of “Shelter for All” for workers with landmark of 100% housing satisfaction for fulfilling the basic needs of the workers.


    WATER SUPPLY


    One of the major welfare activities of the company is to provide clean drinking water to the employees and their families. In this direction many water supply schemes have been taken up. Supply of Water through natural resource like river, tank etc are supplemented by underground mine water after proper treatment.


    EDUCATION FACILITIES


    The primary responsibility of providing educational facilities lies with the State Government. However, the subsidiary companies of CIL have been providing financial assistance and infrastructure facilities to certain schools like DAV, Kendriya Vidyalaya, Delhi Public School etc and other educational institutions run by the State Government to provide quality education to the employees’ children. In addition, financial assistance and infrastructure facilities are also provided to certain privately managed schools and other educational institutions by the subsidiary coal companies functioning in and around coalfield areas.


    CIL is also providing various types of scholarship, cash award and financial assistance to the children of employees.


    MEDICAL FACILITIES


    CIL and its subsidiaries are extending medical facilities to the employees and their families through various medical establishments from the dispensary level to the central and apex hospitals in different parts of the coalfields. Special emphasis is also given on occupational health, HIV /AIDS awareness programme.


    STATUTORY WELFARE FACILITIES


    In accordance with the provision of the Mines Act, 1952 and rules & regulations framed thereunder, subsidiaries of CIL are maintaining various statutory welfare facilities for the coal mines such as canteen, rest shelters and pit-head baths.


    NON-STATUTORY WELFARE MEASURE


    In order to supply essential commodities and consumer goods at a cheaper rate in the collieries, Central Co-operative and Primary Co-operative Stores are functioning in the coalfield areas of CIL. In addition, Co-operative Credit Societies are also functioning in the coal companies.


    BANKING FACILITIES


    The Management of Coal companies are providing infrastructure facilities to the various nationalized banks for opening their branches and extension counters in the coalfields for the benefit of coal workers. Workers are educated to draw their salaries from the banks and they are also encouraged to practice thrift for the benefit of their families.


    HOLIDAY HOMES


    Coal India Ltd. has maintained Holiday Homes in important spots across the country.


    It is not mandatory for the Coal Mine Workers to undergo Medical Checkup annually. Coal mine workers have to undergo medical checkup every 5 years as per provisions of Mine’s Rule, 1955. Those who are more than 45 years old have to undergo medical checkup after every 3 years as per recommendation of 10 th Conference on Safety in Mines.


    Coal Mine workers and their eligible dependent family members are getting all types of medical facilities free of cost through hospitals and dispensaries owned and maintained by CIL spread across all the coalfields areas. In case of super-specialty treatment and non-availability of treatment in company hospitals, coal mine workers and their family members are referred to private hospitals empanelled by CIL.


    This information was given by the Minister of Railways and Coal Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    SBS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1518984) Visitor Counter : 130