      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Shri Ram Vilas Paswan congratulated Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley for presenting an inclusive and historic budget
      Posted On: 01 FEB 2018 5:54PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Shri Ram Vilas Paswan said that Union Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley has presented an inclusive and historic budget under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. Shri Paswan said that budget 2018-19 is targeted for empowerment of farmers, youth, women and all categories of society. The life standard of common people will definitely improve with this budget.


    Shri Paswan said that the production of food grains has reached the record level. More than 300 Million Tons of fruit and 275 Million Tons of food grains have been produced during the year 2017-18. Our government has made continuous efforts for the welfare of farmers. These efforts have been continued in this budget. The income of farmers will increase with the provisions made in this budget for providing minimum support price 1½ times of the cost.


    He further stated that the Government has committed for construction 51 lakh new houses, electricity connection to 4 crore poor people, construction of 2 crore toilets, free gas connection to 8 crore poor women. It will benefit the poorest persons of society, which will contribute in the development and create opportunities of employment.


    The scheme for medical reimbursement for providing rupees 5 lakh per family to 10 crore families is the largest health scheme of the world, is a welcoming step indeed.


    Adequate provisions have been made for infrastructure i.e. roads and electricity, extension of railways, improvement of education and creation of jobs. In the field of IT, 5 lakh wi-fi hotspot for the benefit of 5 crore rural people will prove to be a revolutionary step.


    Shri Paswan said that the government has made no changes in the rates of food grains to be distributed under the Food Security scheme. The poor people are getting wheat @ Rs. 2/-, rice @ Rs. 3 and coarse grains @ Rs. 1/-. Transparency has been brought by the use of IT in the Public Distribution System. Seeding of ration cards with Aadhaar has been made to ensure that the food grains should reach the right beneficiary. Shri Paswan said that the scheme for providing food grains to 84 crore people has been successfully implemented throughout the country under the able leadership of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. Shri Paswan assured that the prices of essential commodities will not be allowed to increase in any condition.


    Paswan further stated that the overall, this budget is beneficial for farmers, women and poor, especially for persons belonging to Scheduled Tribe. I again congratulate Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley for presenting a historic budget under the guidance of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


    *****


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1518735) Visitor Counter : 561
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu