      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      MoU signed for Twin tower trade centre in Guwahati
      
      WTC to be a trendsetter for being a major trading hub and increase economic Interlinkages : Puri

      Posted On: 02 FEB 2018 5:17PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State (I/C) for Housing and Urban Affairs has stated that the government has enacted a pro-active “Act East Policy” to elevate and harness the strengths of North-East India and reduce the isolation of the region by improving all round connectivity and civic infrastructure. The Government of India has planned an investment to the tune of approx. Rs 45,000 crore for the development of India's North-Eastern regions bordering China, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Myanmar. He was speaking at the MOU signing ceremony on Twin Tower Trade Centre between the Government of Assam & National Building Construction Corporation in Guwahati today.


    Addressing those present, Shri Puri informed that Guwahati is one of the 100 Smart cities chosen in a determined bid to recast the urban landscape of the country. It is being established as a Regional Hub for the North East India and a World Class Guwahati City by anchoring and reorienting the city towards its natural assets. The proposed Twin Tower Trade Centre will definitively add to this transformational plan. “I am truly excited by the prospects and possibilities this trade centre will generate once established and made operational, by connecting us with South East Nations and being a major trading hub thereby increasing economic interlinkages”, he added.


    “I do realize, that a vision can only be realized when we have the determination to do our very best, take the right decisions and pursue a mix of policies that create the most appropriate environment to facilitate the realisation of that vision. I am aware that NBCC, which comes under my Ministry, is fully equipped with technology, technical capacity, design and intuition to implement this illustrious project and shall proactively work along the lines of sustainable and quality development and deliver the project to Govt of Assam on schedule”, he further added.


    RJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1518956) Visitor Counter : 186