      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Celebration of World Wetlands Day at Deepor Beel in Assam
      Posted On: 02 FEB 2018 5:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Science & Technology and Earth Science, Dr. Harsh Vardhan has said that Wetlands play a vital role for the cities and for the humanity. “They serve as a source of drinking water; reduce flooding and the vegetation of wetlands filters domestic and industrial waste and improves water quality. Save them, save humanity”, the Minister said on the occasion of World Wetlands Day today.


    In a message on the World Wetlands Day 2018, Dr. Harsh Vardhan said, “On this World Wetlands Day, I appeal to all of you to put your heart and soul into developing a strong movement for “Green Good Deeds” in this country. I think this is our Green Social Responsibility towards the society and the nation and of course for this whole planet. It is our solemn duty to protect the rights of the children, who are yet to take birth. It is our duty also to ensure that we give back to our children an environment which is clean and green.”


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan interac ting with school students at his residence today


    On the occasion, Dr Vardhan also interacted with hundreds of school and college students, who came to observe the Day with him. An exhibition of posters on “World Wetlands Day” was also put up by National Museum of Natural History, under the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change.


    The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) in collaboration with Department of Forests, Assam government is organising the national-level celebration of World Wetlands Day (WWD), 2018 at Deepor Beel, a Ramsar Site in Guwahati, today. The 2018 theme ‘Wetlands for a sustainable urban future’ marks the role of healthy wetlands play in making cities and towns liveable, through their role in groundwater recharge, buffering floods, filtering wastewater, enhancing landscape aesthetics, providing income generation opportunities and ultimately supporting well-being.


    Secretary, MoEF&CC, Shri. C.K. Mishra, delivered the keynote address at the event. The event is being preceded by a painting competition amongst school children. A technical workshop on Wetlands is also being organized wherein experts will deliberate on strategies for conservation and wise use of wetlands and their resources.


    Every year, February 2 is celebrated as World Wetlands Day, to mark the date of adoption of Ramsar Convention on Wetlands. The Convention on Wetlands, called the Ramsar Convention, is an intergovernmental treaty that provides the framework for national action and international cooperation for the conservation and wise use of wetlands and their resources. The Convention was adopted in 1971 at the Iranian City of Ramsar. India is a party to the Convention since 1982, and committed to the Ramsar approach of wise use of wetlands.


    The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, as the nodal Ministry for wetlands conservation has been supporting the State Governments/ Union Territories since 1985, in design and implementation of Management Action Plans for conservation and management of wetlands including Ramsar sites. Financial and technical assistance has been provided to State Governments for implementation of Management Action Plans for over 140 wetlands.


    According to National Disaster Management Authority, over 40 million hectares which means 12% of land in India is prone to floods and river erosion. Wetlands in India account for 4.7% of the total geographical area.


    The Environment Ministry also has urged people from all walks of society to use World Wetlands Day as an opportunity to promote awareness on the significance of wetlands.


    ***


    KSP/HK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1518957) Visitor Counter : 684