      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      All the 640 districts of the country to be covered by media and advocacy under BBBP Scheme
      Posted On: 08 FEB 2018 6:23PM by PIB Delhi


    Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme is currently being implemented in 161 districts across the country. The Government of India has decided to expand the BBBP scheme and covering all the 640 districts (as per census 2011) in the Country, through Multi -sectoral intervention in 244 districts in addition to existing 161 districts and Alert District Media & Advocacy in 235 districts.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
S.N.  State/UT  No. of districts with existing Advocacy and Media Plan and Multi Sectoral Action  No. of new Districts for Advocacy and Media Plan and Multi Sectoral Action  No. of new Districts for Advocacy and Media Plan  Total no. of Districts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
      Total     161                                                                               244                                                                         235                                               640                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      

    BBBP aims to address the issues of declining Child Sex Ratio (CSR) and enabling Girl Child education . Towards this purpose, multi-sectoral interventions are carried out in selected BBBP districts. Apart from this, an awareness campaign is carried out for creating awareness and visibility about the criticality of the issue of declining Child Sex Ratio in the country. The overall objective of the Scheme is to improve declining Child Sex Ratio in the country and create an enabling environment for the education of girl child, which requires long-term attitudinal change. Scheme has been received well and in the last three years, several local innovative interventions have been demonstrated by the districts with support from Departments of WCD, Health & Education. There is a strong emphasis on mindset change through training, sensitization, awareness raising and community mobilization on ground . The latest reports as per HMIS data of MoHFW for 161 BBBP districts indicate that for the time period between April-March, 2015-16 & 2016- 17, an improving trend in Sex Ratio at Birth (SRB) is visible in 104 districts, 119 districts have reported progress in first trimester registration against the reported Anti Natal Care registrations and 146 districts have reported improvement in institutional deliveries.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Women and Child Development, Dr. Virendra Kumar in reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    NB/UD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1519950) Visitor Counter : 168
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil