      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Punjab- Odisha final in Boys Hockey as Jharkhand meet Haryana in Girls final at KISG
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2018 8:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Fancied Odisha had to wage a grim battle before ousting Uttar Pradesh via penalty shootout to set up a summit clash with Punjab in the boys hockey competition of the Khelo India School Games at Dhyan Chand National Stadium on Wednesday.


    The second semi final turned out to be one sided affair with Punjab whipping Chandigarh 5-2.


     1. the morning session during the Girls semi-finals, Subhani Bhengra struck once in each half as Jharkhand piped a spirited Punjab 2-1 to set up a title clash with Haryana. In the first semi final, Haryana trailing 0-2 staged a remarkable come back to overpower fancied Chandigarh 4-3. Interestingly Haryana had beaten Jharkhand 4-2 in the first league match of the competition.


    The finals will be played on Thursday.


    In the first Boys semi-final, the teams were level 1-1 at the end of schedule time during which Akhtar Ali converted a stroke to put Uttar Pradesh ahead in the 23rd minute. A minute into the second session Samir Ekka drew parity for Odisha. The teams failed to score in the remaining times.In the penalty shootout Odisha emerge victorious 3-2. For the winners Laban Lugun and Sunit Lakra failed to score in their first and fifth attempts respectively while Sunil Jojo, Sushil Dhanwar and Sudeep Chirmako converted their chances. For the losers Saurabh Kushwaha and Arun Sahani scored as Uttam Singh, Amit Yadav and Akhtar Ali failed.In a fast paced semi final, Uttar Pradesh gave their fancied rivals run for their money and in the first quarter of the half virtually dominated the mid field. Odisha made some lightning moves through the flanks but all their efforts were foiled by goal keeper Vikas Gaur.


    Uttar Pradesh piled pressure and which paid off as Odisha conceded a stroke after their defender blocked a ball by foot on the goal line and Akhtar Ali scored. However They could not defend the lead for long as Samir equalized in the 36 the minute. After that Odisha went flat out on attack forcing their rivals to retreat. However they failed to make use of any of the six penalty corners that came their way. Goal keeper Vikas also frustrated Odisha by bringing some super saves. Uttar Pradesh had a chance to clinch the match in the 70 th minute but Suarabh Khushwa failed to deflect the ball into the empty cage.


    “We had an upper hand, but could not translate that advantage into goals,” said Odisha coach Sanjib Kerketta. He added, “Once game went into penalty shootout I knew we would win. We are good in it.”. “We should have converted penalty corners” he said, but hastened to add that UP goalkeeper was very good, saying, “He blocked many chances.”


    UP coach Rahul Singh said that his boys wilted under pressure. “After the equalizer, my boys desperately went for a goal but failed and that is when our game collapsed,” he said.


    Punjab outclassed Chandigarh in all departments of the game and led 4-1 at half time. The goal scorers for Punjab were Rahul (2), Agyapal Singh and Angadbir Singh (1 each). Amandeep and Sukhman Singh chipped in with a goal each to reduce the margin for Chandigarh.


    Punjab coach Rupinder Singh lavished praise on his boys saying that they played to a plan. He said, “We were familiar with Chandigarh’s game so we knew what to do. It was a collective team effort” he said adding “defeat against Odisha in the league turned out to be a wake up call for us”


    GIRLS SEMI-FINALS


    Punjab and Jharkhand girls played a fast and combative game worthy of a semifinal. It was a tense match as the two teams battled it out for supremacy. In the end it was Jharkhand who capitalized on the chances that came their way while Punjab missed the opportunities that came their way.


    Punjab had major share of the ball and their forwards dominated the mid-field for most of the times but it was Jharkhand which took the lead in the 21 st minute as unmarked Subhani latching on to a cross, cut past couple of defenders to send the ball home (1-0).But the lead lasted barely six minutes as Punjab fought back to draw parity through captain Baljeet Kaur (1-1). Punjab then had two chances to take the lead but once ball hit the post off a penalty corner then a forward shot over the open goal.


    Jharkhand while defending well kept on making incisive forays and three minutes before the final whistle Subhani struck again to seal the match for her side. A dejected Punjab coach Gurinder S Sangha said “We had a greater share of the ball, the girls played well but it was not our day. It was a fiercely contested game “


    Jharkand coach Pratima Barwa was all praise for her girls saying “we played to a plan and we deserved to win”


    In the morning Chandigarh squandered two goal lead as Haryana rallied from behind to emerge winners. Kirandeep converted a penalty corner in the 21 st minute and three minutes later Akshita Yadav made it 2-0 for Chandigarh.


    Haryana’s retaliation was fast and furious as they reduced the gap in the very next minute through Manju and two minutes before interval drew parity with skipper Sharmila scoring a fine goal. Haryana scored two quick goals in the next half, in the 36 th and 39 th minutes through Sharmila and Anu to make it 4-2. Amritpal reduced the margin for Chandigarh four minutes before the hooter.


    ******


    PP/AD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519691) Visitor Counter : 58
    
    
    
    
    

1.