      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Maharashtra edge ahead in medals tally in Khelo India School Games
      Posted On: 02 FEB 2018 8:45PM by PIB Delhi


    Maharashtra turned in a fine all around performance in athletics, wrestling and swimming with two gold each to edge ahead of Haryana and Karnataka in a tight race for medals honours at the inaugural Khelo India School Games (KISG). All three teams have nine gold each, but Maharashtra had a total of 25 medals as compared to 23 for Haryana and 20 for Karnataka.


    Maharashtra had nine gold, seven silver and nine bronze while Haryana have nine gold, six silver and eighth bronze for 23 medals. Karnataka have nine gold, five silver and six bronze for 20 medals.Delhi with seven gold, Tamil Nadu with four gold and Kerala with three gold followed in that order.


    Maharashtra had a good day in most of the medal events on Friday, while Haryana had a great day in athletics and wrestling. Karnataka managed two more swimming gold on Friday. Uttarakhand’s Anu Kumar and Haryana’s Pooja became double gold medalists in athletics while Nisar Ahmad of Delhi emerged as the fastest boy of the meet, despite running an all-out 100m twice in a span of 20 minutes.


    Delhi sprinter Nisar Ahmad, who had to postpone his training trip to Jamaica in order to compete at the Khelo India School Games, ran the 100m twice in a span of 20 minutes. He was so focused that he did not hear the recall whistle following a false start and he went all out in 10.77 seconds. The race was pushed to 20 minutes later to allow the athletes time to recover.


    After dominating the first day at the pool, Karnataka won just two of the nine gold on offer on Friday. The only other state to win two gold was Maharashtra. Fancied Saloni Dalal and Khushi Dinesh picked the gold for Karnataka, while Maharashtra also picked up two. Delhi, Manipur, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh swimmers won one each.Karnataka swimmers Khushi Dinesh and Saloni Dalal picked up their second gold medals of the meet on the second day of swimming. Khushi claimed her second gold medal in the 200m freestyle event ahead of Delhi’s Annie Jain and Aaryan Bhosle. In the women’s 100m breaststroke event, Saloni Dalal clinched the second gold medal by finishing comfortably ahead of Aaliyah Singh of Uttar Pradesh and Sharon Shaju of Maharashtra.


    In the grueling 400m individual medley Firdoush Kayamkhani representing Delhi dug deep into her reserves to set the pool ablaze with a defining performance when she claimed her second gold.


    The shooting finals also began with Zeena Khitta (DAV Senior Secondary School, Chandigarh) winning the 10m Air Rifle for Girls, while Shahu Mane (St. Xavier’s High School, Kolhapur) won the 10m Air Rifle Boys e vent.


    Top states in the Medals Tally at the end competition on Friday 02.02.2018


    State G-S-B


    Maharashtra 9-7-9-25


    Haryana 9-6-8-23


    Karnataka 9-5-6-20


    Delhi 7-8-8-23


    Tamil Nadu 4-9-7-20


    Kerala 3-7-3-13


    ******


    PP/HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519052) Visitor Counter : 48