      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Dr Harsh Vardhan sets up Mechanism in CSIR to interact with Small-Scale Industry for transfer of Technology from CSIR Labs
      Posted On: 05 FEB 2018 1:22PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Science & Technology Dr Harsh Vardhan has set up a mechanism in CSIR for regular interface with small-scale industry for transfer of technologies from CSIR laboratories. An announcement to this effect was made during an interaction with members of Laghu Udyog Bharati, an all-India organisation of small scale industries here yesterday.


    Dr Harsh Vardhan told Laghu Udyog Bharati representatives that he had also convened an impromptu meeting with the nodal officer and representatives of Laghu Udyog Bharati. Laghu Udyog Bharati has 450 branches and 25,000-member units across the country. Laghu Udyog Bharati leaders led by its National Secretary Sampat Toshniwal told Dr Vardhan that there is a disconnect between CSIR and the small-scale industries and it should be addressed. “A nodal officer in CSIR will coordinate with the small-scale industry and CSIR labs for appropriate technology required by them,”


    CSIR laboratories have patented over 1, 000 processes and technologies, which are available for commercial exploitation. Some of these technologies have been commercialised. In addition, 139 fast track translational research projects are in progress, which will address the needs of the society, that have not been met. CSIR labs are willing to work with user industries to develop applications and products to meet the needs of the market.


    CSIR covers a wide spectrum of science and technology – from radio and space physics, oceanography, earth sciences, geophysics, chemicals, drugs, genomics, biotechnology and nanotechnology to mining, materials, aeronautics, instrumentation, environmental engineering and information technology.


    SSI sector is the largest employment provider in the country, next to agriculture. It contributes almost 40% of the gross industrial value added in the Indian economy.


    ***


    KSP/HK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1519115) Visitor Counter : 260