      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Extreme Weather Events
      Posted On: 02 FEB 2018 4:40PM by PIB Delhi


    “According to the publication “Global Climate Risk Index - 2018” released by the German watch, a non-profit, non-governmental organization, during the 23 rd Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) held at Bonn, Germany in November 2017, India is ranked sixth most affected country in the world in year 2016facing extreme weather events. However, the analysis is not all encompassing and acknowledges that single extreme weather event cannot be attributed to climate change exclusively. There may be other factors at play, which need to be factored in.


    The Government has launched the National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) in June 2008 to deal with the issues related to climate change. NAPCC comprises of eight missions in specific areas of solar energy, enhanced energy efficiency, sustainable habitat, water, sustaining Himalayan ecosystem, Green India, sustainable agriculture and strategic knowledge for climate change. Thirty two States and Union Territories (UTs) have also prepared the State Action Plan on Climate Change consistent with the objectives of NAPCC highlighting State specific issues relating to climate change. In addition, a National Adaptation Fund for Climate Change has been launched by the Government to support adaptation measures of States/UTs.


    Further, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has modernized its observation system by installing a network of doppler weather radars, automatic weather stations, automatic rain gauge stations, etc. for monitoring abnormal weather patterns. IMD has also upgraded its forecasting skills so that advance warning can be provided to concerned agencies to tackle the adverse impacts of extreme weather events”.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Mahesh Sharma in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    HK/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519159) Visitor Counter : 984