      Ministry of Coal

      Coal India Limited’s ‘Grahak Sadak Koyla Vitaran App’ for information about Supply of Coal
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2018 4:22PM by PIB Delhi


    Coal India Limited had launched the ‘Grahak Sadak Koyla Vitaran App’ on 01.11.2017 aimed at benefiting customers that are being supplied coal by road. It is a tool to monitor that the dispatches are made on the fair principle of ‘First in First Out’ and keeps track of all the activities from issuance of Sale Order to physical delivery of coal by road. This shall help to achieve transparency in dispatch operations.


    The main benefits of the App for the customers include easy accessibility of the information at the click of the button, apart from transparency in the system of loading programme and dispatch. The app also helps in logistics planning for lifting of coal in tune with the loading programmes. It further helps in improved planning of procurement, production and stock management by the customers. It also provides date-wise, truck-wise quantity of coal delivered against the Sale Orders and information related to Scheme-wise, Colliery-wise, Grade-wise, customer-wise details of Sale Orders issued during a period. In terms of loading, it provides allotment verses lifting status in details from different sources by truck and summary of the coal dispatch.


    Till October 2017, the movement of coal through road mode was about 93 Million Tonne (MT), which was about 29% of the total coal dispatch of 317 MT. The road dispatch during the current fiscal till October 2017 increased by more than 12 MT as compared to same period of last fiscal. In the last fiscal, till October 2016, about 81 MT of coal was dispatched through road Mode which was about 28% of the total coal dispatch by CIL.


    In order to meet the coal requirement of power houses, different subsidiary Companies of Coal India Limited have offered coal through road mode from available pithead stock to those Plants located within 50 Kms to 60 Kms from the nearest mines.


    This information was given by the Union Minister of Railways and Coal Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ...


    SBS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519489) Visitor Counter : 219
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil