      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Inmates of Gujjar and Bakerwal Hostels from Jammu call on Union Home minister Shri Rajnath Singh
      Posted On: 06 FEB 2018 6:35PM by PIB Delhi


    A group of 50 school children consisting of 25 girls and 25 boys of nomadic Gujjar and Bakerwal community of distant mountainous Jammu region called on Union Home Minister, Shri Rajnath Singh here today. The students are on a Bharat Darshan Tour from 1st to 11th Feb’ 2018, organized by the BSF.


    The children shared their experience of visits to different historical places and thanked the BSF and the Government of India for organizing tours of this nature. These children are selected for Bharat Darshan as a part of intensive civic action programme of the Force in remote and backward areas of the border. This tour is conducted to give them insights into the rich historical, cultural and social profile of the country and the progress made in industrial, Technological and scientific fields. The tour also aims at inculcating in them a sense of pride for the nation.


    As part of the programme, they visited Amber Fort, Albert Hall Museum, Jaigarh Fort, Jantar Mantar and City Palace in Jaipur, Fatehpur Sikri, Taj Mahal and Agra Fort in Agra, Qutub Minar, Lotus Temple, Rashtrapati Bhavan and enjoyed Metro Ride at New Delhi.


    After visiting Delhi historical places, all the children will proceed to Amritsar where they will witness the Retreat Ceremony at Attari Border and also visit the historical places of Amritsar. Thereafter children will back to their homes.


    This is a new initiative of outreach to these communities hailing from Poonch and Rajouri (Jammu & Kashmir) which is in extension of already existing Bharat Darshan Tours for the children from Jammu & Kashmir. It was started as an annual feature in the year 2000.


    Till date 1669 children from J&K have participated in BSF sponsored 59 Bharat Darshan Tours.


    ******


    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519362) Visitor Counter : 93