      Vice President's Secretariat

      India is moving ahead with formula of Reform, Perform and Transform: Vice President
      
      Interacts with Chilean Parliamentary Delegation

      Posted On: 05 FEB 2018 8:22PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that India, which is a largest democracy in the world, is moving ahead with the formula of Reform, Perform and Transform with an able and stable government. He was interacting with the Chilean Parliamentary Delegation led by the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Republic of Chile, Mr. Fidel Espinoza, in New Delhi today.


    The Vice President said that democracy is an important commonality between India and Chile and the parliamentary exchanges hold tremendous importance as they contribute towards strengthening of bilateral ties and understanding. He thanked India-Chile parliamentary friendship group of the Chamber of Deputies led by Ms. Loreto Carvajal for sponsoring the first ever celebration of the International Day of Yoga in the Chilean Parliament in June 2017.


    The Vice President said that India and Chile enjoy warm and friendly relations and both sides have cooperated with each other in the United Nations and other international organizations. He appreciated Chile`s support for India`s aspiration to be a permanent member of United Nation Security Council.


    The Vice President said that Trade and Commerce is a vital area of cooperation between India and Chile and hoped that the implementation of the Expanded India-Chile Preferential Trade Agreement will facilitate enhancing of bilateral trade. He further said that India is a huge market and Government of India has taken steps to improve ease of doing business in India. In this context, we would welcome Chilean investments in various sectors in India, he added.


    The Vice President said that cooperation in agriculture, science & technology, renewable energy, space and defense sectors hold immense potential. He reminded the visiting delegation that a nano-satellite built by University of Chile students was launched by an Indian space launch vehicle in last June and said that India has an advance satellite building and launch programme and our launch vehicles are very reliable and cost effective. Chile may like to take advantage of cooperation with India in the sector he added.


    The Vice President said that both sides may explore the potential for enhanced cooperation in the defence sector. He further said that India has made strides in ship building industry and we would like facilitation in the registration of Indian companies with the Chilean Ministry of Defence. Both sides may also work towards people to people links by promoting tourism, educational exchanges and cultural events, he added.


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519235) Visitor Counter : 143
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu