      Ministry of Education

      ‘Exam Warriors' - book authored by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi launched
      Posted On: 03 FEB 2018 8:44PM by PIB Delhi


    Students now will be able to refer to the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi’s advice on how to tackle exam challenges in his book, ‘Exam Warriors’. It seeks to help spread smiles during examinations, viewing them as occasions to celebrate learning with festive joy. The book was launched at a function in Pravasi Bharatiya Kendra here today. Union External Affairs Minister, Smt Sushma Swaraj was the Chief Guest for the function. Union Human Resource Development Minister, Shri Prakash Javadekar was the Guest of Honour on the occasion.


    While addressing the occasion, External Affairs Minister Smt. Sushma Swaraj said that the youth of the nation look up to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi as an inspirational leader and the PM’s insights will be a valuable guide for them to script their own success stories. She said that the book is written in a very interesting manner and it motivates students to become a Warrior, not a Worrier. She added that the ultimate beneﬁciaries of the book will not only be our Exam Warriors, but also our society as a whole, including teachers, parents and the larger community. Smt. Swaraj briefly explained the 25 mantras given by PM Shri Narendra Modi to counter the exam stress.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Prakash Javadekar said that the education is an essential tool in development and progress as it opens various doors to the opportunities of achieving better prospects in life. Education is necessary for our bright future, but apart from learning, students must practice yoga to stay healthy and fit. He further said that relaxing before the exams is the best way to perform well. Shri Javadekar reiterated PM Modi’s Mantra of treating exams as a festival and not as a source of stress . He also requested parents to accept their children, the way they are and should not burden them with their expectations. Shri Javadekar also advised NCERT officials to develop a creative curriculum to make learning more exciting and interesting.


    The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s ‘Exam Warriors’ is an inspiring book for the youth. It is a thought-provoking book and will be a handy guide for students in India and across the world. The book is written in an interactive style with illustrations, activities and yoga exercises. It will be a companion for students in not only acing exams, but also in facing life.


    The book seeks to add to the debate and discourse around the importance of stress-free examinations by encouraging a focus on knowledge rather than purely on marks. In the spirit of continuing dialogue, this book contains activities that are fun and thought-provoking. A series of asanas and breathing exercises are also included in this book for students to overcome stress.


    The education sector has been particularly close to the heart of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and his transformative reforms has given a strong boost to India’s development journey. The Prime Minister’s monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’ is extremely popular among all sections of the society and it was in this programme that he addressed Exam Warriors, first in 2015 and then subsequently in 2016 and 2017.


    *****


    AK/AK/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519074) Visitor Counter : 272