      Ministry of Tourism

      M/O Tourism’s Social Media Key Influencers Campaign “The Great India Blog Train” Launched
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2018 6:58PM by PIB Delhi


    The Social Media Key Influencers Campaign of the Ministry of Tourism “The Great India Blog Train” involving Travel bloggers from across the world was launched today by the Secretary, Ministry of Tourism Smt. Rashmi Verma at Safdarjung Railway Station, New Delhi. The Secretary interacted with the Bloggers on the issue of promotion of tourism and other aspects pertaining to tourism and see them off on their journey. These Bloggers have been invited to travel to destinations in the country on the Luxury Trains operating in different States.


    The Ministry of Tourism, Government of India, keeping in mind the importance of Social Media as an effective tool for destination branding and marketing, is organising a Social Media Key Influencers Campaign “The Great India Blog Train”.


    The objective of the campaign is to position luxury trains of India as a unique tourism product both in the domestic and overseas markets. The campaign will generate widespread publicity for the luxury trains as well as the destinations visited, by way of blogs, videos and photos published by the Bloggers/Instagramers on their experiences of their journey. Needless to say this initiative would benefit the railways and the Luxury Train Operators to a large extent.


    A total of 60 bloggers from 23 countries including India are travelling on a week long journey on four luxury trains, i.e. Palace on Wheels, Maharaja Express, Deccan Odyssey and Golden Chariot, in groups of 15 bloggers on each train.


    The first group of 15 bloggers today left on the Palace on Wheels, from the Safdarjung Railway Station, New Delhi. The second group will leave Delhi on the Maharaja Express on 10 th February, 2018, the third group is scheduled to leave on the Deccan Odyssey on 10 th February, 2018 from the Chaatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Mumbai and the last group of Bloggers will leave on the Golden Chariot on 19 th February, 2018 from Bengaluru on a week long journey.


    The Railway Board, the State Governments of Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Karnataka and Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) are proactively promoting this Luxury segment both in the domestic and overseas markets and are actively supporting the campaign by hosting the Bloggers on their trains.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism/07.02.2018


    

    
    (Release ID: 1519550) Visitor Counter : 210