      Ministry of Defence

      Passing Out Parade – CG Law and OPS Course 65th batch
      Posted On: 06 FEB 2018 5:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Forty Five Assistant Commandants of the 65 th Batch passed out of the portals of Indian Coast Guard Training Centre, Kochi {CGTC(K)} on successful completion of Coast Guard Law and Operations Course, today. An impressive Passing Out Parade (POP) was reviewed by Commander Coast Guard Region (Andaman & Nicobar)Inspector General KR Suresh at Indian Coast Guard District Headquarters No. 4, Kochi. This POP marked the successful culmination of the Technical Courses for the trainee officers.


    Speaking on the occasion, Inspector General KR Suresh advised the officer trainees to hone the skills they have gained during their training and reiterated the need to continuously strive for setting high standards of professionalism and conduct which in the long run would augur well for the organisation. He exhorted the officers to uphold the stature, honour and the glorious tradition of the service at all times and expressed the optimism that this training would form strong bedrock for the professional competence and leadership expected from an officer in the Indian Coast Guard. He advised the officer trainees to turn every challenge they face into an opportunity and excel in every sphere of life and profession. He mentioned that the high quality training imparted at CGTC(K) would enable them to mitigate any maritime challenge while ensuring the security of the nation.


    During the ceremonial review, the Flag Officer awarded book prizes to the meritorious trainee officers. Assistant Commandant DP Singh was awarded 1 st prize for scoring highest marks in the course. The coveted ‘Director General Sword of Honour’ for the 64 th Batch was awarded to Assistant Commandant Pushpendra Kumar Upmanyu for standing first in overall order of merit. The ceremony culminated with the successful trainee officers marching past the Saluting Dias (known as the Quarterdeck), in Slow March.


    During the 10-weeks course, the officers were imparted instructions on Coast Guard specific subjects such as Maritime Law, Search and Rescue, Fisheries Monitoring & Control, Prevention and Control of Marine Pollution and other subjects related to the Coast Guard Charter of Duties. The training at CGTC(K) has been conducted with lot of impetus on professional visits and practical along with theory classes.


    The POP was witnessed by a large number of senior Coast Guard and Naval Officers and families as well as civil dignitaries. The Chief Guest and other dignitaries present in the function, congratulated the trainees on their successful completion of the course.


    NAo/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519340) Visitor Counter : 51