      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      KISG Football: Haryana Girls, Punjab Boys book Semi-Final Berths
      Posted On: 04 FEB 2018 8:45PM by PIB Delhi


    Haryana girls booked their spot in the semi-finals with a facile 5-0 win over Gujarat in their last Group 1 match at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in the first Khelo India School Gameshere today.Odisha with six points are the other semi-finalist from Group 1 in the girl’s sections.


    In the boys’ section, table toppers Punjab with nine points after their 3-1 win over Manipur claimed one semi-final spot from Group 1, while Delhi took the other spot with a hard-fought 3-2 win over Assam.


    In their last group match, Haryana girls opened their account in the 12th minute with Renu netting the first goal. Three minutes later, Mona increased the tally to 2-0. Then in the 41st minute, Haryana captain Samiksha got in the act to slot home the third goal. One minute into injury time at the halfway mark, Renu scored her second goal of the match to make it 4-0. Being in total control, Haryana cut back on their pace. But in the 75 minute, Anaybai got into the act to close the game 5-0.


    In the other match in the girls section, Odisha hammered Mizoram 7-2 in their last Group 1 match. Interestingly, Lalrinmuani drew first blood in the 11th minute. Odisha levelled the score in the 17th minute through Gita Kisan. In the 32nd minute Susmita Tanty put her side ahead when she found the back of the Mizo net. She scored three more goals in the match in the 62nd, 64th and 66th minutes.


    In the boys’ section, Punjab maintained their unbeaten run in the tournament when they edged out Manipur 3-1 to top the group with nine points. For the winners, Akash Masih struck in the sixth minute to put his side ahead. Manipur levelled the score at 1-1 in the 18th minute when Michael Tunlalpaul got one past Punjab’s goalkeeper. But Manipur’s celebrations were short lived when Jashandeep Singh made it 2-1 in the 19th minute for the winners. Punjab added one more goal on the other side of halftime with Harmanpreet Singh finding the back of Mizoram’s goal.


    Delhi needed to win against Assam in order to book their semi-final berth. The home side started on the right note when Nikhil Manhas netted in 7th minute to seize the initiative. But their joy was short lived when Joydeep Gogoi equalised for Assam in the very next minute. Delhi went into the halftime with a 2-1 advantage with the help of Sumai Chhabra’s 17th minute goal. But in the 75th minute, Assam once again drew level when Rohan Chetry fired one into Delhi’s net.


    With the score reading 2-2, both sides tried hard to break the deadlock to take initiative. Finally, at four minutes into injury time after 90 minutes of regulation play Karthikeya scored the all-important goal for Delhi to seal the second semi-final spot from Group 1.


    ***


    PP/HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519087) Visitor Counter : 58