      Department of Space

      Social upgradation in rural areas
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2018 4:18PM by PIB Delhi


    Indian Space Programme plays a key role in enabling social upgradation of rural areas through space based inputs towards development of wastelands, identification of degraded lands for suitable reclamation measures, assessment of fodder crops for dairy industry, monitoring developmental activities under rural employment guarantee scheme & integrated watershed development programme, space based inputs for ground water, targeting surface waterbodies for tribal districts and monitoring irrigation infrastructure.


    The efforts made by Indian Space Research Organisation benefitting rural and backward areas so far include:

         1. Mapping of wastelands (1986-2000, 2005-06, 2008-09 & 2015-16) for enabling prioritisation of watersheds, identification of areas for renewable energy projects and industrial corridor development.
         2. Mapping of land degradation (2005-06 & 2015-16), help in prioritisation of development in the rural areas.
         3. Prepared and deployed National level groundwater prospects maps, including locations for planning recharge structures, as a support for drinking water requirements for Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation.
         4. Geospatially enabled monitoring of developmental activities under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), for Ministry of Rural Development.
         5. Generation of sustainable land and water resources development plans in 180 districts for soil and water conservation and satellite data based monitoring and evaluation of about 86,000 microwatersheds, under Integrated Watershed Management Programme (IWMP) for Ministry of Rural Development.
         6. Mapping and monitoring of village water bodies for suitability to adopt aquaculture development in the tribal districts as a possible alternative livelihood support.
         7. Assessment of fodder crops in Gujarat, Rajasthan and Haryana for enabling sustainability of dairy industry, relevant in rural and backward areas.

    This was stated by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Dr Jitendra Singh in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/NK/PP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519486) Visitor Counter : 607
    
    
    
    
    

7.