      Ministry of Railways

      Revamping Ticketing System in Railways
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2018 6:29PM by PIB Delhi


    During recent years the following innovative measures have been taken with a view to facilitating passengers in getting tickets and also to boost up the earnings:-


    (i) Introduction of Premium Tatkal Quota


    (ii) Running of Special trains including Suvidha trains on higher fares.


    (iii) Introduction of Flexi fare in Rajdhani, Shatabdi and Duronto trains.


    (iv) Introduction of new trains like Gatimaan, Humsafar, Tejas, Antyodaya, Mahamana trains etc., with higher facilities and fares.


    (v) Proliferation of e-ticketing system which now constitute around 65% of the total reserved tickets.


    (vi) Provision of facility of booking reserved/ unreserved tickets through mobile phones.


    (vii) Facility of issuing unreserved tickets through Automatic Ticket Vending Machines.


    (viii) Engaging authorised agents like Yatri Ticket Suvidha Kendra Licensee (YTSKL), Jan Sadharan Ticket Booking Sewaks(JTBS), Station Ticket Booking Agents(STBA) & e-ticketing agents for issuing of reserved/unreserved tickets.


    (ix) Rationalisation of computerised reservation system by providing facility of automatic preparation of first reservation charts at least four hours before scheduled departure of train and thereafter facility of booking available accommodation online as well as through computerised Passenger Reservation System(PRS) till preparation of second reservation charts.


    (x) Revision of Refund Rules, granting of automatic refund on e-tickets in case of cancellation of trains, cancellation of counter tickets online through Indian Railway Catering & Tourism Corporation(IRCTC) as well as through No. 139.


    (xi) Facility of booking confirmed accommodation to foreign tourists in Executive Class/1st AC/2nd AC Class in all trains including Shatabdi, Rajdhani, Duronto, Gatimaan etc. through internet upto 365 days in advance.


    Further, rationalisation of fare structure as well improvement in ticketing system based on technological advancement is an ongoing and continuous process.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Railways Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SBS/MKV/DK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519540) Visitor Counter : 70