      Election Commission

      IIIDEM organizes 4-Day Consultation/Study Tour for Delegation from Independent National Electoral Commission of Nigeria
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2018 6:21PM by PIB Delhi


    A six-member delegation from Independent National Electoral Commission of Nigeria called on the Chief Election Commissioner of India Shri O. P. Rawat in New Delhi today. Shri Rawat welcomed the Election Commissioners and senior officials from INEC Nigeria. The India International Institute of Democracy and Election Management (IIIDEM) is organizing a four-day Consultation/Study Tour for the Delegation from Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of Nigeria from February 5-8, 2018 at Nirvachan Sadan, Election Commission of India.


    The study tour aims to conduct a round-table conference on various subjects related to election process and management. Giving an outline of the various sessions, CEC Shri Rawat said that IIIDEM has prepared a comprehensive programme that is designed and tailored according to the needs and expectations of the participants. He hoped that the learning outcomes of the programme would prove to be fruitful and helpful for participants in the electoral practices of their election management body.


    Delegates from INEC Nigeria with Sh. O.P. Rawat, CEC at the Consultation/Study Tour


    The thematic topics of the study tour include Legal Framework for Voter Registration, Engaging with Stakeholders, Online Voter Registration, National Voters Service Portal of ECI, Electronic Voting Machines & Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail, Demonstration of EVM, VVPAT and Mock Poll, and Election Experience of India. The study tour also features visits, for the participants, to the Voter Registration Centre in New Delhi and Office of Chief Electoral Officer of National Capital Territory of Delhi.


    The delegation would also be sharing their country practices on various themes of election management.


    SBS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519534) Visitor Counter : 71
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil