      Ministry of Education

      Prime Minister’s Research Fellows Scheme will convert brain drain to brain gain - Shri Prakash Javadekar
      
      Pareeksha pe Charcha is an event which relates to most of the households of the country -- Shri Prakash Javadekar

      Posted On: 08 FEB 2018 7:00PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister for Human Resource Development Shri Prakash Javadekar lauded the cabinet decision to implement ‘ Prime Minister’s Research Fellows (PMRF)’ scheme in improving the quality of research by attracting the best talents across the country. While addressing the media in the national capital today, the Minister said that the scheme will go a long way in tapping the talent pool of the country for carrying out research indigenously in cutting edge science and technology domains. He further added that the research under the Scheme will address our national priorities at the one hand and shortage of quality faculty in the premier educational institutions of the country, on the other. This initiative of the government will convert brain drain to brain gain.


    The Minister informed that around 1,000 best students who have completed (or are in the final year of) B. Tech or Integrated M.Tech or M.Sc. in Science and Technology streams from IISc/IITs/NITs/IISERs/IIITs under this scheme will be offered direct admission in PhD programme in the IITs/IISc. Those students will be offered a fellowship of Rs.70, 000/- per month for the first two years, Rs.75, 000/- per month for the 3 rd year, and Rs.80, 000/- per month in the 4 th and 5 th years. Apart from this, a research grant of Rs.2.00 lakh will be provided to each of the Fellows for a period of 5 years to enable them to participate in international research conferences and present research papers. A maximum of 3,000 Fellows would be selected in a three year period beginning 2018-19.


    The Minister also informed about ‘Pareeksha pe Charcha,’ the Prime Minister’s interaction with students, which is scheduled to be held at Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi on 16 th February, 2018. About 2000 school and college students including teachers and principals will be participating in the programme.Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will advise students on beating exam stress and appearing for exams with a positive attitude.


    The Minister said that Pareeksha pe Charcha is an event which relates to most of the households of the country as exam season is round the corner.He also said that during the interaction PM would reply to the queriesof the students which they can upload on the link https://www.mygov.in/task/making-exams-fun-chat-pm-narendra-modi/ .Around 10 students will get an opportunity to ask questions directly.


    *****


    AK/AS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1519989) Visitor Counter : 193
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi