      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      11 Projects worth Rs.3385 Crores in Amritsar, 19 Projects for Rs.1899 Crores and 25 Projects worth Rs.808 Crores are at DPR Stage under Smart City Mission in Punjab : Hardeep Puri
      
      PMAY Haryana Demand of 2 lakh houses in 80 statutory towns indicated – total investment envisaged Rs.1743 Crores
      
      Review of Urban Development programs of the central government in Punjab, Haryana & Chandigarh

      Posted On: 03 FEB 2018 4:02PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State (I/C) for Housing and Urban Affairs today reviewed the progress of Urban Development missions of the Central Government in Punjab, Haryana and UT of Chandigarhin the presence of Sh. Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief Minister of Haryana, Sh. Navjot Singh Sidhu and Smt. Kavita Jain, Local Bodies Ministers, Punjab and Haryana respectively, Sh. Durga Shankar Mishra, IAS, Secretary, MoHUA, Sh. Parimal Rai, IAS, Adviser to the Administrator, U.T., Chandigarh and Chief Secretaries of Punjab & Haryana alongwith concerned senior officers of both the states and UT, Chandigarh.


    The progress of the flagship missions of the ‘Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs’ shows that while the States have taken a number of steps to implement the various schemes for Urban Development, they all have a potential to do better. Successful implementation of the programs of Government of India would further add to the attraction of these states as a hub for agricultural business and will increase the employment opportunities for the citizens. Shri Hardeep Puri further pointed out that in the management approach of the present central government, the principle of co-operative federalism has been enshrined. In all of its Missions MoHUA approves only the State Plans prepared by the States and releases Central Assistance. All decision-making including final project approvals is in the hand of State Governments, thus providing greater flexibility to the States.


    Some specific details of the progress for each State under various missions are:

     1. PUNJAB
     2. I) Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT)

    Under AMRUT the State is focusing on universal coverage of water in the urban areas and proposes to provide 4.6 lakh new house connections. It has already provided 1.45 lakhs tap connections36% of the approved Action Plan is directed towards Water supply and 61% towards Sewerage. Under the Mission, 10 Contracts worth Rs 335 Crore have been awarded and tenders for 3 projects worth Rs 160 crore have been invited. The State was urged to complete the preparation of DPRs worth Rs.1708 crore.

     1. II) Swachh Bharat Mission(SBM)

    Punjab aims to declare the State ODF by October 2018. However, so far only 61 ULBs out of 164 have been declared as ODF. The State has agreed to expedite. The State has achieved 100% door-to-door collection in 2003 wards out of its 3043 wards. However, the State is processing only 15% of the waste generated. The State needs to take steps to process all the waste being produced.


    III) Smart Cities Mission(SCM)


    Three Smart Cities have been selected in Punjab, namely Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana. In all the three cities, Smart Projects to be implemented have been selected. In all the three cities, DPRs are under preparation. Thus11 projects worth Rs 3385 crore in Amritsar, 19 projects worth Rs 1899 crore in Jalandhar and 19 projects worth Rs 1898 crore are at the DPR stage. The projects include setting up of ‘Integrated Smart city Centre’, Smart roads etc. Phase I of integrated command and control center has been completed in Ludhaina. These when implemented will improve the traffic congestion, increase open spaces and improve the public amenities.

     1. IV) Heritage City-Amritsar

    Projects for improvement of Rambagh Garden, improvement of GolBagh, up-gradation of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Panorama at Amritsar are underway. So far Projects worth Rs 61 crore have been approved for Amritsar under this Scheme and Rs 45 crore have already been released. Being a heritage city it needs to improve solid waste processing.

     1. V) PradhanMantriAawasYojana(PMAY)

    A demand for about 3.5 lakh houses in the 163 towns in the State under PMAY has been indicated. Total investment envisaged is Rs. 1,182crore with Central assistance amounting to Rs. 597 crore. Rs. 64crore of Central assistance has been disbursed. 329 projects have been sanctioned for construction of 42,497 houses. Only 11,105 houses (26%) of these have been grounded of which only 392 have been completed.


    Under Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme of PMAY (Urban), 838 beneficiaries have availed an interest subsidy of Rs. 16.81 crore. The State has submitted proposals to cover 12% of its demand so far. It is required to fast track proposals for about 1.25 to 1.5 lakh houses to saturate 50% of its demand by 2017-18. Further, only 1 proposal for 1,025 houses has been received under In-situ Slum Rehabilitation (ISSR)component despite huge potential from 2.9 Lakh slum households (Census 2011). The State has to expedite grounding of the sanctioned houses and fast track proposals for additional demands.

     1. VI) DAY-NULM

    The State has achieved only 20% of the target for training of candidates in the current year. Only 6% of these trained persons could be suitably placed. The State may strive to impart training in consultation with business and industry to ensure full placement.


    The State has also to complete survey of urban homeless and make provision of shelters for urban homeless expeditiously.

     1. HARYANA
     2. I) Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT)

    Under AMRUT the State has a target of providing 2.74 lakh new tap connections by the end of mission period, thereby providing water connections to the entire urban population of Haryana. 80,000 connections have alreay been provided. 23% of the approved Action Plan is directed towards Water supply and 53% towards Sewerage. Under the Mission, contracts worth Rs 722Crore have been awarded and projects worth Rs 86croreare at the tendering stage. The State was urged to complete the DPRs for projects worth Rs.1358 crore.

     1. II) Swachh Bharat Mission(SBM)

    Haryana is a certified ODF State and needs to be lauded for this achievement. The State has achieved 100% door-to-door collection in 966 wards out of its 1475 wards. However, the State is processing only 3% of the waste generated. The State needs to take steps to process all the waste being produced. Execution of the Waste to Energy and waste to compost plants under execution may be expedited.


    III) Smart Cities Mission(SCM)


    Two Smart Cities have been selected in Haryana, namely Karnal and Faridabad. In both the cities, Smart Projects to be implemented have been selected. 60 projects worth Rs2342 crores have been approved and are at the DPR/tendering stage. The projects include rejuvenation of Badhkal lake and BarahiTalab in Faridabad, These when implemented will improve the environment in these cities and also provide more leisure facilities.

     1. V) PradhanMantriAawasYojana(PMAY)

    A demand for about 3.5 lakh houses in the 80 statutory towns in the State under PMAY has been indicated. Total investment envisaged is Rs. 1,743crore with Central assistance amounting to Rs. 375crore. 85 projects have been sanctioned for construction of 24980 houses.However, only 720 houses (1%) of these have been grounded.


    Under Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme of PMAY (Urban), 1016 beneficiaries have availed an interest subsidy of Rs. 18.92crore. The State has submitted proposals to cover 27% of its demand so far. It has been requested to fast track proposals for at least 60000 houses to saturate 50% of its demand by 2017-18. Further, no proposals have been received under In-situ Slum Rehabilitation (ISSR) component despite huge potential from 3.3 Lakh slum households (Census 2011). The State has to expedite grounding of the sanctioned houses and fast track proposals for additional demands.

     1. VI) DAY-NULM

    The State has achieved 64% of the target for training of candidates in the current year. Only 8% of these trained persons could be suitably placed. The State may strive to impart training in consultation with business and industry to ensure full placement.


    The State has also to complete survey of urban homeless and make provision of shelters for urban homeless expeditiously.

     1. UT of CHANDIGARH
     2. I) Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT)

    Under AMRUT the U.T. is focusing on universal coverage of water in the urban areas and proposes to provide 13000 new house connections. 35% of the approved Action Plan is directed towards Water supply and 64% towards Sewerage. Under the Mission, Contracts worth Rs 33 Crore have been awarded and DPR’s have yet to be prepared for project worth Rs 60 crore. The U.T was urged to complete the preparation of DPRs worth Rs.60 crore. Also highlighting the achievements of U.T. Chandigarh,Hon’ble Minister of State (I/C) for Housing and Urban Affairs mentioned that U.T has replaced 39000 of the targeted 46000 conventional streetlights with LED lights.

     1. II) Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM)

    U.T. of Chandigarh is a certified ODF city and also the city has achieved 100% of the Mission Target for Individual Household Latrine (IHHL). The city has achieved 100% door-to-door collection in all its 26 wards. The city has very impressive achievements in SBM; however, it is lagging in SWM with only 30% of the waste generated being processed. The U.T. needs to take rapid steps to improve waste processing and ensure that 100% waste gets processed..


    III) Smart Cities Mission (SCM)


    70 projects worth Rs 6214 crore have been approved and Central Assistance amounting to Rs. 196 Crore released for the city. In Chandigarh, 6 projects costing Rs. 56.7 Crore have been completed and contracts for 185 Crore are under implementation/tendering. In respect of the remaining projects costing Rs. 5919 Crore, DPRs are being prepared. It was urgedthat the impactful projects, which will improve the quality of life for the citizens,might be taken up expeditiously.

     1. IV) PradhanMantriAawasYojana(PMAY)

    The U.T. Administration has indicated a demand for about 12,900 houses under PMAY. Under Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme of PMAY (Urban), 35 beneficiaries have availed an interest subsidy of Rs. 0.68 crore. The U.T Administration is yet to submit any proposal and is required to fast track proposal for about 12,887 houses to saturate its entire demand by 2017-18.


    No proposal received under In-situ Slum Rehabilitation (ISSR) component of PMAY (Urban), despite the potential for 0.22 Lakh slum households (Census 2011). The U.T. has to expedite grounding of the sanctioned houses and fast track proposals for additional demands. Further, it was also pointed out that 5,170 houses constructed in earlier schemes of JnNURM and RAY are still unoccupied and urgent steps may be taken to ensure their occupation.

     1. VI) DAY-NULM

    The State has achieved only 27% of the target for skill training of candidates in the current year. Only 16% of these trained persons could be suitably placed. The State may strive to impart training in consultation with business and industry to ensure full placement.


    The State has also to complete survey of urban homeless and make provision of shelters for urban homeless expeditiously.


    ***


    RJ/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519044) Visitor Counter : 205
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

1.