      Ministry of Defence

      Training for Defence Procurement
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2018 3:51PM by PIB Delhi


    For acquisition of defence equipment and the modernisation of our Armed Forces, the procedures prescribed in various manuals and rules including the Defence Procurement Procedure – 2016 (DPP) and the Defence Procurement Manual 2009 (DPM) are followed. DPP deals with the acquisition of new capital equipment and DPM with revenue procurements as well as the provision of all other goods, services and support activities intended to maintain the operational effectiveness of our Armed Forces. The Indian Armed Forces follow an approach of continuous training of its officers wherein each officer at different stages of his / her career undergoes various training courses of different contents and durations. As part of these courses, the officers are provided introductory training in various issues concerning procurement. This training is both built into the curriculum and also covered by means of lectures by guest speakers. Besides, training on financial management at macro level is provided to the officers which also covers various aspects related to defence procurement. Specialist courses are also conducted at Service, Tri-service and Ministry of Defence level at Material Management Institute of IAF, College of Defence Management of IDS and Defence HQ Training Institute, Ministry of Defence.


    In addition, officers dealing with defence procurements are encouraged to attend seminars, capsule courses or other similar events conducted by various industry chambers and institutes such as National Institute of Financial Management, Faridabad. All these assist in developing the required knowledge base among the officers for handling issues related to defence procurement.


    There are adequate number of experienced and trained officers to handle defence procurement. However, in view of the position indicated in reply to part (a) and (b) above, training of officers on procurement matter being a continuous process of knowledge upgradation, it is not possible to give exact number of trained officers.


    This information was given by RakshaRajyaMantriDr.SubhashBhamre in a written reply to Shri Hariom Singh Rathorein Lok Sabha today.


    NAo/Nampi/Rajib/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519474) Visitor Counter : 84
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil