      Ministry of Railways

      Union Railway Minister Shri Piyush Goyal Commends The Professional Acumen of Railway Electrical Engineers
      
      7th Indian Railway Service of Electrical Engineers’ Day Celebrated In New Delhi
      
      Mobile app on tender information system of core, Allahabad launched to promote public transparency.
      
      Exhibition on “Bhartiya Rail Vidyut Vibhag Ke Barhte Kadam” Inaugurated to Mark The Occasion
      Posted On: 03 FEB 2018 9:12PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister for Railways and Coal Shri Piyush Goyal has lauded the initiative of Railways Electrical Engineering Department of converting Diesel Locomotives into Electric Locomotives. He noted that Electrical Department has a challenging target to achieve 100% Electrification, while acknowledging that making 279 Electric Locomotives till 31 st January 2018 counts amongst the significant achievements by Indian Railways. The Minister said adoption of modern technology and innovative ideas can help Indian railways transform the future. He emphasized the need of transformation and change in work culture of Railway men. The Union Minister was speaking as the Chief Guest on the occasion of 7 th Indian Railway Service of Electrical Engineers’ Day in New Delhi today.


    Addressing the gathering, Shri Goyal hailed the resolve of Member Traction, Railway Board that by March, 2019, no diesel loco hauled train would be permitted in Delhi area. He also urged Member Traction, Railway Board to reduce the cost of Electrification by using automation and modern technologies. Sh. Ashwani Lohani, Chairman, Railway Board, in his address appreciated the effort and progress made by IRSEE cadre since its inception 1947. Sh. Ghanshyam Singh, Member Traction, Railway Board and Patron of IREE assured the Minister that the vision of 100% Electrification will be achieved as per target. He further announced that all Diesel locomotives will be converted into 10000/12000 HP Electric Locomotives as against 4500 HP and no equipment of the Diesel Locomotives will be allowed to go waste.


    To mark the special occasion Union Minister Shri Goyal launched a mobile app on Tender Information system of CORE, Allahabad for public transparency. The new edition of news bulletin “GARVITA” was also released on the occasion. The Minister also inaugurated the exhibition especially mounted recapitulating the technological advancements of IR titled “BHARTIYA RAIL VIDYUT VIBHAG KE BARHTE KADAM”.


    On this occasion Padma Bhushan, Dr. Kirit Parikh, Former Member Planning Commission, and Chairman of Integrated Energy Policy Committee, Founder Director and presently Chairman of IRADe, delivered the key note address on Indian Railway vision of 100% Electrification which is environment friendly and energy efficient. Sh. V. K. Agarawal, Addl. Member Electrical and President of IREE delivered the welcome address. Sh. Rajesh Tiwari, Principal Chief Electrical Engineer/Northern Railway and General Secretary of IREE proposed the vote of thanks.


    The Institution of Railway Electrical Engineers celebrate 3 rd February annually to commemorate the introduction of 1 st Electric Train in 1925 on same day. IREE is a technical body of Railway Electrical Engineers under the auspices of Ministry of Railways. Member Traction, Railway Board is the Patron of the Institution and Addl. Member Electrical, Railway Board is the President. Principal Chief Electrical Engineer, Northern Railway, is the Hony. General Secretary of the Institution. The aim of the Institution is to disseminate and share the technical knowledge among the fraternity and industry regarding the available and new technology related to design, construction and maintenance of electrical assets. The Present Membership of the Institution is more than 1650. The Institution has chapters at the headquarters of different Zonal Railways & Production Units.


    *************


    SBS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519077) Visitor Counter : 504