      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      KISG Boys’ Hockey -Odisha stun Punjab, Top Pool A, Chandigarh Top Pool B
      Posted On: 04 FEB 2018 8:46PM by PIB Delhi


    Odisha scored an emphatic 3-0 win to top the pool A of the Boys hockey competition of the Khelo India School Games at DhyanChand Stadium New Delhi today.


    Chandigarh, as expected, emerged pool B leader trouncing Karnataka 7-2 for their third straight win.


    In the quarter finals on Monday Odisha will take on Delhi, Punjab face Karnataka, Chandigarh to play against Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh will clash with Haryana.


    Punjab, were stunned by Odisha, with captain AmandeepLakra converting two penalty corners in the 14th and 34th minutes to see his side 2-0 up at the half time. In the second half Odisha attacked and defended well frustrating Punjab’s every counter move.


    Six minutes in this session SudeepChirmako deflected a cross from right leaving Punjab goal keeper bewildered and that made the score 3-0. Punjab ‘s efforts to come back from there were all foiled.


    Both Punjab and Odisha had won two matches and lost one each but Odisha with much better goal aggregate 18-5 as against Punjab’s 14-7 emerged as the Pool leader.


    In other match Haryana outplayed Rajasthan 7-3 to take the third spot in the Pool A. Rimanshu (2) Pankaj, Yogesh, Pankaj (jr), Abhimanyu and Dashminder (one each) were the scorers for Haryana, while Shivam was the lone scorer for the losers.


    In Pool B Uttar Pradesh took second place as they hammered Delhi 6-1. They led 2-0 at half time. Arun Sahani, ShardaNandTiwari, Suraj Singh, AnkitPrajapati, AmitYadav and Akhtar Ali scored a goal each.


    In another one-sided game Chandigarh outplayed Karnataka, who however, surprisingly took the lead in the fifth minutes. Four minutes later the scores were alevel as Chandigarh got their first goal.


    For the winners who were up 4-1 at the break, the goal getters were Harpreet Singh (2), Mandeep, HarpantPreet Singh, Jaspreet Singh, Gundeep Singh and Vishal Rana (one each). Tharun and Majji Ganesh scored a goal each for the losers.


    ***


    PP/HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519088) Visitor Counter : 55