      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Clean Air Campaign shows qualitative impact on Air Quality in Delhi: Environment Ministry
      Posted On: 19 FEB 2018 4:34PM by PIB Delhi


    The first week of the joint Clean Air Campaign launched by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and Delhi government on February 10 shows a qualitative impact on Air Quality in Delhi.


    Seventy teams comprising officers of Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Government of NCT Delhi, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and Municipal Corporations, made the initial visits to their respective areas on February 10. The day-long visits started from February 12 except on Sunday. The teams have so far reported 4, 347 cases of violation and issued Challans in 1, 892 cases, amounting to Rs. 5.4 crore.


    Data collated by Central Pollution Control Board since the start of the implementation of the Clean Air Campaign shows that the level of Air quality which was in Very Poor category at the beginning of the Campaign, has remained at ‘Moderate’ level from February 12-15 and at ‘Poor’ level on three days – February 16, 17 & 18.


    There has also been a noticeable reduction in levels of pollution, particularly in comparison to the level of pollution on the same day in 2017. There were no days of Moderate air quality last year. Even on February 16, 17, 18 this year, there has been a reduction in pollution levels.


    According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). SAFAR has projected that the Clean Air Campaign has resulted in significant reduction in the level of air pollution vis-à-vis the business as usual scenario.


    The lessons learnt from the Campaign will be used to further strengthen the activities related to mitigation of pollution, besides addressing knowledge gaps on the basis of wide-ranging consultations held during this period with all the stakeholders. The Clean Air Campaign will continue till February 23.


    ***


    KSP/HK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1520930) Visitor Counter : 325
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil