      Vice President's Secretariat

      We cannot have talks with countries that have trained their guns at us: Vice President
      
      India’s diplomacy relies on building bridges across the world with dialogue as the sole sustainable method to resolve disputes
      
      
      Releases five books authored by Members of Indian Council of World Affairs

      Posted On: 15 FEB 2018 7:09PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that India cannot have talks with countries that have trained their guns at our country. He was addressing the gathering after releasing five Books authored by the Members of Indian Council of World Affairs, here today.


    The Vice President said that it is baffling to see some educated leaders suggesting that we have to engage in a dialogue with one of our neighbours who is by all accounts fomenting trouble and encouraging cross-border terrorism. He further said that India’s diplomacy relies on building bridges across the world with dialogue as the sole sustainable method to resolve disputes. Our central principles have been friendship, respect for all countries and de-escalation of tension, he added.


    The Vice President said that we are quite conscious of the fact that India’s love for peace is more out of a concern for the welfare of humanity rather than because we are weak and are incapable of fighting. He further said that regional satraps have an increasing role in influencing foreign policy and in case of conflict of interest between the Centre and the states the Union government, prevails as per constitution. The present government has recognized the importance of the States in its foreign policy, security as well as trade and economic relations with the neighbouring countries, he added.


    Following is the text of Vice President’s address :


    “It is a pleasure for me to be part of ICWA's Book Release function today in my capacity as President of the Council.


    I have been regularly following the activities of the Council and am happy to note that the institution is delivering on its mandate to promote the study of Indian and international affairs so as to develop a body of informed opinion on international matters. This is being accomplished through the output of its research faculty, which not only generates analytical and well-researched papers but also participates in the Council's outreach programmes. In addition, the Council has also been hosting a series of important events, including the well known Sapru House Lectures by prominent visiting foreign dignitaries.


    Today's function symbolizes another objective of the Council viz. to promote in-depth scholarship by way of publication of books. While in the past numerous books have been published on subjects of foreign policy and security matters, the current batch of five books, which are to be released shortly, dwell on a range of new subjects ranging from the role of technology in international relations, media and foreign policy, provincial aspirations in the formation of Indian foreign policy to Mahatma Gandhi's views on the Jewish national home.


    We have already heard from each of the authors about their respective work. Madam Kalyani Shankar's book touches on the important aspect of the aspirations of our states in the making of India's foreign policy. Most of the disputes with the neighbouring countries are water sharing, land and security, which impinge on the States. In a federal system like ours, this issue is likely to retain salience in the years ahead though the final voice in foreign policy remains with the Central government.


    The conclusions are quite interesting. Do the regional satraps have an increasing role in influencing foreign policy? Yes. In case of conflict of interest between the Centre and the states who should prevail? Undoubtedly the Union government, as that is what the Constitution says. Has federalism worked in India? The emphatic answer is yes. In fact, as the author notes, the present government has recognized the importance of the States in its foreign policy, security as well as trade and economic relations with the neighbouring countries. I am aware that there has been a conscious effort to involve the state governments and take their views in all matters including foreign relations, in the spirit of cooperative federalism or “Team India”.


    Shubha Singh's work succinctly establishes the cross linkages between the role of the media and diplomacy & foreign policy in a democracy. The ability of the media to bring the focus on to a particular issue is by now well established. As the author says, “The media-foreign policy interaction is a complex and variable one.” The author concludes after a detailed analysis that “The media may not determine the course of foreign policy or be able to effect substantial changes in policy, but it clearly wields a large amount of influence on the public perception of foreign policy.”


    In a world where scientific and technological change and its speed are fundamentally altering the way we look at development in its broadest sense, Ambassador Bhaskar Balakrishnan has rightly emphasized the need for India's science and technology needs to be further integrated into our foreign policy narrative and practices. For example, the author has brought out how nuclear technology has a strong impact on balance of power; how India’s progress in ICT has thrown up issues related to IT services trade, cyber security, cyber defence; how we need to deal with regulatory issues involving genetically modified organisms, bio safety and biodiversity as well as global climate change. On thre positive side, the author has outlined a number of S & T cooperation projects that can bring countries closer together and bridge political differences.


    Prof. P.R. Kumaraswamy's book sheds new light on some of what impacted the Father of the Indian Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, in his thinking on the complex Israel-Palestine issue.


    And finally, Dr. Asif Shuja has written about the trajectory of India-Iran Relations in the wake of Iran's nuclear deal with the P5+1. India's relations with Iran are an important component of India's foreign policy and work on this relationship should be pursued.


    I congratulate the authors for their scholarship on these subjects of contemporary relevance. I am happy to learn that the Council's book writing project is a continuing one and many more books on a variety of subjects pertaining to India's foreign policy and international relations have been commissioned.


    Friends, the ICWA is India's oldest and most prestigious foreign policy think tank, recognised by our Parliament as an institution of national importance. I am pleased that it is satisfactorily discharging its mandate in accordance with the Act of Parliament of 2001 and the directions given to it from time to time by the Governing Council.


    The world is changing rapidly. The geo-politics and international relations are being continuously redefined. India has, from time immemorial, been a lighthouse of peaceful co-existence. We have been the pioneers in the non-aligned movement. Our alignment is with the forces of peace and non-violence. Our central principles have been friendship, respect for all countries and de-escalation of tension. At the same time, we are quite conscious of the fact that India’s love for peace is more out of a concern for the welfare of humanity rather than because we are weak and are incapable of fighting. So, our diplomacy relies on building bridges across the world with dialogue as the sole sustainable method to resolve disputes. We


    are open to conflicting views but we are not so open to senseless violence and irrational terrorism. We also know that first we must create conditions for a dialogue. We can’t have talks with countries that have trained their guns at us. It is baffling that some educated leaders are suggesting that we have to engage in a dialogue with one of our neighbours who is by all accounts fomenting trouble and encouraging cross-border terrorism. We need to be clear about our country’s diplomatic stance and make it known to the world in subtle ways. I hope ICWA will catalyze this opinion building in the next few months.


    I expect that the ICWA and its Research faculty will further strengthen its commendable efforts to promote the study of Indian and international affairs and further facilitate the promotion of India's relations with other countries. I hope the thought pieces being produced by ICWA will be useful inputs to the formulation of our foreign policy.


    Jai Hind !”


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1520708) Visitor Counter : 142