      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      National Productivity Council
      Posted On: 12 FEB 2018 11:44AM by PIB Delhi


    The National Productivity Council is observing National Productivity Day today, and National Productivity Week till 18 th February. It is the 60th Anniversary of the National Productivity Council and is being celebrated as Diamond Jubilee Year. "Industry 4.0 Leapfrog Opportunity for India " has been selected as the theme for the National Productivity Week -2018.


    Industry 4.0 or the fourth industrial revolution as it is called, is emerging globally as a powerful force and is being called as the next industrial revolution. It is characterized by the increasing digitization and interconnection of products, value chains and business models. Industry. Industry 4.0 would mean the convergence of real and virtual worlds-the next phase in bringing together conventional and modern technologies in manufacturing. This will result in the "Smart Factory", which is characterized by versatility, resource efficiency, ergonomic design and direct integration with business partners.


    The first industrial revolution was triggered by water and steam power to move from human labour to mechanical manufacturing. The second industrial revolution built on electric power to create mass production. The third used electronic and information technology to automate manufacturing. The fourth is the current trend of automation and data exchange in manufacturing technologies.


    Manufacturing today is cutting edge and requires a high level of skill. Today, the global manufacturing sector is undergoing a structural transformation. Though India banks heavily on its Service Sector for growth, the Manufacturing Sector needs to fuel the high growth in India. Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi, launched the 'Make in India' program to place India on the world map as a manufacturing hub. The Manufacturing Sector especially MSMEs play a pivotal role in the Indian economy and provide the largest share of employment after agriculture. In order to converge the aims of growth with employment it is important to increase the share of manufacturing in the country's Gross Domestic Product from 16% to 25% by 2022 and to create 100 million additional jobs by 2022.


    Over its 59 years of existence, NPC has built extensive experience in problem solving right from the shop floor level to strategic and policy issues at the macro level. With nearly 140 full time consultants on its roll possessing a wide repertoire of skill/ expertise and a network of 13 regional offices at all major State capitals/industrial centres, NPC has the requisite professional strength as well as country wide presence.


    ******


    MM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1520274) Visitor Counter : 526
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil