      AYUSH

      International Conference on Unani Medicine to be inaugurated tomorrow
      Posted On: 09 FEB 2018 6:05PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State (IC) for Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region, MoS PMO, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Department of Atomic Energy and Space Dr. Jitendra Singh will inaugurate the two-day International conference on Unani Medicine on 10 th February, 2018 at New Delhi. This year is special for Unani fraternity as it is the 150 th Birth Anniversary of Hakim Ajmal Khan. To mark this day, the Central Council for Research in Unani Medicine (CCRUM), under the Ministry of AYUSH is organizing a two-day International Conference on Unani Medicine as part of celebration of Unani Day. The theme of the conference is Integration of Unani System of Medicine in main stream healthcare .


    Various national level eminent personalities and stakeholders from academia, industry, regulators, and researchers in the field of Unani Medicine will participate in deliberations. Besides national delegates, countries like South Africa, UK, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, China, USA, Portugal, UAE, Slovenia, Israel, Hungary, Bahrain, Tajikistan, etc is also participating in the conference. The conference will cover issues related to globalization, research, standardization, quality control, safety assessment, and industry perspective. The conference is expected to provide a platform to academia, researchers, regulators, industry and students to develop visions, linkages and initiate projects which would help in promoting Unani system of medicine as one of the preferred systems of medicine across the globe. An exhibition showcasing Unani/herbal pharma sector, service providers, educational institutions, research organisations, also in the offing.


    The Unani Day celebration will also include the bestowing awards to outstanding contributors in different fields of Unani Medicine i.e. literature, research, academic, life time achievement, etc. at 10.30 AM on 11 th Feb, 2018 at A.P. Shinde Symposium Hall, NASC Complex, Pusa, New Delhi. A Pictorial Album on the memoirs of Hakim Ajmal Khan would also be released to commemorate his 150 th birth anniversary. This function would be graced by eminent personalities including Padmashri Hakim Khaleefathullah, Joint Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH and Vice Chancellor of Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi among others.


    The birthday of great Unani researcher Hakim Ajmal Khan i.e. 11 th February is celebrated as Unani Day. Hakim Ajmal Khan was an eminent Indian Unani physician who was versatile genius, freedom fighter, educationist and founder of scientific research in Unani Medicine.


    ***


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1520145) Visitor Counter : 88