      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      29 cases resolved at the Second ‘Pension Adalat’
      
      Use of technology improves Grievance redressal: Jitendra Singh

      Posted On: 09 FEB 2018 7:53PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh attended the second ‘Pension Adalat’ here today. The Pension Adalat was organized by the Department of Pension & Pensioners’ Welfare . The objective of the Pension Adalat was to provide on-the-spot resolution of unresolved grievances and also to reduce the delays in the settlement of legitimate dues of the pensioners


    Addressing the Pension Adalat, MoS, Shri Jitendra Singh congratulated the Department of Pension & Pensioners’ Welfare for successfully conducting the second ‘pension Adalat’ where out of 31 grievance cases 29 were resolved within few hours of hearing. He said that technology can play a vital role in facilitating the pensioners in disposing off their cases and for speedy redressal system for them.


    He added that earlier Department of Pension & Pensioners’ Welfare is now a days in the news for all good reasons as it has done a lot good to the old pensioners. It has brought smile to the pensioners faces by resolving their cases quickly and amicably.


    Appreciating the Centre Government’s initiatives under the leadership of Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi for older generation in the field of pension and health, he said , it has brought changes in society where old people feel neglected. He also suggested for starting a helpline by the Department of Pension & Pensioners’ Welfare for the pensioners in resolving their problems.


    In this Pension Adalat 34 pension grievances cases were listed and the various Stakeholders from Ministries, Departments, Banks, and CPAO have been called upon to redress the issue on spot. The issue includes revision of Family Pension, Commutation of Pension, final settlement of GPF, Fixed Medical Allowance etc.


    ******


    

    
    (Release ID: 1520186) Visitor Counter : 79