      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      ‘India Pharma & India Medical Device 2018’: Affordable and Quality Healthcare
      
      India’s biggest Global Conference on Pharma Industry and Medical Devices to begin in Bengaluru on 15th February
      
      With the theme, ‘Driving NextGen Pharmaceuticals’, the event would be a positive step towards the development of Future Drugs: Shri Ananthkumar
      
      Shri Ananthkumar to hold Roundtable of Pharma and Medical Devices CEOs to discuss Government policy and Challenges facing the Industry
      
      World Health Organization to hold workshop on ‘Regulatory System Strengthening and Prequalification’
      Posted On: 13 FEB 2018 9:51AM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Pharmaceuticals (DoP), Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, along with Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI), is organizing ‘India Pharma & India Medical Device 2018’, with the theme - ‘Affordable and Quality Healthcare’, the 3 rd International exhibition and conference on Pharmaceutical & Medical Device sector from 15 th -17 th February, 2018 in Bengaluru.


    Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers, Shri Ananthkumar will inaugurate the three-day event and address the distinguished gathering in the presence of dignitaries such as Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Shri J.P. Nadda, Chief Minister of Karnataka, Shri Siddaramaiah and Shri Mansukh L. Mandaviya, Minister of State for Chemicals & Fertilizers and Road Transport & Highways, Shipping, Government of India.


    Shri Ananthkumar said that “With the theme, ‘Driving NextGen Pharmaceuticals’, the event would be a positive step towards the development of Future Drugs i.e. Biologics and will catalyze the overall growth of the Pharmaceuticals Sector in India”. The Minister added that the 3 rd edition of the event will be beneficial for all stakeholders and in the coming years the event would grow to be the largest exhibition in Asia in the Pharmaceutical Sector.


    India Pharma & India Medical Device 2018 will see a roundtable of pharma and medical devices CEOs with Shri Ananthkumar, to discuss Government policy and challenges facing the Industry. The event will bring key stakeholders of the pharma and medical devices sectors under one roof, with hundreds of delegates including 50 Hosted Delegates from other Nations. Over 300 companies and 50 startups will showcase their products at the grand exhibition. The event will also see more than 90 eminent industry leaders speak at various sessions lined over three days.


    
    More than 20 international drug and device regulators will participate in a meet with Indian regulators. Ministerial delegations from CIS and BIMSTEC countries will also attend the event. A key highlight of India Pharma & India Medical Device 2018 is a workshop by World Health Organization on ‘Regulatory System Strengthening and Prequalification’. A conference will also be organized by NASSCOM on ‘Digital Transformation through Innovation in Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices and Healthcare Industries’ .
    India Pharma & India Medical Device Awards will be announced to honor excellence and innovation in the field of pharmaceuticals and medical devices.
    For three days, the event will host Technical sessions build around themes like Discovering Innovative Medicines in India; Making India a Part of Global Supply Chain in Medical Devices; Opportunities, Challenges and Regulatory Requirements in the Development of Biologics; Opportunities & Challenges for Stem cells & Regenerative Medicine; Emerging Global Trends in Self Care and Relevance of OTC Regulatory Framework for Indian Public Healthcare System; a Sub-sectoral Approach to Make in India; and Moving towards API Self Sufficiency.


    The Social Media links for the events are as follows:


    India Pharma 2018 : HASHTAG: #INDIAPHARMA


    Website : www.indiapharmaexpo.in (for LIVE WEBCAST of Sessions open for Media)


    Facebook : https://www.facebook.com/indiapharma2018


    Twitter : https://twitter.com/indiapharma2018


    Instagram : https://www.instagram.com/indiapharma2018/


    India Medical Device 2018 : HASHTAG: #INDIAMEDICALDEVICE


    Website : www.indiamediexpo.in (for LIVE WEBCAST of Sessions open for Media)


    Facebook : https://www.facebook.com/indiamedicaldevice/


    Twitter : https://twitter.com/Indiamedical18


    Instagram : https://www.instagram.com/indiamedical18/


    *****


    PP/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1520394) Visitor Counter : 302
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu , Tamil