      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister meets J&K youth under Youth Exchange Programme ‘Watan ko Jano’
      Posted On: 18 FEB 2018 5:43PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh met the youth of Jammu and Kashmir under the Youth Exchange Programme “Watan Ko Jano” 2017-18, here today. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has been organising programme “Watan Ko Jano” to give exposure to the youth and children of Jammu and Kashmir about the cultural and socio-economic development taking place in other parts of the country. Youth and children hit by militancy and from weaker sections of the society have been identified for the purpose. Around 200 youth from the state are on a visit to different places of the country as part of the programme from 11 th Feb-20 th Feb, 2018.


    Addressing the youth, Shri Rajnath Singh expressed happiness that these youth have visited various parts of the country and witnessed the rich cultural and historical heritage of the country. The children have visited Ajmer, Jaipur and Agra and will now visit the historical places in Delhi. The Home Minister said that these youth are an inseparable part of the country. He also expressed happiness over the fact that one more group of 500 students will also visit various parts of country after this group. He said that unity in diversity is the unique value of the country and these children are also a reflection of it. We have to take it forward, he asked youth present there. With this tour, the youth will be able to see the development of modern India, he added. He added that these youth will also see the role of unity in the process of development. Shri Rajnath Singh said that the children might have read about and seen these places in their text books, now they have the opportunity to see these places.


    The Union Home Minister said that they have certain responsibilities towards nation when they grow up. The youth should take interest in education, respect elders and do something that will make their parents and country proud. He said that every citizen has equal opportunities of development irrespective of caste, language and religion. India sets an example in world that needs to be followed, he further said. He urged the youth to share their experiences with their friends and relatives when they are back and they should spread the message of unity. The Home Minister wished the youth a prosperous future.


    The MoS (PP) Dr Jitendra Singh and MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju also interacted with the children. They conveyed that the state of Jammu and Kashmir is facing problem due to militancy, they urged the youth to take the message of peace and spread goodwill when they return to the state.


    Senior officers of the MHA were also present on the occasion.


    ***


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1520865) Visitor Counter : 273
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi