      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of PM’s speech at the dedication of several development projects to the nation in Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh on 15.02.2018
      Posted On: 15 FEB 2018 5:27PM by PIB Delhi


    My brothers and sisters present here in large numbers,


    Whenever India needs to look at the rising run; whenever it needs to see the sunrise then the entire country has to first turn its face towards Arunachal. Our entire country, 1.25 billion countrymen, if they want to see the sunrise then they can’t see the sunrise without looking at Arunachal. And the same Arunachal from where the darkness ends and the light spreads; there will be such a light of development in this place in the coming days that it will be used in spreading the light in India.


    I was fortunate to visit Arunachal several times. I came here when I was working for the organization and I also came here when I was chief minister of Gujarat and after becoming the Prime Minister, today, this is the second time when I got the opportunity to come amongst you and to have an audience with you people.


    Arunachal is such a state that if you come here after visiting the entire Hindustan, if you come here after visiting the country for a week and if you spend one day in Arunachal then you will get to hear Jai Hindmany more times in a day in this place than the number of times you will get to hear Jai Hind in the entire country in a week. It means, perhaps, this kind of tradition of greeting each other with Jai Hind, where the culture of social life begins with Jai Hind and has been linked with Jai Hind; you will find this kind of tradition in Arunachal Pradesh in India. Patriotism flows in every single vein and the love for the country; the people of Arunachal have made it a part of every single vein of them and every single part of them by working very hard.


    If there is a state in the north-east where Hindi is most widely used and understood then it is my Arunachal Pradesh. And, I’m surprised, these days I’ve been keep visiting the north-east, and as you are aware that the earlier Prime Ministers were so busy that they could not come here; and I’m such a Prime Minister who could not resist coming here amongst you. But whichever place Ivisit in north-east these days then I see that all the youths are holding a placard demanding that they want to learn Hindi; that Hindi should be taught to them. And it’s a huge revolution. This desire totalk to the countrymen in their language and this desire which is there in the young generation, this in itself has brought a big power with itself.


    Today, I got the opportunity to participate in three programs. This grand gift has been given to the people of Arunachal from the budget of Government of India, it’s been given through a program of Government of India and it’s been done through the ministry of DoNER. The work on the Secretariat has already started. Sometimes we see these things in the news papers that though a bridge has been constructed but a politician doesn’t have time so the bridge can’t be inaugurated and it remains unused for months. A road is being built but the politician doesn’t have time so road lies as it is after construction.


    We have started a new culture after forming the government. The new culture which we have started is that you should not wait for a leader; you should not wait for the Prime Minister. You should start using if a facility is being created. And it will be publicly dedicated when we will get time.The work should not be held up. And I bow down to Pema Ji that he started using it and the work of public dedication is taking place today. How the money can be saved? How the money can be properly utilized? We can very well understand this thing from this small example.


    When the government is scattered with some departments here and there, somebody is sitting here and someone else is sitting there. And the building is also old and the officer that works there also thinks of leaving for home early. If the environment is right, if the environment of office is proper then it has a positive impact on the work culture. The more clean it is, if the files are placed in proper manner, sometimes what happens if an officer comes to the office then first he removes the dust from the chair before sitting on it. However, he doesn’t know that even if removes the dust it will again fall back on the same place. But if it’s a good office, and if all the units are located in one campus so if someone comes from a village who has some work in the secretariat then no one tells that person that it can’t be done here and he should go to some other place two kilometers away. When he will go there then someone will tell him that he will have to go another office two kilometers away. Now, if he comes here and if reaches into a wrong department then that person will say: Babu Ji, it’s good that you came here but please visit the next room. A common man will have a lot of convenience because of this thing.


    Secondly, the government can’t operate in silos. The government only gives results when all the people walk into one direction together. But if the coordination is technical in nature then it is somewhat less powerful but if the coordination is natural then it becomes very powerful. If all the offices are located in one campus then a natural interaction is there; officers go to canteen together and they sort out problems of each other by continuous discussion with each other. It means, the coordination in the process of work and in the decision making process goes up and delivery system becomes faster and the decision making process becomes extremely easy. And that is why today I take pride indoing this important work of publicly dedicating the Sriman Dorjee Khandu State Convention Centre in Itanagar for fulfilling the hopes and expectations of the common man of Arunachal Pradesh because of this new secretariat. This is not merely the dedication of a building. In a way, it can become a living centre of energy for the dreams of Arunachal. It’s such a place where there will be facility for conference, for cultural activity and if we want to boost tourism in Aruncahal then I would like to say this thing to different companies of Government of India that now a convention centre has been established and they should hold their general board meetings in Arunachal. I would tell the people in private sector that: friends, it’s okay that you have organised a lot of meetings in Delhi and Mumbai, please just visit to my Arunachal that is such a lovely state, please witness the rising sun in the state by visiting there. I will push people. And when the people’s visit will take place in such a large number then there isa specific sector of conference tourism in the tourism sector. And if such a system can be created then it becomes very natural for all the people to visit.


    We have also started a new experiment in the government. The government has been run from Delhi for the last 70 years and people used to look up towards Delhi. After assuming the power, we have taken it upon ourselves to take the government to every nook and corner of the country. Now every corner of the country should feel that the government is being run by them, it’s not being run from Delhi.


    When we had to organize one of our Agriculture Summit, then we organised it in Sikkim and invited ministers from all over the country. We told them to just have a look at what kind of work in the field of organic farming has been done in Sikkim. Large meetings of different ministries of government of India should be organised in different states of North East in the coming days in a series. Perhaps, Morar Ji Bhai Desai was the last Prime Minister who had attended the meeting of North-East council. After that no one got time. Perhaps, Prime Ministers are very busy persons! But I have come for you people, I have come here because of you.


    And that is why I attended the meeting of North-East council and held very extensive discussions. It’s not just that, I have directed that all the ministers in the government in Delhi and all the ministers along with their staff will visit different states of North-East one by one. There should not be any week in a month when some or some other minister would not have visited some or some other state of North-East and it has been continuously going on for the last three years.


    It’s not just that, the DoNER ministry which was doing the good work for the North-East from Delhi; we said to them: well done; now do one more thing. And now the entire DoNER ministry and its entire secretariat visit North-East every month. It visits different states, itstays there, and after organising a discussion and by sitting togetherpolicies are formulated and they arereviewed, and they are monitored and because of that there is a transparency and accountability and the work becomes visible at the ground level. So a new facility which is being created in this manner, this convention centre which has been built, it will also provide the opportunity for organising several meetings of Government of India and it will also benefit.


    Today, I got the opportunity to lay the foundation stone for a hospital and medical college here. We feel the need to do a lot of things in the health sector in our country. One thing is human resource development, second is infrastructure and third thing is the most modern technological equipments and we have been working in the direction of strengthening the health sector in all these three directions.


    We have a dream of establishing a large hospital and a good medical college in the area covering three parliamentary constituencies as early as possible. If medical colleges will be established in India in such a large numbers and if a local student studies in those medical colleges then he would be aware of the diseases prevalent in the region - the diseases that naturally occur in the region.


    If he comes back after completing the study in Delhi then he will study a different subject and there will be a different disease in Arunachal. But if he studies in Arunachal then he will be aware that generally these four-five diseases afflict the local population. And because of this thing there will be a qualitative improvement in the treatment because the development of human resourcewill have a local touch. And that is why we want to take medical education to remote areas, to interior areas. Secondly, if the student passes out from there after completing the study then he prefers to stay there, he prefers to take care of the people there and because of this thing he earns his livelihood and people also get the health services. So I am happy that I got the opportunity to lay the foundation stone for constructing such kind of thing in Arunachal and it will benefit in the coming days.


    In order to provide proper health services in every village, it should be available in the remote areas as everyone is not affected by some major disease as people have a tendency to overlook general ailments, they think that they will recover in few days and then they manage it by doing some or some other thing but when the time passes they fall sick, and sometimes they don’t come to know about it till the time it becomes a serious condition. We are going to establish wellness centre in 22,000 village bodies of India; perhaps my figure was not correct; it’s 1.5 or 2 lakh; where we are going to establish wellness centers, so that the people of two-three adjacent villages can take advantage of that wellness centre.


    And in that wellness centre, minimum facilities and staff etc. should be made available as per the set standards. We have announced this massively important work about the rural health sector in this year’s budget. It’s our effort to set up wellness centers in almost all the Village Panchayats of India.


    And the figure of 22,000 which was mentioned by me, it was for the farmer’s market place. We are going to work for setting up modern markets in the country so that the farmers of nearby villages, of nearby 12-15-20 villages can come to that market and sell their produce. So we have been working on these two things for providing facilities to rural people – setting up a wellness centre in every village Panchayats and two or three sale & purchase centers for farmers in every block, nearly 22,000 such centers.


    However, we have gone beyond that through a big scheme.We have taken several steps.We have taken them in a holistic manner and not in a piecemeal mannerto take care of a sick person of our country. For example, development of human resource on one hand;on the other hand development of infrastructure like building hospitals and medical colleges; thirdlyif a poor person falls sick, if it is a middle class family and if they had decided to marry off their daughter or to purchase a car, for example if they have decided to purchase a car in the next festival of Diwali and if they suddenly got to know that somebody in the family has been diagnosed with a disease then the marriage of daughter is being put on hold, the middle class person gives up his dream of buying a car and comes back to a bicycle and he accords top priority to the treatment of that family member. Now this is the situation that such a costly medicine, such a costly operation that even the middle class people can’t afford it.


    This government has specially done this thing as there are several beneficial schemes for the poor people but middle class people have to face difficulties. Earlier if someone suffered from the heart related condition and if the patient needed a Stent implant then it used to cost about Rs. 1.25 lakh or Rs. 1.50 lakh.And the poor fellow used to ask the doctor about the stent and the doctor would say that if you implant this one then it will cost Rs. 1.5 lakh and if you use that one then it will cost Rs. 1 lakh. Then again the patient would ask the doctor about the difference between the two. Then the doctor would explain that the Stent costing Rs. 1 lakh would work for five years and another Stent costing Rs. 1.5 lakh will be for lifetime saying thathe will not have to worry if you go for this one. So who will say that whether he should live for five years or should try to live for the remaining life? And he would buy the Stent costing Rs. 1.5 lakh.


    We asked why these things cost so much. Our government organised meetings, we discussed the issue and tried to figure it out. And my dear countrymen, my dear brothers and sisters of Arunachal Pradesh, we have brought down the cost of stents by 70 to 80%. The thing which was available for Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 1.5 lakh, today, the same thing is available for Rs. 15, 20 or 25 thousand. Today, he gets the proper treatment for that condition.


    Medicines! We have launched affordable public medical stores in nearly 3,000 hospitals for nearly 800 medicines that are routinely required. Pradhanmantri Bharitya Jan-Aushadhi Pariyojana – PMBJP. Now nearly 800 medicines are available, we have made this kind of arrangement under this scheme that the medicine which was earlier available for Rs. 150, now the same medicine, the medicine of the same quality should be available for Rs. 15.


    Now we have done one more thing for the poor people, there are 10 crore such families in the country who neither buy medicines nor they have money for treatment despite being sick. And if the poor people of the country will fall sick then they can’t earn livelihood. Entire family falls sick and in a way the entire society catches a disease. Nation’s life catches a disease and it creates a situation of for stalling the economic progress of the country.


    And that is why the government has taken a major step. We have launched Ayshman Bharat scheme and under the scheme the government will provide insurance cover to those families who are below the poverty line and if a disease afflicts the family then the payment of up to Rs. five lakh on treatment in a year will be provided to them through health insurance, they themselves will not have to pay a single rupee in the hospital.


    And because of this thing private people will also come forward to set up hospitals. And I appeal to all the state governments that they should formulate a new policy for health sector in their states, likeif private people come forward to set up hospitals then how the land will be allotted to them, how it will be done, what kind of public-private partnerships should be forged etc.Please encourage them. And big states can work in the direction of creating 50-100 new hospitals in each state.


    And this Ayushman Bharat Scheme has a potential to bring about a massive revolution in the country’s medical sector. Government hospitals will also speed up their work because of this thing, private hospitals too will join it and if a family member falls sick, if there is a need to operate him then in such a situation the poorest of the poor person’s medical expenses up to Rs. 5 lakh in a year will be taken care of. So the Government of India has taken up this issue in a mission mode and it will benefit in the coming days.


    Brothers and sisters,


    Today, I have come amongst you. You people were aware about the three programs but I have also brought the fourth gift for you people. Should I announce it? And this fourth gift is that now Naharlagun Express will run from Delhi twice a week and it will be named as Arunachal Express.


    You people; as our Mr. Chief Minister told just a while ago that if the connectivity, be it digital connectivity or air connectivity or be it rail connectivity or road connectivity, if they have all these connectivity then the people of North-East are so strong, so capable, they are full of so much energy and radiance that the entire India will be here. This kind of potential is here.


    And as our minister was praised, as our Gadkari Ji was thoroughly praised, these days separate projects worth Rs. 18,000 crore are being executed in Arunachal Pradesh alone, these Government of India projects worth Rs. 18,000 crore are under implementation, be it widening of the roads or four-laning of the roads or be it construction of rural roads or construction of national highways. Today, we have taken a major step in mission mode in the field of digital connectivity.


    And I would like to congratulate the Chief Minister. He has done several such things that if Arunachal had been adjacent to Delhi then Pema Khandu would be on TV news on daily basis, his photographs would be published in all the news papers. But people don’t pay attention because it is located at such a distant place. He has invited experienced people, people from all over the country, he invited those people who have past experience and they were not only from the government sector alone, he deliberated with them what Arunachal should achieve in the next 10 years, what Arunachal should achieve by 2027 and how it should be done and he prepared a blue print and decided that now we will have to follow this path and we will take Arunachal to these heights by 2027. I congratulate the Chief Minister, I appreciate him and I respect him for this important thing that he has done for thegood governance.


    Secondly, the government of India has been fighting a war against corruption and I’m happy that I’ve been getting full support from Pema Khandu Ji in that direction. Transparency and accountability; there is no dearth of resources, no dearth of money in the country but whichever bucket you fill with the water and if that bucket has holes in its bottom then whether that bucket can ever be filled? In our country this was the norm earlier, it was the norm earlier.


    We have started using Aadhaar card, we started using direct benefit of transfer. And you will be surprised to know that the list of widows of our country which were receiving some assistance, some pension every month from the Government of India, that list has the names of those girls who were never born but they were shown as widows in the government records and money was sent in their names. Now please tell me where the money was siphoned off?There must be someone receiving the money.


    Now we have put an end to all these things through direct transfer of benefits. And nearly Rs. 57,000 crore of the country has been saved in these schemes;Rs. 57,000 crore. Earlier this money was siphoned off by someone and now it is being used for the development of the country. It is being used for the development of Arunachal.We have taken several such steps; we have taken several such initiatives.


    Therefore, brothers and sisters, the way you have welcomed me today, the way you have honored me, you have made me an Arunachali too. It’s my good fortune that the sun of development is rising at a place from where India starts receiving the sunlight, the sunrise of the development which will illuminate the entire country with the light of development. With this confidence, I congratulate all of you. I thank you very much to all of you.


    Please join me in saying Jai Hind.


    And Jai Hind chanted in Arunachal is being heard throughout India.


    Jai Hind – Jai Hind.


    Jai Hind – Jai Hind.


    Jai Hind – Jai Hind.


    Thank you very much.


    ***


    AKT/SH/RSB/KT/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1520670) Visitor Counter : 342
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil