      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      “Centre Committed to Mitigation of Pollution”: Dr. Harsh Vardhan
      
      “A Round-The-Year study needed on sources of Pollution”: Shri Arvind Kejriwal
      
      Clean air Campaign Launched in Delhi

      Posted On: 10 FEB 2018 4:39PM by PIB Delhi

    Strongly reiterating the Centre’s commitment to mitigation of pollution, Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Science & Technology and Earth Sciences, Dr. Harsh Vardhan expressed the hope that the campaign will not be a symbolic 15-day campaign, but will be continued throughout the year. Speaking at the launch of the Campaign Clean Air for Delhi in collaboration with Delhi government, here today, Dr. Harsh Vardhan pointed out to the need to use science & technology to combat pollution. He also said that the 70 teams that have been constituted have a historic opportunity to get their contribution etched in the fight against pollution. Dr. Harsh Vardhan urged the gathering to transform the Clean Air Campaign into a social and national movement. “We must take the example of this Campaign of Delhi to the entire nation”, he added. The Minister also emphasised that the people must realise their “Green Social Responsibility”. He also expressed the hope that the children present in the gathering and elsewhere will become “Green Sainiks” in the fight against pollution.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan addressing the gathering at the launch of Clean Air Campaign


    Addressing the gathering, Delhi Chief Minister, Shri Arvind Kejriwal emphasised that a study needs to be conducted round-the-year on various sources of pollution. He emphasised the need to analyse pollution in a scientific manner, as no solution can be found on a piecemeal basis. Shri Kejriwal also urged all the concerned Ministries of Central government and Delhi government to join hands to form a blueprint for mitigation of pollution.


    Speaking on the occasion, Secretary, MoEF&CC, Shri C.K Mishra said that the Clean Air Campaign must aim to substantially improve the Air Quality Index. He added that the Campaign should also aim to receive suggestions from people on mitigation of pollution.


    The Clean Air Campaign will continue for two weeks, till February 23. As part of the Campaign, 70 teams have already been constituted. These comprise one senior officer of MoEF&CC and another from Delhi government, who will be the co-leaders of the team. The team will also include one member from CPCB, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and one member from the concerned municipal corporation. The Campaign will also include interactions with Non-Government Organisations (NGOs), civil society citizens, academic and R&D institutions. A workshop on vehicular pollution and traffic management will also be held. The teams will also encourage Resident Welfare Associations to plant saplings in open areas and also encourage schools and colleges to increase the green cover in the campus.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan and Shri Arvind Kejriwal also jointly launched a mobile application for Clean Air to mark the campaign.


    Environment Minister of Delhi government, Shri Imran Hussain, Chief Secretary, Delhi government, Shri Anshu Prakash, Additional Secretary, Shri A.K Mehta, Chairman, Central Pollution Control Board, Shri S.P.S Parihar and other officers from Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and Delhi government, besides teachers and children were among those present on the occasion.


    Eminent singer Durga Jasraj’s group sang a prayer to invoke Lord Hanuman to clean the air of impurities and also rendered a song – “Swacchh Hawa Ho” to mark the start of the Clean Air Campaign.


    Eminent singer Durga Jasraj’s group rendering songs at the start of the Campaign


    ***


    KSP/HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1520226) Visitor Counter : 322
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil