      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      7th meeting of Upper Yamuna Review Committee held in New Delhi today
      
      Shri Gadkari calls upon states to take immediate and stringent action to check pollution

      Posted On: 15 FEB 2018 7:02PM by PIB Delhi

    In the seventh meeting of the Upper Yamuna Review Committee held in New Delhi today, member states agreed to convey their concurrence to the draft inter-state agreement for construction of Lakhwar, Renuka and Kishau dams on river Yamuna and its tributaries. The implementation of these projects will augment the water availability in the river and benefit the basin states including Rajasthan and Haryana. Members states have agreed to sign the project specific agreement for the construction of these projects so that proposal for approval of cabinet can be taken forward. In respect of Lakhwar, since investment clearance for the project is already available, the cabinet approval can be processed on immediate basis.


    Today’s meeting was held under the Chairmanship of the Union Minister of Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation, Road Transport & Highways and Shipping Shri Nitin Gadkari. It was attended by MoS Water Resources, Dr Satya Pal Singh, Chief Minister of Uttarakhand Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat and Water Resources Ministers of Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and Delhi, besides senior officers from the Central Government and basin states of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi. Shri Gadkari emphasized the need for greater cooperation between states to address the increasing challenges in the water sector.


    Regarding supply of Yamuna water share to Rajasthan ex-Tajewala it was agreed that Rajasthan would prepare DPR for carrying its share of water, as decided by Board, from Tajewala through pipe system to benefit the Churu and Jhunjhunu districts of Rajasthan.


    The issue of non-supply of authorized share of Yamuna water for Haryana and Rajasthan from Okhla Barrage was also discussed. The need for early completion of the work for installation of telemetry system at the release points for real time data of discharge was emphasized so that there can be greater transparency in the flow data at various control points.


    The issue of Return Flow from Delhi and its quality was also discussed along with the pollution in Wazirabad pond. Shri Gadkari called upon both Delhi and Haryana Governments to take immediate and stringent action to control pollution .


    *****


    NP/ST


    

    
    (Release ID: 1520701) Visitor Counter : 147
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu