      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Distribution of Aids & Assistive Devices to Divyangjans & Senior Citizens in the Presence of President of India at Gwalior Mega Camp
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2018 6:52PM by PIB Delhi


    A Mega Distribution Camp for distribution of Aids & Assistive devices to the Divyangjans and Senior Citizens was organized by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of India at Jiwaji University Ground in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh today. In the august presence of the President of India Shri Ramnath Kovind, the Aids and Assistive devices were distributed to Divyangjan and Senior citizens belonging to BPL category. Smt. Anandiben Patel, Governor of Madhya Pradesh; Shri Shivraj Singh Chauhan, Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh; Shri Kaptan Singh Solanki, Governor of Haryana; Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment; Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Union Minister of Rural Development Panchayati Raj and Mines; and Shri Nitish Kumar, Chief Minister of Bihar were present. Many Ministers of the Government of Madhya Pradesh and senior dignitaries were also present.


    In today’s mega camp, 2436 Divyanganjan under the ADIP scheme and 1835 Senior Citizens under Rashtriya Vayoshree Yoajna Scheme i.e. a total of 4271 beneficiaries were distributed 8108 equipments & Assistive Devices, amounting to Rs 288.72 lakhs, for free of cost.


    Under ADIP Scheme, major Aids and Assistive Devices distributed were - Motorized Tricycles-119, Conventional Tricycles-762, Wheelchairs-277, Cruthes-1236, Walking Sticks-327, Braille Canes-34, Braille Kits-36, Braille Slates-19, Hearing Aids-742, Rolator-38, Smart Cane-127, Smart Phone-50, ADL Kit-26, Cell Phone -26, Daisy Player-30, MSID Kit-268 and Callipiers-324.


    Under the Rashtriya Vayoshree Yojana, major Aids and Assistive Devices distributed were - Walking sticks-1089, Wheel Chairs-250, Hearing Aids-773, Cruthes-14, Tripod-417, Tetrapod-197, Walker Foldable-03, Denture Complete-45, Denture Partial-40 and Spectacles-806.


    Addressing on the occasion, the President Shri Ramnath Kovind lauded the efforts of the Government for Divyangjan and senior citizens of society. He said that the central and state government both are taking appropriate steps to empower the Persons with Disabilities. Various kind of contemporary assistive devices are being provided under the scheme and IT applications have been developed for Divyangjan. The President further added that assistive devices distributed in the camps are to be used as medium to lead a productive and independent life rather than depending upon these devices. He emphasized that they should depend upon self determination and morale though which any goal can be achieved.


    Shri Shivraj Singh Chauhan in his address said that said serving the needy & marginalized section of the society is the priority of the state government under the dynamic leadership of the Prime Minister. He applauded the efforts put in by Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Government of India for the Divyangjan and Senior Citizens. He said that under the guidance of Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment is doing remarkable work. Informing about the welfare works done by the Madhya Pradesh Government. he said that 1.67 lakhs universal ID cards have been provided to Divyangjan in the state and Divyang Pension is also being provided through Gram Panchayat.


    Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, in his welcome address, expressed his gratitude to the President of India for his participation in the event. He also gave details of a large number of Schemes implemented by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment for the empowerment of Divyangjan. He informed that Rights of Persons with Disabilites Act, 2016 has been enacted, under which the categories of disabilities have been increased from 7 to 21. He further said that in last three and half years, his ministry has conducted 6250 camps for distribution of assistive devices under ADIP scheme for Divyagjan. Informing about cochlear implant surgery which costs Rs.6 Lakh each, he said that as much as 1063 Cochlear implant surgeries have been conducted under this government scheme.


    Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, in his address said that ever since the government under the leadership of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi came into power, a large number of such camps are being conducted throughout the nation. He appealed that the political and social bodies both, should come forward for the empowerment of Divyangjan.


    Shri Kaptan Singh Solanki recognized the efforts made by the Indian Red Cross society, ALIMCO and district administration for organizing such grand event.


    Gwalior district of Madhya Pradesh has taken an initiative to become the first ‘Divyang Mitra’ district of the country. The objective is to facilitate Divyangjan of the district with their needs of day-to-day living and generate other avenues for their socio-economic development.


    Today’s camp was conducted under the ADIP Scheme and Rashtriya Vayoshri Yojana of Government of India. The ADIP scheme has been in operation since 1981 and has been revised with effect from 1st April 2017. The main objective of the scheme is to provide latest and modern aids and assistive devices to the Divyangjan to promote their physical, social and psychological rehabilitation and to enhance their economic potential. Rashtriya Vayoshri Yojana was launched in the country in December 2016 for providing assistive living devices to Senior citizens belonging to BPL category.


    Smt. Shankuntala D. Gamlin, Secretary, Dept. of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, M/o SJ&E, Dr. Prabodh Seth, Joint Secretary, Dept. of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Shri D.R. Sarin, CMD ALIMCO and the District Administration officials were also present in this Mega ADIP & RVY distribution camp.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/MoSJ&E/11.02.2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1520259) Visitor Counter : 160