      Vice President's Secretariat

      Biggest challenge before all of us is environment: Vice President
      
      Inaugurates 10th Auto Summit being organized by the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association
      
      Posted On: 09 FEB 2018 3:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkiaha Naidu has said that the biggest challenge before all of us is environment and that vehicular pollution is a major concern. He was addressing the gathering after inaugurating the 10th Auto Summit being organized by the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association, here today.


    The Vice President said that time has come to promote e-mobility through electric vehicles as an important alternative mode of transport and make necessary changes in auto sector to make it environment friendly. He further said that transformation in every sense is required and manufacturers, suppliers or dealers must follow ethical standards. It is the time that automobile industry, its dealers, environmentalists, scientists and the common man to join hands and adopt drastic measures to reduce vehicular pollution, he added.


    The Vice President said that India is keen to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and the thrust being given to e-vehicles is expected to lower vehicular emissions. He further said that there is a huge potential for use of environmental-friendly electric vehicles, including hybrid technologies in the country. Usage of e-vehicles reduces operating costs, gives greater efficiency than gasoline engines and reduction in the dependency on fossil energy by using locally produced renewable energy, he added.


    The Vice President said that major thrust needs to be given for vehicle-charging infrastructure and the creation of the right eco-system for promotion of e-vehicles. He further said that the demand for EV batteries manufacturing domestically will also create several jobs within the country and create consumer acceptance of the new technologies by providing the required information. The Indian automotive industry and organizations like FADA must gear up to meet the future requirements by adopting newer, cleaner technologies that are innovative and environmentally sustainable, he added.


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1520083) Visitor Counter : 253