      Ministry of Home Affairs

      “Government to set up a Cyber Crime Reporting Portal to report Cyber Crimes Against Women”: Union Home Minister
      
      Shri Rajnath Singh inaugurates the 24th All-India Forensic Science Conference in Ahmedabad

      Posted On: 10 FEB 2018 4:46PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Home Minister has said the Government has decided to establish a Cyber Crime Reporting Portal to report Cyber Crimes Against Women. We will also establish a dedicated Cyber Crime Laboratory to stop Crimes Against Women and Children, he added. Shri Rajnath Singh was addressing the gathering after inaugurating the 24 th All-India Forensic Science Conference in Ahmedabad today.


    The Union Home Minister said there is a need to increase our cyber forensic capabilities in modern times. Shri Rajnath Singh said cyberspace has added new dimension and new complications. Traditional policing is not adequate to control crime in cyberspace, he added.


    “Forensic science can be extremely useful in cyberspace. Our cyber forensic experts played an important role in preventing radicalisation of our youth. I laud the efforts of our cyber experts in counter-radicalisation. There have been incidents when morphed pictures are used to create confusion and tension,” said Shri Rajnath Singh.


    The Union Home Minister said many countries have successfully utilised Forensic DNA Database in their fight against crime. We are also working towards a Forensic DNA Database, he added.


    The Union Home Minister said the Centre is preparing a huge infrastructure for Crime Control.


    “We have come up with the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems. By connecting this centralised database with courts and forensic labs we will create an Inter-Operable Criminal Justice System,” said Shri Rajnath Singh.


    “New technologies like Artificial Intelligence, Blockchain Technology, Cloud Computing, 3D Printing, Robotics and Internet of Things are posing new security challenges before us. Forensic experts should transform these challenges into opportunities,” he added.


    The Union Home Minister said there is a need for Standard Operating Procedures for all forensic labs in order to avoid contradictions in reports. The chain of custody of samples needs to be transparent, he added.


    “Our Police Forces need to be sensitised about forensics. They should be properly trained in forensics, specially the Investigating Officers should upgrade and update their forensic knowledge. There should be ‘Forensics Pe Charcha’ at the District Level,” said Shri Rajnath Singh.


    The Union Home Minister called upon the universities to come up with uniform syllabus on forensics and work towards quality education.


    “Forensic experts play an important role in making a case foolproof. Today’s forensic science has evolved during the past 150-200 years. Forensic lab was first established in India by the Britishers but they relied more on force than forensics,” said Shri Rajnath Singh.


    “Detection is the biggest deterrent for crime control. The forensic experts can play a major role in detection, investigation and criminal identification of criminals. Forensics can bring a qualitative change in investigations,” he added.


    On the occasion, the Union Home Minister released a souvenir and gave away certificates to forensic experts.


    ****


    BB/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1520227) Visitor Counter : 292
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil