      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Union Government's schemes primarily focus on youth: Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2018 8:44AM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh has said that the Government's schemes primarily focus on youth and are youth-centric.


    Addressing the three-day "UDAAN Utsav 2018 Youth Fest" at Delhi University's North Campus here yesterday, Dr Jitendra Singh said, under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, the Government has acknowledged the role of youth who comprise over 70% population of India today, in the making of "New India". One of the important contributions of a project like "UDAAN", he said, is that it endeavors to connect with youth through the medium of art, culture, sculpture, painting, theatre, etc. which is capable of having a greater impact through a medium which would otherwise not be possible to achieve even with a write-up of thousand words or a lecture of 30 minutes.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said, most of the programmes initiated by the Union Government in the last 3 to 4 years are, apparently Government programmes but are, in fact, programmes of mass contact and social reform. In this regard, he quoted the example of "Jan-Dhan Yojana" and "Atal Pension Yojana".


    For youth in particular, Dr Jitendra Singh said, the approach of the Central Government has been not to provide mere employment, but to create capacity of employability and self-employment among the youth in order to enable them to earn their own livelihood. This is the objective which inspired incredible Government initiatives like, for example, "Startup India, Standup India" and "Mudra Yojana".


    Dr Jitendra Singh expressed special satisfaction with the fact that the theme of this year's "UDAAN Utsav" event was "Northeast". He said, while Northeast is a land of unexplored potentials, the DoNER Ministry has decided to provide initial "Venture Fund" to any youngster who wishes to establish a Start-up in the Northeast. If this endeavor moves in the direction, one day the NER will become a favorite destination for young Start-ups from all over India, he added.


    On the occasion, Dr Jitendra Singh also distributed prizes to the youth from different colleges of Delhi University who excelled in over 13 different competition events.


    ******


    BB/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1520272) Visitor Counter : 117
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil