      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Union Home Minister to inaugurate “Hunar Haat” on sunday
      
      “Hunar Haat” providing domestic and international exposure to master craftsmen”: Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi

      Posted On: 09 FEB 2018 5:04PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh will formally inaugurate “Hunar Haat”, on February 11, 2018 at Baba Khadak Singh Marg, Connaught Place, New Delhi. The theme of “Hunar Haat” being organized by the Ministry of Minority Affairs is “Development with Dignity”.


    While exquisite handicraft & handloom made by master artisans from across the country will be on display on the one hand, people will have a glimpse of the traditional Indian music at “Hunar Haat” on the other hand. “Hunar Haat” is being organised from February, 10-18, 2018 in New Delhi.


    Union Minority Affairs Minister Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said that “Hunar Haat”, are being organised by the Minority Affairs Ministry to provide an opportunity, as well as domestic and international exposure to the master artisans from across the country. He added that “Hunar Haat”, being organised across the country have become a “credible brand” to fulfil Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s commitment to “Make In India”, “Stand Up India” and “Start Up India”. “Hunar Haat” have been proved to be an effective mission to provide market & opportunities to talent of master artisans and craftsmen from across the nation.


    The Minister pointed out that during the last one year, “Hunar Haat” have been successful in providing employment and employment opportunities to more than 3 lakh artisans and other people associated with them. Shri Naqvi said that 5 “Hunar Haat” have been organised at International Trade Fair at Pragati Maidan (2016, 2017) and Baba Kharak Singh Marg (2017) at New Delhi; Puducherry (2017) and Mumbai (2017).


    He also stated that “Hunar Haat” has become a hit, as lakhs of people visit the “Haat” and encourage master artisans and culinary experts. The visitors purchase handmade products made by these artisans on a large scale. These craftsmen also receive large scale orders from domestic, as well as international markets.


    The Minister pointed out that at the 6 th “Hunar Haat” at Baba Khadak Singh Marg, hundreds of artisans from 22 States/UTs from across the country, representing Minority Communities, are participating. A large number culinary experts from 12 States will also participate in “Hunar Haat”. These artisans and culinary experts include a large number of women. “Ghazals, Qawwalis, and other musical programmes will also be held at “Hunar Haat” daily by renowned artists of the country at Baba Khadak Singh Marg”, Shri Naqvi said.


    Exquisite pieces of handicraft & handloom work like ajrakh, bagh, bandhej, bangles, Batik, black stone pottery, calligraphy in wood, candles & flowers, cane& bamboo, ceramic products, Chanderi silk, Chikankari, carpet, Giza & mataka silk, glassware, golden grass products, ikat, Muradabadi and Madrasi brass work, Jaipuri jooti, Kuchh embroidery, Kalamkari, Kantha, Kashmir art, linen dress materials, maheshwari products, marble crafts, metalware, mooja grass, mud mirror work, Muttvakuchh embroidery, namda, parsigara embroidery, pen knife, phool patti work, Rogan art, Shantipuri saree, terracotta products, toran bandhandwars, Varanasi silk sarees, wood inlay, wrought iron products & zari begs to name a few will be available for display and sale at this “Hunar Haat”.


    Besides, people visiting the “Haat” will also be able to enjoy various delicacies such as Bengali Food & Sweets, delicacies from North-East, Gujarati Thali, Ice-cream Brownie, Jharkhand Food, Kashmiri Wazwan, Parsi Bhonu, Rajasthani Pakwan, Rajkot Sweets, Shawarma,Tamil Cuisine, Mughlai food, Bihar Ki Bati, Govan food, Hyderabadi Khichda and many other delicacies.


    ***


    AR/HK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1520109) Visitor Counter : 460
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil