      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Women Government employees commissioning Surrogacy to get maternity leave: Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 12 FEB 2018 5:31PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh said that the women Government employees who have commissioned surrogacy will now be entitled to maternity leave. He also said that divorced daughter will be eligible for family pension if divorce case has been filed before the death of pensioner/family pensioner, even though the judgment has been passed after the death of the pensioner/family pensioner. He was briefing media at a press conference organised by the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, here today. He also announced that Constant Attendant Allowance on disability pension has been increased from Rs 4,500 per month to Rs 6,750 per month. The Minister said that these are the revolutionary steps forward and will promote gender equality and provide equal financial benefit to women. These are not only financial reforms, but also social reforms keeping in mind the futuristic society, he added.


    Briefing the media, Dr Jitendra Singh said that the emphasis of the Government led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been on the welfare of weaker sections. The focus of the Budget this year has been on the senior citizens, he added. The Minister also highlighted other initiatives of the Government such as Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana, Start up India, Stand up India and Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yoajna. Various achievements of DoPT were highlighted on the occasion e.g. electronic-Human Resource Management System (e-HRMS) launched on Good Governance Day i.e. 25th December, 2017, launching of Online System for Monitoring of Disciplinary Proceedings launched for expediting the proceedings against government employees involved in corruption cases and Certificates of Excellence for RTI Request & Appeals Management Information System in various categories, among others.


    Secretary (DoPT), Shri Ajay Mittal, Secretary, DARPG & Pensions, Shri K V Eapen and senior officers of the Ministry of Personnel were also present on the occasion.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1520332) Visitor Counter : 150
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil