      Vice President's Secretariat

      India is capital for spirituality in the entire world: Vice President
      
      Performs the 88th Mahamasthakabhisheka Mahotsava to Bahubali Gommateshwara

      Posted On: 10 FEB 2018 6:03PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that India is capital for spirituality in the entire world and we should feel proud of our cultural heritage. He was addressing the gathering after performing the 88th Mahamasthakabhisheka Mahotsava to Bahubali Gommateshwara, at Shravanabelagola in Karnataka, today. The Head of Shravanabelagola Mutt, Swasti Sri Charukeerthi Bhattarakha Swamiji, the Governor of Karnataka, Shri Vajubhai Rudabhai Vala, the Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers, Shri Ananth Kumar, the Minister for Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, Karnataka, Shri A. Manju and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President said that the Mahamasthakabhisheka Mahotsava is considered as the most auspicious occasion that commences once in every 12 years. He further said that Munis travel across the country to spread the light of Gyan and it is our culture to respect, follow and take inspiration from our gurus. This celebration will inspire all of us to create a peaceful, harmonious and blissful world, he added.


    The Vice President said that visits by senior functionaries like the President and the Vice President to such events will encourage others to follow. He further said that we should never feel shy of dharma, and said ' Dharmo Rakshati Rakshitaha ' - Dharma protects those who uphold or protect Dharma. Everyone must do something to the society, he added.


    The Vice President lauded the efforts and contribution of Jain Gurus and other members to the society. He further said that Jain community has been showing way for us to do good to society. The path shown by Jain saints can lead to the harmonious, peaceful and prosperous India we all wish to build, he added.


    The Vice President said that attending to basic human needs and avoiding wastage as well as recognising and respecting diversity and pluralism is a part of our national psyche. He questioned what else can be more important for the mankind to co-exist peacefully on the earth than this preaching? If one can adopt this principle, we can also accelerate development and that development can be ‘inclusive and sustainable’, he added.


    The Vice President said that the message of the 24 Tirthankaras is one of the theoretical foundations of our independence movement led by Mahatma Gandhi and non-violence was the central principle of that epic struggle. He complimented Swasti Sri Charukeerthi Bhattarakha Swamiji of Shravanabelagola Mutt for conducting the Mahamasthakabhisheka Mahotsava for the fourth time in a row.


    The Vice President released 108 Books published by Bharatiya Jnanpith belonging to the time of King Bahubali who is the son of First Jain Tirthankara Rishabhadeva.


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1520235) Visitor Counter : 120
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil