      Department of Atomic Energy

      ISRO planning to launch Chandrayaan-2 mission around April this year: Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 16 FEB 2018 6:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space , Dr Jitendra Singh said that Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) is planning to launch Chandrayan-2 Mission around April this year. Chandrayaan-2 is the country's second mission to the moon, he added. He was addressing a press conference on the achievements of Department of Space and Department of Atomic Energy, here today. Chandraayan-2 is a challenging mission as for the first time we will carry an orbiter, a lander and a rover to the moon. He said that it is a matter of pride that ISRO is launching Chandrayaan-2, which will place India at a new height in space technology.


    Speaking on achievements of Department of Space, the Minister said that ISRO has achieved many milestones in the recent years which include launch of 104 satellites in single mission in February last year and the launch of South Asia Satellite which will boost ties with neighbours. He said that India is a frontline nation in the field of space technology and the scientists need to be complimented for it. The space technology is being utilised by various ministries and departments e.g. in Smart City Mission, preparation of utilisation certificates in Ministry of DoNER etc.


    Regarding Department of Atomic Energy, Dr Jitendra Singh said that India is using the technology for peaceful purposes and its applications have been diversified in various fields including electricity generation, agriculture and health sectors. He said that very soon it will be the source of meeting energy needs of the country in a cost-effective manner. He also said that Bhabha Kavach, a light weight bullet-proof jacket has been developed for security forces. He said that Dr B. Borooah Cancer Institute in Guwahati is now an affiliate of the Tata Memorial Centre for Cancer, Mumbai. A tripartite MoU to this effect was signed on behalf of the North-Eastern Council (NEC), Department of Atomic Energy and Government of Assam.


    The Secretary, Department of Space and Chairman Space Commission Dr. Sivan K said that the total cost of the Chandrayaan 2 mission will be about Rs 800 crore. He added if the mission’s launch could not take place in April due to unsuitable weather, the window for launch is open till October this year. He also presented the achievements of Department of Space in the last four years. He said that ISRO has successfully accomplished 48 missions, including 21 Launch Vehicle missions, 24 Satellite missions and 3 Technology Demonstrators. ISRO Chairman also said that South Asia Satellite is a Common Network for Disaster Management Support, Meteorological Data sharing, connectivity of academic, scientific and research institutions, etc. He also spoke on the upcoming missions of ISRO.


    Click here for detailed presentation on Department of Space


    The Chairman & Managing Director, Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd (NPCIL), Shri S K Sharma also gave a detailed presentation on various achievements of Department of Atomic Energy in the last four years. He said that there has been an increase of 50% in the capacity addition from 4780 MW in 2014 to 6780 MW with the completion of Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plan t (KKNPP1&2). He said that 9 reactors are under cons truction which will further augment capacity by 6700 MWe. On completion of projects under construction & sanctioned, capacity will reach 22480 MW by 2031 – about 5 times the capacity of 4780 MW in 2014, he added. He said that there has been record generation of 14252 crore Units of commercial electricity generation (14709 crore units including infirm power) during 2014-15 to 2017-18 (upto Jan 2018). He also elaborated on contribution of atomic energy in the field of agriculture, waste management, health care technologies, development of radiopharmaceuticals and technology for bio-pesticide.


    Click here for detailed presentation on Department of Atomic Energy


    Senior officers of the departments were also present on the occasion.


    ***


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1520787) Visitor Counter : 421
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil