      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      107 complaints received on SHe-box till date
      Posted On: 09 FEB 2018 4:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of WCD issued advisories to all States/UTs to ensure effective implementation of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act.


    In order to ensure the effective implementation of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, the Ministry has launched an online complaint management system titled Sexual Harassment electronic –Box (SHe-Box) for registering complaints related to sexual harassment at workplace of all women employees in the country, including government and private employees. So far, 107 complaints have been received through portal 'SHe-box'. All concerned authorities have been requested for appropriate resolution.


    Ministry of Women and Child Development had issued advisories to all States/UTs Government to ensure effective implementation of the Act. The Ministries/Departments in Government of India have also been advised to ensure the compliance of the Act from time to time.Ministry of Corporate Affairs along with the industry bodies, Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India (ASSOCHAM), Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Confederation of Indian Society, Chamber of Commerce & Industry (CCI), and National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM) have also been requested to ensure effective implementation of the Act amongst their members in private sectors.


    The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 mandates all the workplace which include any department, organisation, undertaking, establishment, enterprise, institution, office, branch or unit which is established, owned, controlled or wholly or substantially financed by funds provided directly or indirectly by the appropriate Government or the local authority or a Government company or a corporation or a co-operative society having more than 10 workers to constitute Internal Complaint Committee (ICC) for receiving complaints of sexual harassment.The Act cast an obligation upon all the employers to constitute Internal Complaint Committee. Section 23 of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 casts responsibility on the appropriate Government to monitor the implementation of this Act.


    Apart from the above, the Ministry has empanelled Institutes/Organizations for imparting training programmes/workshops in different parts of the country under Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Women and Child Development, Dr. Virendra Kumar in reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    NB/SKK/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1520103) Visitor Counter : 125