      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Shri Ram Vilas Paswan kicks off Swachhta Pakhwada in his Ministry scheduled from 16th to 28th February 2018
      
      Shri Paswan administers the Swachhta pledge to officials of the Department of Food & Public Distribution
      
      Posted On: 16 FEB 2018 1:22PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Ram Vilas Paswan, Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution swept an area outside Krishi Bhawan in New Delhi today. Shri Paswan also administered the Swachhta pledge to officials of the Department of Food & Public Distribution on the first day of the Department’s Swachhta Pakhwada scheduled from 16 th to 28 th February 2018. The Union Minister appealed to officials of the Department of Food & Public Distribution to wholeheartedly join the countrywide cleanliness drive. Shri Paswan also appealed to officials of his ministry to join the campaign and keep their homes, offices, neighbourhoods, towns and cities clean. The Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Consumer Affairs, Shri C.R. Chaudhary, Shri Ravikant, the Secretary, Department of Food and Public Distribution and other senior officials were also present on the occasion.


    The Pakhwada is being organized to create awareness amongst officials as well as the general public on the importance of the need for sustained maintenance of cleanliness and hygiene. It is in support of the larger effort of the Government of India and the States to bring about behavior change in the public towards eradication of unhygienic practices related to personal and environmental hygiene.


    During the Pakhwada, the Department and its associated offices shall be taking up various activities to promote Swachchta such as improvement in the overall sanitary conditions of the office spaces and public spaces around it, provision of appropriate toilets, drinking water supply, etc. in the work spaces, awareness generation on quality of food grains etc. Message of Swachchta shall be communicated to the public through cleaning of high footfall areas, public spaces, public processions, talks, street plays, slogans, etc. Select schools and localities in Delhi shall be visited for sensitizing the students and residents of the areas and also for taking up cleanliness drives. The cleanest section running trophy instituted in the Department shall also be awarded. During the Pakhwada, plantation drive shall be taken up by the associated organizations. Weeding out of old records, disposal of old unused office fixtures shall also be ensured. Officers of the Department and its associated offices have been encouraged to take up cleanliness drives in and around their residential areas also.


    The Food & Civil Supplies Departments of State Governments have been requested to spread the message of Swachhta in their respective areas during the Pakhwada. It has been suggested to them to take up cleanliness drive in the Fair Price Shops and their surroundings along with displaying banners and slogans etc. on Swachhta.


    For the first time FCI, CWC, CRWC have instituted a trophy for the cleanest foodgrain depot at the regional and also at the national level. The organizations have also amended their inspection guidelines to ensure that inspecting officers shall also look into the aspects of cleanliness and hygiene in the office/depot being inspected. Sugar mills and oil factories have also been requested through their respective associations to undertake cleanliness drive in their premises and spread the message of Swachhta during the Pakhwada.


    *****


    APS/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1520739) Visitor Counter : 255