      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Doordarshan should leverage the reach created by DD Free Dish and improve the revenue generation through Advertisement - Smt Smriti Zubin Irani
      
      Smt Smriti Zubin Irani Inaugurates BES EXPO 2018

      Posted On: 26 FEB 2018 2:07PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting and Textiles, Smt Smriti Zubin Irani has said that Doordarshan should leverage the reach created by DD Free Dish to create quality content and improve the revenue generation through Advertisement and ease the burden on the taxpayers. The Minister stated this, today, at the inaugural ceremony of the 24 th International Conference & Exhibition on Terrestrial and Satellite Broadcasting with the theme ‘Non Linear Broadcasting Technologies & Business Models’ - (Broadcast Engineers Society) BES EXPO 2018.


    Speaking on the occasion, Smt Smriti Zubin Irani said that India is set to have 530 million Smartphone users by end of this year, second only to China and more than 40% of content consumption happens online. She also said that the total advertising spend is expected to grow from 9.6% last year to 12.5% this year. The Minister also requested BES to conduct outreach programme with students and faculty of Broadcast Engineering Institutes. Strength of Broadcasting sector in India should be seen not by the number of channels available but by the quality of content provided by it. She also requested BES to train all of the Broadcast Engineering staff of Prasar Bharati.


    The Union Minister for Information & Broadcasting, Smt Smriti Zubin Irani along with the other dignitaries felicitated the winners of the awards constituted by Broadcast Engineering Society in various categories such as broadcasting, engineering, training and innovation.


    BES EXPO 2018 is organised by Broadcast Engineering Society (India). The expo is rated as the biggest broadcast technology show in India. Nearly 300 companies from 25 countries will display their products in BES EXPO 2018 directly or through their dealers and distributors in India. Exhibiting companies included those from Australia, Austria, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, U.K. and U.S.A.


    Shri NK Sinha, Secretary Information & Broadcasting, Shri Shashi Shekhar Vempati, CEO Prasar Bharati and Shri David Gomez Barquero, Senior Researcher in the field of Broadcast Technologies were also present on the occasion.


    ***


    AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1521701) Visitor Counter : 976
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil