      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of PM’s address at the inauguration of Uttar Pradesh Investors' Summit - 2018 in Lucknow
      Posted On: 21 FEB 2018 6:15PM by PIB Delhi


    Uttar Pradesh Governor Mr. Ram Naik ji, Chief Minister Mr. Yogi Ji, my colleagues, our senior Ministers and representatives of this city of Lucknow, Home Minister Mr. Rajnath Singh, a senior politician and the former Prime Minister of Mauritius Mr. Anerood Jugnauth ji, the Hon'ble Ministers from abroad, the investors, entrepreneurs and all the dignitaries present here.


    Change is something that is explicit. This Investors' Summit being organized at such a grand level and the presence of investors in large numbers is in itself a great change. I congratulate the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Mr Yogi ji, all his colleagues in the cabinet, the Bureaucracy, the police department of the state and the citizens of Uttar Pradesh for successfully carrying the state on the road to prosperity and development in such a short time.


    The people of UP know very well about the past conditions and the reasons for the same. What could have we expected for the industrialists when it was difficult even for the common man to lead a normal life in an environment of fear and insecurity. I don't think it was possible to talk about development, opportunities for youngsters, the middle-class aspirations in that kind of an environment. The Yogi government has carried the state towards positivity and towards the ray of hope from negativities, desperation and frustration. I congratulate him for that. Now the foundation of Uttar Pradesh is ready on which the grand and divine edifice of 'New Uttar Pradesh' will be built. Therefore, I once again congratulate you all for your contribution in this sacred work.


    Friends,


    There is an old saying-


    'Kos kos par badle paani, chaar kos par vaani'


    Uttar Pradesh is endowed with the resources. For the past hundreds of years, every region has had its own identity.


    Lucknow is famous for its chikan work while the mangoes of Malihabad are exported worldwide; Bhadohi is famous for carpets; zardosi of Benares, Bronze pots of Moradabad are exported abroad and the glass of Firozabad shines bright. Moreover, Petha of Agra and Kannauj's perfume are world renowned. We have the bright morning of Benares as also the evening of Awadh; we have Tajmahal, Sarnath, Ayodhya, Mathura as well as Kashi. This land is known for both Ramleela as well as Krishna's Raas. It is blessed with rivers like Ganga, Yamuna and Sarayu.


    It is also known for great institutions like IIT Kanpur, IIM Lucknow and Benares Hindu University. Uttar Pradesh has a glorious history and an equally glorious present. This can be gauged from the state’s textile sector, the tourism sector, the culture, agriculture and education. These can form the growth engine of not only the Eastern India but also for the entire country.


    Brothers and sisters,


    Today Uttar Pradesh is the number one state in terms of production in food grains, wheat, sugarcane, milk and potatoes. It ranks second and third in the country in the production of vegetables and fruits respectively. It ranks second in terms of small-scale industries.


    I wish to congratulate my brothers and sisters of UP for putting their state back on track despite the difficult circumstances of the past years. However, there is an urgent need to discuss some issues amidst this competition of being number one.


    The question is - 'what will happen in the future?' Is the capability of UP limited to this? Has UP reached its potential?


    Friends,


    UP has values and virtues, but at the same time there is a need for value addition. There is a need for value addition not only in work culture and business culture but also in every other sector of UP. I am glad that Yogi ji's government has been taking decisions and formulating schemes keeping this aspect in mind.


    Policies are made here by linking industrial investment with employment. Separate schemes are being made for the different sectors by Yogi ji's government.


    Policies with long-term effects are being implemented for different sectors like textile, electronics, manufacturing, IT, tourism, renewable energy and self-employment. Now in UP the industrialists will have red carpet instead of red-tapism. The Digital Clearance System for the industrialists is one of the examples. This will be a single window portal through which the industrialists will get online permission within the prescribed time limit. Human interference will be minimum. Definitely this is an important step in terms of Ease of Doing Business in UP. The Yogi government is fulfilling the promises made to the women and the youth very seriously.


    I was told that this year rice procurement has increased four times and the payment for sugarcane has increased by almost 40%. The UP government is now associated with 'Power for All' campaign and it's local industries are also going to benefit greatly.


    Friends,


    UP has been blessed with the fertile Gangetic plains. Sixty per cent of UP’s population falls in the working age-group. UP government is now linked with the 'Power for All' campaign. The local industries are also going to benefit immensely.


    I wish to reiterate that UP has immense potential. Progress is the result of potential plus policy plus planning and performance. I believe that the citizens of UP and the Yogi government are prepared for a super hit performance. In this era, the industry 4.0 technologies are making the entire value chain more flexible, efficient and of better quality.


    I have seen some special techniques in the exhibition. There is a lot of scope in the field of Information Technology, Consumer electronics, and electronics manufacturing. Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of smart cities and AMRUT cities in the country.


    Brothers and sisters,


    A few days ago I had attended a similar Investment summit in Maharashtra. The Government of Maharashtra had set the goal of turning it into a 'Trillion Dollar economy'. Today I want to share another idea with you all. Can UP and Maharashtra compete with one another in this area of achieving the trillion dollar mark? Can UP government compete with different states in different areas at different levels? This will help in development and new avenues of employment will also open up. This healthy race will strengthen the spirit of competitive federalism.


    Friends,


    The Micro, Small and Medium enterprises or the MSMEs play a significant role in the economy of UP. It has a huge network. After agriculture, MSME is the sector that provides maximum employment to the people.


    I was told that UP has about 50 Lakh MSME units. The hard work of lakhs of people has made UP the leading exporter in handicrafts, processed food products, carpets, ready-made garments, leather products etc. There are special products of every state that have been kept alive by this MSME sector. We need to again think from a new perspective for creating new avenues of employment and for increasing the income of the existing sectors.


    I am glad to know that the UP government has started the 'one district, one product' scheme keeping this important fact in mind. I believe that this is a game changer. We were already familiar with the cluster approach but the 'one district, one product' has created a holistic ecosystem. With this scheme, skill development, product marketing, packaging and branding at local level can also be done very easily.


    Brothers and sisters,


    I used to say during the UP election campaign that when a state gets the power of a double-engine, it progresses at a rapid pace. The 'one district, one product' will get a backup power. It will be benefited with the help of the centre's Skill India Mission, Stand-up India Mission, Start-up India mission and the MUDRA Yojana.


    Under this scheme, the central government has given more than 10 Lakh Crore rupees of loans. It has provided more than 4 Lakh crore rupees loans without bank guarantee for self-employment. In this budget, our government has decided to give 3 Lakh crore rupees as MUDRA loans. I believe that the 'one district one product' along with the MUDRA loans will help in rejuvenating the MSME sector.


    Friends,


    We also have to think about linking expertise with efficiency. If someone is making a world class pot in Meerut, we also have to think of developing the firm engaged in world class branding and marketing. If there is a world class distribution system and a world class service then automatically world class talent will get drawn towards it.


    Friends,


    There is a major challenge in the agricultural sector. There is a lot of wastage that takes place while carrying the fruits and vegetables from the farms to the markets. According to an estimate, every year the farmer brothers of the country lose about 90 thousand - 1 Lakh crore rupees due to this reason.


    For example, potatoes - UP ranks first in production of potatoes. Earlier potato chips used to be prepared at homes but with time this has decreased. Now see, if potato chips manufacturing industries are set up at local level, farmers will have easy access to them. Farmers will have easy access to a thousand crore market. Dasheri mangoes are famous here but at the same time due to lack of proper storage and marketing facilities, the mangoes get perished. There is a need to think over providing a grid of storage or marketing infrastructure to carry these mangoes to the national and international markets. Several nutritious products are made with the help of mango pulp. We just have to strengthen the connection between the farmers and the industry. UP is the leading producer of milk but how to maximize value addition to it? How to modernize the entire infrastructure from ‘farm-to-fork’? We have to take steps in that direction.


    Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana has been implemented by the central government to reduce the wastage of crops, grains, fruits and vegetables and to strengthen the link between the products of the farmers and the demand of the industries. This is an important step in the direction of increasing the farmers' incomes and to reduce their loss. The government has allowed 100% FDI in the food processing sector to strengthen this sector in order to reduce this wastage.


    Friends,


    There are immense possibilities in UP to turn the agricultural waste and by-products into wealth. It has a good potential in ethanol production as it is the leading state in sugarcane production. The impact of development in UP in the biofuel sector can be felt till Delhi NCR. It will be a major step in the direction of clean energy and conservation of environment. I am happy that the state has prepared a Biofuel Policy. This policy will help in dealing with the issue of crop burning. All these steps collectively will help us to realise the goal of doubling farmers' income by 2022.


    Friends,


    Today on this special occasion, I want to make one important announcement. This announcement is important not only for UP but also for the entire country. In the Budget it was announced that the country will get 2 Defence Industrial Corridors. One of them is proposed in UP. The Industrial Corridor in UP will extend in the regions - Agra, Aligarh, Lucknow, Kanpur, Jhansi and Chitrakoot belt keeping in mind the development of Bundelkhand region. There is a possibility of 20 thousand crore rupees investment in this Corridor. This will provide employment to almost 2.5 lakh people.


    Yogi ji's government is going to industrialize Purvanchal and Bundelkhand by creating Purvanchal Expressway and Bundelkhand Expressway.


    Brothers and sisters,


    Earlier UP had only 3 airports - in Lucknow, Varanasi and Gorakhpur. Now the work of building 2 more airports at Kushinagar and Jewar is also being started. Besides, under UDAN scheme airports are being developed at 11 cities like Agra, Kanpur, Allahabad, Bareilly, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Muradabad, Aligarh and Azamgarh. Soon these cities will have the facilities of flights. This is my dream that the common man should get access to air travels.


    There are not many functional airports in UP. Yet there has been a growth of 30% last year on the passenger air traffic. This is more than the national average. You can imagine the type of change that will sweep the state with the operation of new airports.


    Uttar Pradesh has the largest rail network in the country. UP has a rail network of 9 thousand kilometres. UP has an important place in National Highway network. The economy of UP will get a new strength after the completion of Eastern and Western dedicated freight corridors. Both the corridors meet at Dadri in UP. This Corridor along with the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor and Amritsar-Delhi-Kolkata industrial corridor will give a fillip to UP's development.


    The National Highways being laid between Varanasi and Haldia will also help in industrial development of UP. Moreover, the extension of metro in Lucknow, Gaziabad and Noida and the new metro rails in Meerut, Kanpur and Varanasi will help in developing world class transport infrastructure in UP. Also, the optical Fibre connectivity in UP panchayats under Bharat Net Pariyojana will help in connecting the rural areas with the world. Modern highways, Railways, subways, metro-ways, waterways and information ways together will create an infrastructure that will take UP to new heights in the 21st century.


    Better connectivity, industries and manufacturing units will be helpful in seamlessly switching from one mode to another mode of transport. With reduced obstacles in transportation, business will flourish easily; tourism will develop and will consequently result in job growth.


    Friends,


    Often tourism is seen as a multiplier for growth. UP has a historical and cultural heritage. UP is known for different forms of art. There is a need to strengthen Tourist Centre ecosystem. There are several possibilities in UP in the fields of Heritage tourism, handicrafts tourism, ecotourism, wildlife tourism and village tourism that can be tapped.


    Uttar Pradesh is among the top states in attracting both national and international tourists. It can rank first. I believe that the new tourism policy that I am going to declare in this summit is going to help in achieving this goal. In UP, the tourism sector has also been categorised as an industry.


    Next year i.e. in January 2019, Mahakumbh will be organized in Prayag. This will be the biggest event of its kind all over the world. Last year the United Nations has recognized Kumbh as an Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. This is a great opportunity for all of us and especially for the Uttar Pradesh government. The 2019 Kumbh should be a memorable and an incredible experience for the people right from the Kalpavasis to the vistors from across the country and abroad. Our goal should be to provide employment opportunities to the youngsters of UP. We have to ensure that tourists from each country should visit Kumbha. It should be organized at a global scale. The world should be able to identify UP and India with it.


    Friends,


    Such an Investors’ summit was first organized in Gujarat followed by other states like Madhya Pradesh, Chhatisgarh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Assam and this summit has finally reached UP. It is important that now the MoUs of the Investors' Summit should be put to work as soon as possible so that the people here get employment.


    I would like to specially mention about Yogi ji's promise of personally monitoring the MoUs. He will follow up the activities himself. You should get ready because UP will start it's work vigorously.


    Our government, whether at the centre or at the state has always emphasised on job-centric and people-centric growth. We are prioritizing both ease of doing business and ease of living to create an economy with financial inclusion of the poor. It is because of the government's policies and schemes that now about 31 crore bank accounts of the poor have been opened under the Jan Dhan Yojana. More than 18 crore poor people have been given insurance with premiums of 90 paise per day and 1 rupee per month. The government has built about 1 crore houses for the poor and middle class citizens in the last 3 years. More than 6 crore toilets have been constructed under Swachh Bharat Mission. More than 3 crore 30 Lakh poor women have been given free gas connections under Ujjwala yojana.


    In this Budget the goal of the Ujjwala yojana has been increased to 8 crore. Pradhan Mantri Saubhagya scheme has been started to light the house of every poor citizen of the country. 4 crore poor people will be given electricity connection under this scheme.


    We have announced the Ayushman Bharat Yojana in this Budget. 10 crore poor families will be provided health insurance under this scheme. If any member falls sick, the government will provide up to 5 lakh rupees for his treatment and medicines for 1 year through the insurance company.


    Our government is trying to make the lives of the poor better with the help of these type of schemes. The government is ensuring that the benefits of the structural changes and the policy interventions should reach the farmers, the poor, the Dalits, the backward and the deprived people of the society.


    Friends,


    There is a need for new ethusiasm, new hope and new investment for building a new Uttar Pradesh and a new India. I hope that the Investors' Summit of UP will be successful in opening new avenues for investment. I would like to end my speech with this hope. I once again thank you all. I would like to express my gratitude from the bottom of my heart to Mr. Anerood Jugnauth ji. I believe that the efforts of Yogi ji to carry UP to new heights of development, will get your support and blessings and the growth of UP will play an important role in building India. We will fulfil this dream together. With these expectations my best wishes to you all.


    Thanks a lot! Namaste!


    ***


    AKT/SH/MG/IG/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521316) Visitor Counter : 499
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil