      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Shri J P Nadda launches Viral Load test for People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLHIV); Terms it historic
      
      More than 12 lakh PLHIV will be benefitted

      Posted On: 26 FEB 2018 7:25PM by PIB Delhi

    Calling it a historic day, Shri J P Nadda, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare launched the ‘‘Viral Load testing for all People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLHIV),”at a function, here today. The initiative will provide free of cost viral load testing for 12 lakh PLHIV on treatment in the country at least once a year. ShriNadda further announced that after ‘Treat All’, Viral Load test isa big step forward in treating and monitoring people living with HIV. “This Viral Load test is of immense importance to monitor the effectiveness of treatment of patients taking lifelong Antiretroviral Therapy,” he said.Smt. Anupriya Patel, Minister of State for Health & Family Welfare was also present at the launch function.


    ShriNadda further said that routine viral load testing will optimize the utilization of 1 st line regimens, thus preventing drug resistance and ensuring the longevity of people living with HIV. “Viral Load testing will empower medical officers at ART to detect failure on first line treatment early and therefore save PLHIV from developing resistance to drugs. It will also help in strengthening ‘Mission Sampark’ in tracking LFU (Loss to Follow Up) PLHIV,” ShriNadda added.


    The Union Health Minister informed that in 2017, India revised the Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) treatment protocols to initiate all PLHIV on ART "Treat All". “This ‘Treat All’ initiative was started to ensure that treatment is started early and the virus transmission is curtailed both at the individual and the community level. Now about 12 lakh PLHIV are availing the benefit of free treatment from more than 530 ART centres,” ShriNadda stated.


    Laying stress on addressing stigma & discrimination towards HIV, ShriNadda said that ending stigma is of paramount importance to enable persons infected and affected with HIV access health services. “To facilitate reduction in stigma and discrimination, the long pending HIV/AIDS Act has been passed, which is an historical step. Very few countries globally have such a law to protect rights of people infected with HIV,” ShriNadda elaborated. The Health Minister further informed that the key provisions of HIV/AIDS Bill are prohibition of discrimination, informed consent, non-disclosure of HIV status, anti-retroviral therapy & opportunistic infection management, protection of property of affected children, safe working environment and appointment of ombudsman in every State.


    At the function, Shri J P Nadda also released the National Guidelines for HIV-1 Viral Load Laboratory Testing, National Operational Guidelines for Viral Load Testing, Standard Operating Procedure for HIV-1 Quant Assay with CBNAAT and Guidelines on Quality Monitoring System for Outsourced Viral Load Tests.


    Speaking at the occasion, the Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare, Smt. AnupriyaPatel said that India is committed to achieving the global 90-90-90 target by 2020. “With launch of Test and Treat, there is increase in number of PLHIV needing treatment and thus the Viral Load testing. With increase in number of PLHIV on treatment the monitoring needs have also increased. For achieving this, NACO has scaled up the viral load testing facility in the country to monitor the viral load suppression”, SmtAnupriya added. She commended NACO for its global recognition and committed to providing all support to the people living with HIV/AIDS.


    Also present at the event wereSh. Sanjeeva Kumar, AS & DG (NACO), Dr. HenkBekedam, WHO Country Representative to India, Dr. BilaliCamara, Country Director, UNAIDS and Dr. Timothy Holtz, Program Director, Division of Global HIV and TB/India CDC, Sh. AlokSaxena, Joint Secretary (NACO), Dr. NareshGoel, DDG(LS), NACO and other senior officials from Ministry and NACO, representatives from CDC, civil society organizations, development partners and network of positive people.


    ***


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521810) Visitor Counter : 1198
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil