      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of PM’s address at the launch of various development projects in Daman & Diu
      Posted On: 24 FEB 2018 5:37PM by PIB Delhi


    My dear brothers and sisters of Daman who have come here in large numbers,


    Perhaps this is the first time that such a large crowd has appeared here and also the first time in the history of of Daman and Diu when projects worth approximately Rs. 1000 crore for development of Daman and Diu are being implemented.


    Brothers and sisters,


    A new environment of development can be seen in the entire region of Daman, Diu and Dadra & Nagar Haveli. Today Daman has turned into a mini-India in a way. You will find some families from each state of India in Daman today. Everyone has made Daman his home. Therefore, we can find a similar social life in Daman that we see in Delhi or Mumbai. We can feel the kinship, brotherhood, and people from different linguistic background. While I was coming here from the Airport, I could see an excitement and hope everywhere.


    Brothers and sisters,


    Daman has a wonderful awareness regarding cleanliness. It has undertaken a massive campaign for cleanliness. It has become a tourist destination. So, due to its enthusiasm towards cleanliness people from outside are even more attracted towards it. An increase in tourism leads to increase in employment opportunities for the people. Today Daman has been linked to Diu with helicopter service. Therefore, tourists from South India who will be interested in visiting Somnath temple or the Gir can get down at Daman and use its helicopter service for going further. Daman has such a wide scope for development! Now Diu has been connected to Ahmedabad. This means that Daman and Diu have been linked to the mainstream of development.


    Brothers and sisters,


    I was told that Daman has become Open Defecation Free (ODF) among the Union Territories. More than 2000 toilets have been constructed here. I congratulate the administration and the awareness of the citizens for this work from the bottom of my heart. This movement in a way is for upholding the honour of mothers and women.


    Once I visited my constituency in Uttar Pradesh. They have done a commendable job in construction of the toilets. I have also seen the boards put up by them on the toilets with the caption 'Izzat-ghar' meaning abode of self-respect. Toilets are abodes of self-respect. It is indispensable to have toilets for the honour of mothers and sisters. So, today you too have done that commendable job!


    Daman has now started with a green-movement - be it the cleanliness campaign, e-rickshaw or CNG taxis. You will see a transformation in Daman now; the daughters and sisters who are driving the e-rickshaws will protect the environment. Daman is a peaceful place with peace-loving people residing here. When at a place like Daman the people will see the mothers and sisters driving the e-rickshaws, there will be greater respect for those mothers and sisters and Daman will get a new identity.


    Daman is way ahead in every aspect; be it the CNG movement, e-rickshaws or LED bulbs. About 1 Lakh 40 thousand bulbs have been distributed in this small region due to which those households that have electricity connections are able to save money on electricity bills. About 7 crore rupees have been saved due to LED bulbs by the middle-class households in Daman alone. This will be the case in the coming years as well.


    I believe that today even though factories are set up, no one pays attention to the condition of the workers. They work in the factories but no one bothers about where they are staying or what they eat. Do they have any dignity or not? No one cares!


    I want to congratulate Mr. Praful Bhai Patel from the bottom of my heart for thinking on these lines. Daman is an industrial town. Workers from across the country come here to work and 15-20 people live in one small room. When one group goes to work, the other group comes and sleeps. When that group returns from the work, the other group goes out for work. A shift system is at work even for sleeping!


    With the help of Public-Private-Partnership, a wonderful system of accommodation for the workers is going to be started today. The lives of the workers will change with this. I want to assure the industrialists who have come forward for the partnership with the government to provide good facilities for the workers in terms of accommodation and food that my worker brothers and sisters will be able to put all their energy to increase the productivity of your factories. The workers will bring you more returns in the form of profits than the amount that you are going to invest in your workers. This is my belief.


    Today the workers have to come here for work leaving their parents behind in the villages and they are managing their livelihoods by eating whatever they get. But today steps are being taken to provide them with good quality food, reasonable wages etc. The workers are going to benefit out of it in the coming days. I firmly believe that if the workers are provided with good food, a decent accommodation, proper place to take bath in the morning, they will do whatever it takes for the development of Daman and the country.


    Water treatment plant - even today there are several cities where 100% treated water does not reach. But I was told that now the people of Daman get pure treated water for drinking due to the water treatment plant.


    The Indian government is spending crores of rupees to reduce the Maternal Mortality Rate and Infant Mortality Rate in our country. Today Daman has taken a new initiative. It is implementing the central government's scheme of providing nutritious meal kit to those households where there are daughters of 14-18 years of age, women who have just given birth and small children. I was fortunate to handover the kit to some of these families today. I hope that the households that are benefiting out of this government scheme will not stop their normal meals. You should continue with that as well. This is an add-on to your normal meals so that your 14-18 year old daughters develop well physically.


    If our daughters develop physically, only then can they be strong. When they will be mothers they can give birth to healthy children. So finally a strong and a healthy child will help in building a strong nation. These are the provisions of the scheme.


    Brothers and sisters,


    Now Diu has also been included in the list of smart cities. Many schemes are associated with Diu. You had dreamt of a University, hadn't you? You used to feel that how long you would depend on Surat-Narmada university. The Government of India has decided to set up a University here too.


    My fishermen brothers were worried about the VAT on kerosene. I am glad that the duty on kerosene will be zero for them. At the same time I wish to tell my fishermen brothers and sisters, and also to Shri Praful Bhai and the MPs that we should not limit ourselves to it. Now the Indian government has taken steps to provide long-range boats to the fishermen under the Blue Revolution. If you fishermen can form a small cluster and approach the banks for loans, banks will give you loans along with subsidy. You can purchase a new boat for getting into the deep sea where you will get greater catch and that too of better quality. You will be able to get greater catch in just 2 hours with the help of this boat; while earlier after working for 12 hours you were getting only a small amount of the catch.


    I want a special project to begin on the shores of Daman and Diu. Under the project I want the families of the fishermen to cultivate seaweeds in the salty water of the seas. The harvest can be used as fertilizer in the agricultural fields. There can be no better crop than the seaweeds. It can be done very easily. I want Praful Bhai to take this initiative forward and present a new model in front of the nation. I believe that this job can be easily done within Daman and Diu.


    Brothers and sisters,


    We are working towards increasing the connectivity of Diu - be it digital connectivity, roads, bridges or marine connectivity or LED lights. You can imagine that a lot of time and money will be saved. Earlier if it used to take 15 hours, the same distance can be covered in half an hour. The people will be benefited immensely!


    Brothers and sisters,


    I firmly believe that Daman and Diu, Silvasaa, can touch new heights of development. It will turn into a new model for the country. I am grateful to you all for your love and blessings!


    ***


    AKT/SH/IG/MG/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521610) Visitor Counter : 1387
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati