      Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA)

      Muzaffarpur-Sagauli & Sagauli-Valmiki Nagar lines Doubling with Electrification
      
      CCEA approves 100.6 Km long Muzaffarpur-Sagauli & 109.7 Km Sagauli-Valmiki Nagar lines Doubling projects with electrification at completion costs of Rs. 1347.61 crore, Rs. 1381.49 crore respectively
      
      These projects will cover the districts of Muzaffarpur, East Champaran (Motihari) and West Champaran (Bettiah) in Bihar
      
      At present passenger trains suffer congestion and stoppages on Muzaffarpur to Valmiki Nagar route as the line capacity utilization is upto 213%. Additional capacity will ease congestion and allow faster and reliable movement with minimum delays
      
      Muzaffarpur-Sagauli & Sagauli-Valmiki Nagar projects will generate direct employment during construction for 24.14 lakh mandays and 26.33 lakh mandays respectively
      Posted On: 20 FEB 2018 1:08PM by PIB Delhi


    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the 100.6 Km long Muzaffarpur-Sagauli & 109.7 Km Sagauli-Valmiki Nagar lines Doubling projects with electrification at completion costs of Rs. 1347.61 crore, Rs. 1381.49 crore respectively. These projects will cover the districts of Muzaffarpur, East Champaran (Motihari) and West Champaran (Bettiah) in Bihar.


    Areas served by this route are densely population regions of north Bihar. At present passenger trains suffer congestion and stoppages on Muzaffarpur to Valmiki Nagar route as the line capacity utilization is upto 213%. 38 mail/express trains are running in this section with thousands of passengers travelling daily. Additional capacity will ease congestion and allow faster and reliable movement with minimum delays. In addition, it will enhance safety through more availability of maintenance blocks.


    In addition to decongesting the entire route from Muzaffarpur to Valmiki Nagar, doubling will improve capacity and connectivity, thus paving way for economic prosperity and overall development of the region. Development of eastern regions of the country is important for achieving the ‘New India’ vision of Hon’ble Prime Minister by 2022.Champaran is on the border with Nepal, thus doubling of this line will lead to better connectivity with neighbouring countries as well.


    Electrification will lead to faster trains, reduce carbon emissions and promote sustainable environment. Further, It will reduce fuel import dependence, and result in energy costs savings for Railways and forex savings for the country.


    In addition, Muzaffarpur-Sagauli & Sagauli-Valmiki Nagar projects will generate direct employment during construction for 24.14 lakh mandays and 26.33 lakh mandays respectively.


    *****


    AKT/VB/SH


    

    
    (Release ID: 1521020) Visitor Counter : 212
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil