      Ministry of Science & Technology

      CSIR signs MoU with IORA: CSIR-CIMAP to host coordinating center on medicinal plants
      Posted On: 26 FEB 2018 5:57PM by PIB Delhi


    Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) has entered into a MoU with the Regional Center for Science and Technology Transfer (RCSTT) of Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA) for designating Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Lucknow (CSIR-CIMAP) as Coordinating Center on Medicinal Plants.


    The MoU was signed by Prof. Anil Kumar Tripathi, Director CSIR-CIMAP and Dr. A. Sedrpousan, Director, IORA-RCSTT. The Indian delegation was led by Dr. Girish Sahni, DG, CSIR and Secretary, DSIR. The delegation also attended the 31 st Khwarizmi International Award Ceremony which was addressed by H.E. Dr. Hassan Rouhani, President of the Islamic Republic of Iran.


    The IORA Center at CSIR-CIMAP will establish a database on the important medicinal plants, their value added products, related experts and industries of the IORA member states and organize meetings and training programmes to promote trade, commerce and scientific exchanges to complement the strength and limitation of the member states.


    The IORA is an association of 21 countries and 7 dialogue partners which have identified 6 areas of cooperation including medicinal plants.


    The signing ceremony was organized in the office of H.E. Mr. Morteza Sarmadi, Vice Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Islamic Republic of Iran, in Tehran in the august presence of H.E. Dr. Nomvuyo Nokwe, Secretary General of IORA headquartered in Mauritius and Dr. Girish Sahni, DG, CSIR and Secretary, DSIR, Government of India. Several eminent people and leaders of Iranian Industry participated in the ceremony.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Girish Sahni, Director General, CSIR mentioned the strength of CSIR in several areas of Science and Technology in which CSIR has developed expertise and contributed in solving hundreds of problems of people. He invited a delegation of scientists and business houses to visit CSIR labs in India to explore the possibilities of partnerships between CSIR labs and Iranian industry.


    Dr. Nokwe expressed the hope that the Coordination Center will promote cooperation in the area of traditional knowledge related to medicinal plants for the welfare of the people of IORA member states. She also indicated that this will provide an opportunity for two important member states of IORA (India and Iran) to enhance cooperation between them.


    The Iranian side emphasized the historical importance of this initiative and expressed their happiness and optimism on this new initiative. This is a major development to boost the relationship between India and Iran.


    Mr. Sanjay Panda, Joint Secretary (IOR), Ministry of External Affair, Government of India emphasized the importance of this initiative and the role India plays in Indian Ocean region. In view of the importance India attaches to its role in IORA, Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India has committed it's support towards the establishment and operationalization of the proposed coordination center at CSIR-CIMAP, Lucknow.


    ***


    SRD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1521771) Visitor Counter : 811
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil