      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      173rd meeting of ESI Corporation held ESIC vision 2022 approved in principal
      
      target of covering 10 crore workers till 2022 New Hospital at Bhubneshwar and Raigarh Sanctioned

      Posted On: 20 FEB 2018 4:14PM by PIB Delhi

      Many important decisions were taken in 173rd meeting of ESI Corporation under the Chairmanship of Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Union Minister of State for Labour & Employment (I/C) towards improvements in its service delivery mechanism.


      During the meeting ESIC Vision 2022 was approved in principal. The ESIC Vision 2022 envisages expansion of ESI Scheme in each district of the country with target of covering 10 Crores workers by 2022. The modalities and the course for achieving the target were deliberated upon in the meeting. In this regard, decision to form a sub-committee for fine tuning and for active participation of other stakeholders has also been taken.


      To strengthen medical care services in U.P., the decision of taking over of ESI Hospital, Barielly (earlier administered by State Government) by ESI Corporation was taken. Approval for setting up of ESIC Super Specialty Hospital at Bhubneshwar and sanction of 100 bedded ESI Hospital in Raigarh, Chhattisgarh were also reported upon in the meeting. ESI Corporation further decided for continuation of 50 bedded ESIC Model Hospital at Phulwarisharif, Patna upgradable to 100 beds. In its earlier meeting, ESIC has already approved starting of 100 bedded Medical facilities/Hospital at Bihta and Patna, Bihar.


      The decision for establishing Modified Employer’s Utilisation Dispensary (Modified EUD) on pilot basis was also taken in the meeting, with the objective of strengthening of stake holders participation in the expansion of primary care services of ESIC.


      In order to improve the delivery of health care services and ensuring proper use of resources available in ESIC Hospitals, decision of establishing Vigilance Inspection Unit in ESIC Hospitals has been taken.


      Smt. M. Sathiyavathy, Secretary, Labour & Employment, Sh. Raj Kumar, Director General, ESIC, ESI Corporation Members representing Members of Parliament, Employees’ & Employers’ Federation/Association, representatives of State Governments and officers of MoL&E & ESIC also participated in the meeting.


      *****


      SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521114) Visitor Counter : 180
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil