      Department of Atomic Energy

      Heavy Water Board signed an agreement with M/s Clearsynth, Mumbai for sale of 20 tonnes of Heavy Water in a year
      Posted On: 23 FEB 2018 7:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Heavy Water Board, a constituent industrial unit of DAE, signed a collaborative agreement with M/s Clearsynth, Mumbai yesterday for sale of 20 tonnes of Heavy Water in a year for development of deuterium labeled compounds, NMR Solvents, d-labeled Active Pharma Ingredients (APIs). This marks the beginning of an important era in the annals of Indian Nuclear industry leading to societal benefits for the masses. It is worth noting that during the previous years Indian industries have imported deuterated compounds and Heavy Water to the tune of 9 Million USD. This Agreement will initiate import substitution for the deuterated compounds and Heavy Water.


    Dr Sekhar Basu, Chairman, AEC emphasized the need of supporting Indian industries towards manufacturing of deuterated compounds to fulfill the mission of 'Make in India' campaign. The advantage of Indian expertise in this field will reach masses through end products developed by Indian Pharmaceutical and other Industries. This is expected to lead towards lots of R&D in the field of development of new deuterated compounds and Active Pharma Ingredients. Dr Basu also advised that the technology development in this field can be taken up by the Indian companies through Technology Transfer & Collaboration Division of BARC by entering into collaborative arrangements on various science and technology products.


    The Agreement signing took place in the office of Secretary, DAE at OYC, Mumbai in the presence of Chairman, AEC, Shri M. Inbarasu, Jt. Secretary (I&M), DAE and Dr. U. Kamachi Mudali, Chief Executive & Chairman, Heavy Water Board. The agreement was signed by Shri V.K. Khilnaney, Director (Operation), Heavy Water Board and Shri Vijay Ambati, President & CEO of M/s Clearsynth, Mumbai. Shri S.K. Nayak, Director (Technical), Heavy Water Board and Smt. Annie Thomas, Associate Director (HWM) both from Heavy Water Board, Shri Himanshu Shankar, IFA, Shri Ranajit Kumar, Head, NCPW and Shri S. Bose, were present during this agreement ceremony.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521580) Visitor Counter : 1266
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil