      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Smt. Anupriya Patel reviews the activities of DHR & ICMR
      Posted On: 23 FEB 2018 5:47PM by PIB Delhi


    Smt. Anupriya Patel, Minister of State (Health & Family Welfare), in a high level meeting, reviewed the activities and achievements of Department of Health Research (DHR) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), here today. Dr. Sanjay Mehendale, Additional Director General, ICMR and Smt. Sarita Mittal Joint Secretary, Department of Health Research were also present.


    At the meeting, the MoS stressed on the need to increase the Viral Research Diagnostics Laboratories (VRDL) in the states, including UP. She also directed the officials for increasing the number of Multi-Disciplinary Research Units in the North Eastern States. SmtAnupriya Patel further said that as the Ministry has only 14 Model Rural Health Research Units (MRHRUs) in States, there should be one in each state.


    The Minister further stated that ICMR and DHR should work with all medical colleges and increase the number of grant/fellowships under the Grant-in-aid Scheme (GIA) and Human Resource Development Scheme (HRD).DHR/ICMR informed the Health Minister that establishment of Health Technology Assessment in India is a remarkable step towards achievement of Universal Health Care, one of the targets under Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as it aims to encourage the process of development of standardized cost-effective interventions that will reduce the cost and variations in patient care, expenditure on medical equipment directly affecting the cost of patient care, reduction in out of pocket expenditure of patients and streamline the medical reimbursement procedures. SmtAnupriya Patel directed DHR/ICMR for taking Health Technology Assessment forward with all the state health departments. She said that taking health technology assessment forward will maximize health and reduce out-of-pocket expenditure and help the health departments both at the Centre and State for procurement health benefit packages.


    SmtAnupriya Patel also directed the ICMR for prioritizing the elimination of Kala Azar and Leprosy and said that ICMR should work in mission mode to achieve the target by the end of 2018. Similarly, it should work in mission mode to eliminate TB and Malaria.


    ***


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521545) Visitor Counter : 969
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil