      Ministry of Culture

      A Unique Exhibition showcasing 13 unseen copies of “The Holy Quran” inaugurated at National Museum in New Delhi, today
      Posted On: 27 FEB 2018 6:17PM by PIB Delhi


    National Museum- a prestigious Cultural organization under the Ministry of Culture, Government of India, for the first time is exhibiting a collection of "The Holy Quran" scripted in different calligraphic styles and inscribed in different epochs i.e. from 7th CE to 19th CE. The exhibition was inaugurated by Dr Nasim Akhtar, former Curator (Manuscripts) of the National Museum and world famous scholar and Manuscriptologist. This exhibition "The Holy Quran" will be on show from 27th February 2018 to 31st March 2018.


    Speaking at the event, Dr B R Mani, the Director General, National Museum and Vice Chancellor, National Museum Institute, New Delhi. said “This exhibition explains the emergence and proliferation of various styles of Calligraphies and scripts. The exhibition is unique as it showcases thirteen unique and unseen copies of Holy Quran. It has on display Holy Quran inscribed in major calligraphies like Kufic, Naskh, Raihan, Thulth and Bihari . The Bihari script is an Indian contribution to the world. Due to its stylistic appearance, this Quran occupies a rare position in the history.”


    As the history speaks and the collection of the National Museum depicts, many beautifully illuminated copies of the Holy Quran were produced under the patronage of Muslim Imperial courts. The royal seals on these holy manuscripts tell that they were endorsed by the Emperor themselves and these copies travelled from one hand to the other. These manuscripts of Quran reflect the eloquence of the calligrapher and the refined tastes of the patrons who commissioned them.


    This exhibition is 10 th in the series of exhibitions titled “From The Reserves” in which 5 to 10 objects from various reserve collections with NM are displayed for a fortnight. This initiative is to get the visitors acquainted with a large number of objects which are not in general display and also to attract the attention on many significant art pieces which generally remain out of focus.


    *****


    NB/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521944) Visitor Counter : 570
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil