      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Blind Cricket World Cup winning Indian team felicitated
      
      Five National Sports Centres being set up for Divyangjans across the country: Shri Thawarchand Gehlot

      Posted On: 21 FEB 2018 6:31PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister for Social Justice & Empowerment, Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot felicitated the 17 member Blind Cricket World Cup winning Indian Team and presented them with a cash award of Rs.34 Lakhs at a function in New Delhi today. The Minister of State for Social Justice & Empowerment, Shri Ramdas Athawale, Secretary, Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Ms. Shakuntala Gamlin and senior officers of the Ministry were among those present on the occasion. The cash award has been given under the Awareness Generation and Publicity Scheme of the Ministry.


    Addressing the gathering, Shri Thawarchand Gehlot congratulated the team and wished them luck and success for future. He disclosed that the Ministry is setting up five National Sports Centres in the five regions of the country and the States have been asked to provide land for the same. Madhya Pradesh has already provided land in Gwalior while Punjab and Andhra Pradesh are in the process of granting land in Zirakpur and Visakhapatnam respectively. Sports Centres for Divyangjan require special facilities due to which a detailed project report for these sports centres has been prepared after widespread consultation including those with foreign centres abroad, Shri Gehlot added. The Minister for Social Justice & Empowerment said that special ID cards are being given to the disabled to enable them to avail of the Government policies and about 21 States have already taken up the task of giving such IDs to the Divyangjans.


    The Minister of State for Social Justice & Empowerment, Shri Ramdas Athawale said that the Government is committed to the welfare of disabled persons under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. He congratulated the Blind Cricket World Cup-winning Indian Team and said that they have done the country proud.


    Secretary, Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Ms. Shakuntala Gamlin said that the Ministry is taking up measures to increase the participation of Divyangjans in sports. She expressed happiness that the winning Indian team has contributed to the pride of the nation by winning the World Cup for the second consecutive time by defeating Pakistan in Sharjah.


    The award ceremony was followed by a cultural program.


    *****


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521322) Visitor Counter : 178
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil