      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Delegation of Delhi Government employees meets Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 23 FEB 2018 3:23PM by PIB Delhi


    A delegation of AGMUT Cadre I.A.S Association, Delhi Administrative Subordinate Services (DASS), DANICS officers’ association, Delhi Jal Board, Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD), engineers and Delhi Government Employees Welfare Association met the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today. The delegation was led by Ms Manisha Saxena, Secretary, AGMUT Cadre I.A.S. Association.


    During the meeting, the delegation expressed deep anguish over the incident of alleged assault and misbehaviour with Shri Anshu Prakash, Chief Secretary, Delhi Government on February 20, 2018. The resolutions passed by IAS associations of all States/UTs and other services such as IPS, IRS, IFoS and various officers/employees associations of Government of NCT of Delhi were also presented to the Minister.


    During the meeting, the delegation submitted that they strongly condemn the assault on any Government officer by anybody during execution of their duties. Any incident of physical or verbal assault of an officer compromises their physical safety and demotivates them and their functioning which requires a dignified environment, representatives of the delegation said. The delegation also mentioned about the previous such incidents when the officers were assaulted in past. This affects the morale of the officers and they are forced to take voluntary retirement or seek transfer due to such behaviour, they said. The delegation demanded that there should be clear guidelines while functioning in the administration.


    In response, Dr Jitendra Singh said that it is the duty of the Government to provide a safe and dignified working environment to all the officers so that these officers can work to the best of their ability without fear. He said that it is the responsibility of DoPT to ensure that bureaucrats and officers are treated with dignity and provided a work-friendly environment. The Minister assured that the concerns expressed by the officers in their resolution will be discussed with the concerned authorities. He further said that the Secretary DoPT will meet the members of delegation and discuss how best to observe the guidelines and incorporate provision that ensure dignified and safe functioning environment to the officers.


    ****


    
    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521501) Visitor Counter : 369
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil