      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      India / भारत 2018 is a referral book not only for those who study administration but also for researchers and student community - Smt Smriti Zubin Irani
      
      Smt Smriti Zubin Irani releases Annual Reference India / भारत 2018
      
      Posted On: 27 FEB 2018 5:22PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting and Textiles, Smt Smriti Zubin Irani has said that India / भारत 2018 is a comprehensive manual of all landmark government schemes. The Minister stated this, today, at the release of Annual Reference India / भारत 2018.


    Speaking on the occasion, Smt Smriti Zubin Irani said that the online version of India / भारत 2018 will help researchers and students who often look for information on internet. It will be a referral book not only for those who study administration but also for researchers and student community, she added. She also hoped that the book will be brought out in all Indian languages from the next year to benefit the public at large.


    Backgrounder: India 2018 & भारत 2018


    India 2018 and भारत 2018, the reference annuals are the flagship publications brought out by Publications Division. Over the years they have been hailed as the authentic and comprehensive source of information on policies/programmes and activities of the Ministries and Departments of the Government of India. A prestigious volume brought out by the Publications Division based on the material compiled by the New Media Wing, India 2018 has entered its 62 nd year of publication.


    India 2018, the Reference Annual, an exhaustive publication, deals with all aspects of country’s development from rural to urban, industry to infrastructure, science and technology to human resource development, art and culture, policy, economy, health, defence, education and mass communication. The Annual also gives a glimpse of flagship programmes of the Government, important events of the year and the story of Indian States & Union territories with their vital statistics.


    The two Reference Annuals are also available as e-book in the most commonly used e-PUB format and can be accessed on a variety of devices such as tablets, computers, e-readers and smart phones. The e-book conforms to the best international standards technically and is a faithful replication of the print version. The e-INDIA has a variety of reader friendly features for better communication like hyperlinks, highlighting, book marking and interactivity.


    Both India/Bharat 2018 will be available for sale both through physical and online medium in following ways:


    p-Book:


    1) The p-Book priced at Rs. 350, can be purchased from 8 sales emporia and 3 regional offices of DPD and its authorized agents across the country.


    2) The p-book is also available for online sale through Bharatkosh portal which can be accessed directly as well as through Publications Division’s website, www.publicationsdivision.nic.in


    e-Book:


    Priced at Rs. 263, the e- books are available on leading e- Commerce platforms; Amazon. in and Google Play Books.


    ***


    AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1521923) Visitor Counter : 1583
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Gujarati , Tamil