      Ministry of Home Affairs

      MHA to reimburse compensation paid by J&K Govt to border victims
      Posted On: 26 FEB 2018 3:59PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA ) will reimburse all the funds spent by the Jammu & Kashmir State Government to pay compensation for damages and losses to the victims of cross-border firing. Disclosing this here today, Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh that the decision was taken following a request made to the MHA.


    The Minister said that State Government should expedite the mechanism and seek prompt reimbursement of funds from the Centre. This will curb the delay and resolve the demand of the State Government about non-payment or inadequate payment of compensation to the border victims.


    Dr Jitendra Singh thanked Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh for being extremely sensitive in promptly responding to demands from the border areas.


    As per the order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, the fund paid as compensation by the J&K State Government will be reimbursed to the State Government from the Centre through SRE (Security Related Expenditure). The order further says that the State Government may consider to pay relief and compensation for housing damages / losses, crop losses or livestock losses, relief for stay at relief camps, displacement, etc. to those affected by cross-border firing, at the rates equal to NDRF recommendations fixed from time to time.


    The communique also advises the State Government that item-wise claims and compensations paid by the State Government to the victims of cross-border firing may be submitted along with details, from time to time, in order to seek timely reimbursement from the Centre.


    *****


    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521740) Visitor Counter : 699
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil