      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Government committed to doubling farmers income by 2022 so that they can live a life of happiness and prosperity: Union Agriculture Minister
      
      To achieve the ambitious objective of doubling farmers income, government encourages adoption of 'multi-dimensional seven-point' strategy: Shri Singh

      Posted On: 27 FEB 2018 6:01PM by PIB Delhi

    Government is committed to doubling farmer’s income by 2022 so that they can live a life of happiness and prosperity. This was stated by the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shri Radha Mohan Singh while addressing the concluding ceremony of All India Farmers’ Fair and Agro-Industrial Exhibition in Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture & Technology, Pantnagar. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat; Agriculture and Horticulture Minister Subodh Uniyal and Dr. AK Misra, Vice-Chancellor also graced the occasion.


    The Agriculture Minister appreciated the work of Govind Ballabh Pant Agriculture and Technology University, Pant Nagar and said the university has found a place in 200 best universities of BRICS countries in the year 2016. As recently as this month, the university was also rated in the 350 best universities in Asia thereby making it only the second Agriculture University to get this recognition. This university has done remarkable work in the field of agricultural research, education and expansion.


    Shri Radha Mohan Singh also inaugurated a seed processing plant of National Seeds Corporation (NSC) inside the university premises. He was appreciative of the fact that for the first time, a seed processing plant has been set up by NSC which will help solve the problem of seed production in hilly regions. The variety of seeds used in hilly regions are not commercial viable for production in plains. The transportation of seeds for processing from hilly regions increases the cost of seeds. This processing plant will now be set up in the hilly region which will help seeds of certain species to be developed in the same climate. This will not only increase production but also prevent its extinction.


    The Minister said the evolution of some of the mountain crops is due to its special climate where several varieties of medicinal crops have been growing for centuries. Special varieties of Ragi (mandua), Saawan (zagora), which were on the verge of extinction, are grown. Shri Singh said it is imperative to give urgent attention to the development and conservation of special variety of crops developed in the hills.


    Agriculture Minister said the Prime Minister and the Government are committed to doubling farmer’s income by 2022 and for this the Government has increased the budgetary allocation of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare Ministry in the budget 2018-19 to Rs 58,080 cr from 51,576 cr in 2017-18. The Government is committed to the agriculture sector and has been pushing for the implementation of schemes that aims to shift priority from production-led to income-led strategy.


    To achieve this ambitious objective, the government is encouraging to adopt the 'multi-dimensional seven-point' strategy suggested by Hon'ble Prime Minister, which includes-

     1. Emphasis on irrigation along with end to end solution on creation of resources for ‘More crop per drop'
     2. 'Provision of quality seeds and nutrients according to the soil quality of each farm.
     3. Large investments in warehouses and cold chains to prevent Post-harvest losses.
     4. Promotion of value addition through food processing.
     5. Implementation of National Agricultural Markets and e-platforms (e-NAM) to eliminate shortcomings of all the 585 centers.
     6. To mitigate the risk, introduction of crop insurance scheme at a lower cost.
     7. Promotion of allied activities such as Dairy-Animal husbandry, Poultry, Bee-keeping, Medh Per Ped, Horticulture, and Fisheries.

    ****


    APS/AS/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1521939) Visitor Counter : 824
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

7.