      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Crèche facility to come up at Parliament House
      
      Development comes after SmtManekaGandhi apprised LS Speaker about the need

      Posted On: 20 FEB 2018 12:05PM by PIB Delhi

    The Parliament House will soon be setting an example of an inclusive and supportive work environment for its women employees by establishing crèche facility on its premises. Under the direct supervision of Hon'ble Speaker, crèche development work is in progress and a senior official has also been deputed to oversee the work.


    In a letter dated 29th March, 2017, Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi, Union Minister for Women and Child Development, apprised Smt. Sumitra Mahajan, Hon'ble Speaker of Lok Sabha, about the absence of a crèche facility at the Parliament House. In her letter, Smt. Gandhi pointed out that since over one-third of the total number of officials working in the Parliament were women, provision of creche facility was crucial. Swiftly responding to the letter, the office of the Hon'ble Speaker notified that a crèche facility will soon be functional within the premises of Parliament House. The Ministry of Women and Child Development thanked the Speaker on twitter.


    The provisions under the'Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Act, 2017' state that a healthy workplace diversity is to be maintained and direct establishments to provide crèche facility.A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) as per the laid guidelines will be followed while accepting the employees' request for Crèche registrations. The 1500 sq-foot centre will be guarded by professionals, ensuring all-round development of children and will also have a separate feeding room to aid mothers.


    This significant development by Government will bring in a visible impact by pushing other private establishments, central and state owned organizations to set up a crèche facility, to aid mothers.


    AKR/NG/SKK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1521002) Visitor Counter : 212
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil