      Ministry of Textiles

      Secretary Textiles, Shri Anant Kumar Singh Inaugurates Five-Day Handicraft and Gifts Fair Today
      Posted On: 23 FEB 2018 8:09PM by PIB Delhi


    Secretary Textiles, Shri Anant Kumar Singh today inaugurated the 45th edition of IHGF-Delhi Fair at India Expo Centre & Mart, Greater Noida. Speaking on the occasion, he said handicrafts sector plays a significant role in the country’s economy and provides employment to a vast segment of craft-persons in rural and semi-urban areas and generates substantial foreign exchange for the country while preserving its cultural heritage. He added that handicrafts have great potential as they hold the key for sustaining not only the existing set of millions of artisans spread over length and breadth of the country but also for the increasingly large number of new entrants in the craft activity. The 70 lakh artisans from various craft clusters who are engaged in production of handicrafts are the backbone of the handicrafts sector. Shri Singh also shared his experience during his visit to the recently held Ambiente-2018 in Frankfurt and said that products displayed by more than 400 handicrafts exporters were no less than the best in the world and further said that Messe Frankfurt has declared India as a partner country for Ambiente -2019.


    The Textiles Secretary, further elaborated that Ministry of Textiles has implemented various projects in providing assistance to the craft persons and exporters. The growth in exports ultimately results in generation of employment in this decentralized sector of economy and improving living standards of poor craft-persons engaged in production of handicrafts, he added.


    Shri Singh also appreciated the efforts of the Export Promotion Council for Handicrafts for creating such a marketing platform in the form of IHGF-Delhi fair for the handicrafts sector.


    Ms. Nicolette Naumann, Vice President, Messe Frankfurt, Shri Radhey Shyam Ranga, President Fair, Shri O.P. Prahladka, Chairman-EPCH, Shri R.K. Passi, Shri Sagar Mehta, Vice Chairmen-EPCH, exporters, overseas buyers were among others present, during the inaugural ceremony.


    The Fair will remain open till 27th February, 2018.


    MM/SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1521596) Visitor Counter : 940