      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Smt Harsimrat Kaur Badal Meets Stakeholders for Discussing Modalities of Operation Greens
      Posted On: 20 FEB 2018 6:44PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Food Processing Industries Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal interacted here today with the stakeholders including Farmer Producer Organisations and farmers, to gather input on their concerns and suggestions thereof on the modalities of Operation Greens. About 100 participants representing major stakeholders such as FPOs, senior officials of State Governments, NABARD, SFAC and Industry Associations participated in this consultation meeting.


    While addressing stakeholders from various corners of the country about the benefits of Pradhan Mantri Kisan SAMPADA Yojana and Operation Greens, Minister Smt. Badal highlighted the benefits of the initiatives towards betterment of farmers in the country and doubling their income by 2022.


    Minister Smt. Badal also highlighted the recent initiatives taken by the Government and budget announcements relating to food processing sector so as to promote food processing in the country and also to help the farmers in increasing their income. She sought suggestions from the participants towards formulating scheme guidelines for implementation of Operation Greens based on ground realities. Smt.


    Badal also took note of the concerns of farmers and FPOs and their suggestions towards resolving them.


    Minister of State of MoFPI Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti, while addressing the stakeholders about Operation Greens, said that farmers continue to be prime focus of the government. She also briefed the stakeholders present on the occasion about the scheme of ‘Creation of Backward-Forward Linkages’ and Nivesh Bandhu ( http://foodprocessingindia.co.in )


    The participants from different part of the country gave feedback about the existing problems in the supply chain and made suggestions to redress the problem.


    Secretary MoFPI Shri J.P. Meena, senior officers of the ministry and other dignitaries were also present on the occasion.


    Background:


    Recently, in the budget speech, Hon’ble Finance Minister announced launching of “ Operation Greens ” on the lines of “Operation Flood” to promote Farmer Producers Organizations (FPOs), agri-logistics, processing facilities and professional management with an allocation of Rs, 500 crore.


    ***


    SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521197) Visitor Counter : 202
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil