      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Two day National Conference on e-Governance inaugurated in Hyderabad
      Posted On: 26 FEB 2018 5:39PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State for Consumers Affairs, Food & Public Distribution and Commerce & Industry, Shri C.R. Choudhary and the Minister of Information Technology, Municipal Administration & Urban Development, Industries and Commerce of Telangana state, Shri K.T. Ramarao inaugurated the 21 st National Conference on e-Governance in Hyderabad today. In his Presidential address Shri C.R. Choudhary has called for a change in the mind-set of people if e-Governance has to be made effective and bring qualitative changes in people’s life. Through e-Governance we can bring transparency, eliminate corruption and reduce time in delivery of services to citizens, he added. Giving examples of benefits of e-Governance, the minister cited elimination of nearly 3 crore duplicate ration cards from Public Distribution System, which resulted in saving of Rs.17000 crores and ensured delivery of food grains to the needy persons only. He said e-Governance can help in ease of doing business and thus fulfil the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s objective of attracting more Foreign Direct Investment into the country. He said good schemes needed good implementation through e-Governance. Urging the use of Technology for development, he wished the delegates fruitful deliberations during the panel discussions.


    In his address, Shri K.T.Ramarao said digital revolution should lead to digital democracy and fruits of technological power should be used for economic development of the people. Quoting Chief Minister Shri K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s directive, Shri Ramarao reminded them that the aim of technology should be to help people. Narrating his achievements as Information Technology minister, he cited several IT projects that helped in removing obstacles to vehicle owners through RTA m-wallet. This wallet was downloaded by three million people in three months, indicating its relevance to people. Similarly he highlighted success of 4500 Me-Seva centres in Telangana state, which registered 10 crore transactions (1.5 lakh transactions per day). He announced that an upgraded version of Me-Seva 2.0 App encompassing 180 government services will be launched soon. The minister, highlighting an important measure to attract investments into Telangana State, said an investor now need to apply online only through TS iPass, upon which a decision will be conveyed within the time limit of 15 days. Even if there is a delay, it is deemed approval. So far 6000 clearances were given under new guidelines. Shri Ramarao said that Telangana State has become Number One in the rankings of ‘Ease of doing Business’, attracting Rs. 1,20,000 crore investments and creating 3 lakh jobs.


    Among other speakers who addressed the Opening Session included the Secretary, Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances Shri K.V.Eapen, Secretary, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology Shri Ajay Prakash Sawhney, Chief Executive Officer, UIDAI and Chairman, GSTN Shri Ajay Bhushan Pandey and Chief Secretary of Telangana State Shri Shailendra Kumar Joshi. The Additional Secretary, Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances Ms.Vasudha Mishra presented the Vote of Thanks.


    Earlier, the two Ministers jointly inaugurated an IT Exhibition where the e-Governance projects of various State Governments and the Centre were displayed. The theme of the Conference this year is, ‘Technology for accelerating Development’. Panel discussions will be held on four themes: Building User Experience, Universalization and Replication and Governing e-Governance, e-Governance Good/ Best Practices and Emerging Technologies. The theme of the Wrap up Session will be ‘Synergising Role of National and State Governments’.


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North- Eastern Region, MoS PMO, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Department of Atomic Energy and Department of Space Dr. Jitendra Singh will address the Valedictory Session tomorrow and present the National e-Governance Awards 2018 in 8 categories concerning various aspects of e-Governance comprising of Gold and Silver in each category.


    ****


    BB/RN


    

    
    (Release ID: 1521767) Visitor Counter : 620
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil , Telugu