      Ministry of Railways

      Jeypore-Malkangiri New Line Project
      
      CCEA approves 130 Km long Jeypore-Malkangiri New Line project at a completion cost of Rs. 2676.11 crore
      
      Likely to be completed by 2021-22
      
      Malkangiri and Koraput districts are among the identified left wing extremism (LWE) affected districts in the country
      
      Will result in short lead to many other places of Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh
      
      Provide basic infrastructure support for overall development including industrial development of the area having large socio economic ramifications
      
      Will also help in combating left wing extremism through development
      
      Generate direct employment during construction of about 31.2 lakh mandays
      
      Posted On: 20 FEB 2018 1:09PM by PIB Delhi


    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved 130 Km long Jeypore-Malkangiri New Line project at a completion cost of Rs. 2676.11 crore and is likely to be completed by 2021-22. The project will cover the districts of Koraput and Malkangiri of Odisha State.


    Malkangiri and Koraput districts are among the identified left wing extremism (LWE) affected districts in the country. These areas are also amongst the 115 aspirational districts. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given a clarion call to develop these districts to help achieve the vision of New India by 2022.


    The proposed new line will connect Malkangiri, Boipariguda, Tanginiguda, Mathili, Pondripani Road and other major towns to Jeypore station on the existing Kottavalasa-Kirandul line. Further, connectivity to important towns viz. Koraput, Jeypore, Jagdalpur, Dantewara will improve. It will also result in short lead to many other places of Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh.


    At present Malkangiri has no connectivity with Railways. The new line will provide basic infrastructure support for overall development including industrial development of the area having large socio economic ramifications. This project will provide connectivity to this region, and will help provide economic opportunities to the people of these regions. This will also help in combating left wing extremism through development.


    In addition, this project will generate direct employment during construction of about 31.2 lakh mandays.


    *****


    AKT/VB/SH


    

    
    (Release ID: 1521032) Visitor Counter : 56
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Hindi