      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      21st National Conference on e-Governance to begin tomorrow in Hyderabad
      Posted On: 25 FEB 2018 1:44PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), Government of India, along with the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India in association with Government of Telangana is organizing the 21stNational Conference on e-Governance on February 26- 27, 2018 in Hyderabad, Telangana.


    Union Minister of State for Science & Technology and Earth Sciences, Shri Y.S. Chowdary will preside over the inaugural session of the conference. And Shri Kalvakuntla Taraka Rama Rao, Minister for IT, Municipal Administration & Urban Development, Industries & Commerce, Public Enterprises, Sugar, Mines & Geology, NRI Affairs, Government of Telangana will be the Chief Guest of the Inaugural Session. Union Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution and Commerce & Industry, Shri C.R. Chaudhary is also likely to address the gathering. Shri Shailendra Kumar Joshi, Chief Secretary, Government of Telangana will address the Inaugural Session.


    Shri KV Eapen, Secretary, D/o Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances will deliver the Opening Address while Shri Ajay Bhushan Pandey, Chief Executive Officer, UIDAI will deliver the Key Note Address. Shri Ajay Prakash Sawhney, Secretary, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology will be another important speaker of the Session.


    The theme of the Conference this year is, ‘Technology for accelerating Development’. The Inaugural Session will be followed by 3 Plenary Sessions on Day1 based on themes: Building User Experience, Universalization and Replication and Governing e-Governance while on Day2 the two Plenary Sessions will be based on e-Governance Good/ Best Practices, Emerging Technologies. The theme of the Wrap up Session will be Synergising Role of National and State Government.


    On Tuesday, February 27, Dr. Jitendra Singh, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North- Eastern Region, MoS PMO, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Department of Atomic Energy and Department of Space shall present National e-Governance Awards 2018 in 8 categories concerning various aspects of e-Governance comprising of Gold and Silver in each category.


    The Awards are given for excellence in Government Process Reengineering, Citizen- Centric Service Delivery, Innovations in existing projects of Government Departments other than PSUs, Best district level initiatives through ICT, Use of Spatial Technology and GIS in eGovernance, Innovative use of ICT by Central Government PSUs/ State Government PSUs, Outstanding initiatives in e-Governance by Academic/ Research Institutions and NGOs including Cooperatives/ Federations/ Societies and Replication/ adaptation of the best e-Governance projects/ practices awarded.


    The Conference serves as a forum in which the Secretaries, Administrative Reforms and Secretaries, Information Technology of State Governments, IT Managers of the Central Governments, Software Solution providers, industry, etc. participate and interact, exchange opinions, views, discuss issues, problems and also analyze various solution frameworks.


    The Conference is also a forum to showcase best practices, innovative technologies and ICT solutions. The National e-Governance Awards recognise and promote excellence in implementation of e-Governance initiatives taken by various government departments and also initiatives of public sector units and Non- Government Institutions.


    *****


    BB/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1521637) Visitor Counter : 1796
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Urdu , Hindi