      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      'Inclusive' growth inherent to rise of 'New India': Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 22 FEB 2018 5:11PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh said here today that "inclusive" growth is inherent to the rise of "New India".


    Addressing the Plenary Session of the International Conference of "Inclusive Tribal Congregation", Dr Jitendra Singh said the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi's dream of "New India" is inspired by equitable growth of each section of society, regardless of the socio-economic background. The government has envisaged for itself the objective of empowering the poor to enable them to eradicate their own poverty, he added.


    In the global world today, where distances and time - gaps have tremendously narrowed down, Dr Jitendra Singh said, "inclusiveness" is the only option available to move forward. The government is inspired by the ideology of "inclusiveness" which was postulated half a century ago by Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyay, who defined the concept of "Antyoday", he added.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said a series of innovative new programmes initiated by the Central Government in the last three years have been inspired by the idea of making every section of society a part of India's growth story and the most striking example of this are schemes like "Jan Dhan Yojana", "PM Krishi Vikas Yojana", etc. Similarly, this approach of "inclusiveness", he said, has been seriously conscious of the fact that over 70% of population of India today is below the age of 40 years and schemes like "Start-up India, Stand-up India" or "Mudra Yojana" are meant to ensure their "inclusiveness".


    As for the tribes, Dr Jitendra Singh said, the best example is offered by Northeast, where we have more than 200 tribes but many members of the tribal communities have excelled themselves in their respective fields of activity and have today emerged as role models for other communities and so called mainstreams of society. This has also been partly possible, he said, because of modern technology and hi-tech means of easy accessibility to information and easy connectivity with peers across the world.


    PM Shri Narendra Modi's economic reforms are not mere economic reforms but also social and behavioral reforms with a long term impact, said Dr Jitendra Singh.


    ***


    BB/KGS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1521415) Visitor Counter : 281
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Hindi