      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Curtain Raiser: International Conference on Sustainable Biofuels, ICSB 2018
      Posted On: 24 FEB 2018 2:15PM by PIB Delhi


    Mission Innovation (MI) is a global initiative of 22 countries and the European Union to dramatically accelerate global clean energy innovation. As part of the initiative, participating countries have committed to double Clean Energy Research and Development investments over five years .


    The Sustainable Biofuel is one of the Seven Mission Innovation Challenges and India Co-leads this along with other countries Brazil, Canada and China. Sustainable Biofuel development is a key challenge as well as an opportunity for Governments, researchers, investors and industry to work together. Sustainable biofuels have seen rapid R&D and performance breakthroughs, however still there are challenges as most exciting biofuels still remain at an early-commercial stage of development.


    A two- day International Conference on Sustainable Biofuels is jointly being organized by Department of Biotechnology, Govt. of India on behalf of Mission Innovation and Biofuture Platform at the Stein Auditorium, India Habitat Centre, New Delhi. The event will bring together experts from Biofuels sector to take stock of current knowledge, share information and best practices, and build consensus on the actions most needed to move forward. Senior Government Officers, Technical Experts, Academicians, Researchers and Representatives from various Countries, Industry and Investors will participate in the event.


    Union Minister for Science and technology, Earth Sciences and Environment Forest & Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan, will be Chief Guest and will inaugurate and address the International Conference followed by Exhibition on February 26 th , 2018. Shri V.K. Saraswat, Member NITI Aayog will deliver the keynote address, Prof. Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary Department of Biotechnology & Department of Science & Technology would deliver the address to the gathering. Ms Sarah Web, Head Mission Innovation Secretariat UK would present her perspectives from Mission Innovation Objectives while Ambassador Antonio Marcondes, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Brazil would talk about Biofuture Platform and expectation from member Countries.


    A plenary talk on “Advance Biofuels-Pathways to decarbonize transport fuels” will be given by Prof Jack Saddler, UBC Canada. Representative from Members countries of Mission Innovation and Biofuture Platform and from International Energy Agency (IEA) will be actively participating in the event.


    On this occasion, more than 300 participants with representatives from 18 countries will be attending it. This event aims to provide a common platform to Government policy makers, industry, investors and research community to exchange experiences and challenges related to development and scaling of advance biofuels. Besides this the conference will focus on concerns of the private sectors to speed up large scale production of sustainable biofuels.


    The Inaugural session will be followed by a core plenary talk on “Sustainable Biofuels”. This would be followed by sessions focusing on National Perspectives, Collaboration Opportunities, Technology Development and Need for Innovation, Global Status of Biofuel technologies Technology Scale-up opportunities, Advanced Bio-fuels and Policy Support for Commercialization. The discussion on these domains shall seek to a clear understanding of the development in bio-economy made by participating countries, increase awareness of policy makers about the challenges faced by the industry-investor for commercial scale up of advanced biofuels. The need for collaboration-cooperation to speed up commercialization and focus on latest R&D in advanced biofuels will be the expected outcomes of this International event.


    The conference will seek to a clear understanding of the development in bio-economy made by participating countries, increase awareness of policy makers about the challenges faced by the industry-investor for commercial scale up of advanced biofuels. A “ New Delhi Declaration on Sustainable Biofuels ” will be endorsed during this International Conference which has been prepared in consultation with the Mission Innovation Member countries, and Biofuture Platform group. The Conference along with the Exhibition is a forum to showcase Best Practices, Innovative Technologies. The Conference will be of two days’ duration which includes sessions on selected themes and sub-themes, exhibition, cultural function and other related activities.


    ***


    SRD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521605) Visitor Counter : 5335
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil