      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Projects worth nearly Rs. 4,000 crore approved in 9th executive committee meeting of NMCG
      Posted On: 22 FEB 2018 4:05PM by PIB Delhi


    In the 9 th Executive Committee meeting of National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG), projects worth nearly Rs 4,000 crore were approved including a 20 MLD Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) for tannery cluster at Jajmau in Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh. This 3-phased project at an estimated cost of Rs. 629 crore includes pre-treatment unit in 380 individual tannery units, a 20 CETP with physical, biological and tertiary treatment, installation of Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD)-based pilot plant of 200 KLD capacity among other components. The central share of this project is Rs. 472 crore. This is a major step forward in arresting the pollution in Ganga emanating from the crucial industrial town of Kanpur. The project will be executed by a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) – Jajmau Tannery Effluent Treatment Association.


    Another project in Kanpur was approved at an estimated cost of Rs 967.23 crore for rehabilitation and integration of sewage treatment infrastructure in Jajmau, Bingawan, Sajari zones under Hybrid Annuity-PPP mode. This project also includes construction of a 30 MLD STP at Pankha. The central government will do capital investment and 15 years Operation and Maintenance.


    In Allahabad, a project worth Rs 904 crore for rehabilitation and integration of sewage treatment infrastructure in Naini, Salori, Numayadahi, Rajapur, Ponghat, Kodra sewerage zones in Allahabad was approved under Hybrid Annuity-PPP mode. An online monitoring system for all STPs and SPS for proper implementation has also been approved. The central government will do capital investment and 15 years Operation and Maintenance.


    One project of in-situ/ex-situ bio-remediation treatment of drains going into river Ganga has also been given approval at an estimated cost of Rs. 410 crore. NMCG through CPCB and other PSUs identified major polluting drains meeting main stem wherein technology service provider will set up treatment facilities including containerized modular treatment plants for abatement of pollution of river Ganga and its tributaries. The identified drains were further classified into priority drains which require immediate intervention. 20 drains have been considered for treatment in the first phase of the project. The step has been taken to adopt swift, techno-economic and sustainable technologies like in-situ/ex-situ to manage the pollution load in drains for interim period of infrastructure development and also to manage the cumulative effect of direct discharging of sewage into river Ganga. The activity is packaging holistic approach being taken under Namami Gange programme to arrest the flow of sewage into river Ganga.


    One project for rehabilitation with Operation & Maintenance of 15 years for Garden Reach STP (57 MLD) and Keorapukur STP (50 MLD) in West Bengal under Hybrid Annuity mode has also been approved at an estimated cost of Rs 165.16 crore. The central government will do capital investment and 15 years Operation and Maintenance.


    Besides, three sewage infrastructure projects have been accorded revised approvals in Begusarai, Hajipur and Munger in Bihar at an estimated cost of Rs. 230.06 crore, Rs. 305.18 crore and Rs. 294.02 crore respectively. The central share in these three projects is Rs 161.04 crore, Rs. 213.63 crore and Rs. 205.81 crore respectively. The central government will do capital investment and 15 years Operation and Maintenance.


    The meeting was chaired by Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation and DG NMCG, Shri U.P. Singh and senior officials of Ministry and NMCG.


    ******


    NP/SKP/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1521398) Visitor Counter : 266
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil