      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Four priority programmes identified for PM’s Awards for Excellence in Public Administration, 2018
      
      2010 applications received from 623 districts across States/ UTs under Priority Programmes category
      
      New category of awards for AS/JS level officers and Director/ DS serving in Government of India
      Posted On: 22 FEB 2018 12:20PM by PIB Delhi


    The Civil Services Day is celebrated on the 21st of April, every year, where civil servants rededicate themselves to public service and awards for excellence in Public Administration are also conferred. This is preceded by one day event on 20th April where discussions are held on relevant topics of public administration and it is attended by large cross section of civil servants. The Awards are given to acknowledge the exemplary and innovative work done by the officers of the Central and State Governments in implementation of selected Priority Programmes and for Innovation in Public Governance. Following four priority programmes have been identified for the awards to be presented on Civil Services Day 2018:


     1. Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana,

     2. Promoting Digital Payments,
     3. Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana - Urban & Rural, and
     4. Deen Dayal Upadhayay Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDUGKY).

    In addition to the awards in Priority Programmes, two awards shall also be given to organizations of Central/State Government/ District for innovations in Environment Conservation, Disaster Management, Water Conservation, Energy, Education and Health, Women and Child Centric Initiatives etc. Out of these, one award is earmarked for an Aspirational District.


    A new category of awards for Additional Secretary/Joint Secretary level officers and Director/ Deputy Secretary serving in Government of India has also been introduced this year to recognize their contribution towards bringing about transformational improvements in processes/systems through simplification and process re-engineering etc.


    There has been an overwhelming participation of Districts, State and Central Government organizations under the scheme for Prime Minister's Awards for Excellence in Public Administration. Under the Priority Programmes category, 2010 applications have been received from 623 districts across States/ UTs. Scheme wise number of applications received is as follows:


    a). Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (453),


    b). Promoting Digital Payments (258),


    c). Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana – Urban (665) & Rural (412), and


    d). Deen Dayal Upadhayay Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (222).


    Under the Innovation category, 999 applications have been received from organizations of Central/ State Government/ Districts out of which 138 applications are from Aspirational Districts


    An innovative and competitive methodology has been adopted for wider participation for the Prime Minister’s Awards 2018. All districts across the country and Central and State Government Organizations were motivated to compete under the scheme. Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) created web portal ( https://darpg.gov.in/ ) to enable online registration. The applications received are being evaluated on a holistic basis by high level committees at three levels. Shortlisted candidates shall make presentations and citizen feedback will also be obtained through a call center. Spot studies will be conducted to verify implementation of the programme/ initiative.


    The awards will be presented on Civil Services Day, 2018 function to be organized by Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions. Awarding the best practices helps bring about transparency, improvement in approaches, systems and processes in the delivery of public services. In order to sustain efforts towards a better public administration, it is paramount to support each initiative of this kind, to encourage innovation in each public institution, to motivate civil servants and strengthen organizations of Central/ State Governments/ Districts to help bridge the gaps in the existing systems and make the system more transparent. It is also expected that best awarded initiatives will, be replicated whereever possible either by the Districts or other organizations depending upon its suitability.


    ****


    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521362) Visitor Counter : 1214
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil
    
    
    

4.