      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Get out of slumber, Dr Harsh Vardhan asks scientists
      Posted On: 28 FEB 2018 8:37PM by PIB Delhi


    Science & Technology Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan has asked scientists to get out of the routine work culture and think out of the box. Addressing the National Science Day celebrations at Ministry of Science & Technology, he said in the present times, scientists have far better facilities than during the lifetime of Sir C.V. Raman. National Science Day is celebrated to mark the discovery of Raman Effect by the Indian Nobel laureate on this day in 1928.


    “Today we have better facilities. If everyone takes inspiration from scientists like Sir C.V. Raman and develop dreams, India would lead the world in innovations. Many people take birth, do routine jobs and disappear. Why do we remember Sir S.V. Raman? I have visited the room where Birbal Sahni, (noted Indian paleobotanist) used to work. I don’t know if at all he had the luxury of a ceiling fan. You should get out of the routine work culture and do things that are out of the box,” said Dr. Harsh Vardhan.


    The Minister said, Science has solutions for everything. He said, malnutrition, anaemia, hunger are not merely linked to poverty. He asked scientists to find solutions to these maladies that still affect millions in India.


    The Minister also gave away awards to several individuals and oranisations for popularising science, through various means of communications. The National Award for Outstanding Efforts in Science & Technology Communications was given to Dr Raghbir Singh Khandpur, Director General (Retd) of Pushpa Gujral Science City. The National Award for Outstanding Efforts in Science & Technology Communication through print media including books and magazines was shared by Tarun Kumar Jain, Editor of Vaigyanik Drishtikon, Jaipur, Dr. B. Sasikumar, Principal Scientist and Head (Retd) of ICAR-IISR, Kerala and Dilip Kumar Sarma, retired Head of Mathematics Department, Cotton College, Guwahati.


    ***


    SRD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1522188) Visitor Counter : 567
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil