      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Inauguration 1st Mega Food Park in Maharashtra at Satara on 01.03.2018
      Posted On: 28 FEB 2018 7:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The first Mega Food Park in the state of Maharashtra M/s Satara Mega Food Park Pvt. Ltd. at Village Degaon, District Satara will be inaugurated tomorrow the 1 st March, 2018 by Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Union Minister of Food Processing Industries, in the presence of Shri Devendra Fadnavis, Chief Minister, Maharashtra. This is the 10 th Mega Food Park being operationalized in the country and the 8 th operationalized during the tenure of present government.


    Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti, MoS, FPI, Shri Sharad Pawar, Member of Parliament, Shri Sudhir Mungantiwar, Minister of Finance, Planning & Forest, Govt. of Maharashtra, Shri Udayanraje Pratap Singh Bhonsle, Member of Parliament, Lok Sabha, Satara, will also grace the occasion.


    To give a major boost to the food processing sector by adding value and reducing food wastage at each stage of the supply chain with particular focus on perishables, Ministry of Food Processing Industries is implementing Mega Food Park Scheme in the country. Mega Food Parks create modern infrastructure facilities for food processing along the value chain from farm to market with strong forward and backward linkages through a cluster based approach. Common facilities and enabling infrastructure is created at Central Processing Centre and facilities for primary processing and storage is created near the farm in the form of Primary Processing Centers (PPCs) and Collection Centers (CCs). Under the Scheme, Government of India provides financial assistance upto Rs. 50.00 Crore per Mega Food Park project.


    Satara Mega Food Park has been set up in 64 acre of land at a cost of Rs. 139.30 crore. The facilities being created by the developer at Central Processing Centre (CPC) of this Mega Food Park include Dry Ware House – Raw materials of 5000 MT, Warehouse with racking system of 2000 MT, Pulping line of 2 TPH, Hi-tech Cold Storage of 3000 MT, Ripening Chamber of 384 MT, Pack House for F&V of 1 TPH and other food processing facilities. The Park will also have a common administrative building for office and other uses by the entrepreneurs and 4 PPCs at Pandharpur, Narayangaon, Wai and Ajara having facilities for primary processing and storage near the farms. Satara Mega Food Park will not only benefit the people of Satara District but also the people of nearby Districts of Pune, Solapur, Sangli, Kolhapur, Ratnagiri and Rajgarh .


    RM/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522138) Visitor Counter : 662
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil