      Ministry of Textiles

      National Institute of Fashion Technology(NIFT) to conduct National Sizing Survey
      Posted On: 28 FEB 2018 7:08PM by PIB Delhi


    INDIAsize, a National Sizing Survey will be conducted by the National Institute of Fashion Technology(NIFT), New Delhi, under the Ministry of Textiles, Govt of India, to develop a comprehensive size chart for ready-to-wear industry based on the body measurements of the Indian population. It is a scientific exercise where anthropometric data will be collected from a sample population in the age group 15 to 65 years to create a database of measurements that will result in a standardized size chart which is representative of the Indian population and can be adopted by the apparel industry.


    A large percentage of shoppers face difficulty in finding clothes that fit perfectly according to their body measurements. The reason is differences in anthropometric built of people in different geographical regions across the country. Till date 14 countries have successfully completed national sizing surveys: USA, Canada, Mexico, UK, France, Spain, Germany, Korea, China and Australia. The surveys entail measuring statistically relevant sample size pan country using human safe technology of 3D whole body scanner, a non-contact method of taking body measurements and analyzing the collected data to create size charts.


    Indian apparel industry uses size charts which are tweaked versions of size charts of other countries so returns of the garments are in the range of 20% to 40% and is increasing with the growth of ecommerce and the main reason for returns are poor garment fit.


    Providing well fitting garments in the absence of standardized size chart is proving to be a big challenge for the domestic textile and apparel industry which is projected to reach USD 123 billion by 2021 and holds 5 th position in apparel imports.


    The findings of the study will impact various other sectors like automotive, aerospace, fitness and sport, art and computer gaming where insights from this data can produce ergonomically designed products which are suited for the Indian population.


    The project has been approved by the Govt. of India and will entail measuring of 25,000 male and female Indians in 6 cities in 6 regions of the country: Kolkata(East), Mumbai(West), New Delhi(North), Hyderabad(Central India), Bengaluru(South) and Shillong (North-East). Using 3D whole body scanners, computers will extract hundreds of measurements from a scan. The data created as part of this project will be confidential and secure. The duration of the project will be around two years from the date of commencement.


    NIFT is the implementing agency for the National Sizing Survey.


    *****


    PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522123) Visitor Counter : 475
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil