      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Health Ministry to get ‘Ayushman Bharat’ Logo through crowd sourcing
      
      Competition launched on MyGov portal; first prize for Rs. 25,000

      Posted On: 28 FEB 2018 5:58PM by PIB Delhi

    The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has launched a competition for designing of a logo and tagline for the Ayushman Bharat programme, announced in the General Budget 2018-19, this year. This shall be done through a ‘digital crowd sourcing campaign’ on MyGov portal. The competition was launched on 19th February, 2018 and will conclude on 6th March, 2018. The main aim of the competition is to generate awareness among the population about these health sector initiatives and engage them towards ownership in shaping a healthy India. The winner of the competition shall be awarded a prize of Rs. 25,000/- while the second winner shall be awarded Rs. 10,000/-. The main theme of the logo shall be ‘Ayushman Bharat’ and the guiding principle will be Sarve Bhavantu Sukhinah, Sarve Santu Niramayah (‘सर्वे भवन्तु सुखिनःसर्वे सन्तु निरामयाः). The submission can be either digital logo or a handmade submission which can be submitted as a scanned copy on the digital platform. The prizes would be handed over by Hon’ble Minister, Health & Family Welfare in a live streaming event on MyGov and other social media portals.


    The details for the competition can be accessed at https://www.mygov.in/task/logo-and-tagline-competition-ayushman-bharat/


    The Government has announced, as a part of ‘Ayushman Bharat’, two path breaking initiatives that address health holistically, impacting primary, secondary and tertiary care system as well as prevention and health promotion. The 1.5 lakh health and wellness centres will provide people-centric comprehensive primary health care including for common non-communicable diseases closer to the homes of people including providing free essential drugs and diagnostics. The second initiative under ‘Ayushman Bharat’ is the National Health Protection Scheme, under which over 10 crore poor and vulnerable families (approx. 50 crore beneficiaries) will be provided treatment coverage up to Rs. 5 lakh per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalization.


    ***


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522064) Visitor Counter : 847
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil