      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Adoption of Green & Modern Technologies necessary to meet future Affordable Housing needs in Sustainable Manner : Hardeep Puri
      
      Launches mobile app on “Bamboo Housing & Construction”- Bamtech
      
      
      National seminar on emerging Building Materials and Construction Technologies inaugurated
      
      Posted On: 22 FEB 2018 3:10PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Hardeep Puri, Minister of State(I/C) for Housing & Urban Affairs has informed that the Government has proposed large public agencies like Housing Boards, Railways, Defence and public sector undertakings to adopt new technologies for their housing projectsto provide a further boost to the housing sector. Inaugurating the National Seminar on Emerging Building Materials and Construction Technologies organized by Building Materials and Technology Promotion Council, here today, the Minister stated that BMTPC is promoting new and emerging technologies which suit Indian conditions. Shri Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs, Shri Abhai Sinha, DG, CPWD, Dr.Ravi Kant, CMD, HUDCO, Dr.Shailesh Aggarwal, ED, BMTPC, senior officials of the Ministry of HUA and various experts in building materials and construction sector were also present on the occasion.


    Shri Puri in his inaugural speech said that considering the present housing shortage in urban areas, more than 1.2 crore houses in urban areas with necessary infrastructure are required to be constructed. To achieve this, appropriate actions are required at all fronts. This necessarily includes, among other measures, identification and selection of appropriate building materials and technologies to bring not only economy but also quality, durability, speed with due care for safety and environment concern of the country.


    On this occasion a publication titled “Building Materials and Housing Technologies for Sustainable Development” and a Mobile App on “Bamboo Housing & Construction” was released by the Housing Minister. The Publication contains 38 papers covering various subjects with the theme of the National Seminar. To coincide with the National Seminar, an Exhibition on Emerging Building Materials and Construction Technologies showcasing various building products and construction technologies was also organized. 24 firms/companies displayed their products, technologies and systems.


    With the development of building science and changing requirements for bringing environment friendliness, speed, quality, mechanization etc. in construction of buildings; there has been continuous improvement through R&D efforts of various institutions and industries–both public and private in the area of building materials and construction practices. There have been innovations in production and use of basic materials like bricks cement, aggregates, concrete and steel, gainful utilization of industrial and construction waste and introduction of advanced construction practices including green and smart materials and system by various stake holders. The need to review the development in this area is more pronounced now with the implementation of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, AMRUT and Smart Cities programme by the government, which aim for massive construction activities in coming years.


    RJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522455) Visitor Counter : 110