      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      EEPC INDIA ADVOCATES THE ADOPTION OF INDUSTRY 4.0
      Posted On: 08 AUG 2019 4:34PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata: August 8, 2019.


    India has to move from manufacturing outfits of Industry 1.0 and 2.0 to Industry 4.0 and beyond. EEPC India in association of Department of Heavy industries (DHI)is raising awareness on the 4 th Industrial Revolution to drive the Indian Manufacturing to a ‘Smart and intelligent Manufacturing’ Hub said Mr Ravi Sehgal at a Industry 4.0 session.


    Smart Advanced Manufacturing and Rapid Transformation Hub (SAMARTH) - Udyog Bharat 4.0 is an Industry 4.0 initiative of Department of Heavy Industry, Government of India under its scheme on Enhancement of Competitiveness in Indian Capital Goods Sector. The initiative aims to raise awareness about Industry 4.0 among the Indian manufacturing industry through demonstration centres. Currently there are four centres, which include Center for Industry 4.0 (C4i4) Lab Pune; IITD-AIA Foundation for Smart Manufacturing; I4.0 India at IISc Factory R & D Platform; Smart Manufacturing Demo & Development Cell at CMTI.


    Indian Engineering Exports have been growing at a rate of 10% with variation, but the Engineering Exports as a percentage of ASEAN and World Exports is stagnating at 0.8-1 % over the last 10-15 years. This is because majority of engineering goods originated from low or middle level products. Department of Commerce, Ministry of Commerce and Industry has given to this apex engineering body a mandate to incarnate a Technology Centre to enable MSMEs to benefit from various new technologies. India also needs to close a quality gapfaced with the best in class, and leapfrogging to newer technologies, will enable quality export products, hence EEPC India Technology Centre gains ground.


    EEPC India Technology Centre in Bengaluru and also the onewould be openedshortlyin Kolkata ,with a viewtodevelop export product byproviding a forum for Industry and Academia discussion and learning'' Mr Sehgal said at the seminar.It was a day-long productive session where eminent speakers from DHI, IIT Kharagpur, ISI-Kolkata; CMERI- Durgapur;CMTI, C4i4 Pune motivated the stakeholders on the theme.


    *******


    CG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581538) Visitor Counter : 11
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali