      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Commerce Secretary inaugurates EEPC India Tech Centre in Kolkata
      Posted On: 14 AUG 2019 4:45PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August 14, 2019.


    Despite emerging challenges and a growing threat of global slow-down, the Indian exports are likely to maintain the trend of two-digit growth in the current fiscal. In this regard, the Union Department of Commerce will continue to work in close association with Engineering Export Promotion Council of India( EEPC India ) and act on the Council’s feedback, said Dr. Anup Wadhawan, Secretary-Commerce in the Union Ministry of Commerce & Industry in Kolkata today. Addressing the inaugural programme of the EEPC India Technology Centre, set up at Vanijya Bhawan International Trade Facilitation Centre in the city, Dr. Wadhawan lauded EEPC India and contribution of MSMEs for playing a vital role in our trade and industry.


    Shri B. S. Bhalla, Additional Secretary, Commerce, on this occasion said that the Technology Centre will facilitate R & D, development of prototypes and impart skilled training to the industry staff. The Centre in Kolkata, the second such facility after the first in Bengaluru made functional in 2017, has been sponsored by the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry in line with the Government’s flagship programmes, Make-in-India and Digital India, to make country’s exports globally competitive with efforts of top scientists from leading R & D institutions.


    Shri Ravi Sehgal,Chairman, EEPC India informed that such technology centres are the first of its kind initiative among the country's export promotion councils in different verticals. He informed that EEPC has tied up with NID (National Institute of Design) for design, International Institute of Waste Management (IIWM) for capacity building, IP Attorney for IPR related issues, CSIR (Council of Scientific & Industrial Research) – CMERI (Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute), CSIR- NML (National Metallurgical Laboratory) and with CSIR- AMPRI (Advance Materials and Processes Research Institute). These collaborations will help the country's engineering exporters in achieving cutting edge technologies. EEPC has plans for collaboration with Central Electro Chemical Research Institute (CECRI), Indian Institute of Packaging, International Advanced Research Centre for Powder Metallurgy and New Materials, Centre for Development of Advanced Computing, The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Technology Development Board (DST) and ISI, among others.


    The inauguration was followed by an interactive session with MSME representatives and other stake holders.


    *******


    AM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581971) Visitor Counter : 15