      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      “4U Sharad Samman-2019” competition to boost art based micro and small enterprises
      Posted On: 02 AUG 2019 6:05PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 2nd August, 2019


    A competition of Art-based creative micro and small enterprises is being organised by MSME Development Institute (MSME-DI)to uphold innovation and creativity in four segments, viz, bio-degradable gift items, designer khadi or handloom outfit, bio-degradable costume jewellery and green or eco-friendly bags. Ten best creative MSEs, in each category, will be awarded and given a chance to showcase their products in the upcoming Durga Puja festival and at Trade Fair to be held in Kolkata, soon after the festival. MSME-DI will provide handholding support to these identified enterprises to market and export their products as well as obtaining patents for those, said Shri AjoyBandopadhyaya, Director, MSME-DI, Kolkata in a press meet held today.


    Interested participants have to apply online through the website http://www.msmedikolkata.gov.in/ and link is provided in this website and facebook page of MSME-DI, Kolkata. Any entrepreneur registered in ‘UdyogAadhaar Memorandum’ (UAM) and more than 18 years of age can participate in this competition called “4U Sharod Samman-2019”. The registration of entries for the programme has already begun from 23rd July and the registration closes on 16th September. Applicants facing difficulty in uploading online registration may send message in whatsapp umber 8442884355 on weekdays from 9.30 am to 6 pm.


    Last year, MSME-DI, Kolkata had worked with the terracotta artisans of West Bengal in a similar manner and trained them with technical knowledge and guidance in manufacturing and diversification of terracotta products. Shri Bandopadhyaya said, this year the focus is on art-based entrepreneurs and artisans and boosting their marketing in national and international arena as well as encourage them to be a part of cluster development scheme and other schemes of the Union Ministry of MSME. The Centre is firmly committed to give focused attention in various sub-sectors and clusters, thereby fostering their growth and prosperity as per market demand, he added.


    *****


    AM/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581175) Visitor Counter : 12
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali