      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Union Minister of State Shri Ramdas Athawale Calls for Renunciation of all Sorts of Atrocities against backward communities
      Posted On: 20 AUG 2019 6:53PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August 20, 2019.


    Shri Ramdas Athawale, the Union Minister of State for Social Justice & Empowerment attended an special session on “Social Justice and Empowerment in India: Progress made and Way Ahead” held by Merchants’ Chamber of Commerce and Industry (MCCI) here in Kolkata today. Addressing a press conference in Kolkata earlier in the day, the Minister said, Central Government under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modiis working to empower SC, OBCs and weaker sections of the society and trying to minimize the cases of atrocities against Dalits and backward communities. The situation in West Bengal is much brighter as only one case of atrocities against Dalits has been recorded so farin 2019-20 in the state, the Minister said.Shri Athawale clearly pointed out that any kind of violence against people, more particularly against Dalits as well as the minorities of the society should be dealt strongly. The Minister added that people across the country should unite together to stop violence. He gave the instance of B R Ambedkar and his philosophy in this connection and said Baba Saheb Ambedkar always stood for non-violence and against social discrimination.


    Shri Athawale said that the Union Government is trying for the last 5-years for the upliftment of SC, ST and OBCs and 4.69 lakh students belonging to SC community and 3.60 lakh OBC students in West Bengal have been given financial assistance under various central schemes. The government, he added is keen to do away with the menial occupation of manual scavenging at any cost from the country and so special skill training is being imparted to the children of this community to enable them to take-up some other profession in future. In this connection, Shri Athawale also appreciated the rising trend of inter-caste marriage in West Bengal as it helps in bringing down casteism and social hatred. He urged the West Bengal government to cooperate with Centre for implementing welfare schemes in the state.


    Shri Athawale also mentioned in details the schemes available in the country at present for the welfare of SC, ST, OBC, Divyangjans and minorities. He gave out detailed information about initiatives taken up by Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry for backward people and communities including scholarships and overseas scholarships, residential schools and hostels, pension for Divyangjans and Safai Karmaacharis, provision of venture capital, partnering in skilled training programmes and the like.


    CG/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1582459) Visitor Counter : 37
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali