      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB, Kolkata organizes media workshop ‘Vartalap’ at Midnapore, West Midnapore district
      Posted On: 30 AUG 2019 4:18PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August 30, 2019


    

    To sensitize the journalists about various Centrally-sponsored schemes and create awareness among the masses, a day-long media workshop "Vartalap" was organized by Press Information Bureau (PIB), Kolkata at Midnapore, West Midnapore district of West Bengal today. Addressing the function, Ms. Jane Namchu, Additional Director General, PIB, Kolkata said, the objective of the workshop is to enlighten the masses through media with regard to their welfare measures taken by the Union Government. Ms. Namchu urged the journalists to look at the impact of the several Centrally-sponsored schemes for welfare of the people and write more on those to aware the people to access the benefits.


    

    Shri Kumaresh Ghosh, senior journalist from West Midnapore shared his experience and urged the media persons to use information provided by PIB to sensitize common citizens about how they can avail benefits from the Centrally-sponsored schemes.


    
    Highlighting the Central Government's plan to celebrate this year as 150 years of Mahatma Gandhi to pay tribute to him, Shri Dibyendu Das, former Regional Director, Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC), talked in detail about the life of Gandhiji spent in South Africa and later in India and his unforgettable contributions made for freedom of India with principles of "Non-violence, Non-cooperation and Truth". He also said, he was the first mass leader across the Asia. His principles have potential to give prosperity and peace to the world. We must learn lessons from the life of Gandhiji and as journalists, we must continue learning new things every day and work for the welfare of common people.


    

    Shri Dwibhujendra Sarkar, Lead Bank Manager, United Bank of India (UBI), West Midnapore and Shri NirajnanBhuyan, Assistant General Manager, NABARD, West Midnapore spoke about the various loans for Self-Help Groups and such as Rural Development Funds, Dairy Infrastructure Development Fund, Fishery Acquaculture Development Fund, Corp loan, National Lifestyle Mission, Agri-marketing Infrastructure Scheme and FasalBimaYojana etc. Shri Bhuyan also informed about the E-Shakti promramme to bring all self-help groups on single platform and bring transparency in the system.


    Smt. Sathi Roy, District Youth Coordinator, Nehru Yuva Kendra, West Midnapore spoke about the activities run by Nehru Yuva Kendra such as PrabhatPheri, Door-to-Door campaign, Cycling, Marathon, Yoga, Distribution of Sports' materials etc. She also informed about the "Fit India Campaign" newly launched by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi yesterday.


    
    The workshop concluded with an interactive session in which Shri Ajay Mhamia, Joint Director, PIB, Kolkata responded to various queries of the media persons. Shri Mhamia also replied queries pertaining to RNI.


    Above 70 media persons from West Midnapore and Jhargram participated in the workshop which became so lively and participative in nature that it was appreciated by most of the media persons present.


    
    Smt. Chitra Gupta, Dy. Director, PIB, Kolkata, conducted the event and moved the vote of thanks. Shri Santanu Sinha gave an audio visual presentation of PIB utilities, including the diversified multilingual pages of reference matter that has been made available on the revamped PIB website.


    *********


    JN/CG/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583632) Visitor Counter : 17
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali