      Ministry of Education

      HRD MINISTER URGES STUDENTS TO LEAD THE WORLD AND WORK SINCERELY FOR SOCIETY
      
      65TH ANNUAL CONVOCATION OF IIT KHARAGPUR HELD

      Posted On: 27 AUG 2019 4:20PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kharagpur, August 27, 2019


    Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, the Union Minister of Human Resource Development attended the 65th Convocation of IIT Kharagpur here today. 2430 students of BTech, BArch, five-year integrated MSc and two-year MSc were awarded degrees while 372 students were awarded PhD degrees, among others. Congratulating the graduating students and e xpressing happiness over IIT Kharagpur being in the forefront of addressing the issues of national and high societal importance, Shri Pokhriyal said that o ver the years, IIT Kharagpur and in fact the IIT network and community has become an important window to the world. This is in keeping with our country’s and our civilisation’s character. I have no doubt that this educational system founded in our rich culture and values will help us unlock the hidden potential of our citizens, the Minister added. Shri Pokhriyal congratulated the graduating students and urged them to focus on water conservation and take a pledge to plant a tree daily to protect the environment.


    To achieve the objectives of research and innovation, a National Research Foundation (NRF) has been set up to fund, coordinate and promote research in the country, The Minister mentioned and explained that NRF will ensure that the overall research eco-system in the country is strengthened with focus on identified thrust areas relevant to our national priorities and towards basic science without duplication of effort and expenditure. We have urged educators, in the draft document on education policy, to underline traditional Indian values such as service, non-violence, cleanliness, truth, selfless work, tolerance, honest hard work, respect for women, elders and all people and their inherent capabilities regardless of background and concern for environment, the Minister added. He also made a special mention of the upcoming Super speciality hospital which will not only enable technology based medical science education but provide affordable medical care to the people from the surrounding rural area.


    The Minister also inaugurated the Research Park digitally at its Rajarhat campus. First of its kind in Eastern India, the park will foster entrepreneurship skills by bringing research, development and the industry under a single roof.


    Professor Sriman Kumar Bhattacharyya, Director (Officiating), IIT Kharagpur, urged the toppers as well as the students who were awarded degrees today to take tender care of the fellow countrymen while they set their path to conquer the world. “They have supported your education in the sincere hope that you will make their world better. Please try your best to ensure a smile in the face of fellow citizens through social justice, societal sustainability with due respect to the indianness, which is our great culture,” he said.


    Shri Sanjiv Goenka, Chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Kharagpur and Chairman, R P Sanjiv Goenka Group was also present among others on the occasion.


    *********


    CG/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583148) Visitor Counter : 29
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali