      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Jan auashadhi Diwas will be celeberated On 7th March
      
      Prime minister Narendra Modi to interact with jan aushadhi Kendras through vedio conferencing
      
      Posted On: 06 MAR 2020 2:28PM by PIB Delhi


    Jan aushadhi Diwas will be celeberated on 7 th march 2020. Prime minister Shri Narendra Modi will interact with owners of selected Jan aushadhi Kendras and beneficiaries of the Pradhanmantri Bhartiya Jana Aushadhi Pariyojna-PMBJP through a vedio conferencing from New Delhi. In Every Jan aushadhi outlet the message of the prime minister will be telecasted through DD News.


    Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers D.V Sadananda Gowda will be participating in this programme at Jan aushadhi Kendra in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh,while MoS Chemicals & Fretilizers Mansukh Mandaviya will be at a Jan aushadhi Kendra of Pulwama in J&K UT. Shri Gowda has requested all Union ministers to actively participate in this celebration to boost the confidence and trust of the people on Jan aushadhi Medicines and create awareness about the scheme.


    Various programme will be organized at all PMBJP kendras across the country to increase the awareness about the scheme. These programme will witness participation of doctors, health experts, NGO and beneficiaries in a large number.


    The Jan aushadhi Divas aims to provide further impetus and create awareness about the use of generic medicines. The day will also highlight the initiative undertaken by Government in the direction of making quality healthcare for all, like Ayushman Bharat, PMBJY, etc.


    The Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Pariyojna was launched by Prime Minister with an objective of making high-quality medicines available to all at an affordable prices, especially to the poor and underprivileged, through exclusive outlets of Jan Aushadhi Medical Stores.


    “Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aaushadhi Pariyojana” is a noble initiative by Department of Pharmaceuticals, Government of India which is now making an impact on masses in its endeavor to provide quality medicines at an affordable price. Jan aushadhi Kendra is considered as the biggest retail pharma chain in the world with around 6200 outlets in 700 districts. Further, total sales of these stores in the financial year 2019-20 has crossed Rs 390 crore which led to total savings of approximately Rs 2200 crore of common citizens as these medicines are cheaper by 50 to 90% of the average market price. The scheme also provides a good source of self-employment with sustainable and regular earnings.


    ***


    RCJ/RKM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605513) Visitor Counter : 1184
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi