      Ministry of Defence

      Bilateral Sports Exchange : Cricket Match between UKAFCA & IAF
      Posted On: 04 MAR 2020 6:55PM by PIB Delhi


    Opening Ceremony of the Bilateral Sports Exchange between Indian Air Force Cricket team and United Kingdom Armed Forces Cricket Association was held at Sports Complex, Air Force Station Palam, New Delhi on 04 Mar 20 at 0830 hrs.


    Air Marshal MSG Menon VSM, Air Officer-in-charge Administration inaugurated the Bilateral Sports Exchange. During the opening address Air Marshal Menon emphasised that the Sports Exchange will strengthen the close bonds of friendship and cooperation between the Indian Air Force and the United Kingdom Armed Forces.


    Chef De Mission, Air Commodore Peter James Murray Squires from UKAFCA expressed his excitement to play a series of Cricket with the IAF Cricket team. He also conveyed his gratitude towards IAF for organising such an event meticulously on a short call as a Bilateral series to experience this very special country, its culture and its wonderful passion for sport.


    Indian Air Force won the toss and decided to field first. UK Armed Forces Cricket Association team scored a total of 122 runs for 07 wickets. BDR Graham Mark Wiseman scored 70 runs for the visitors. Sgt Roshan Raj took 02 wickets for 15 runs in four overs. Sgt Raj Bahadur Pal, LAC Arjun Sharma, Cpl Abhishek Tiwari and Sgt Navneet Singh took one wicket each for the IAF.


    IAF team won the match and scored 126 for 3 wickets in 19.1 overs. JWO Rajat Paliwal, of the IAF scored 50 runs in 45 balls and Sgt Navneet scored 41 runs. For the guest, Sgt Keiran Pierce and Sgt Ashley Watson took one wicket each. BDR Graham Mark Wiseman was declared as ‘ Man of the Match ”.


    Sports Exchange is a good opportunity at fostering camaraderie, friendship and the diplomatic relationship between the two countries. It also provides an opportunity to exchange their sporting experiences along with, social and cultural values. To promote sports in armed forces a cricket series is organised between United Kingdom Armed Forces Cricket Association and Indian Air Force.


    ***


    AB/THANGA/BSK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605278) Visitor Counter : 398