      Ministry of Tourism

      Change in the mindset is biggest issue in cleanliness drive: Dr. Uttam Yadav
      
      Indiatourism held an interactive session as precursor to Swachhata Pakhwada

      Posted On: 11 SEP 2018 4:30PM by PIB Mumbai

    Cleanliness has become movement from a mere scheme. This movement can succeed only through dedication and team-work said Dr. Uttam Yadav in an interactive session as precursor to Swachhata Pakhwada organized by Indiatourism in Mumbai today.


    Dr Uttam Yadav, Health Officer, Indore Municipal Corporation gave detailed presentation on the work undertaken by the Corporation and interacted with the audience on issues that need to be addressed on priority to keep city clean. Indore City has worked on retaining its "Cleanest City in India" title for the Swachh Sarvekshan Survey best city award for 2 consecutive years i.e. 2016-17 & 2017-18. The objective of the survey is to encourage large scale participation and to create awareness amongst all sections of society about the importance of working together towards making towns and cities a better place to live in. Additionally, the survey also intends to foster a spirit of healthy competition among towns and cities to improve their service delivery to citizens, towards creating cleaner cities.


    Mr. Farhat Jamal, Chairman, Travel Tourism & Hospitality Committee, IMC Chamber of Commerce and Industry addressed the gathering and appreciated efforts taken by Indore Municipal Corporation and Indiatourism, Mumbai for spreading message of cleanliness.


    Ministry of Tourism, Government of India observes Swachhata Pakhwada from 16th to 30th September every year by organizing various cleanliness activities/programmes at the premises of its offices/educational institutions/prominent tourist places etc. This year a campaign, "Swachhata Hi Sewa', 'Cleanliness is service will also begin from 15th September to 2nd October which coincides with the "Swachhata Pakhwada" of Ministry of tourism. Ministry organizes Swachhata drive at various tourist/pilgrim places all over the country through its Indiatourism Offices.


    To share the best practices and to create awareness about the efforts required for maintaining cleanliness and hygiene in city, Indiatourism Mumbai invited the Indore Municipal Corporation to interact with Mumbai and neighbouring Municipal Corporation representatives, travel and tourism fraternity, students etc for the same.


    Indiatourism Mumbai will be organizing cleanliness drive at important tourist sites during the period. Besides, major cleanup activities, pledge swearing awareness activities, essay competition, nukkad natak etc will be organized during the campaign. Some of the activities include Awareness Walks, Sensitisation programs for food handlers on food safety and hygiene, speaking to School Children on cleanliness and hygiene etc.


    ***


    NS/IJ/MC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1545654) Visitor Counter : 319
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi