      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      7 crore beneficiaries under Antyodaya Anna Yojana in Maharashtra: Union Minister Shri Ram Vilas Paswan
      
      Bureau of Indian Standards should reach the common man and make them aware of their rights: Consumer Affairs Minister
      
      Shri Paswan felicitates first laboratory in India under Ministry of Defence recognized by BIS under its Lab Recognition Scheme

      Posted On: 17 SEP 2018 6:45PM by PIB Mumbai

    Antyodaya Anna Yojna has been implemented in the state of Maharashtra benefitting 7 Cr people which covers 75% of rural population & 50% of urban population. National Food Security Act requirement of the Maharashtra state is 45 Lakh MT (Wheat + Rice) per annum as informed by Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Shri Ram Vilas Paswan. He was speaking during review meeting with Food Corporation of India (FCI) officials on 17 th September, 2018 in Mumbai.


    Minister further informed that the allocation to drought-affected 14 districts in Maharashtra has been made by Government of India at an economical rate. As against an allocation of 6.58 LMT, 4.90 LMT has been lifted so far. The allocation is valid till December, 2018 (economic cost for 2018-19 is Rs. 2445.62 per Qtl. for Wheat and Rs. 3310.28 per Qtl. For Rice).


    Before that on 15 th September, 2018 Shri Paswan also took review meeting with Western Regional office of the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS). The Minister addressed the officers and said that BIS should reach the common man and make them aware of their rights and provisions available with them for getting their products/jewellery tested and registering complaint, if required. BIS Act, 2016 provides framework for making hallmarking of precious jewellery compulsory which would ensure that the common consumer always gets value for his money and BIS needs to be ready for the same.


    He also stressed on the need for close surveillance over the BIS licence holders so that they always comply with the requirements of relevant Indian standards and thus consistently produce and make quality goods available to general public. The Minister informed that Government of India is intending to bring more and more products under mandatory certification to ensure manufacturing of safe and better quality products in India, aiding “Make in India” movement, which will also help the manufacturers to compete in the international market.


    On the occasion, Controllerate of Quality Assurance (Vehicles) (CQA (V)), Ahmednagar, Maharashtra was felicitated by the Minister, for being the first laboratory in India under Ministry of Defence to be recognized by BIS under its Lab Recognition Scheme. The Minister presented a memento to CQA (V), Ahmednagar which was received by Brigadier Sanjeev Singh, Controller, CQA (V). Minister assured CQA (V) that the Government would give priority to Defence labs in getting BIS recognition.


    The closing ceremony of the “Hindi Pakhwada” was also held in the august presence of Shri Paswan and he also initiated the “ Swachhata Hi Seva” movement by administering Swachhata Pledge on the occasion of Swachh Bharat Pakhwada from 15 September to 2 October and advised all to contribute towards the mission.


    *******


    DJM/MC/IJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1546416) Visitor Counter : 503