      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Collective efforts needed to transform society in the field of Science & Technology: Secretary, DBT
      
      4th session of India International Science festival (IISF) Curtain Raiser Programme held at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR)

      Posted On: 29 SEP 2018 3:36PM by PIB Mumbai

    Addressing the curtain raiser programme held at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology (DBT) informed the gathering that the 4th session of India International Science festival (IISF) will be inaugurated by the Hon’ble President of India Shri Ramnath Kovind. 10,000 delegates, including 5000 students, 550 teachers, 200 students from North Eastern Region and 20 international delegates and approximately 200 start-ups will be participating in IISF 2018.


    Dr. Swarup further stated that the theme of this edition is ‘Science for Transformation’. In the last four years, science in India has undergone sea changes from fundamental to application science, where science plays a leading role in social transformation. Another major change in the last few years is the growing of a synergy among scientific institutions in collaborative research to address myriad problems being faced by the society; science can provide solutions for major societal problems, added Dr. Renu Swarup.


    Emphasizing the role of Science & Technology in driving inclusive growth and urging scientific organizations to work in close alignment and partnership with all stakeholders, Dr. Swarup reiterated Government of India's commitment to make S&T as an enabler of social and economic progress for all sections of the population.


    The Secretary elaborated that Global Indian Science & Technology Stakeholders Meet, Industry Academia Meet and S&T for Harnessing Innovations (SATHI), a National Start-up Entrepreneurship Summit and Student Science Village are some of the important events being organised as part of the festival. The Science Village Programme is linked with Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana to reach out to the rural masses and propagate science.


    Highlighting the need to empower woman scientists & entrepreneurs, Dr. Swarup said that the need of the hour is to shape them in a way so that they can take up the scientific growth trajectory. Approximately 800 woman scientists/entrepreneurs will attend the event. Special efforts have been taken this year to engage stakeholders of North Eastern Region and the aspirational districts. All stakeholders of Science and Technology field will assemble to collectively work towards “ Vigyan Se Vikas” – contributing to the Making of a New India, she said.


    Dr. Ullas Kolthur, Associate Professor, TIFR, Mumbai; Dr. Dhananjay Tiwari, Senior Scientist, DBT; Dr. Ravindra Kulkarni, Pro-Vice Chancellor, Bombay University, other senior faculty members of TIFR, many scientists and research scholars, students of star colleges and representatives from civil society of Bombay region as well as representatives of Vijnana Bharati were also present on the occasion.


    (For more Info about the IIFS 2018, pl. visit https://scienceindiafest.org )


    ***


    DJM/B. Gokhale

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547932) Visitor Counter : 338
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi