      Ministry of Tourism

      Paryatan Parv-Mini Bharat Parv to be organized in Mumbai
      
      Public will get to enjoy various cultural events to be organized by Indiatourism on 27th and 28th September

      Posted On: 24 SEP 2018 6:13PM by PIB Mumbai

    With the objective of drawing focus on the benefits of tourism, showcasing the cultural diversity of the country and reinforcing the principle of “Tourism for All”, the Ministry of Tourism is celebrating Paryatan Parv throughout the country. Indiatourism will organise various cultural events to promote domestic as well as foreign tourism. The three components of Paryatan Parv are Dekho Apna Desh : to encourage Indians to visit their own country; Tourism for All : Tourism Events across all States in the country to be organized; Tourism & Governance: Interactive Sessions & Workshops with Stakeholders on varied themes will be organised across the country.


    Regional Director, Indiatourism Mumbai, Smt. Neela Lad informed media in this regard that 20 offices of Indiatourism across country are relentlessly working to promote domestic tourism.


    Smt. Lad further informed that Mumbai office of Indiatourism is organizing “ Paryatan Parv- Mini Bharat Parv ” at P L Deshpande Kalangan, Prabhadevi on 27 th and 28 th September, 2018. This Parv will have cultural programs, Classical - semi classical - folk dances, art and craft display-demonstration-sale etc, tourism information stalls, variety of cuisine and few more attractions. The entry for public is free. The event will also showcase 100 painting entries received as part of “My India-Clean India” painting contest from 11 Kendriya Vidyalayas in Mumbai and winners will be awarded.


    As an added attraction, there would be art students displaying their art skills, events that would involve people in painting anything about India on a canvas, interactive workshops on Warli Paintings, Mehandi, Batik Painting etc. between 12 noon & 4pm and Cultural performances from 6pm onwards comprising various dances, such as Adivasi dance forms, Cultural folk performances - Bihu (Assam), Bail Pola (Maharashtra), Singhi Chham (Sikkim), Garba(Gujarat), Kalbelia (Rajasthan), Lavni (Maharashtra), Cheraw-Bamboo Dance (Mizoram) and Karakattam (Tamil Nadu). Indiatourism wants people to come and enjoy Mini India at one venue.


    The Paryatan Parv 2018 was inaugurated by the Union Home Minister Shri. Rajnath Singh at Rajpath Lawns, New Delhi, on 16 th September 2018 in presence of the Minister of State (IC) for Tourism, Shri. K.J. Alphons.


    “Dekho Apna Desh” segment in Mumbai will showcase three heritage walks around

      * Fort
      * Art Deco Building and
      * Vasai Fort

    This segment which is also completely free will also have free guide service. Indiatourism can be contacted 24/7 on 1363 for registering tourism related complaints.


    The new address of Indiatourism is Ground Floor, Air India Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400021


    ***


    DJM/IJ/MC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547114) Visitor Counter : 599
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi
    
    
    

*