      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Outreach programme for 4th IISF conducted at Indian Institute of Geomagnetism (IIG), Mumbai
      
      IIG has evolved from being a data-gathering entity, to one that tackles applied aspects that benefit society by using long-series geomagnetic data: Chairman, Science Outreach, IIG
      
      Posted On: 28 SEP 2018 9:45PM by PIB Mumbai


    
    The 4th Session of India International Science Festival (IISF) is going to be held at Indira Gandhi Prathisthan, Lucknow from 05th to 08th October, 2018. The Ministries of Science & Technology and Earth Sciences are organizing the 4th IISF, coordinated by Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science & Technology. Hon’ble President of India is going to address the inaugural session of IISF 2018.
    
    As a prelude to the main event at Lucknow, Department of Biotechnology and Vijnana Bharati (VIBHA) are organizing outreach programmes at eighty centres across the country. Indian Institute of Geomagnetism (IIG) is one of the eighty institutes, conducting Public Outreach Day on 11th, 27th & 28th September, 2018.
    
    Addressing a press conference held on the occasion, the Chairman, Science Outreach, IIG, Dr. Praveen Gawali said that it has been heartening to see the huge response received for the public outreach programme. IIG labs were open to general public, students and teachers from various schools, colleges and academic institutions. Special talks and interactive sessions with prominent scientists of the institute were arranged. Poster and model displays were also held, explaining the basics of geomagnetism and allied sciences. Various competitions like debates, drawings, speeches were held for college students and the winners were honoured by attractive prizes.


    

    Speaking about the field of geomagnetism, Dr. Gawali explained that the earth has its magnetism originating deep inside its core. The magnetic field lines passing through the inner solid material and the outer space provide a fascinating natural laboratory for the scientists to probe and understand a plethora of natural phenomena, which directly impact life forms and technological equipment floating around in space. Studies on geomagnetism, along with other observational tools, also help scientists to delineate natural resources and understand the phenomena that cause natural disasters, he added.


    

    He further said that, on one hand, exploration and exploiting natural resources can raise the standard of community living, while on the other, understanding the occurrence of natural disasters can help mitigate or completely avoid their deleterious effects.

    
    Elaborating the importance of the study of geomagnetism, the Chairman said that Geomagnetism is an ever changing entity, and that it needs continuous learning. There is a need to conduct advanced study to keep life forms going blind ‘directionally’. From satellites, probes and ground–based instruments, data is collated and accumulated as well as assimilated by the scientists.
    
    He said that IIG has evolved from being a data-gathering entity, to one that tackles applied aspects that benefit society by using long-series geomagnetic data. He observed that evolution of geomagnetism in the country is linked with IIG’s growth. The institute performs research to unravel nature’s secrets based on how magnetic field of the earth behaves inside the different constituents of the earth and space, said Dr. Gawali.
    
    Scientists Dr. Rahul Rawat, Dr.Tulsi, Dr. K. Vijay of IIG were also present on the occasion.

    


    About IIG:


    The Indian Institute of Geomagnetism (IIG), Mumbai is a leading institute of the country, actively engaged in basic and applied research in Geomagnetism and allied areas of Geophysics, Atmospheric & Space Physics and Plasma Physics. IIG is also working on fundamental research in geomagnetism. Its vision is to enable India to become a global knowledge power by promoting, guiding and conducting basic research in Geomagnetism and Allied fields.

    More about IISF:


    IISF is conceivably the biggest platform in India that brings together students, researchers, artists and general public to celebrate our nation’s achievements in science and technology. It is a medium to encourage the young minds towards the field of science and to promote the networking of stakeholders working towards the propagation of science. IISF-2018 with its focal theme “Science for Transformation” will have 23 special events. IISF-2018 is expected to be represented by approximately 10000 delegates including 5000 students, 550 teachers, 200 students from North-East Region, 20 international delegates and approximately 200 startups.


    Read more here.
    ****
    DJM/B. Gokhale
    

    
    (Release ID: 1547899) Visitor Counter : 243