      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      COURSE ON 'APPRECIATION OF SONG PICTURISATION IN INDIAN CINEMA' BEGINS IN MUMBAI.
      Posted On: 29 SEP 2018 11:17AM by PIB Mumbai


    With 30 participants from 4 states in attendance, a unique 2-day Course on 'Appreciation of Song Picturisation in Indian Cinema' by Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) began today at Somaiya Vidyavihar, Mumbai.


    The 30 participants (24 men,6 women) hail from 4 states ; Maharashtra (Thane, Mumbai, Kalyan and Palghar), Madhya Pradesh (Indore), Rajasthan (Jaipur and Chittorgarh) and Bihar (Siwan).


    The educational qualifications of participants include B.A., B.Com., B.Tech, B.M.M., M.Com., Diploma in Film & Television Direction, M.A.,M.Com., MBA and LLB. Their professions include Software Engineer, C.A., Student, Artist, Assistant Director, Creative Director, Writer, Assistant Professor, Educationist, Researcher, Video Editor, Sound and Film restoration technician, Journalist, Corporate Film Maker, Film Producer, Ad Film Maker and self employed.


    The Course was inaugurated by Bhupendra Kainthola, Director, FTII Pune in the presence of Karan Bali, Course Director.


    "We have music in our blood and we see this in our lives too where we have a song for every situation from when we are born to when we die. The best of songs combined the best of writing, music and dance with a strong sense of storytelling through filmic techniques. What's more they gave mainstream Indian cinema a unique identity of its own." said Bhupendra Kainthola inaugurating the Course.


    The Course will cover film song and its use as a critical element of storytelling. It will touch the evolution of song picturisation techniques down the years, both technically and aesthetically, besides the golden age of film music, the 1950s, through some of our eminent composers, lyricists and choreographers. Works of filmmakers who have elevated song picturisation into an art form of its own---- Guru Dutt, Vijay Anand and Mani Ratnam--- will be discussed as will be film songs and their picturisation in contemporary times.


    Karan Bali (FTII,Film Direction,1993) is a leading exponent of film music history. As a filmmaker, Bali has made several documentaries and also teaches filmmaking all over India.He has contributed considerably by writing on Indian cinema history in both, print and on-line media.


    The Course is open to all, with no age bar.A similar Course is also being conducted in Pune on October 6-7.


    ***


    DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547913) Visitor Counter : 364