      Ministry of Science & Technology

      India International Science Festival (IISF-2018) outreach programme and 76th CSIR Foundation Day celebrated at NEERI, Nagpur on 26th September
      Posted On: 27 SEP 2018 12:01PM by PIB Mumbai


    CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (CSIR-NEERI) organised India International Science Festival (IISF-2018) outreach programme and 76 th CSIR Foundation Day celebration on 26 th September, 2018.


    Hon’ble Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Hansraj Ahir was the Chief Guest and Dr. Rajan Welukar, Vice-Chancellor, GH Raisoni University was the Guest of Honour.


    While addressing the audience, Shri Ahir said that though CSIR-NEERI has significantly contributed but expectations are still high looking at the worsening environmental problems. The Institute has a big responsibility to provide clean air and clean water to the people.


    Expressing concern over the disasters, the Minister said in the recent monsoon season, floods and landslides have affected thousands of people across. We need to find out some effective solutions, he added.


    He also expressed concern over ever increasing environmental problems related to chemicals and fertilizers. He also lauded the efforts of our Prime Minister for improving the work culture. He opined that CSIR-NEERI should have been utilized to the fullest extent possible for solving environmental problems in the country. He said that people are leaving rural areas to better live in the city which is a major concern. We need to create conducive environment in rural areas, he added. He applauded the initiatives of CSIR-NEERI to reach the masses through outreach programmes.


    Dr. Welukar expressed concern over environmental degradation. He stated the roles of various institutions to ensure growth and development of the country. He advised the scientists to more focus on ‘FEW’, i.e. Food, Energy, Water. He advised that everyone should know big data and how to use it to determine the risks on environment. He also advocated that we need to understand our society so that proper care can be taken.


    Earlier, Dr. Rakesh Kumar informed that the Institute has been working on rejuvenation of water bodies and control of air pollution. He listed some of the recent achievements of the Institute.


    The Hon’ble Minister Shri Hansraj Ahir inaugurated the first extension centre of Centre for Strategic Urban Management (C-SUM) to be set up in Delhi on this occasion.


    The Institute remained open for general public including students. Approximately 2500 students visited the Institute. Science Models Exhibition-cum-Competition on environmental science & engineering for school-students was organized. The Institute will showcase its scientific achievements and research facilities to students and the general public. The institution will open its labs to the common public and organize exhibitions, scientist-student-public interactions, popular lectures, etc.


    Science Models Competition was organized on this occasion. Winners of various competition got attractive prizes.


    The mementos were presented to the CSIR-NEERI employees on their completion of 25 years of service in CSIR.


    Dr. J.S. Pandey Mr. Prakash Kumbhare and other senior officers were present to the function.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547622) Visitor Counter : 359
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi