      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Media is doing a commendable job in disseminating information in this crisis situation: L R Vishwanath
      Media training will help in sensitizing Journalists on COVID-19: Samudra Gupta Kashyap
      
      PIB and UNICEF collaborate to sensitize media on COVID-19 Organizes webinar in Guwahati
      Posted On: 29 APR 2020 4:54PM by PIB Guwahati


    “Media is doing a commendable job in disseminating information in this crisis situation”, says Shri. L. R Vishwanath, Director General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. He was addressing the opening session of the Webinar organized by Press Information Bureau, Guwahati in collaboration with UNICEF in Guwahati today. Shri Viswanath asserted that Government of India has been capably managing the COVID-19 situation in the country. Government is taking all sorts of measures to tackle the crisis and to provide relief to those who are need.


    “Media should properly spread the information based on accurate facts on COVID-19 related stories”, said senior journalist, Shri Samudra Gupta Kashyap while addressing the media personnel on ethics in reporting on COVID-19. He further said that they must be sensitive while covering stories during this crisis situation. Media must attribute to the official sources while making news story & it should not promote any traditional preventive measures suggested by non-official persons, he added.


    The Press Information Bureau, Guwahati organised the Webinar for journalists from 15 districts of Assam & it was conducted today by experts from UNICEF and media, who took sessions on health, child protection, ethical reporting, children’s issues for on-ground reporting and safety guidelines. Around 25 journalists from the State participated in the workshop through video conference.


    While addressing the media, Dr Madhulika Jonathan, Chief of Field Office, UNICEF Assam said, “Media, among other agencies, has a critical responsibility. They play an important role in raising awareness, dispelling myths, exposing misleading information, as well as in promoting kindness, preventing stigma and building confidence among people by reporting in a fair manner and on accurate reports”.


    Senior Journalist, Shri. Mrinal Talukdar said that district centric reporting about migration and loss of job must be given coverage by media with empathy. He said that report on human interest and success stories must be given due priority. He also stressed on the need for psychological support for every journalist and said that it is very much essential in the field of journalism as much as in any other field.


    Dr. Ahmed Muyeen Farooqi, Deputy Director, ROB Guwahati in his welcome address, said that the main aim of the workshop is to sensitize the media personnel who are in the frontline to cover COVID-19. Shri Gopajit Das, Media and Communication, Press Information Bureau moderated the Webinar.


    *****************

    
    
    (Release ID: 1619283) Visitor Counter : 70
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese