      Ministry of Education

      Inauguration of Technical Secretariat of National Education Policy Committee to draft National Education Policy, 2017
      Posted On: 01 AUG 2017 6:20PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar


    Eminent Space Scientist and Padma Vibhushan awardee Dr. K. Kasturirangan inaugurated the new office of the Technical Secretariat of the Committee to draft National Education Policy 2017 at the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) Campus, Bengaluru today. The committee has been constituted by Human Resource Developement Ministry, Government of India under the Chairmanship of Dr K. Kasturirangan comprising eminent experts from across the Country to draft National Education Policy, 2017. The Technical Secretariat has been housed in the premises of NAAC with UGC being the nodal agency.


    Addressing the gathering at the inauguration, Dr. Kasturirangan, Chairman of Committee to Draft National Education Policy, 2017, said the New Education Policy will be precise, rigorous and will have an overarching perspective aimed towards overall National Development. “India has inherently provided powerful knowledge centres like ‘Takshashila’ & ‘Nalanda’ to the world. However there has been a strong disconnect in today’s scenario which needs to be bridged to bring Indian Higher Education into the higher pedestals of Global Education today.


    On this occasion, Prof D P Singh, Director, NAAC emphasized the need for holistic education which brings a harmonious balance between modern knowledge and ancient wisdom so that education becomes an effective tool to connect individuals at social, national and global levels.


    In his address, Prof M K Sridhar, Member, Committee to Draft National Education Policy, 2017 gave a brief outline on the mandate of the committee. He further noted that considering the perspectives and suggestions of all the stakeholders, the committee intends to submit the report by the end of the year.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1498374) Visitor Counter : 195