      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      “Sankalp Se Sidhi” program being organized across the country to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of Quit India Movement
      Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Ministry organizing the program at 578 (KVKs), 29 ICAR institutes/SAUs & 53 ATMAs during 19-30 August 2017
      
      New India Movement - A great success

      Posted On: 21 AUG 2017 5:02PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar

    “Sankalp Se Sidhi” program is being organized across the country to commemorate the 75 th Anniversary of Quit India Movement. On this occasion, the Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Ministry has planned to organize the Sankalp Se Sidhi program at 578 Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), 29 ICAR institutes/SAUs and 53 ATMAs during 19-30 August 2017. Till 20 August 2017, 18 states including Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Andman & Nicobar, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Chhatishgarh, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur, Maharashtra and Gujarat have organized the program at 32 locations.


    The programs comprise of Kisan Film having message of Hon’ble PM to double farmers’ income by year 2022, followed by pledge for Sankalp Se Sidhi, lecture by agriculture experts and address of the chief guest. The farmers are also being shown various activities in the KVKs and institutes to acquaint them with the latest technologies. A film on patriotism is also being screened on this occasion to motivate the participants. In these programs, 33 Ministers/MPs/MLAs have participated so far. Around 129 other VIP dignitaries have also graced the occasion. A large number of farmers, extension workers, social activists and various organizations are participating in these programs. The programs are being covered widely by Doordarshan and other channels are also playing a key role in taking the message across the country. The participants have been very enthusiastic and are taking the pledge in letter and spirit to take the country forward.


    The New India Manthan program will be taken up by the KVKs/ICAR institutes/SAUs/ATMA during this period with much zeal and dedication.


    SS


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1500347) Visitor Counter : 68