      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      CPWD goes digital ; all Rs.20,000 cr payments per year now online
      All 400 field offices brought on e-payment mode; First field organization to be fully digital
      
      e-Measurement too introduced; Real time monitoring of expenditure and progress of works now
      
      Ministry of HUA’s digital payments now to go up to Rs.60,000 cr

      Posted On: 30 AUG 2017 4:47PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar

    The Government’s construction major, Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has undergone a major digital transformation enabling payments worth Rs.20,000 cr per year electronically. This has been done by networking all the 400 field offices of CPWD across the country through a special integrated portal ensuring digital payments from this month. With this, CPWD has become the first organization of a civil ministry to become digital at the field level.


    CPWD executes over 25,000 project works across the country involving annual payments of over Rs.20,000 cr every year by it’s 400 field offices including in remote, hilly and North-Eastern parts. The new digital payment mode covers over six lakh transactions. The Office of Chief Controller of Accounts (CCA) of the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs has evolved this special Public Financial Management (PFMS) Portal for CPWD.


    During a demonstration of this online payment system to Shri Duga Shanker Mishra, Secretary (HUA), Shri Shyam Dubey, CCA explained that it enables real time monitoring of expenditure in respect of each of the 25,000 projects across the country. Since fund release is linked to progress of works, digital payments also ensures efficient utilization of funds, he said.


    In yet another initiative, electronic Measurement Book (e-MB) has also been developed for CPWD that enables reporting of progress of works online as per the schedule of agreement with contractors based on which payments will be made. e-MB has been made mandatory from the first of next month doing away with manual reporting by all the 400 field offices.


    Shri Durga Shanker Mishra directed CPWD and CCA to further ensure geo-tagging of physical progress of works for effective monitoring.


    PFMS is an end-to-end solution for electronic processing payments, tracking fund flow, monitoring, accounting, reconciliation and reporting etc.


    PFMS has been adopted by the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs since October, 2015 by which the allocation of Rs.34,000 cr has been transferred electronically. With CPWD now going digital, the volume of e-payments of the Ministry and CPWD would be about Rs.60,000 cr during 2017-18.


    Since CPWD has a separate scheme of delegation of functions and financial powers, it required a special PFMS e-module for online transactions.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1501359) Visitor Counter : 83