      PIB Headquarters

      Visit of Shri Mansukh Mandaviya, Hon’ble Minister of State for Shipping (IC) to Cochin Port
      Posted On: 20 SEP 2019 10:32PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Shri Mansukh Mandaviya, Hon’ble Minister of State for Shipping ( Independent Charge) visited Cochin Port on 20.09.2019 and attended various programmes of Cochin Port Trust. The Hon’ble Minister formally inaugurated Swachhta Pakhwada & Swachhta Hi Seva (SHS) programme of Cochin Port Trust at a function held at Kendriya Vidyalaya Port Trust.


    During the meeting the Hon’ble Minister highlighted the importance of maintaining a clean environment and urged everyone to make it habit from the childhood itself so that it will ultimately create a healthy and disciplined society. Swachh life style ensures swasth life to everyone. Cleanliness should be a habit in everyone’s life, as followed by Mahatma Gandhiji. Our Prime Minister has taken a lot of initiative to implement the idea of cleanliness and simplicity in life. The Hon’ble Minister also encouraged all the citizens to take part in the cleanliness activities initiated by our Prime Minister.


    Hon’ble Minister distributed the prizes to the winners of various competitions conducted by the Port in Govt. High School, Willingdon Island and Kendriya Vidyalaya Port Trust as part of Swachhta Pakhwada. The Minister also awarded the best performers of the Nursing School, Cochin Port Trust Hospital.


    .


    The Hon’ble Minister felicitated the members of ‘Swachh Sena’, a club of 50 students of Kendriya Vidyalaya (K V) Port Trust engaged in the upkeep of the School, during the function. He administered the Swachhta Pledge to the gathering comprising the students of K.V. and employees of Cochin Port. He also planted saplings in the premises of Cochin Port Trust and K.V.


    Thereafter, the Hon’ble Minister led a Cycle Rally by more than 100 participants from Muziris Cyclists’ Club, CISF personnel of CoPT Unit, employees of CoPT and students of Kendriya Vidyalaya to promote ‘Fit India Movement’ and ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’ with the motto “Burn Carbohydrates, Not Hydrocarbons”.


    The Hon’ble Minister visited various Port infrastructure in Cochin Port by boat and inaugurated battery operated Buggies, being introduced by Cochin Port Trust for the cruise passengers at Samudrika - the Cruise Passenger Facilitation Centre . The Cochin Maritime Heritage Museum of Cochin Port was also visited by him.


    ‘Cochin Lahar 2019’ the Hindi Magazine of Cochin Port Trust was released by the Hon’ble Minister during the visit. Two internationally acclaimed sportsmen of Cochin Port Trust were honoured during the programme.


    The Hon’ble Minister held discussions with the representatives of the Trade on the issues being faced by them.


    The Hon’ble Minister also held a meeting with Leaders of Trade Unions functioning at Cochin Port Trust and discussed various labour issues.


    The Hon’ble Minister reviewed the functioning of Cochin Port with the Chairperson and the Heads of Department.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1585721) Visitor Counter : 4