      PIB Headquarters

      Swachhta Pakhwada commenced In Palakkad Division
      Posted On: 16 SEP 2019 6:07PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram

      Swachhta Pakhwada- Cleanliness Drive from 16.09.2019 to 30.09.2019-in Palakkad Division was inaugurated today(16/09/2019) by Shri Pratap Singh Shami by administering Swachhta Pledge to the officers, employees, students of Railway Higher Secondary School and members of Bharat Scouts and Guides.
      A Swachhta Walkathon was flagged off by Shri Pratap Singh Shami from Divisional Railway Manager's Office to Palakkad Junction Railway station. Additional Divisional Railway Manager, Shri D.Sai Baba, Chief Medical Superintendent, Dr.V.Kalarani
      Divisional Environment and House Keeping Manager, Shri A.Suresh, and Branch officers, Supervisors and Staff were present on the occasion.
      Shri Pratap Singh Shami also administered the Swachhta Pledge to the staff and Safai Karmacharis of Palakkad Junction railway station.
      Students from Lead College of Management, Dhoni, Palakkad performed a flash mob at Palakkad Junction to create awareness on the need of cleanliness in railway premises.
      “MASSIVE SHRAMDAAN” on 17th September 2019(Tuesday)
      It has been decided to conduct “MASSIVE SHRAMDAAN" at Palakkad Junction at 10.00 hrs. on 17th September , 2019 with main focus on “COLLECTION OF PLASTIC WASTE” from railway premises.

                        · Shramdaan will be organized with the participation from all railway employees, their families, railway pensioners, and all other stakeholders, Self Help Groups, Trade Unions and Charitable organizations in the drive will ensured.


                        · This SHRAMDAAN will be arranged at each and every station and nearby locality , approach to stations , area near track all over the country . Senior most official at the station will lead the SHRAMDAAN.


                        · Collection of plastic from all railway premises. Particular attention to be given to approach roads to stations.


                        · Vendors will be educated in restricting the usage of Single use plastic and to prepare for ban of Single use plastic with effect from 02 nd October 2019.


                        · Cloth bags will be distributed as part of the ban of single use plastic bags.


                        IE/BSN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585261) Visitor Counter : 2