      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      
      Guru Nanak is the Icon of Secularism in Our Country: Prof. Jagdish Mukhi
      Mega Exhibition on 550th Birth Anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Inaugurated at Nagaon
      
      Posted On: 08 NOV 2019 6:02PM by PIB Guwahati


    Mega Multi Media Exhibition commemorating 550th Birth Anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev organised by the Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting was inaugurated today by the Governor of Assam Prof. Jagadish Mukhi at Police Reserve Field, Nagaon . Prof. Mukhi in his speech said that Guru Nanak is the icon of secularism in our country. The most famous teaching attributed to Guru Nanak is that there is only one God, and that all human beings can have direct access to God with no need of rituals and priests, he said.


    Adding that as long as people seek peace and progress, the teaching of Guru Nanak will be always relevant, the Governor said that we all should be determined to follow his path of religious harmony, peace, compassion and happiness. He said that the people of Nagaon should feel privileged as Government of India has chosen this place along with another in Punjab in the entire country for showcasing Multi Media Exhibition on the occasion of 550 th birth Anniversary of Guru Nanak. Appreciating Regional Outreach Bureau for their initiative to organise such exhibition using modern technology on Guru Nanak where one can feel like he is visiting the real Guruduwara and Kartarpur corridor. He urged everyone to follow the philosophy of peace, love and brotherhood shown by Guru Nanak Dev.


    The Director General of North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting Shri L.R Vishwanath informed that Nagaon is one of the select places in the entire country and the only one in the Northeast for this Mega Multi Media Exhibition for showcasing the life and Philosophy of Guru Nanak Dev. Nagaon has historical significance, where teaching of love, peace, equality and brotherhood of Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji are rooted in the life and culture of the people of the region, and therefore this is being organised in this place, he added.


    Shri Devendra Singh, President of Gurudwara, Nagaon in his speech expressed his gratitude towards Government of India as well as Regional Outreach Bureau for organising such mega exhibition as part of the celebration of 550 th Birth Anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev at Nagaon.


    Smt. Prem Mukhi, First Lady of Assam, Shri Jadav Saikia, Deputy Commissioner, Ngaon, Shri Shankar Brata Raimedi, Superintendant of Police, Nagaon, Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, Press Information bureau, Guwahati and Dr. A. M. Farooqi, Deputy Director, Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati were present in today’s programme.


    In the inaugural ceremony the Governor also presented certificates of appreciation to the officials from Field offices of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting of North East Zone in recognition for their outstanding services.


    The five-day event that to continue till 12 th November will showcase various cultural performances including dance, drama, interactive sessions and discussions. Every day the exhibition will showcase cultural programmes like folk dances depicting culture and tradition of the Sikhs as well as that of local flavour including G idda - bhangra , instrumental Bihu, patriotic creative dance, D eodhani dance Tiwa dance, B ihu dance, K arbi dance among others. The Multimedia Interactive Exhibition will have many state of the art display and projections. The top attraction will be a Virtual Reality of Sri Gurdwara Darbar Sahib Kartarpur wherein Darshan can be had by the people gathered at the venue of the Nagaon exhibition of this historic Gurudwara.


    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591053) Visitor Counter : 40