      Ministry of Jal Shakti

      10th High Powered Review Board Meeting of Brahmaputra Board Held at Guwahati
      Posted On: 09 NOV 2019 5:55PM by PIB Guwahati


    The 10th meeting of High Powered Review Board of Brahmaputra Board was held at Guwahati today. The meeting was chaired by Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Union Minister of Jal Shakti and Shri Rattan Lal Kataria, Minister of State for Jal Shakti. It was also attended by Shri Sarbananda Sonowal, Chief Minister of Assam, Shri Siddhartha Bhattacharya, Education Minister of Assam and Ministers of North Eastern States along with Chief Secretaries of the region.


    
    In his address, Union Minister Shri Shekhawat said that Brahmaputra Board has to work with scientific approach for successful implementation of projects in the region. If the issues of water resources in the region are utilised properly then it can play a vital role in transformation in the life of people and the economy of the entire North Eastern region, he added. Mentioning that Brahmaputra and Barak valley is high priority areas for the Ministry of Jal Shakti of Government of India, he said that the Brahmaputra Board requires to be more strengthened to be able to meet the needs and challenges of the North Eastern States. The Minister urged the officials to work like facilitator. Shri Shekhawat hoped that Brahmaputra Board will turn the challenges like flood and erosion into opportunities for economic growth with cooperation of all the stakeholders.


    
    Shri Rattan Lal Kataria, Minister of State for Jal Shakti stated in his address that with full support of the central government, the state governments of the region are implementing various projects related to water resources. In the review meeting all the undergoing schemes and projects will be reviewed and the main focus would be to complete the projects on time so that the North Eastern states get benefits from those, he added.


    
    Speaking in the meeting Shri U.P Singh, Secretary, Ministry of Water Resource and River Development emphasised on completing all long pending projects with timely release of funds.


    
    Views from the Ministers of different states of the region were taken and the issues related to water resources of those states were discussed in the meeting. The Union Minister Shri Shekhawat reviewed the Programmes and schemes of Ministry of Jal Shakti pertaining to North East Region states.


    
    Chief Engineers of Water Resource Departments of North Eastern states also took part in the meeting.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1591128) Visitor Counter : 2