      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PM Modi urged people to visit North East India –in “Mann Ki Baat”
      Posted On: 24 NOV 2019 6:56PM by PIB Guwahati


    Today in the programme “Mann Ki Baat”, Prime Minister, Narendra Modi said that if anyone loves nature, dense forest or waterfall with unique type of environment then one should visit North Eastern States of the country. He said that it will promote tourism in the North Eastern region and it will benefit the people economically which will moreover strengthen the dream of “Ek Bharat! Shrestha Bharat!”.


    Mentioning about the “Brahmaputra Pushkar” held on Brahmaputra this year at Guwahati, Assam, the Prime Minister said that Mr Ramesh Sharma from Nagaon in Assam has written about the festival saying that it was held between 4 th and 16 th November, and people had come from all corners of the country to take part in this Brahmaputra Pushkar . Modi thanked Shri Ramesh for having shared his thoughts with the entire country through the Man Ki Baat forum and informed that festival is held sequentially every year in 12 different rivers spread across the country and it lasts for 12 long days. Just like the Kumbh festival, this too encourages the concept of national unity and echoes the philosophy of “Ek Bharat-Shreshth Bharat”. He also added Pushkaram is a festival in which celebrates the greatness and glory of the river, the importance of the river in our lives. All these are brought forth naturally. He said that our great grandfathers understood the importance of rivers, and tried to inculcate a positive mindset towards rivers in the society. They constantly strove to conflate the river with the cultural stream, the stream of tradition, and with the society. And the interesting thing is that, not only did it bring the society closer to the rivers, it also brought people closer to each other.


    Prime Minister Narendra Modi appreciated the warmth and hospitality of the people of Assam, who acted as wonderful hosts for pilgrims from all over the country. He too appreciated the organizers for paying great attention to cleanliness and for ensuring plastic free zones and for providing Bio-toilets at many places. Modi hoped that this ancient festival, that has helped create a positive mindset towards rivers among the people of the country, will continue to bring our future generations closer to the rivers, nature, environment, water – all these things should not only be part of our tourism – but should also be a part of our lives.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593334) Visitor Counter : 81
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese