      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      National Judicial Data Grid is a power instrument for speedy trial and quick justice: Mr Justice N Kotiswar Singh
      Media is the Torch Bearer of freedom of this country: Justice N.Kotishwar Singh
      
      
      Ministry of Information and Broadcasting of North East Zone Celebrates Constitution Day in Guwahati
      Posted On: 26 NOV 2019 8:07PM by PIB Guwahati


    The online portal National Judicial Data Grid is a harnessed technology in the field of law and it is a storehouse of all legal information of all the cases across India and will help in speedy trial. This was informed by Mr Justice Kotiswar Singh in Guwahati today. He was delivering a talk on Constitution Day organized by the Directorate General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on the theme “Challenging role of media in the dynamics of Constitutional changes in India”.


    During his Speech Justice Singh said that, Media has helped in the evolution of progressive growth of the country and play a vital role in protecting various institutions which are product of this constitution. If we have these institutions strong, the constitution will also be strong. He said that the media which is a Torch Bearer of freedom of this country has unique responsibility in safeguarding the Constitutional values. He also said that this is not only the role of media but also role of every individual including intellectuals, students, Justice and all parts of the society. Constitutional values are the basic dignities of human being. This is a part of preamble Based on this several landmark judgments has been given by the Supreme Court.


    Justice Singh said that it is a big challenge before Media to portray a correct picture of the legal system of the country to ensure dignity and privacy of the individuals. Positive aspects of the legal system should also be highlighted in the society by the media, he added.


    Expressing his concern over the misuse of social media in disseminating information, he said that Government as well as Judiciary should play vital role to have control over it. He also emphasized on positive use of technology of Social Media.


    In his concluding remarks Mr Justice said that the Constitution should not be confined only for the Judiciary system but everyone should read the Preamble as it the embodiment of true democracy.


    In the welcome speech Shri L.R Viswanath, Director General, North East Zone said that today is the day when constitution was adopted and that is why we have a strong, vibrant, dynamic and a democratic republic. He also informed that the Office of the Directorate General, North East Zone read out the Preamble to the Indian Constitution to the officials and Staff of the office earlier today.


    Smt. Keerti Tiwari, Joint Director, Press Information Bureau, Guwahati and Dr. A. M. Farooqi, Deputy Director, Regional Outreach Bureau were also present in today’s programme.


    The day 26th November is celebrated every year as Constitution Day. This aims to reiterate and reorient the citizens towards the values and principles expressed in the Indian Constitution and encouraging all Indians to play their rightful role in strengthening the Indian Democracy. With an aim to publicize the glorious and rich composite culture and diversity of our nation Talks, discussions and seminars are organized all over the country on the Constitution Day. Further, it aims to create awareness of Fundamental Duties as enshrined in the Indian Constitution.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1593634) Visitor Counter : 73