      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Third Edition of Khelo India Youth Games Logo Launched in Guwahati Today
      Posted On: 30 NOV 2019 10:19PM by PIB Guwahati


    The third edition of Khelo India Youth Games-2020 Logo was launched in Guwahati today by Shri Sarbanada Sonowal, Chief Minister of Assam in presence of Shri Kiren Rijiju, Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports. The Mascot, Jersey and Theme song of the event was also launched in today’s programme held at Karmabir Nabin Chandra Bordoloi Indoor Stadium, Sarusajai.


    In the launch ceremony, Shri Kiren Rijiju said that Guwahati has now emerged as one of the top sporting cities in India. This is a big opportunity for everyone to make Guwahati a top sporting region in India, he added. With as many as 11,000 participants taking part in the event, the minister added that the Youth Game will be the biggest sporting event in the history of India. He urged everyone to cooperate and work hand in hand to make the Youth Games a successful one. He also appreciated the efforts of the Government of Assam for such big magnificent arrangement for the upcoming sporting extravaganza. “This is also a great opportunity for us to showcase the culture and heritage of Assam in front of the world”, he added. Assam now have many talented youths in the field of sports and the present initiative of the Government in organising youth games in the state will help in encouraging more talented youth of Assam and the rest of the Northeast to excel in the field of sports, he added.


    Shri Sarbananda Sonowal, Chief Minister of Assam said in his speech that each and every individual of this state will ensure the success of this grand event. This event is being possible only because of the cooperation of people of Assam and the farsightedness of the Prime Minister of Assam, he added. The youth of Assam needs to work hard in the field of sports to establish themselves as a powerful contender in front of the rest of the world.


    The Khelo India programme has been introduced to revive the sports culture in India at the grass-root level by building a strong framework for all sports played in our country and establish India as a great sporting nation.


    The 3rd edition of Khelo India Youth Games will start from 10th January 2020 and will continue till 22nd January. The event will be held in 20 disciplines with the participation of 37 states and Union Territories. Khelo India programme’s inaugural edition was held in New Delhi in 2018, while Pune hosted 2nd edition in 2019.


    2020 Games will be conducted in partnership with Indian Olympic Association (IOA), School Games Federation of India (SGFI) & Assam as host State. The event will see a participation of over 12000 athletes and officials from all over the country.


    Every year best performing 1000 participants are given an annual scholarship of Rs 5,00,000 for 8 years to prepare them for international sporting events.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594401) Visitor Counter : 42