      Ministry of Textiles

      Five Day Long Silk Mark Expo Begins In Guwahati
      Posted On: 05 SEP 2018 3:13PM by PIB Guwahati


    A five day long Silk Mark Expo, organised by Silk Mark Organization of India(SMOI) and sponsored by Central Silk Board, Ministry of Textiles was inaugurated today by Shri Ranjit Dutta, Minister of handloom, Textiles and Sericulture, Government of Assam in NEDFi House, Guwahati. In this Expo 44 Authorised Users will be show casing the entire range of pure silk products affixed with Silk Mark Labels from all over the country. Inaugurating the Expo, Shri Dutta said that, Silk Mark is mark of purity and it helps buyers to purchase the genuine silk products. He also said that to ensure that silk mark gains further credibility and popularity, it is very much needed to create enough publicity and awareness among the consumers to buy only Silk Mark Labelled silk products. The Minister also added that, Government of Assam will set up a Yarn Bank in Sualkuchi, where the the raw materials will be available in market price with 20% subsidy and the local weavers will be benefited from this. This Yarn Bank will be inaugurated on September 15,2018 by Shri Sarbananda Sonowal, the Chief Minister of Assam.


    Smt Mamta B Sharma, Executive, SMOI, Guwahati Chapter said that this event is an ideal platform not only to popularize Silk Mark labels and provide valuable linkages to all the stake holders in the silk industry, but also to encourage the local entrepreneurs to start business in Silk.


    In this five day long Expo silk products will be showcased by 44 Silk Mark members and authorised users from across the country. Vanya silk such as Muga, Eri, Tasar etc. will also be showcased here to generate awareness about the new possibilities of Vanya silk product development.


    This may be mentioned that Silk Mark Organization of India (SMOI) is an initiative of Central Silk Board (Govt. of India) and has been working for protecting the interest of the sericulture farmers, weavers, entrepreneurs, designers on one hand and the consumers on the other hand. It also ensures safe guarding the purity of silk in the Silk industry through the introduction of Silk Mark Labels. There are more than 3818 Authorised Users (AUs) of Silk Mark and over 2.90 lakh Silk Mark labeled products in the market. These labels are not only a mark of purity but also inspire confidence in the buyers to purchase only the silk mark labeled products while buying silk. This in turn increases the demand for pure silks benefiting the sericulture farmers and other stake holders involved in the Silk industry.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1545449) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese