      Ministry Of Law & Justice

      First Regional Conference of Second National Judicial Pay Commission Held In Guwahati Today
      Final Report Expected To Be Submitted In Next Four Months

      Posted On: 15 SEP 2018 6:10PM by PIB Guwahati

    The first Regional Conference of Second National Judicial Pay Commission was held today in Guwahati. The Judicial officers of Lower Judiciary of North East took part in the conference and gave their inputs. The Conference was mainly on subjects like Pay Scale, Emolument, Service Conditions, Retirement Benefits, Post Retirement Jobs in Judiciary, Infrastructure and Environment of the Lower Court and Judicial working conditions


    At the end of the conference Justice P. V. Reddi, Chairman of the National Judicial Pay Commission and the former Judge of Supreme Court of India and Justice R. Basant, Member, Former Judge of Kerala High Court addressed the media and informed that this pay commission is expected to submit its final report to Supreme Court in next three four months. Justice P.V. Reddy said that the task before this pay commission in its first part is to revise the pay, allowances and Pension of Judicial Officers of the country. After getting feedbacks from various high courts, state Governments, Judicial officers association etc. the report will be prepared. The final report will be prepared fixing and revising the pay, allowances and pensions of judicial officers and pensioners. Justice Reddy said that the first conference of the commission is organised in Guwahati with a purpose to get views from the judicial officers of all North Eastern States. Some more regional conferences will be held in different parts of the country and then the final report will be submitted to the Supreme Court. In next part of the conferences, the working conditions, work environment of judiciary etc. will also be taken up, he added.


    It is mentioned that this pay commission has been set up after a gap of around 20 years. The first National Judicial Pay Commission was set up in 1996. In 2009 an ad hoc commission was set up. As per the direction of the Supreme Court this second commission has been constituted in June, 2017.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546279) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese