      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Vice President Shri M Venkaiah Naidu Gives away Rajbhasha Awards Today
      Press Information Bureau, Guwahati Also Observes Hindi Pakhwada

      Posted On: 14 SEP 2018 4:16PM by PIB Guwahati

    Hindi Diwas is being celebrated across the country today. Addressing the Hindi Diwas event in New Delhi today, vice President Shri M Venkaiah Naidu has said that the importance of Hindi was accepted by the constitution makers and it has now been accepted by the whole world. Mr Naidu said, hundreds of foreign universities are teaching Hindi as a subject and many fundamental books of knowledge and science are being written in Hindi. The Vice President said, he believes that with the expansion of Hindi in education, knowledge science, information technology and commerce, the young generation will get better opportunities. Shri Naidu said, linguistic unity will be helpful in promoting Indian languages and official languages.


    The Vice President Shri M Venkaiah Naidu also gave away the Rajbhasha Awards to chiefs of various departments, Ministries and offices for their outstanding performances in promoting the language.


    Speaking on the occasion Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh said, Hindi connects the nation. He added that there is a special attraction towards Hindi all over the world and that it is a matter of happiness that Google, Facebook and others are promoting Hindi.


    As a part of Hindi Diwas on 14 th September, Press Information Bureau, Guwahati is also observing Hindi Pakhwada from today and it will continue till 28th September, 2018. To mark the inauguration of the programme, Shri K. S. Dhatwalia, Director General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in his speech said that, as Hindi is the official language of India, everyone should put his or her effort to use Hindi regularly in office as well as in their day to day conversations. He called upon the office staff to make united efforts for the progress and promotion of Hindi language. Shri Dhatwalia emphasised that the expansion of Hindi in education and IT will be helpful in promoting and enriching the Hindi language. He also said that promotion of official languages along with other I ndian languages will facilitate in establishing unity and integrity of the country.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546282) Visitor Counter : 1