      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Over 200 people participated in Shramdaan as part of ‘Swachhata Hi Seva’ Campaign at Guwahati
      Posted On: 16 SEP 2018 3:38PM by PIB Guwahati


    As we all are aware that Prime Minister of India Shri Narendra Modi launched the Swachh Bharat Mission throughout the length and breadth of the country as a national movement on 2nd October, 2014. The campaign aims to achieve the vision of a ‘Clean India’ by 2nd October 2019, which is Mahatma Gandhi’s 150th birth anniversary. The Swachh Bharat Abhiyan is the most significant cleanliness campaign by the Government of India. The Prime Minister on September 15th, 2018 launched Swachhata Hi Seva Campaign. With this the whole country swings in to mass Shramdaan for toilet making and cleaning of public places for next two weeks.


    As part of this campaign, over 200 persons participated in Swacchhata Shramdaan at two locations along the banks of at two locations along the banks of Brahmaputra River, one opposite the Fancy bazar at Inland Water Transport Site and other along the Chakreshwar Road, Kalipur, to Chakreshwar temple in Guwahati.


    They cleaned the southern bank of Brahmaputra by lifting the waste material and garbage thrown by the visitors and local residents at these places. There were about 100 ex-service men in the teams of Com Uday Sankar Barman and Col D C Kakati of Directorate of Sainik Welfare Assam. Com Barman led his team at Fancy Bazar while Col Kakati was leading his team at Chakreswar Temple Kalipur. About 50 officials from the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting led by Dr A M Farooqi, Head, Regional Outreach Bureau were fully involved in these work at both the places. Another group of about 50 GMC workers and officials led by the Executive Engineers of the respective divisions were present in these operations.


    Local people were also made aware about the cleanliness. The literatures about dry and wet waste, waste segregation, disposal in the dustbins were also distributed. Local residents were fully involved in these shramdaan and it was agreed that they will place the waste at earmarked places. Subsequently this waste will be collected by vehicles of the NGOs every day. The school children were also briefed and motivated about the programme. It was also decided that in addition to ongoing Swacchata Hi Seva campaign, this exercise will be adopted as a part of daily life.


    Shri Kuldeep Singh Dhatwalia, Director General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India, Smt. Monalisa Goswami, Commissioner, GMC and Brig. N. D Joshi, Director, Directorate of Sainik Welfare also participated in the Shramdaan.


    Terming the campaign a jan andolan for Swachhata, Shri Kuldeep Singh Dhatwalia said that the offices of the Ministry of I& B in different states under PIB, Prasar Bharati and Bureau of Outreach & Communication (BOC) can be used by different agencies for promoting the cause in realizing the vision of a Clean India.


    Smt. Monalisa Goswami, while taking part in the programme, said, “We are organizing this programme to increase the awareness about “Swachhta Hi Seva”. Today, we are encouraging “Shramdaan” and in the coming week, there will be several programmes from GMC about this cleanliness drive. I hope we can make some important contribution towards the cleanliness of the Brahmaputra Bank.” She also urged the local residents of Guwahati to maintain cleanliness in their locality.


    Brig. N. D Joshi said, “By inviting people to participate in the “Swachhta Hi Seva” drive, the Swachhta Abhiyan has turned into a mass movement. A sense of responsibility has been evoked among the people through this Movement. With citizens now becoming active participants in cleanliness activities across the nation, the dream of a ‘Clean India’ once seen by Mahatma Gandhi has begun to get a shape.”


    The Inter-Media Publicity Co-ordination Committee (IMPCC) had discussed the cleaning of Brahmaputra River and development & beautification of its banks in Guwahati, during its monthly meeting on August 13, 2018. During the meeting, the participants had volunteered to organize a cleanliness programme on one of the Sundays, so that everyone could contribute to the cleanliness on the ground.


    A special outreach programme will also be held in the evening at Pub Sarumotoria in Guwahati today by the Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati.


    *****


    KSD/GD/HD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546283) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese