      Ministry of Earth Science

      Public outreach programme in Science education held at Guwahati
      Posted On: 26 SEP 2018 6:09PM by PIB Guwahati


    A Public Outreach Program under the banner of the 4 th India International Science Festival was organized by the Institute of Advanced Study in Science & Technology (IASST) in Guwahati today. Shri N. C Talukdar, Director, IASST inaugurated the programme and gave the welcoming address. He said, “This one day programme is held with the purpose of attracting the students of schools and colleges to science education and research in the future. With this goal, we have invited students from 10 local colleges to today’s programme. Moreover, we need to encourage scientific temperament and small innovations made by students and other people from the society.”


    Shri Rajiv Sarma, Secretary, Vijnana Bharati, NE, was also present in the occasion. More than 80 students from various institutes participated in the programme. Shri Sarma pointed out, “The basic objective of the programme is to showcase the achievements and research facilities of this centre to the students, general public and local media, and also to create awareness about science and recent developments in state-of-the art technologies used in research.”


    The day long programme included a documentary show, popular scientific talks by programme heads of IASST, interaction with scientists, felicitation of child innovators, visits to IASST laboratories, Bio Resource Park, vermicompost unit and mushroom production unit etc. An essay competition was also organized among the students.


    The 4th Session of India International Science Festival (IISF) is going to be held at Indira Gandhi Prathisthan, Lucknow from 05th to 08th October, 2018. The Ministries of Science & Technology and Earth Sciences are organizing the 4th IISF, coordinated by the Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science & Technology.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547588) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese