      Election Commission

      PollStar - online training portal for online training of Presiding and Polling Officers
      
      Launched by CEO, West Bengal Today

      Posted On: 08 APR 2019 7:35PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, 08 April 2019


    An online training portal called PollStar designed for the Presiding Officers and Polling Officers has been launched by Dr. Aariz Aftab, Chief Electoral Officer, West Bengal, here today. This online course aims to address all issues related to serious difficulties that may arise at the polling stations in course of conducting elections. It consists of seven modules covering the essentials from the date of receiving the appointment as a Presiding Officer or Polling Officer to the delivery of polled EVM and other materials at the distribution centre. It can be used multiple times and works as a repository for resources that can be availed from time to time. The course is designed in such a way that one can have the basic materials for the training of the Presiding Officers and the Polling Officers with supporting texts, resources and video documents.


    The primary target for this course is the Presiding and Polling Officers, although the Sector Officers and other senior officers associated with elections may look through the portal for having knowledge on the entire system, said Dr Aftab in a press meet.


    The entire online training portal has been developed by District Electoral Officer’s office, North Kolkata.


    In order to increase the percentage of voters of North Kolkata, DEO, North Kolkata has designed 12 audio-visual stories for inspiring electors of the area to exercise their franchises centering round the rich cultural heritage of North Kolkata. It is to be mentioned that there will be 153 polling stations in North Kolkata which will be managed by female polling personnel.


    *********


    CG/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1570234) Visitor Counter : 129
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali