      Election Commission

      Poll Icons from West Bengal for General Election to Lok Sabha, 2019
      Posted On: 03 APR 2019 4:49PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, April 3, 2019


    The Election Commission of India (ECI) has made special guidelines to help differently-abled people of this country exercise their franchise as a part of their basic democratic rights. In order to make them aware of enrolling themselves into the electoral roll, ECI has come up with the idea of Poll Icons to spread voter awareness messages among the differently-abled people. Some of the persons with disabilities (PwD) have been selected from West Bengal for spreading voter awareness messages in the State, especially to those who are differently abled.


    Troyee Dasgupta, an orthopedically handicapped lady whose height too is very short (42 inches), but with a fighter spirit inside, she has contributed a lot for helping the mentally retarded children has been selected as Poll Icon from Purba Bardhaman along with Nazmeen Khatun, a lady with hearing impairedness, who excelled in the National Games for Deaf & Dumb. Both the ladies are State Awardees.


    For Alipurduars, a visually impaired lady named Krishna Mirdha has been selected as Poll Icon. Smt Mirdha is blind since her birth, but with fighter spirit, she is continuing her studies in Alipurduar College and sitting for exams through a scribe. A very good singer, Mirdha hails from a humble family and she has EPIC card too.


    Kanchan Gaba, another lady with visual impairedness who is a distinguished mountaineer also, has been selected as the Poll Icon for North Kolkata. Smt Gaba lost her sight when she was eight years old, but that did not dampen her spirit to scale Tenzing Rock, the Gambhu Rock and Sandakfu and even go for river rafting.


    From Nadia, Soma Biswas, an athlete, who specialises in heptathlon, has been selected as Poll Icon. Smt Biswas rose to fame when she won the silver medal in 2002 Asian Games in Busan, South Korea. She won another silver medal at the 2006 Asian Games in Doha.


    Besides such icons, Purba Bardhaman has floated a special programme termed ‘Samanubhuti’ for helping specially-abled people enrol themselves into the electoral roll, besides providing them caste certificates. The District Magistrate of Purba Bardhaman, Shri Anurag Srivastava said, another programme titled Samanubhuti Yatra has also been started in the district for specially-abled-people-a tableau which will spread the messages voter awareness in every block of the district.


    ******


    JN/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1570020) Visitor Counter : 58
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali