      Ministry of Education

      IGNOU CELEBRATES 32ND CONVOCATION
      Posted On: 04 APR 2019 6:06PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata: April 4, 2019


    Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), the largest peoples University in the world, organized The 32 nd Convocation at IGNOU, HQrs New Delhi, on 3 rd April, 2019. The event at its Maidangarhi Campus was simultaneously organized at all the Regional Centres across the country. Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu, Hon’ble Vice-President of India as Chief Guest delivered the Convocation Address at University Campus, IGNOU New Delhi. The Convocation ceremony was brought live through webcast and was also made available across the country on Gyan Darshan, Gyan Vani and Gyandhara. IGNOU Regional Centre Kolkata organized its Convocation Ceremony at Salt Lake, Kolkata. Prof. Subha Sankar Sarkar, Vice-Chancellor, NSOU was the Guest of Honor who delivered the convocation address. In the 32nd convocation, IGNOU has awarded a total of 1, 88,486 learners at all India level and at Kolkata region alone 7939 Degree, Diplomas and Certificates.


    While presenting the Regional Directors Report Dr Shiva Kumar GN highlighted the important role of Regional Centre, Kolkata in providing access to higher education to the prospective learners in the state of West Bengal. He emphasized the consistent expansion of IGNOU activities in the State of West Bengal in the last 20 years, with the total number of Learner Support centres now stretching to 62. A Special Study Centre has been established at Presidency Correctional Home, Alipore, Kolkata to provide free education to jail inmates. New Programmes such as Cerificate in Korean, Russian, Spanish and BPCCHN for medical aspirants have been activated. Aligning with the skill building mission of the present Government, IGNOU Regional centre Kolkata has actively worked to activate Skill Development programmes such as Certificate in General Duty Assistance, Geriatric Care Assistance, Phlebotomy Assistance, Home Health Assistance, Comprehensive Diabetes Care and Dietetic Assistance has e also been launched which has huge potential to provide employment to more than 14 lakh students across the state of West Bengal. He reiterated that the total Gross enrollment ratio of Kolkata Regional Centre has reached impressive heights in 2017-18 with 49471 enrolled students in different Programmes. True to IGNOU’s mandate of reaching the unreached , IGNOU Kolkata Regional centre has worked towards an increase of rural population from 747 to 2822, women from 11603 To 13446 and disadvantaged groups (SC/ST/OBC) from 4983 to 5312.


    Two learners of IGNOU Kolkata Regional Centre, Rituparna Sahoo and Md. Ajaz Ahmed have been awarded with gold medal.


    ******


    CG/DK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1570122) Visitor Counter : 12