      Ministry of Home Affairs

      BSF CHIEF AND OTHER TOP BRASS OFFICERS VISITS NAGALAND
      Posted On: 23 APR 2019 5:52PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata: April 23, 2019


    The Director General of Border Security Force, Sh Rajni Kant Mishra accompanied by Shri Sanjeev Kumar Singh, IPS, ADG, BSF (Eastern Command) visited Nagaland to review the security and operational preparedness in the state where BSF is deployed. He landed at the battalion HQ of 111 Bn BSF, Satakha at 1140 hrs on 22nd April 2019 where he was received by Dr K C Mahali, IPS, IG BSF M&C frontier along with Shri Anand Singh, DIG SHQ BSF CI (Ops) Manipur and Shri Sanjeev Sharma, Commandant 111 Bn BSF. DG also reviewed the domination plan of the unit and expressed his satisfaction on the Ops preparedness of the Battalion and complemented troops for performing duty in professional manner by taking local people along. DG BSF was given a detailed briefing about the operational and other roles of the BSF. After the briefing and review , the DG interacted with the officers and men posted at Satakha and listened to their grievances. The DG addressed the troops and exhorted to be physically and mentally fit and perform the duties in a professional manner as per the expectation of the nation.


    The DG particularly emphasized the need to win hearts and minds of local people by providing information and enabling local people to take benefits of different Govt. programmes.


    DG BSF interacted with the local Ex- BSF retired personnel who earlier served in 111 Bn BSF and other elders of the area. The BSF pensioners brought certain issues to the notice of the DG. The DG gave them assurance that points raised by them will be addressed in a time bound manner. These Ex-BSF personnel welcomed the DG in a traditional Naga style and also presented Shawl and Daw.


    Later in the evening DG BSF called on His Excellency, the Governor of Nagaland Shri P B Acharya wherein Governor acknowledged and appreciated the work put in by the BSF. He also stressed the need of promoting Govt. schemes by BSF. He desired that since BSF is deployed in remote areas, it can help people there by conducting awareness programmes about the Govt. schemes so that these people can derive maximum benefits from them.


    CG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571044) Visitor Counter : 5