      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Interactive Session of SME Knowledge Initiative on ‘FMCG as Driver of MSME Growth’
      Posted On: 24 APR 2019 4:58PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata: 23 April 2019


    Merchants’ Chamber of Commerce & Industry organized an Interactive Session on ‘FMCG as Driver of MSME Growth’ with Shri P. M. Chandraiah, MD and Director Finance, Bengal Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (BCPL) and Dr. G. P. Sarkar, Founder Chairman, Allen Group today at the Conference Hall of the Chamber.


    Shri P. M. Chandraiah, MD and Director Finance, Bengal Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (BCPL) said that the MSME sector in India contributes around 6% of manufacturing GDP, provides employment to 120 million persons, contributes around 45% of overall exports and it has consistently maintained a growth rate over 10%. BCPL is a great turnaround story after incurring many decades of losses. It has enjoyed positive gross margins since 2015-16. The Company reported its first net profit in 2016-17. BCPL is repaying its loans to both Banks as well as Government. It is expected that BCPL will become a positive net worth company by 2021 and a debt free company by 2022. It expects to receive Mini Ratna status by 2023.


    Dr. G. P. Sarkar, Founder Chairman, Allen Group said that he is marketing several health care and FMCG products from a few companies some of which are run by his close relatives. In his professional experience spanning 50 years, he has learnt that everyone can do better and success will come subject to honesty, hard work, dedication and devotion. It is easier to operate micro, small and medium enterprises than large scale industries in West Bengal. Dr. Sarkar is now the Chairman of Enterprise Development Institute (EDI), promoted by Bengal National Chamber of Commerce & Industry in association with Government of India and Government of West Bengal. Entrepreneurs are being trained at EDI. EDI will shortly offer an MBA in Entrepreneurship and any entrepreneur or businessman can contact EDI for training.


    Shri Rishabh Kothari, Chairman, Standing Committee on MSME, MCCI said that the MSME sector is a driver of growth with excellent prospects as prosperity spreads in the country.


    ********


    CG/CB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571117) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali