      PIB Headquarters

      Smart India Hackathon 2017 : St. Joseph College of Engineering, Kanchipuram bags first prize
      Posted On: 03 APR 2017 4:50PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    
    
    Team Xpose of St. Joseph College of Engineering, Kanchipuram, Tamil Nadu won the first prize in the 'Grand Finale' of 'Smart India Hackathon 2017', the world's biggest digital product developing competition. Technocrat Team from Shri G S Institute of Technology and Science, Indore, Madhya Pradesh bagged the second position in the Hackathon held at Rajadhani Institute of Engineering and Technology, Nagaroor, Thiruvananthapuram as part of the nationwide contest.
    Code Hunter East point College of Engineering and Technology, Bangalore, Karnataka won Third position and Graminunnat Team from Ramrao Adik Institute of technology, Thane, Maharashtra came Fourth. Greeks Squad of Amrita Viswa Vidhyapeetham, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu got the fifth position.
    Nearly 400 students including mentors from around 20 states (Uttarakand, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Goa. Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Andhra Pradhesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Telangana ) worked nonstop for 36 hours to develop products and various solutions to the problems related to the Ministry of Rural development.
    Shri. O. Rajagopal, MLA inaugurated the opening session of Hackathon which was attended by Mr. Sudhaker Shukla, Economic Adviser for Ministry of Rural Development, Govt of India, and Former ISRO Chairman Dr. G Madhavan Nair. Ms. Reshma B Remesh, Director RIET, Dr. R Sathikumar Principal RIET, Higher officials from Ministry of Rural Development and other eminent judges were also present on the occasion.
    A total of 25 member teams judged the performance of the students including 15 national jury members and senior scientists from ISRO. Prime Minister Sri. Narendra Modi addressed and interacted with innovators via video conferencing which boosted the entire competitors. It was followed by a performance of Zumba dance and Yoga demonstration.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1486624) Visitor Counter : 86
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam