      PIB Headquarters

      AIR MARSHAL SRK NAIR RECEIVED “PARAM VISHISHT SEVA MEDAL”
      Posted On: 07 APR 2017 5:36PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    

    Air Marshal SRK Nair, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Training Command, Bengaluru has been presented “PARAM VISHISHT SEVA MEDAL” (PVSM) for his meritorious service, in the Defence Investiture Ceremony –II, at the Rashtrapathi Bhavan yesterday. President Shri Pranab Mukherjee presented the medal to Air Marshal SRK Nair. Air Marshal SRK Nair belongs to Trivandrum and did his schooling from Loyola School Trivandrum.
    The Air Marshal is an alumni of National Defence Academy and was commissioned in the transport stream of the Indian Air Force in Jun 1980. The Air Marshal has flown Otter, Avro, An-32, Dornier and IL-76 in addition to trainer aircrafts and has over 7200 hrs of flying experience to his credit.
    The Air Marshal has held a number of Command and Staff appointments which includes Chief Operations Officer of a Transport Base, Commanding Officer of a strategic Air lift Squadron, Director Operations (Transport) at Air Headquarters, Air Officer Commanding of Air Force Station Chandigarh, Assistant Chief of the Air Staff (Personnel Airmen and Civilians) and Assistant Chief of the Air Staff (Transport &Helicopter) at Air Headquarters. He was Senior Air Staff Officer of Training Command prior to the coveted appointment as Air Officer Commanding – in – Chief.
    The Air Marshal has taken active part and flown extensively towards Operation Pawan (Sri Lanka),Operation Cactus (Maldives), Operation Parakram and Operation Safed Sagar (Kargil Operations). He has the unique distinction of being selected to lead the first ever airborne exercise to South Africa (1999), USA (2003) and Russia (2007). During the exercise at USA, he has pioneered a gruelling 9 hrs 40 minutes flight on IL-76 to the North Pole and back, the only Indian aircraft to do so. He also circumnavigated the globe. His achievements include initiating night operations to Leh and Thoise on IL-76. He played a pivotal role in operationalising Daulat Beg Olde – the highest airstrip in the world for AN-32 ac and has also operated to and out of DBO. He was also instrumental in planning C-130 Super Hercules landing at DBO and was on board the aircraft. The Officer has operated extensively towards Disaster Relief during Bhuj Earthquake, Super Cyclone in Orissa and Tsunami in SE Asia. The Air Marshal was nominated as the Air Force co-ordinator for the difficult and much acclaimed disaster relief operations – “Operation Rahat”, in Uttarakhand.
    During his illustratious career, he has been the recipient of AOC-in-C Commendation, Chief of the Air Staff Commendation and GOC-in-C Commendation. He was awarded Mention-in-Despatch in 1999, Vayu Sena Medal in 2005 and Ati Vishisht Seva Medal in 2010. The Air Marshal is the Commodore Commandant of 44 Squadron , Air Force, ‘The Mighty Jets’.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1487334) Visitor Counter : 92
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam