      PIB Headquarters

      PHASE-II OF INTERNATIONAL EXECUTIVEDEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME - 2019 (IEDP) COMMENCE IN NI-MSME
      Posted On: 04 DEC 2019 6:50PM by PIB Hyderabad


    The National Institute for Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, Yousufguda begins its Phase-II of International Executive Development Programme - 2019 (IEDP) from 4 December 2019. The Chief Guest, Dr. P. JYOTHI, Professor & Dean, School of Management Studies, University of Hyderabad (UoH) graced the inaugural function at 11 am at the ni-msme campus, Yousufguda.


    The Executive programme is sponsored by the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India under the Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC ) (Indian Government’s flagship programme in capacity building).


    Dr. Ashwani Goel, Director (Academics), addressed the gathering sharing rich training and handholding history of ni-msme and its association with the M/o External Affairs through ITEC. He expressed joy in welcoming the Chief Guest on behalf of the Director General D. Chandra Sekhar and felicitated her along with Dr. Dibyendu Choudhury, Admn i/c and Faculty Member and Sandeep Bhatnagar, Director (Marketing & Business Development).


    The Chief Guest, Dr. P. Jyothi in her inaugural address started off with a famous Sanskrit quote from a sloka- “Tamaso Maa Jyotir-Gamaya”, as she lit the lamp along with few international participants and Programme Directors. She said that the significance of the lighting of the lamp is to lead us from darkness to light and from ignorance to knowledge. She congratulated ni-msme for providing training in areas that are of prominence today. She spoke on the sustainability of the motivation level in the participants and shared few tips on keeping up the momentum and further emphasised the need to develop an Ecosystem where the knowledge gained by the participants can be applied in daily life situations and it itself will be a major take away for the students.


    She concluded by greeting the students a comfortable stay in Hyderabad and successful training to help strengthen their industries & businesses back home.


    The Phase-II will train 64 students from 33 countries in the areas of SME Financing- Approaches and Strategies by Programme Directors: Dr. E. Vijaya & Dr. K. Visweswara Reddy and Tourism and Hospitality management by Programme Directors: Dr. Dibyendu Choudhury and Dr. Shreekant Sharma.


    Media contact:

    Mrs. T. Suzan Spurthi
    PRO ni-msme
    E-mail ID: pro@nimsme.org
    Contact No: 9032665669

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595000) Visitor Counter : 48