      PIB Headquarters

      CISF-PREMIER SECURITY FORCE OF THE COUNTRY –ANJANA SINHA, DIRECTOR, NISA
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2019 6:37PM by PIB Hyderabad


    A colourful ceremonial parade was held on the occasion of the passing parade of 604 trainees of 28 th Batch of constable/Fire basic course at Fire Service Training Institute ( FSTI) premier fire and disaster management institute of Central Industrial Security Force CISF here today at Hakimpet


    Smt .Anjana Sinha IPS, Director, National Industrial Security Academy (NISA) was the Chief Guest on this occasion and reviewed the colourful ceremonial Dikshant Parade. Speaking on this occasion Smt Anjana Sinha said that CISF Is a premier security force of the county and recounted the glorious past of CISF. She applauded the services of CISF in all areas wherever it was deployed and expressed her satisfaction. In 2017, FSTI was awarded the finest India Skills & Talent (FIST) award by Fire and Security Association of India, she added.


    She exhorted the trainees to uphold the legacy of CISF and the Constitution, and to perform their duties with sincerity, devotion and integrity. She also congratulated the Academy on being recognised as a Centre of Excellence in the field of industrial security management by the Government of India.


    S K Mallick, DIG, Principal- CISF FSTI, NISA delivered the welcome address and presented a report on training activities of the Academy. He complimented trainee officers for their dedication and hoped that rigorous training imparted at the Academy would make them stand in good stead in their professional career.


    Smt.Sinha distributed the prizes to the trainees who had shown exemplary performance in their training programme. Fire and rescue services personnel demonstrated tactful methods of putting off fire in a mock drill. Brigade also demonstrated series of life saving methods adopted while tackling fire accidents.


    CISF demonstrations on fire fighting, various rope rescue methods (Chemical Biological, Radio Nuclear) CBRN decontamination etc enthralled the audience.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597114) Visitor Counter : 195
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu