      Ministry of Finance

      Revenue Secretary Shri Hasmukh Adhia held a meeting with local Trade bodies on GST and clarified their queries
      Posted On: 30 MAY 2017 3:33PM by PIB Bengaluru


    Revenue Secretary Shri Hasmukh Adhia held a meeting with local Trade bodies on GST and clarified their queries


    Bengaluru, May 30, 2017


    Shri Hasmukh Adhia, Revenue Secretary, Union Finance Ministry categorically stated that the GST will be implemented from July 1, 2017.


    Speaking at a Town Hall meeting with Tax Assesses, Traders and Representatives of Trade Unions in Bengaluru, he made it very clear about the GST. The meeting is jointly organized by Chief Commissioner of Central Excise and Service Tax, and Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Karnataka, as part of outreach programme on GST. Revealing as a secret, he said that the Karnataka government has maximum contribution for GST and central government is moving ahead as the GST is gain changer and a lot of jobs can be created for younger generation. Further, he said that India’s potential is much higher and the potential of GST to convert economic energy in to real growth. Stating the facts and figures of India’s GDP growth, he said that the GDP growth is more than four per cent.


    Responding to the various queries from the audience, Shri Adhia elaborated the benefits of GST, the easiness of doing business, how to comply with it, uniformity of law and tax rules and seamless transfer of input tax credit and clarified all the doubts at a single stretch in his concise briefing about the taxation formulations of GST. He also assured to reply the queries to clarify the doubts through the GST Twitter handle.


    Participating in the meeting, Shri Krishna Byre Gowda, Karnataka Agriculture Minister and is also the Member of the GST Council spoke at length and expressed his happiness to be the Member of GST representing from Karnataka and contributing the rationale structure in the taxation under the Chairmanship of Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley. He said that the GST is customer-friendly and its intention is not to increase taxes and only to increase the revenue.


    ****


    BAE


    MVVS:Kv 16-00 Hrs. 30-5-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1491481) Visitor Counter : 46