      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      ‘Listening, Learning and Leading’ book chronicling Vice President`s two years in office released by Union Minister for Home Affairs
      
      Ministry of Information and Broadcasting hosts the event

      Posted On: 11 AUG 2019 5:20PM by PIB Chennai

    Vice President Shri Venkaiah Naidu has said that abrogation of Article 370 is in the interest of the Nation. Speaking at a function, to release a book titled “Listening, Learning and Leading” chronicling his two years in office as Vice President, Shri. Naidu said abrogation of Article 370 should not be considered as a political issue but a bold move taken in the interest of security of the nation and the future of people of Jammu and Kashmir.


    Stating that people must always learn from history and move forward, the Vice President said it is at this juncture that we should stand by the people of Kashmir and restore normalcy.


    The Book “Listening, Learning and Leading” was released by Union Minister of Home Affairs Shri Amit Shah. Vice President Shri Venkaiah Naidu received the first copy. The event was hosted by Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.


    Recalling the Government’s move in bringing the bill for abrogation of the article in the Rajya Sabha, Vice President said after views of the cross section of the polity in the Upper house was heard, the bill after proper vetting was passed by the house with a two third’s majority.


    Reminiscing his days as a student leader from a humble farmer’s family, he said commitment, dedication, sincerity to a cause in which he believed had helped him achieve great heights both in the BJP and in the Government. He praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his mantra on Reform Perform and Transform which brought about a massive change in the mindset of the people on development and had put India in a pedestal receiving global attention.


    Urging Parliamentarians to refrain from dysfunctional behavior and stop acrimony and emotional outbursts which disrupted the effective functioning of the esteemed Upper House, Vice President called on legislators to realize the dreams of the Constitution makers.


    Appealing to the Government to bridge the gap between policy intent and implementation, he said there is serious introspection that is needed to improve the quality of service delivery, to benefit the people at large. Result based management system should become the norm, he said.


    Listing a series of measures needed to reform the Judicial system, the Vice President said that justice dispensing structures must be accessible, credible, equitable and transparently even- handed . He urged the government to take steps to set up a Bench of the Supreme Court in Chennai, besides in the East and the West.


    Referring to the shortfalls in the anti-defection law, he said the law was not implemented in letter and spirit . He said because of the inaction of the Speaker or Chairman, the defecting legislators continue in the new party, which is a kind of travesty of justice, which should not be tolerated.


    Union Minister for Home Affairs Shri.Amit Shah in his address said he strongly believes that Article 370 would bring terrorism to an end and will take Kashmir forward in the path of development. Stating that Article 370 should have been abrogated a long time ago, Shri. Amit Shah said he had no confusion in his mind that it scrapping of Article 370 was in the interest of the people of Kashmir.


    He said Vice President and Chairman of Upper House, acumen led to abrogation of Article 370 after taking into consideration the views of all parties. The Home Minister recalled Shri. Venkaiah Naidu’s days as a student leader, who had led an agitation against Article 370, and it was sheer coincidence that he presided over the Rajya Sabha when the Article 370 was abrogated.


    Paying accolades to the self less service of Vice President to the Nation, he said Mr Venkaiah Naidu worked his heart out to turn his vision for urban and rural development into reality.


    Union Minister for Information & Broadcasting and Environment, Forests & Climate Change, Shri Prakash Javadekar said Vice President personal rapport with Parliamentarians was above party affiliations, ensuring functioning of the Upper House smoothly, resulting in passage of record number of bills in the last session. Vice President Venkaiah Naidu’s popular alliteration and witty remarks, created a cordial atmosphere in the Rajya Sabha, where the opposition has its say, even as the Government had its way, in clearing legislative businesses.


    Tamil Nadu Governor Shri. Banwarilal Purohit, Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswamy, Deputy Chief Minister O.Paneerselvam and host of dignitaries from various walks of life participated in the function.


    Ministry of Information and Broadcasting Secretary Shri Amit Khare proposed the vote of thanks.


    As part of the book release, Regional Outreach Bureau, Chennai organized a photo exhibition highlighting the journey of the Vice President from a student leader. Shri. Venkaiah Naidu’s interaction with cross section of society, meeting with world leaders and visits to Universities, Research institutions were also pictured.


    ******


    EM/NT/SG/VG


    

    
    (Release ID: 1581777) Visitor Counter : 573
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi