      PIB Headquarters

      Union Home Minister Amit Shah to release Vice President’s book on two years in office
      Posted On: 09 AUG 2019 6:46PM by PIB Chennai


    A book chronicling two years in the office of the Vice President Shri M Venkaiah Naidu will be released at the Kalaivanar Arrangam, Chennai on August 11, 2019, by Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah.


    The function is being hosted by Shri Prakash Javadekar, Union Minister of Environment & Forests & Climate Change and Information and Broadcasting. The book titled “LISTENING, LEARNING & LEADING” captures a few glimpses of the Vice President’s 330 public engagements in all the States and Union Territories of our country during the last two years.


    Crisscrossing the length and breadth of our vast country, the Vice President has delivered 61 convocation addresses, interacted with students on 35 occasions, visited 97 scientific and technological research institutions and delivered 25 special lectures.


    The book contains Shri Naidu’s important diplomatic engagements including his visits to 19 countries in 4 continents. He was the first Indian Vice President to visit Panama, Guatemala, Costa Rica, and Malta.


    The book will showcase his achievements as Rajya Sabha Chairman and his initiatives to enhance effectiveness, and promote the efficiency of Rajya Sabha.


    Shri Banwarilal Purohit, the Governor of Tamil Nadu, Shri Edappadi K. Palaniswami Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, Shri O. Panneerselvam, Hon’ble Deputy Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu will be attending the event.


    Eminent Agriculture Scientist Prof. M.S. Swaminathan, Former Director ISRO, Dr. Krishnaswamy Kasturirangan, Former Attorney General of India Shri K. Parasaran, Editor of Tughlak Shri Swaminathan Gurumurthy, Chairman of Apollo Hospitals Group Dr Pratap C Reddy, Founder & Chancellor of VIT Dr.G.Viswanathan, Chief National Coach of Indian Badminton Team Shri Pullela Gopichand and several other dignitaries and eminent personalities will also attend the event.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1581692) Visitor Counter : 40
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil