      PIB Headquarters

      Technology transferred to Young Woman Entrepreneur
      Posted On: 22 AUG 2019 5:57PM by PIB Chennai


    The technology on Geopolymer Blocks developed at CSIR- SERC was transferred to M/s KPS Bricks Industries, Erode, Tamilnadu on 22.8.2019 through NRDC. The Geoploymer technology was developed by a woman Scientist of CSIR-SERC. The geopolymer blocks are alternate to cement blocks, need no water for curing.


    Ms. S. Srimathi of M/s KPS Bricks Industries have inked MoU with CSIR-SERC, Chennai. Prof. Santosh Kapuria, Director, CSIR-SERC said that it was a matter of pride for CSIR-SERC that this technology has been taken by a number of players and the market spread for this technology is high. He thanked Dr. Purushotham, CMD of NRDC for helping CSIR-SERC to connect with the stake holders.


    Dr. Puroshotham, informed that for the past two years and till date upto 5 technologies of CSIR-SERC have been commercialized. He applauded M/s Srimathi of M/s KPS Bricks Industries for being a women entrepreneur and also congratulated Dr. P.S.Ambily, Senior Scientist who is the prime developer of the technology.


    Dr. Purushotham reiterated that the Scientists of CSIR-SERC would provide all the necessary help to sort out any such issues during production. Dr. Ambily, the woman scientist also informed that the BIS committee for standardization of geopoymer blocks has already been formed. Dr. Puroshotham requested M/s KPS Bricks Industries to publicize extensively so that many would adopt the technology. He also said that since the technology is from a premier institute like CSIR-SERC, it would have wider acceptance. The Scientists of CSIR-SERC further added that large scale production of the geopoylmer blocks would be cost effective.


    M/s KPS Bricks Industries informed that they were already involved in producing fly ash bricks since 2006. Due to poor water quality and shortage, they had been experiencing difficulties in production. They came to know of the gopolymer blocks, which needed no water for curing and hence decided to embrace the technology. M/s KPS Bricks Industries informed that they have the necessary space and infrastructure for production as they were producing fly ash bricks.


    CSIR-SERC, NRDC and M/s KPS Bricks Industries signed the tripartite license agreement for transfer of technology , according to the press release issued by the CSIR-SERC, Chennai.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1582653) Visitor Counter : 66
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil