      PIB Headquarters

      Newly constructed Boys hostel of the CIPET inaugurated by Union Minister Shri. Sadananda Gowda
      Posted On: 29 AUG 2019 4:14PM by PIB Chennai


    Pursuant to the current strategy of ban of "Single Use Plastics" '(SUP)', the Department of Chemicals & Petrochemicals (DCPC), Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers has received several States representation from Plastics Industry Association. In order to address this situation, an expert committee constituting of Members from Policy Makers, Industrialists, Academicians and Researchers in the field of Polymers and Allied materials has been formed by DCPC wherein CIPET has been taking a lead role in studying various strategies of utility of SUP's and its impact on ban. The Committee had already submitted the Draft report to the department, which is now currently being examined in consultation with the Ministry of Environment, says Shri. D. V. Sadananda Gowda, Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers while inaugurating the Boys Hostel of the CIPET, Institute of Plastics Technology, Deptt. Of Chemicals & Petrochemicals, Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers.


    The newly constructed Boys hostel of the CIPET is 9 storied building, built in 9,750 sq.mts, having 191 rooms to accommodate 950 students at the cost of Rs.23.70 crores, which was funded by Government of India. This facility will motivate the aspiring students of the State of Tamilnadu to come forward and pursue their career in polymer technology, he added.


    Ministry of Chemicals has also extended its support to construct 25 numbers of Hostels with modern facilities at CIPET Centres located across the country at the cost of Rs. 256.66 crores to accommodate 6298 students. Union Minister has asserted that this will benefit the rural students to come forward and take up their career in the polymer technology.


    Polymer industry caters to the entire spectrum of daily use items and almost every sphere of our life, such as textiles, building & construction, furniture, automobiles, household items, agriculture, packaging, medical appliances, electronics and electrical items.


    India has become a hub of downstream petrochemical industry offering huge investment opportunities. With 18 percent of the world population, India accounts for barely 4 percent of the global demand for polymer. The annual polymer consumption in India is around 13 million tonnes which is about 5% of the global consumption. Average per capita consumption in India is currently at 12 kg which is likely to increase to 20 kg by 2022. He said that this indicates huge potential for future growth.


    There are about 15 major polymer raw materials manufacturers in India producing wide range of commodity and engineering polymers. This industry employs about 4 million people and comprising more than 30,000 processing units, mostly of small and medium-sized units. There are about 200 polymer processing machinery manufacturing units in India.


    “As you are aware that during the Independence Day speech, Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi ji has expressed serious concern over the use of single-use plastic. I invite all of you to join the movement to collect littered plastic waste along the road side on Gandhi Jayanthi, 2nd October.”, he said.


    He also requested the DG CIPET and the Department to organize a massive cleaning campaign in the nearby villages for collecting the littered plastic waste through the staff/students of CIPET Centres located across the country on 2nd October, in association with the local bodies and plastic industry associations.


    Minister also said that the proposal for Establishment of Technology Centre at CIPET, Chennai at a project cost of Rs.88.25 crores and advanced machineries at a cost of Rs. 4.35 crores is under consideration.


    During the last five years (2014 to 2019), 3.13 lacs of unemployed/under- employed youths trained & benefited through training programs and committed to train 5.00 lacs in the next 5 years(2019-2024).


    *******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583462) Visitor Counter : 54
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil