      PIB Headquarters

      Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India Inauguration of Regional Warehouse of Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana (PMBJP) at Chennai, Tamil Nadu
      Posted On: 29 AUG 2019 5:41PM by PIB Chennai

     1. The ‘Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana’ is being implemented through Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India (BPPI) which is a society set up under Department of Pharmaceuticals, Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers, Government of India.
     2. BPPI has three modern warehouses at Guru-gram, Bengaluru and Guwahati for storage and distribution of drugs.
     3. For strengthening the supply chain in southern India. One world Class Warehouse is inaugurated at Gummidipoondi, Thiruvallur Dist., Chennai by Hon’ble Cabinet Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers Shri D.V. Sadananda Gowda. The warehouse is WHO-GDP compliance and an area of 65,000 Sq Ft. It has all modern amenities for good storage and distribution. Hon’ble Minister has stated that his government is committed to reduce the cost of Health Care and will make quality generic medicines at affordable cost to all. PMBJP is the dream project of government and making good progress.
     4. Number of stores has grown to more than 5500 and 684 districts are covered at present. Further, total sales in the financial year 2018-19 has crossed Rs 315.70 Crore which led to total savings of approximately Rs 2000 Crore of common citizens as these medicines are cheaper by 50% to 90% of average market price. This scheme is also providing a good source of self-employment with sustainable and regular earnings.
     5. Popularity of the scheme can be judged from the fact that people and a section of media is referring these medicines as “Modicine”. Further, common man refers Janaushadhi Kendra as “Pradhan Mantri Ji Ki Dukan”.

    In the product basket of PMBJP, there are more than 900 drugs and 154 surgical & consumables available for sale through PMBJP Kendras at 50% - 90% less prices compare to the open market.

     1. Department of Pharmaceuticals is determined to provide affordable Health Care to all Indians through ever-increasing network of PMBJP Kendras across country.

    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583499) Visitor Counter : 222
    
    
    
    
    

1.