      PIB Headquarters

      Synergy between Doctors and police is the need of the hour
      ESIC Medical College organised one day workshop on Basic Life Support to Police Personnel in Hyderabad today

      Posted On: 12 JAN 2017 7:57PM by PIB Hyderabad

    ESIC Medical College, Sanathnagar, Hyderabad organised one day workshop on Basic Life Support to Police Personnel in Hyderabad today , The policemen from various parts of the state attend the workshop and have the hands-on experience. Shri. N. Ramachandran , IPS [ Retired ], President , Indian Police Foundation Inaugurated the Workshop.


    While addressing the gathering Shri. N. Ramachandran said that the Synergy between Doctors and police is the need of the hour, He shared the personal experiences as a police officer, One lakh twenty thousand people are dying every year due to road accidents, 16 persons are dying every day, traffic offences are more dangerous than terrorism, Most of the deaths on the road are due to non-availability of timely medical help and lack of poor cardiopulmonary resuscitation techniques which could otherwise be a preventable cause of death..He explained the efforts of Indian Police Foundation which contributes for enhancing quality of policing in the country and improves the services delivery.

    The doctors of ESIC Medical College demonstrated how to help an injured person in an accident for providing first aid and taught them how to prevent the death,

    The “Basic Life Support (BLS)” course is a structured programme run under the aegis of Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP). It has various teaching modules for both medical and non-medical personnel and trains the participants in giving the acute medical care that can be life-saving to the needy.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1480442) Visitor Counter : 10
    
    

      Background release reference

      one day workshop on Basic Life Support to Police Personnel
      This link will take you to a webpage outside this websiteinteractive page. Click OK to continue.Click Cancel to stop : one day workshop on Basic Life Support to Police P
      Read this release in: Telugu