      Ministry of Communications

      Cyber security is the need of the hour - Union Minister of State for Electronics and IT Shri P.P. Chaudhary
      India will be in a position to manufacture electronic devices and products in the country soon
      
      Union government promotes R&D and Intellectual Property Rights
      
      Andhra Pradesh is a pioneer in providing e-governance services

      Posted On: 10 JAN 2017 6:54PM by PIB Hyderabad

    The Union Minister of State for Electronics and Information Technology, Law and Justice Shri P.P. Chaudhary chaired the valedictory session of 20th National Conference on e-Governance in Visakhapatnam today. Addressing the gathering Shri P.P. Chaudhary said that there is a need for bridging the digital divide between the urban and rural areas. The union government promotes research and development and innovative eco system of Information technology and also encourages for acquiring the intellectual property rights by Indians.


    

    The Minister further said that Cyber security is the need of the hour and artificial intelligence will provide solutions to the problem of cyber security. There is also need for development of Nano technology and Nano electronics which helps for imparting value based education based on Mission mode Nano Electronics. India will be in a position to manufacture electronics devices and products in the country very soon. The Union Minister of State also said that Andhra Pradesh is a pioneer in providing 725 e-governance services in rural areas. Government is committed for inclusive development through e- governance and providing several services to the citizens namely ration cards in public distribution system, passports, driving licenses, Voter ID’s by clicking a button through mobile phones. The Prime minister’s vision of Digital India can be achieved through e- governance. There is a need for use of technology into a 3D animation form in various languages and its application in medical, Higher and professional education enhances learning capabilities of the students. The implementation of AADHAR through 110 Crs in India is a unique project in the world. It Helps Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) and the beneficiaries directly get their financial benefits directly to their bank accounts.


    

    The Union Minister of State for Electronics & Information Technology, Law and Justice Shri P.P. Chaudhary gave away the awards to the winners in award ceremony. Out of 20 awards 09 are golden and 11 are silver. National Awards for e-Governance 2016-17 presented two types of awards for each category. Gold Award carries a certificate, citation and cash award of Rs. 2.00 Lakhs. Silver Award carries a certificate citation and cash award of Rs. 1.00 Lakh. The awards were presented in several Categories which includes Excellence in Government Process Re-engineering, Outstanding performance in Citizen-Centric Service Delivery, Innovative Use of Technology in e-Governance, Incremental Innovations in existing projects, Best District level initiative in citizen, Innovative use of GIS Technology in e-Governance, Innovative use of mobile technology in e-Governance, Sectoral Award, Innovative Use of ICT by Central Government PSUs, Outstanding e-Governance initiative by Academic and Research institutions, Use of ICT for Development by Non-Government Institutions.


    

    Minister of Information & PR, IT &Communications of Andhra Pradesh, Shri Palle Raghunatha Reddy; Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) Dr. Kambhampati Hari Babu; Secretary, Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, Government of India, Shri C. Viswanath; Additional Secretary, DARPG, Smt Usha Sharma, and other Senior Officers from the Government of India and various State/Union Territory Governments, technical experts, academicians and representatives of the industry and NGOs have participated in the event. The two day National conference on e- Governance concluded in Visakhapatnam this evening.

      
    
    
    (Release ID: 1480298) Visitor Counter : 13
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu