      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Drivers Training Institute will set up in Hyderabad soon - The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Labour & Employment Sri Bandaru Dattatraya
      Employment opportunities to 1 Cr. Indian youth by 2020 through Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY)
      
      Job Mela, 2017 inaugurated in secunderabad today

      Posted On: 21 JAN 2017 7:05PM by PIB Hyderabad

    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Labour & Employment Mr. Bandaru Dattatraya inaugurated the Two day “JOB MELA – 2017” at Keys High School, Secunderabad today. Ministry of Labour & Employment, Government of India has organised a job mela for the unemployed youth.


    While delivering inaugural address the Union Minister of state said that about 150 companies are conducting interviews in this job Mela for hiring eligible candidates. Youth should develop their Language and Technical skills through skill development programme. The Union Minister further said that the Union government set a target to create employment opportunities to the 1 Cr. Indian youth by 2020 through a skill development initiative scheme Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY). Union government has taken several initiatives and going to establish skill development centers across the country with an amount of Rs. 12, 000 Cr. Mr. Dattatreya opined that by the year 2020 all the countries in the world especially Germany, Japan, China, America and rest of the world will face the problem of Lack of man power. But India will be the only country with huge manpower especially which are in the age group of bellow 30 years. The Indian youth should be ready to grab the opportunities by improving their skills up to the international standards in all areas of the advanced technologies.


    The union minister of state also said that the Union Government has decided to open up 100 Driver Training Institutes across the country and one of the institutes will be setup in Hyderabad soon. He also said that the Prime Minister of India Mr. Narendra Modi recently inaugurated Skill Drivers’ Training Institute at Kanpur, Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) has plans to open one Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendra (PMKK) in each district of the country to create growth opportunities for the youth locally.


    

    The union minister further said that the Union government has already sanctioned Rs 170 crore for skill development centers in the Telangana state. More than 1.9 lakh Telangana youth are being trained. Another Rs. 322 crore will be sanctioned soon for the people. Mr. Dattatreya advised the job seekers that they should register on National career service Portal (NCS) for getting employment where a common platform both for employee and employer is. 3.67 Cr People and 15 lakh companies have already registered across the country.


    

    Mr. Dattatreya also said that to increase employment avenues for the job seekers, The Ministry of Labour and Employment is establishing Model Career Centers (MCC) across the country. There are 950 Employment exchanges are functioning in the country, out of these 100 centers will be developed as Model Career centers at the cost of Rs. 350 Cr. The model career center is a step above the employment exchanges across the nation which principally serves as registers of employed people. The candidates will be provided with counseling and assessment, soft skills training, technical up skilling and placement. These training programmes will help the candidates in securing right career choice as per their aptitudes. It will also provide an opportunity in bridging the skills requirement by industry with the workforce available. Shri Dattatreya said that 240 Job Melas were organized across the country so far. More than 86 thousand job aspirants were attended and 45,500 have secured placements. The Minister also said that these Job Melas will also be conducted in various parts of Telangana state.


    

    Former MLC Mr. K Dileep Kumar said that in this Job Mela Different companies conducting interviews for hiring eligible candidates. The companies will give offer letters on tomorrow. The youth who are possessing qualifications of academic and professional qualifications from SSC to B Tech from different corners of Telangana state companies from various sectors have participated in the Mela.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1480949) Visitor Counter : 85
    
    
      This link will take you to a webpage outside this websiteinteractive page. Click OK to continue.Click Cancel to stop : Job Mela 2017
      Read this release in: Telugu