      Ministry of Finance

      Union government has initiated three Directional Changes for Development of the Nation JAM (Jandhan Yojana – AADHAR- MOBILE), GST (Goods and services Tax), and Demonetization - The Union Minister for finance Shri. Arun Jaitley
      Center extends full support to Andhra Pradesh for its Development -
      
      Andhra Pradesh secured the first place in ease of doing business in the country
      Posted On: 27 JAN 2017 3:54PM by PIB Hyderabad


    The Union Minister for finance Shri. Arun Jaitley inaugurated the CII Partnership Summit- 2017 In Visakhapatnam today. While delivering the inaugural address Mr. Jaitley said that Center extends its support to Andhra Pradesh. According to the government Reports Andhra Pradesh secured the first place in ease of doing business in the country. Various promises made to Andhra Pradesh both in legislation and by Central government were fulfilled. The union government clears all the promises in step by step. Andhra Pradesh is going to be developed one of the best states in the Country with the Support of Union Government.


    Mr. Jaitley further said that Andhra Pradesh has largest costal line which enables the economic development. Once The Polavaram project is completed with central assistance Andhra Pradesh will become one of the Top states in Agriculture Sector. Andhra Pradesh state was divided in unequal way, but with the span of 2 and Half years the state has rose with full force and reached double digit DGP. AP will achieve the Growth rate 4-5 Percent ahead of National GDP with in Next Two Years. He further said that by comparing to other states in the country Andhra Pradesh has large agriculture production and huge Service Sector, large irrigation projects etc. The Union government has established several central institutions have been Setup in Andhra Pradesh with in record time.


    The Attitude of the People in the country has been changed. People are supporting the development of the country with open mindedness and proactive attitude towards the policies and reforms of the government. The States and Centre should work together for the development of the Nation. 90 percent of the Investments in the India are in infrastructure Development, rural Development and Transport Sector. The union government has taken initiatives for three Directional Changes for Development of the Nation which includes JAM (Jandhan Yojana – AADHAR- MOBILE), GST (Goods and services Tax), and Demonetization. Speaking on the GST the Union Minister said that to eliminate the multiple Taxes, to eliminate Taxes on Taxes and to eradicate the corruption, the union government has taken the GST. Now the country is moving towards formal economy. The Union Minster gave away the TIME India Awards to the winners.


    ****


    

    
    (Release ID: 1481278) Visitor Counter : 33
    
    

      Background release reference

      CII Partnership Summit 2017
      This link will take you to a webpage outside this websiteinteractive page. Click OK to continue.Click Cancel to stop : CII Partnership Summit 2017
      Read this release in: Telugu