      Ministry of Finance

      Bombay Customs Yacht Club, CBIC completes Landmark Mumbai-Goa-Mumbai Sailing Expedition
      Posted On: 30 APR 2019 6:44PM by PIB Mumbai


    The sailor-officers of Bombay Customs Yacht Club completed their sailing expedition Mumbai-Goa-Mumbai and reached Gateway of India today to a rousing welcome by the Chief Commissioners of Mumbai Customs & Mumbai GST Zone.


    They had set sail from the Apollo Harbour in Mumbai on April 23, in their yacht Jaycus III to undertake a sailing expedition to Goa and back. Through the journey, they encountered heavy winds enroute to Goa while the way back was against the wind and tidal forces. The team was led by Shri Kenneth D’ Souza, Assistant Commissioner, who has 26,000 nautical miles to his credit, and comprised of officers of Customs and GST. The BCYC Team arrived at the Dona Paula Jetty, Goa on the evening of April 25 and the team members addressed the Goa Chambers of Commerce & Industry for highlighting the various initiatives undertaken by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) towards Trade Facilitation, Ease of Doing Business, Green Customs Initiative, Marine Pollution, Swachh Bharat etc.


    India improved its ranking in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Index 2019 under the ‘Trading Across Borders’ category, taking a quantum leap from rank 146 in 2018 to rank 80 in 2019. The BCYC, through this sailing expedition, commemorated this achievement which has been made possible through various innovations such as pre-arrival processing, direct port delivery, Authorised Economic Operator programme etc. The advent of SWIFT, the single window clearance system, has led to a paradigm shift in reducing the procedural burden upon traders. As one of the premier border management agencies in the country, CBIC has continually strived to strike a balance between facilitating trade and guarding the borders while regularly improving the effectiveness of their measures based on feedback from trade.


    This landmark sailing expedition was conducted after a hiatus of nearly 15 years and aimed to encourage the spirit of excellence in sailing among young officers of CBIC who act guardians of our economic frontiers. Earlier expeditions by the BCYC have been as far as Muscat, Seychelles, Singapore etc. Jaycus III has also been used by an officer of the department, Shri Gulshan Rai, Padmashri and Arjun Awardee for circumnavigating the Globe.


    The following officers participated in the Expedition:


    Radheshyam Sharma, Addl. Commissioner, Mumbai GST Zone; Kennneth D’Souza, AC, Mumbai GST Zone; Rasaal Dwivedi, DC, Mumbai Customs Zone III; Siddhartha, AC, Mumbai GST Zone;Vivek Anand, AC, Mumbai GST Zone; Anil Choudhary, AC, Mumbai GST Zone; Harikesh Meena, PO, Mumbai Customs Zone III; Sandeep Bohay, PO, Mumbai Customs Zone III; Kiran Kumar, EO, Mumbai Customs Zone II; Prakash Chandra, PO, Mumbai Customs Zone III; Ajay Tilotia, PO, Mumbai Customs Zone III; and Raj Roushan, STA, Mumbai Customs Zone III.


    ***


    DJM/BG/DY

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571368) Visitor Counter : 459