      Vice President's Secretariat

      Yoga does not have a narrow religious connotation –Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu
      The Yoga Institute in Mumbai Celebrates Centenary

      Posted On: 24 DEC 2017 3:16PM by PIB Mumbai

    Yoga is a holistic approach to well being .It has physical ,emotional and spiritual dimensions stated Vice President of India Shri Venkaiah Naidu on the occasion of the inaugural ceremony of the centennial celebration of Yoga Institute in Mumbai which is one of the oldest schools of Yoga in the world. He said “Yoga connects physical health with mental equilibrium and emotional tranquillity, it promotes concentration and focused attention.”


    Shri Naidu informed the gathering that Sage Patanjali who compiled the first yoga philosophy defines yoga as an ability to control one’s own random thoughts and achieve a stillness ,a calmness that creates inner harmony. This philosophy is usually referred to as Ashtanga Yoga. He explained “the components of this yogic philosophy form the ethical principles that are so universal: Non –violence, truthfulness, non stealing, fidelity and not being avaricious.” The Vice President also said that yoga does not have a narrow religious connotation .


    The Vice President informed that the emphasis on physical exercises emerged around 11 TH century AD in a branch of yoga called Hatha yoga. He said ‘’these exercises have gained world wide importance and prominence over the years. We in India felt that this treasure house of knowledge should be shared with the entire world. We are so pleased that in 2014, the United Nations General Assembly has established 21 st June as international day of Yoga. This resolution has given a new impetus to the popularization of this ancient science”.


    Shri Venkaiah Naidu congratulated the Yoga Institute which has been rendering yeoman service by training instructors and providing excellent services to humanity .Yoga Institute’s contribution has indeed made Yoga a truly global phenomenon .


    ***


    PIB/APS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1514000) Visitor Counter : 920