      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      CBFC starts implementation of New Certificate Design
      Posted On: 09 JAN 2020 9:11PM by PIB Mumbai


    A pleasant surprise awaits you next time you enter cinema halls for watching a movie. The certificate that we all see at the start of movies in cinema theatres will have a new and modern look now.


    Be ready for a pleasant surprise, the next time you go to catch a movie at a cinema hall; the certificate that you see at the start of the movie will have a new and modern look. Like this.
    
    Details here➡https://t.co/XRfyhkDn3Z pic.twitter.com/IktIEA31mZ

    — PIB in Maharashtra (@PIBMumbai) January 9, 2020

    The Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) has started the implementation of its new certificate design in all its nine regional offices across India.


    Commenting on the occasion, Chairperson, CBFC, Shri Prasoon Joshi reiterated his belief that the certificate should be interactive and that it should reflect the modern digital world, leveraging the ease that technology has brought in the organization's work processes. He said that the new design underlines the positive, user-friendly and dynamic approach of the CBFC and its Board.


    Apart from being simpler yet attractive in nature, the new certificate design provides all the needed information about the film at the click of a button. As soon as the QR Code on the new Certificate is scanned using a smartphone, the user will be redirected to the CBFC website, where she can go through all basic certification data about the film. In addition, three new links will be displayed, which can be clicked for further information. These links are for cast/credits details, synopsis/plot of the Film, and trailer/promo of the Film. The trailer/promo starts playing on clicking on its link.


    The new certificate and the new vibrant logo of the organisation were showcased on August 31 last year, unveiled by Union Information & Broadcasting Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar, along with then I&B Secretary Shri Amit Khare and Chairperson, CBFC, Shri Joshi. The event held in Mumbai was attended by many renowned people from the film industry, including directors, producers, actors, and heads of film associations.


    ***


    DJM (Source - CBFC)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1598982) Visitor Counter : 315