      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Online Delegate Registration begins for MIFF-2020
      Posted On: 06 JAN 2020 5:33PM by PIB Mumbai


    Much awaited by cinephiles across India, the registration for delegates for the 16 th MIFF-2020 ( Mumbai International Film Festival for Documentary, Short Fiction and Animation films) , is now open. MIFF is scheduled to be held from 28 January to 03 February 2020 at Films Division complex, Pedder Road, Mumbai. Registration can be done through the website www.miff.in and online registration fee for delegate general category is Rs 300 only. Online registration for media and film students and print and electronic media persons is free of charges.


    The oldest and largest festival for non-feature films in South Asia, MIFF attracts film makers from all over the world . The popularity and the credibility of MIFF in India and abroad is deeply reflected through large number of entries received for its 16 th edition -729 entries in National and 144 in International competition from 24 countries underline the remarkable response the festival received in the current edition.


    Highlights


    The MIFF 2020 will have a number of attractions such as special package of films from European Union, Animation package from Russia, Finland and Bulgaria, Oscar nominated films such as Fauve ( Short fiction |16 min | 2017 | Canada ), Detainment ( Short fiction |30 min| 2018 | France ), Night at the garden ( Short fiction |7 min| 2017 | USA ).


    Similarly special films from North-East India, Best of various International Film Festivals and eminent film maker Satyajit Ray’s films such as Rabindranath Tagore (English/Bengali | 54 min | 1961 ), The inner Eye (English/Bengali | 20min | 1972 ) and iconic film Pikoo (English/Bengali | 26 min | 1980 ). With this, retrospectives of eminent film makers and student films from FTII / SRFTI / NID / FTIT/ Srishti / Craft School/ Whistlingwood, to name a few. Ireland will be the Country in Focus. Other highlights are Open Forum by IDPA, Editing workshop by B. Lenin, Drone Photography Workshop by Indian Institute of Drones, Master classes by acclaimed animator Michael Dudok De Wit (Poland), senior film academician Thomas Waugh (Canada) and by Jury Members.


    Added attractions are sculpture and Photo Exhibition-cum-demonstration


    Commemorating 150-year Birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and Centenary of Satyajit Ray. MIFF will pay homage to Mrinal Sen, Ram Mohan, Bhimsain Khurana, VG Samant, Vijaya Mule, Manjira Datta etc by screening their select works and through exhibition. Participation of young adults with intellectual challenges with their short films will be another attraction of the 16th MIFF.


    Ms. Smita Vats Sharma, Director MIFF added that “MIFF not only recognizes best talents in documentary, short fiction and animation films by bestowing Golden and Silver Conches and trophies, but it also gives away handsome cash awards in different competition categories. The most prestigious award in the 16th MIFF, the Best Film of the Festival carries a cash prize of 10 Lakh and Golden Conch while other awards carry cash awards varying from five to one Lakh along with Silver Conch, trophy and certificate. A special award for the best short film on Water Conservation and Climate Change has also been instituted in the current edition of the festival”.


    The 16 th MIFF will be inaugurated on 28th January, 2020 at the Nehru Centre Auditorium, Mumbai. The week-long fiesta of best documentary, short fiction and animation films from across the world will conclude on 3rd February at the same venue. The screenings and other sessions will be held at the Films Division theatres at Pedder Road, Mumbai.


    As part of MIFF 2020, screenings of specially curated films will be held at Kalina campus of University of Mumbai, Deviprasad Goenka Management College at Malad and Usha Pravin Gandhi College Campus at Vile Parle Apart from Films Division Complex to encourage and engage students at large to get involved in documentary film making and aesthetics.


    The coveted Dr. V Shantaram Lifetime Achievement Award that carries a cash component of 10 Lakh, trophy and a citation will be presented to a filmmaker for seminal contribution to the documentary films and its movement in India on the opening ceremony of MIFF on 28th January. Awards in various competition categories will be presented on 3rd February at the closing ceremony.


    For delegate registration and details log on to www.miff.in . The Festival Directorate can be approached at miffindia@gmail.com for any queries/suggestion related to the festival.


    *****


    Source: Films Division

    
    
    (Release ID: 1598545) Visitor Counter : 311
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Malayalam