      Ministry of Shipping

      2019 batch IAS Officer Trainees from Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration visit JNPT
      Posted On: 13 JAN 2020 4:57PM by PIB Mumbai


    Mumbai : 13 Jan 2020


    IAS officer Trainees of 2019 batch from Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration visited Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) to see the port facilities.


    The purpose of the visit was to expose the IAS officer trainees to the functioning of JNPort and their role in the economy/society. JNPT being the number one container Port in India is a significant contributor to socio-economic development of the State and the country, at large. The IAS Officers had an on-ground experiential tour of the Port-led-operations and terminals like JNPCT and BMCTPL to understand the scale of the business, and other initiatives undertaken by the Port. A detailed presentation on JNPT’s overall operations, infrastructure developments was given by senior JNPT officials.


    This visit also included an interactive session with Shri Sanjay Sethi, IAS, Chairman, JNPT about the role of JNPT in the economic scenario of the country and also its contribution towards the global markets. The discussion highlighted the steadfast growth trajectory of the Port, operational efficiency and various steps implemented to make the business sustainable, efficient, economical and convenient for the EXIM community.


    About JNPT:


    The Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) at Navi Mumbai is the biggest container handling Port in India accounting for around 52% of the total containerised cargo volume, across the major ports of India. Commissioned on 26th May 1989, in less than three decades of its operations, JNPT has transformed from a bulk-cargo terminal to become the premier container port in the country. Ranked 28th among the top 100 Container Ports in the world, JNPT is connected to over 200 ports in the world.


    Currently JNPT operates five container terminals: the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Container Terminal (JNPCT), the Nhava Sheva International Container Terminal (NSICT), the Gateway Terminals India Pvt. Ltd. (GTIPL), Nhava Sheva International Gateway Terminal (NSIGT) and the newly commissioned Bharat Mumbai Container Terminals Private Limited (BMCTPL). The Port also has a Shallow Water Berth for general cargo and another Liquid Cargo Terminal which is managed by BPCL-IOCL consortium.


    MC/PM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1599271) Visitor Counter : 221
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi