      Ministry of Education

      104 Students from Maharashtra to participate in Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020 with Prime Minister Narendra Modi
      
      The event to take place at 20th January, 2020 at 1100 hrs at Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi.

      Posted On: 17 JAN 2020 5:46PM by PIB Mumbai

    Mumbai: 17 Jan 2020


    Third edition of the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi's “Town Hall” interaction programme Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020 with a cross section of Students and Teachers from India and abroad to beat exam stress will be held on 20th January, 2020 at 11 a.m. at Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi.


    104 students from Maharashtra have been selected for participation in Pariksha Pe Charcha. They will be escorted by 13 teachers and they will reach Delhi by 18th January. Around 2000 total number of students will be participating from all over India in Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020. The list of students from Maharashtra who are participating in the programme Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020 is attached herewith .


    The event will be live telecast on Doordarshan (DD National, DD News, DD India)/on radio channels (All India Radio Medium Wave, All India Radio FM Channel.


    A lot of excitement and enthusiasm can be seen among the students, teachers and parents to not only participate in the unique event but also to receive valuable tips from the Prime Minister who is keen to ensure that the students take exams in a relaxed atmosphere and donot come under stress, to ensure better results in the long run.


    The HRD Ministry in partnership with MyGov launched a ‘short essay’ competition for students of classes 9 to 12 for the third edition of Prime Minister’s Interaction Programme with school students "ParikshaPeCharcha 2020” . The entries for the competition were invited online from 2 nd December, 2019 to 23 rd December, 2019 through www.mygov.in . More than 3 lakh children registered themselves out of which over 2.6 lakh students participated in the competition. Selected winners stand a chance to attend Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020 and interact with Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


    A painting and poster making competition has been held on exam related issues for CBSE & KVS school students, selected painting/posters will form part of exhibition before the Prime Minister during the Pariksha Pe Charcha 2020. 750 posters and paintings have been received, out of that a committee have selected best 50 paintings/posters. These will be displayed at the venue of the programme Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi. The Prime Minister will view this exhibition before the start of the programme.


    To make this programme more students centric first time students will moderate the one hour long program of Prime Minister. This year, four Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) schools students will compere the programme. These four students of KVS were shortlisted from the EK BHARAT SHRESTHA BHARAT Parv debate competition organised by the KVS last year. Among these four students two are girls and two are boys.


    Proposed format for this year: PPC2020 will have the same ‘Town Hall’ format as in previous two events, which is unique in itself wherein the Prime Minister interacts with school students at the Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi. This format was a huge success during the last 2 years. About 2000 school students will be participating in the programme PPC2020.


    Students from all over the country from class VI to XII are being requested to see/hear the broadcast.


    Backgrounder


    The First edition of Prime Minister’s Interaction Programme with school and college students "ParikshaPeCharcha 1.0" was held at Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi on 16th February, 2018. The second edition of the said Interaction Programme with school and college students "ParikshaPeCharcha 2.0” was also held at Talkatora Stadium, New Delhi on 29th January, 2019. Last year more than 8.5 Crore students from across the country viewed or heard the programme on DD/TV Channels/ Radio Channels. It was widely covered by print and electronic media. As per media reports, the interaction programme, became a raging hit on social media, and was the No. 1 trend conversation on “Pariksha Pe Charcha" which got more than 2.5 million impressions on twitter. It was widely viewed on youtube, Facebook Live, through webcasting, among others. Participation of Indian community abroad will also be encouraged, as done last year.


    RT/MC/PM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1599706) Visitor Counter : 283
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi