      Ministry of Textiles

      Textile Industry made Farmers part of their growth journey - Smriti Irani
      
      We solved two decade old problem of obligation of Hank yarn production - Smriti Irani

      Posted On: 16 JAN 2020 7:58PM by PIB Mumbai

    We are here to celebrate generations of textile industrialists and we can make even further progress by support from old good banking sector of India, said Hon’ble Union Minister of Textiles and Women and Child Development, Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani, while inaugurating the TEXPROCIL Award Function.


    Union Minister further said that "It will be ensured that cotton procured by Cotton Corporation of India is not kept lying which leads to problems for MSMEs. We have also solved two decade old problem of obligation of Hank yarn production."


    Union Minister suggested that intra-industry problems should be solved at Industry level only without involvement of Ministry. She expressed happiness that textile industry made farmers part of their growth journey.


    She further said "TEXPROCIL alongwith CCI and Skill development Ministry should pursue skilling of farmers for mechanised farming."


    TEXPROCIL, the first Export Promotion Council set up in India in the year 1954, and responsible for promoting exports of cotton textile celebrated the achievements of its member exporters at the Annual Awards function held at the ITC Hotel Grand here today. The Council is a one point stop for those who wish to source textiles from India. It has 3000 members who are engaged in the exports of cotton textiles including yarns, fabrics and home textiles including made ups.


    TEXPROCIL promotes exports through buyer seller meets, reverse buyer seller meets, participation in trade fairs, in depth market studies and by leading delegations to explore potential of global markets. TEXPROCIL also assists the Ministry of Textiles in formulating policies to promote textile exports.


    TEXPROCIL Award Function


    Every year the Council recognizes the role played by exporters by giving out awards in different categories. This year the Council distributed fifty eight awards in thirty two different categories , including the coveted Platinum trophy for the highest global exports. Recognising the role played by MSME units in India and given that the growth of MSMEs is one of the many thrust areas of the government, TEXPROCIL has also instituted an Award for the highest employment generated by MSME Units which went to Ken Enterprises Pvt Ltd and Gupta International.


    Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani, Hon’ble Minister of Textiles distributed the awards for excellence in exports of yarns, fabrics and home textiles as well as the newly instituted Awards for highest employment generated. Leading textile companies like Welspun Global Brands Ltd, Vardhman Textiles Ltd., Trident Ltd., Nahar Spinning, Arvind Ltd, Himatsingka Seide, BVM Overseas, Loyal Textiles Mills Ltd., Lahoti Overseas, Premier Mills, Indo Count Industries among others were some of the recipients of the awards.


    Dr K V Srinivasan, Chairman, in his opening remarks congratulated all the award winners for facing the challenges of a slow global demand and intense price pressures to emerge leaders in their respective line of businesses during the year 2018-19. He also thanked the government for taking the initiative in recognising the incidence of state and central tax levies and their impact on the competitiveness of exported textile goods.


    For the period 2018-19, the Council members exported US$ 11.5 billion worth of cotton textiles.


    Mr Manoj Patodia, Vice Chairman of TEXPROCIL proposed a Vote of Thanks.


    ***


    RT/MC/DR


    

    
    (Release ID: 1599627) Visitor Counter : 244