      Ministry of Finance

      Theme of the Economic Survey 2019-20 - Enable Markets, Promote 'Pro-Business' Policies and Strengthen 'Trust' in the Economy
      
      Ethical Wealth Creation Key to India Becoming a $ 5 Trillion Economy by 2025: Economic Survey 2019-20
      
      Posted On: 31 JAN 2020 3:36PM by PIB Mumbai


    With the vision of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas', Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi in his Independence Day 2019 speech highlighted that only when wealth is created will wealth be distributed. The Economic survey 2019-20, tabled by Union Minister for Finance And Corporate Affairs, Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman in the Parliament today, makes an attempt to craft a framework of policies that can foster wealth creation in India, which in turn, would set the economy firmly on an upward growth trajectory.


    The Survey revolves around the theme of enabling markets, promoting 'pro-business' policies and strengthening 'trust' in the economy. It maintains a balanced optimistic stance and makes an attempt to put to rest any skepticism about the benefits accruing from a market economy, both in economic thinking and policy-making.


    The Invisible Hand of the Market


    Elaborating on India's historical dominance on the global economy, the Survey lays stress on the importance of bringing an openness in the market that leads to wealth creation, in turn, boosting the economic activity through increased investment. According to the Survey, this 'Invisible Hand of the Market' supported by the hand of 'Trust' has led to such dominance in the past.


    The Survey's conceptualization of wealth creation, thus presents a combination of ancient Indian tradition with contemporary evidence and suggests use of FinTech for increasing efficiency of our Public Sector Banks. The Survey cover also conveys a synthesis of the 'Old' and 'New' with the lavender of the new Rs. 100 note coming together with the older one.


    ***


    MD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601300) Visitor Counter : 116