      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Ireland has been chosen as the Country of Focus at the 16th edition of Mumbai International Film Festival
      
      Ireland will extend all possible support to interested filmmakers who would like to shoot in Ireland - Deputy Consul General, Ireland, Alison Reilly

      Posted On: 29 JAN 2020 8:02PM by PIB Mumbai

    
    ‘Ireland has been chosen as Country of Focus in the 16 th edition of Mumbai International Film Festival. The special package will screen six documentaries and one Oscar-nominated animation film during the seven day festival’, Deputy Consul General, Ireland, Alison Reilly informed, at a press conference held at Films Division, Mumbai as part of MIFF 2020.


    She also mentioned that in Ireland, feature films are not as popular as documentaries and short films. Festivals like MIFF, which celebrate documentaries and short films, are a great platform for Irish film makers. It also provides quality audience and she expressed confidence that through MIFF, these documentaries will reach a larger audience.


    “While selecting movies for country-focus session the criteria were quality and diversity of subjects. The selection of Ireland in country focus will also enhance the cultural bond between India and Ireland. Ireland would like to collaborate with India in film making. Ireland will welcome and extend all possible support to any interested film maker who would like to shoot in Ireland”, she added.


    India has a bigger commercial film industry unlike Ireland, where feature films are more silent and meditative.


    The Bread Winner is an animation film produced by Hollywood actress Angelina Jolie. The story is based on conflict between Afghanistan and Taliban and is story of a 11-year-old girl who fights to make the ends meet. It is an inspiring and luminously animated tale about the power of stories to sustain hope and carry us through dark times


    Atlantic tells the fortunes of three small fishing communities - in Ireland, Norway and Newfoundland - bringing to the fore, three very intimate stories from the global resource debate. Gaza is a war film based on the conflict of the Gaza land and the survival of ordinary men. Between Land and Sea shows how Ireland has become a prime surfing location since about the year 2000, and how the sport has changed the sleepy town and provided new business opportunities for its inhabitants. The Farthest is a story of NASA’s Voyager, an epic of human achievement, personal drama and almost miraculous success. The Camino Voyage is the story of a crew including a Writer, two Musicians, an Artist and a Stonemason embark on the Camino by sea, in a traditional boat that they built themselves on an inspiring, and dangerous, 2,500 km modern day Celtic odyssey all the way from Ireland to Northern Spain. A Doctor's Sw ord uses animation and an orchestral score to tell the incredible story of how Aidan MacCarthy, a young doctor from a small fishing village on the west of Ireland survived some of the most harrowing episodes of World War II.


    ***


    DJM/DL/Radhika/PMK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601053) Visitor Counter : 122
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi