      Ministry of Finance

      The Government says that based on first Advance Estimates, India’s GDP growth for 2019-20 would be recorded at 5 per cent. This suggests an uptick in GDP growth in second half of 2019-20. The deceleration in GDP growth can be understood within the framework of a slowing cycle of growth. The financial sector has acted as a drag on the real sector. The Survey says that the uptick in second half of 2019-20 would be mainly due to ten positive factors like picking up of NIFTY for the first time this year, an upbeat secondary market, higher FDI flows, build-up of demand pressure, positive outlook for rural consumption, rebound of industrial activity, steady improvement in manufacturing, growth in merchandize exports, higher build-up of foreign exchange reserves and positive growth rate of GST revenue collection. The Survey points out that the year 2019 was a difficult year for the global economy with world output growth estimated to grow at its slowest pace of 2.9 per cent since the global
      Posted On: 31 JAN 2020 3:40PM by PIB Mumbai


    The Economic Survey advised that by integrating “Assemble in India for the world” into Make in India, India can raise its export market share to about 3.5 per cent by 2025 and 6 per cent by 2030, which is highly feasible. In the process, India would create about 4 crore well-paid jobs by 2025 and about 8 crore by 2030, says the Economic Survey.The Pre-Budget Survey says that the incremental value added in the economy from the target level of exports of network products, which is expected to equal $248 billion in 2025, would make up about one-quarter of the increase required for making India a $5 trillion economy by 2025.


    The Survey finds that China-India gap in world market share is almost fully drivenby the effect of specialization. On the other hand, the Survey says, India is clearly catching up with China in terms of diversification across productsand markets, the Survey notes. Overall, high diversification combined with low specialization implies that India is spreading its exports thinly over many products and partners, leading to its lacklustre performance compared to China, the Survey says. According to the Survey, the specialization effect can change over the years, due to changes in the quantity and/or the prices of exported commodities. The Survey suggests, if India wants to become a major exporter, it should specialize more in the areas of its comparative advantage and achieve significant quantity expansion.


    The Survey suggests that given India’s comparative advantage in labour-intensive activities and the imperative of creating employment for a growing labour force, there are two groups of industries that hold the greatest potential for export growth and job creation.First, there exists a significant unexploited export potential in India’s traditional unskilled labour-intensive industries such as textiles, clothing footwear and toys. Second, India has huge potential to emerge as a major hub for final assembly in a range of products, referred to as ‘network products’, says the Economic Survey.


    ***


    MD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601303) Visitor Counter : 64