      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      “We found ordinary men who are doing the extraordinary to change patriarchal attitudes” – Director Vibha Bakshi
      
      “I opted to make this film without dialogues, felt it could be more effective through visuals” – Director Nilesh Kunjir

      Posted On: 29 JAN 2020 7:10PM by PIB Mumbai

    Directors of ‘Son Rise’ and Shevanti, both MIFF films in the National Competition section, interacted with the media, at Films Division in Mumbai today.


    National Award Winner, Director (Son Rise) Vibha Bakshi and Director (Shevanti), Nilesh Kunjir met the media for a press conference post screening of their films at MIFF today.
    “How does an ordinary farmer defy society by marrying a gang-rape survivor and work towards getting her justice? Haryana is India's seat of patriarchy but this is also where heroes who support women are born," said Vibha Bakshi, speaking about her experience of shooting in Haryana. “We found ordinary men who are doing the extraordinary to change patriarchal attitudes; our heroes - all from Haryana - are an example for our men. Hope that our film inspires men to stand united with women in addressing gender issues.”


    Son Rise, a non-feature documentary, based in rural Haryana, shows how ordinary men can do extraordinary things. The film won a National Award for Best Non-Feature and Best Editing in Non-Feature. "The editing took place over a period of 8 months and Hemanti Sarkar is the best editor in the country," she added.


    Shevanti is a short film based on the life of a married couple and how relationships evolve over time. The film is based on a short story written by the Marathi writer, Chandrashekhar Gokhale. “I chose to make this film because I loved the storyline and opted to make this film without dialogues. I felt it could be more effective through visuals” said Director, Nilesh Kunjir. The film has been officially selected for Asian Film Festival. Upon being asked how he is able to depict female characters so well in his writings, Chandrasekhar Gokhale said, "I give all credits to my mother who was very expressive, which taught me to understand a woman’s emotions.”


    ***


    DJM/DL

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601044) Visitor Counter : 222
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi