      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Bhoomi Rashi Portal
      Posted On: 03 JAN 2019 5:03PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Road Transport & Highways has recently launched the BhoomiRashi portal. In the past years, acquisition of land for the purpose of National Highway projects, payment of compensation to the land owners etc were done manually by physical movement of documents in the form of files. However, in that procedure some constraints viz. delay in issuing notification, errors in the land/area details etc were being faced. In order to overcome these issues, to cut short delays and avoid parking of public funds with the Competent Authority for Land Acquisition (CALA), Ministry has developed a web based Utility –BhoomiRashi to fully digitize and automate the entire process of land acquisition.


    Comprehensive details including names of 711 districts and 6,55,297 villages have been built into the system based on the population Census-2011, duly updated on the basis of revenue records of all the State Governments. The system helps in expediting the process by providing simultaneous Hindi translation and has been linked to the e-gazette for expeditious publication.


    With the operation of this Portal, the land acquisition process has been expedited significantly, become error-free and more transparent and the notifications at every stage are being processed on real time basis. While the physical processing of the cases usually took considerable time, ranging from weeks to even months, and there were errors whose rectification caused further delays, the processing time using this portal has been reduced to less than two weeks in a majority of cases and even a few days in some cases.


    The Utility has been made more user friendly by adding the feature of SMS services to the beneficiaries so as to enhance timeliness in dissemination of information, along with transparency, and also achieve the objective of real time tracking of activities and generation of reports, relating to land acquisition. It is, therefore, an example of resounding success of the Ministry.


    Shri Mansukh L Mandaviya, MoS, Road Transport & Highways gave this information in reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NP/MS/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558477) Visitor Counter : 1950