      Ministry of Culture

      Sanskriti Kumbh, a 29 days Cultural extravaganza begins at Kumbh Mela Area, Prayagraj today
      Posted On: 10 JAN 2019 6:21PM by PIB Delhi


    Sanskriti Kumbh, a 29 days cultural extravaganza was today inaugurated by the Governor of Uttar Pradesh, Shri Ram Naik in the presence of the Union Minister of state for Culture (I/C) Dr. Mahesh Sharma in Kumbh Mela area, Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh. Senior officials of the Ministry of Culture and artists from all over the country were also present during the opening ceremony.


    The biggest cultural festival named Sanskriti Kumbh is celebrating the conglomeration of Spiritual Consciousness and Cultural Heritage of India in the main premises of Kumbh Mela area in Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh. The Ministry of Culture, Govt. of India is organizing Sanskriti Kumbh with intent to showcase the rich Cultural Heritage of India in all its rich and varied dimensions viz. Performing Arts- Folk, Tribal and Classical art forms, Handicrafts, Cuisines, Exhibitions etc. all in one place.


    Addressing the opening ceremony, the Governor, Shri Ram Naik said " Kumbh is one of the oldest tradition in the world which showcases the unity in diversity of our country. I am honoured to restore the glory of our tradition during this Kumbh. Sanskriti Kumbh is celebrating the spirit of India’s glorious culture".


    The Union Culture Minister, Dr. Mahesh Sharma said "Kumbh is a conglomeration of spiritual consciousness and Cultural Heritage where we are committed to showcase India’s cultural vibrancy. We are also showcasing here India’s all rich tradition as visualised by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. " He also congratulated all the officials and the entire team of Ministry of Culture for organizing such a magnificent event which will give a chance to people to experience all the colours of Indian Culture at one place.


    A 30 minutes choreographed performance by 250 artists of all the Zonal Cultural Centres was presented in the inaugural ceremony today which gave a gist of the grandeur of the coming 29 days.


    Kumbh Mela is one of the oldest and largest congregation in the world. Kumbh Mela is attended by millions of people irrespective of all caste, creed, sex and region. The significance of Kumbh Mela has been enhanced at the Global level as the UNESCO has inscribed Kumbh Mela on the list of Intangible Cultural heritage for humanity in 2017. This time Kumbh is being organized in the city of Prayagraj which is located at the confluence of the Ganges, the Yamuna and Mystic river of Saraswati in Uttar Pradesh. With a view to promote and reconnect the people especially the youth with our magnificent and multifaceted culture along with the opulence and its historical significance. The Unity in Diversity characteristic of India also reaches its prime level with such a glorious event. In order to promote this event digitally , a massive exercise in the online and social media sphere is being undertaken . Also live footage of Sanskriti Kumbh will be aired on Ministry's Youtube Channel and large number of LED screens in the Kumbh Mela Premises .


    In the Sanskriti Kumbh, an opulent Main Stage near Arail Ghat , Sector 19 is set up in Mela premises where Folk Dance and Singing performances by renowned Artists is taking place in two phases i.e 2pm to 5pm and 6pm to 9pm daily. The cultural performances will be continued for 29 days i.e upto 23rd February,2019 ( excluding Holy Bath days) . The cultural performances includes the legacy of India's Spiritual and Mythological practices. Such dance performances will showcase the inclination of visitors towards devotion and Kumbh tradition. The folk dances, representing states from EAST WEST NORTH SOUTH India, will showcase the spirit of Unity in Diversity that is Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat. The artists representing 7 Zonal Cultural Centres have been enjoined upon the task of performing at main stage as well as taking it to different locations of Kumbh Mela .


    Sanskriti Kumbh is deemed to showcase all aspects of Indian Culture in different areas designated for the same. Accordingly, a Kalagram is also organized in which pavilions are set up by all the Zonal Cultural Centres as well as Academies , Museum and BTI . In this Kalagram Master craftsmen are displaying and selling their rare handicrafts. Also, delectable Traditional Cuisines prepared by Master chefs from various states is adding interest value with the unparallel experience to the visitors of their culinary expertise. IGNCA set up their Vedic exhibition gallery and Sahitya Akademi is displaying and selling books on various aspects of Indian Culture. Also, Allahabad Museum set up an exhibition on Mahakumbh, CIHCHS, Dahung exhibiting Sand Mandala and Lalit Kala Akademi organising Live Portrait Symposium. In the same premises the Classical Dance , singing and musical performances by artists of National and International stature promises to give a gist of varied musical tradition of India. These performances are being coordinated by Sangeet Natak Akademi and Spic Macay till end of the festival i.e 4th March,2019.


    Under the banner of Sanskriti Kumbh , Rashtriya Shilp Mela is being organized in the premises of NCZCC where Shilp Haats are set up to display handicrafts and live demonstration of the skill by craftsmen.


    Apart from above mentioned activities , the day long activities of traditional performances of fringe folk art like Behroopiya, Baazigar, Kachhi Ghodi is taking place in the designated places. These artists are also known as Maidani Kalakar as they perform in open area without any stage.


    The brief schedule of Sanskriti kumbh is as follows:

                                                                                                                                                                                            
S.No.  CULTURAL PERFORMANCES                                           DATE/ SCHEDULE                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                            
1      Tribal , folk and traditional dance performances at main stage  10th January to 23rd February,2019 ( excluding holy bath days 14th to 16th Jan, 2nd to 11th Feb and 17th to 19th Feb)
                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                            
2      Classical performances by renowned artists                      10th January to 4th March,2019 (excluding holy bath days 14th to 16th Jan, 2nd to 11th Feb and 17th to 19th Feb)     
                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                            
3      Kalagram and Rashtriya Shilp Mela                               10th January to 4th March,2019                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                            

    *****


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559418) Visitor Counter : 1114