      Ministry of Culture

      President Shri Ramnath Kovind to visit Prayagraj Kumbh Mela tomorrow
      
      Kumbh Mela providing a platform for ‘Swachh Bharat’ Awareness Generation

      Posted On: 16 JAN 2019 6:40PM by PIB Delhi

    President Sri Ramnath Kovind will be visiting Prayagraj Kumbh Mela tomorrow. During his visit, he will inaugurate a two days Gandhian Resurgence Summit at the camp of Parmarth Niketan Ashram at Arail side of Mela. Before addressing the Summit, Shri Kovind will perform Puja at Sangam and meet the saints and seers camping in the Mela. He will also unveil the statue of Maharshi Bharadwaj. Uttar Pradesh Governor, Shri Ram Naik; Chief Minister, Shri Yogi Adityanath and Deputy Chief Minister, Shri Keshav Prasad Maurya will also attend the function.


    Prayagraj Kumbh Mela is not only witnessing religious and spiritual activities but also generating awareness on cleanliness /swachhta. Swachh Bharat Mission (Rural) has set up a high tech exhibition in Sector 6 of the Mela at Prayagraj. It contains digital platforms on themes of Mahatma Gandhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. It also has success stories on cleanliness. Visitors have shown keen interest in the message on cleanliness at the puppet shows organised. A number of visitors have taken Swachhta pledge for their contribution towards a clean environment. Messages and films are being continuously played on a big screen in the exhibition attracting the visitors. The exhibition will continue all through the mela till March 4 th .Guides have also been engaged to guide the visitors in traditional Indian attire.


    Several dignitaries visited the exhibition including Union Minister for Drinking Water and Sanitation Ms Uma Bharati and Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Shri Keshav Prasad Maurya.


    *****


    SS(PIB Camp Prayagraj Kumbh)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560200) Visitor Counter : 388
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Bengali