      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Shri Mansukh Mandaviya completes 3rd Day of Pad Yatra in Gujarat
      
      The Pad Yatra aims at propagating Gandhian Values
      
      Posted On: 18 JAN 2019 5:58PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Mansukh Mandaviya, Union Minister of State for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping, Chemicals & Fertilizers completed the third day of his 150 km Pad Yatra today. The Yatra began at Mayadhar in Bhavnagar district of Gujarat early this morning and passing through Pingari, Lakhawada , Anida, Mandavda and Bhutiya it will reach Shetrunji Dam tonight.


    Shri Mandaviya has undertaken a 150 km long Pad Yatra involving 150 Pad Yatris to mark the 150 th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The seven day yatra began on 16 th of January from Gram Daxinamurti Institute, Manar in the Talaja Taluk of Bhavnagar district of Gujarat and will end on 22 nd January at Sanosara in Shihor Taluk of the same district. The Pad Yatra has been undertaken to spread Gandhiji’s message of Basic Education.


    Shri Mandaviya and other padyatris joined the local residents for ‘Prabhat Pheri’ and to clean the village. After the cleanliness program, the PadYatra for the third day started from Mayadhar. When this PadYatra, spreading Gandhian thoughts, values and message of basic education, reached at Pingri, people of the village welcomed them with a great procession.


    The PadYatra then proceeded from Pingri to Lakdhwada and from Ladkhwada to Anida. In Anida, a national award winneing author Shri Ram Mori addressed the Fifth Mahavrat Sabha on the topic “Swad-Tyag”. Well known television producers and actors also joined the Yatra today.


    The PadYatra will reach Shetrunji dam today night and the Sixth Mahavrat Sabha will commence from there. Shri Atulbhai Pandya, director of Gandhi Ashram , Sabarmati will address the gathering on the topic “Abhay”. This will be followed by cultural programme and puppet shows.


    NP/


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560534) Visitor Counter : 391