      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      Uma Bharti reviews sanitation arrangements at Kumbh; addresses Swachhagrahi Sammelan
      Posted On: 18 JAN 2019 10:28AM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of Drinking Water and Sanitation, Sushree Uma Bharti, reviewed the interventions undertaken for better sanitation and for awareness generation around Swachh Bharat at the ongoing Kumbh Mela at Prayagraj. 1500 swachhagrahis from different districts of Uttar Pradesh have been deployed at the Mela to ensure cleanliness. Swachhagrahis have been assigned the work to monitor toilet cleanliness and awareness. The monitoring will be done on an ICT app through which the cleanliness status will be recorded. The Minister distributed a cleanliness kit to 50 Swachhagrahis and also inaugurated an exhibition based on the concept of “Swachh Village”.


    The Minister addressed a specially convened Swachhagrahi Sammelan at the Mela and appreciated the efforts made by the Mela and district authorities for making the Kumbh Mela clean and safe. She complimented the Government of Uttar Pradesh for boosting their sanitation coverage from 48% to 100% in the last two years and the State is now focusing on ODF-plus. She also lauded the contribution of women in sanitation. She appreciated the outstanding work done by the Swachhagrahis at the grassroots, making the Swachh Bharat Mission (Grameen) a success.


    Deputy Chief Minister, Uttar Pradesh, Shri Keshav Prasad Maurya, who joined the Minister at the event, appreciated the work done by the Swachhagrahis, and said that sanitation and cleanliness should be everyone business.


    Shri Suresh Khanna, Cabinet Minister for Urban Development, Government of Uttar Pradesh, also appreciated the efforts made by Swachhagrahis towards making the mela a Swachh Mela.


    1.22 lakh public toilets and 20,000 dustbins have been installed at the Kumbh Mela this year.


    *****


    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560426) Visitor Counter : 601
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi