      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      President to confer Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar 2019 at Rashtrapati Bhawan tomorrow
      Posted On: 21 JAN 2019 4:00PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind will confer the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Puraskar 2019 at Rashtrapati Bhawan tomorrow. The awards will be given to 26 shortlisted awardees including one joint award for National Child Award (now renamed as Bal Shakti Puraskar) under the category of innovation, scholastic, sports, arts & culture, social service and bravery. A total of 783 applications were received for the Baal Shakti Puruskar this year. 2 individuals and 3 institutions will also be awarded under National Child Welfare Awards category (now renamed as BalKalyanPuraskar). The names of awardess were finalized by the National Selection Committee under the Chairpersonship of WCD Minister, Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi.


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India has introduced a revamped award scheme under the name of “Pradhan Mantri National Children Awards”. These awards will be given in two main categories. Bravery Awards have also been added to these awards now. The categories are as follows:


    1) Bal Shakti Puraskar ( erstwhile known as National Child Award )


    2) Bal Kalyan Puraskar( erstwhile known as National Child Welfare Award ).


    1) Bal Shakti Puraskar shall be given in the following fields:

     1. Innovation
     2. Social Service
     3. Scholastic
     4. Sports
     5. Art & Culture
     6. Bravery

    The award carries a medal, a cash prize of Rs. 1,00,000/-, book vouchers worth Rs. 10,000/-, a certificate and a citation.


    2) Bal Kalyan Puraskar shall be given in the following categories:-


    a. Individual


    b. Institution


    The award for individual consists of a cash prize of Rs. 1, 00,000/- (one lakh), a medal, a citation and a certificate to each awardee.


    The award for institution consists of a prize of Rs. 5,00,000/- each and a medal, a citation and a certificate.


    The maximum number of awards would be 3(three) for National Child Welfare Award( Individual and Institution both)


    In order to popularize the scheme amongst general public and make it more genial, this Ministry has launched an award portal (i.e www.nca-wcd.nic.in) developed by NIC on 01.08.2018 for accepting the online applications. A Child who is an Indian Citizen and residing in India can apply for National Child Award by registering on the web portal, filling the requisite information and attaching the relevant documents. In order to draw wide response from public, any citizen of India can nominate any child who has achieved excellence in any of the field. Individuals who are citizen of India and have made an outstanding contribution for the cause of children in the field of Child Development, Child Protection and Child Welfare for not less than 7 years and have a positive impact on the lives of children and Institutions who have done exceptional work for the cause of children in any field of Child Welfare for 10 years can apply for the National Child Welfare Award.


    The logo for the award has been crowdsourced through a social media based competition. The awards are being hosted prior to 26 th January so as to ensure that children get to participate in the Republic Day Parade.


    *****


    NB/PS/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560741) Visitor Counter : 2625
    
    
    
    
    

6.