      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      AarogyaSetu: Mobile APP & Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS)
      Now it is mandatory to travel on spl trains: Indian Railways

      Posted On: 12 MAY 2020 3:49PM by PIB Hyderabad

    The Government of India launched a mobile app developed in public-private partnership to bring the people of India together in a resolute fight against COVID-19.
    The App, called ‘AarogyaSetu’ joins Digital India for the health and well-being of every Indian. It will enable people to assess themselves the risk for their catching the Corona Virus infection. It will calculate this based on their interaction with others, using cutting edge Bluetooth technology, algorithms and artificial intelligence.
    Once installed in a smart phone through an easy and user-friendly process, the app detects other devices with AarogyaSetu installed that come in the proximity of that phone. The app can then calculate the risk of infection based on sophisticated parameters if any of these contacts is testedpositive.
    The App will help the Government take necessary timely steps for assessing risk of spread of COVID-19 infection, and ensuring isolation where required.


    The App’s design ensures privacy-first. The personal data collected by the App is encrypted using state-of-the-art technology and stays secure on the phone till it is needed for facilitating medical intervention.


    Available in 11 languages, the App is ready for pan-India use from day-1 and has highly scalable architecture.


    This app is a unique example of the nation’s young talent coming together and pooling resources and efforts to respond to a global crisis. It is at once a bridge between public and private sectors, digital technology and health services delivery and the potential of young India with a disease-free and healthy future of the nation.


    For including the citizens with feature phones and landline under the protection of Aarogya Setu, the “Aarogya Setu Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS)” has been implemented. This service is available across the country. This is a toll-free service, where citizens are asked to give a missed call to the number 1921 and they will get a call back requesting for inputs regarding their health.


    The Indian Railways, “advised” the passengers availing the special trains to install the government’s Aarogya Setu mobile application, has now made it “mandatory” to do so.


    
    मैंसुरक्षित।हमसुरक्षित।भारतसुरक्षित।


    *** *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1623265) Visitor Counter : 28
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu