      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      DARPG to observe ‘Swachhata Pakhwada’ from 16th May
      Posted On: 15 MAY 2018 6:13PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, will observe ‘SwachhataPakhwada’ at its premises from May 16 to 31, 2018. Smt. MeenakshiLekhi, MP (Lok Sabha), New Delhi and Member, Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice will attend the launch of SwachhataAbhiyan at Sardar Patel Bhawantomorrow on 16.05.2018 to renew and reinforce the concept of cleanliness among the officers and staff of the Department.


    The Department has prepared achronological plan of activities during the ‘SwachhataPakhwada’. The activities include recording, reviewing and weeding out of old records, conducting auction of old and obsolete items, cleaning of fans, furniture and other electronic items.It is also planned to clean office premises, canteens, toilets, and surrounding areas adjacent to the building during the Pakhwada. Other activities also include acquisition of potted plants to create an eco- friendly environment. A Poster(s)/Slogan Competition will also be organised on the theme of Swachh Bharat on the occasion. The best workstation will also be declared in the Department and an appreciation certificate will be awarded to the winner.


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh and a senior officer from M/o Drinking Water & Sanitation are scheduled to visit the office premises on May 29, 2018to inspect the implementation of the Swachhata Action Plan.


    The Department has implemented 100% e-office and digitised allrecords. The physical files which were not required to be retained have been removed. The Department has replaced plastic bottles by glass bottles and also arranged potted plants to create eco-friendly environment.


    *********


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1532184) Visitor Counter : 223
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil