      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh visits DARPG premises during observation of Swachhata Pakhwada
      Posted On: 29 MAY 2018 6:49PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh visited the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) premises here today during observation of ‘Swachhata Pakhwada’. The DARPG is observing Swachhata Pakhwada at its premises from May 16 to 31, 2018.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr Jitendra Singh said that observation of Swachhata Pakhwada is a reiteration of our commitment to cleanliness. He said that cleanliness & hygiene needs to be adopted in one’s regular practice and be a part of our attitude and culture. This is also essential for a healthy mind and overall health, he added. He also stressed upon periodic renovation work and addressing the wear and tear of the premises. The Minister said that it has now become a mass campaign under leadership of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. The Minister said that since the Swachhta Action Plan was initiated, more than 7 crore toilets have been built across the country under this Mission.


    The Minister also interacted with the staff of the Department and sought their suggestions on observation of Swachhata Pakhwada. During the Swachhata Pakhwada, the Department carried out time-bound activities viz. recording, reviewing and weeding out of old records, initiating action for auction of old and obsolete items, cleaning of fans, furniture and other electronic items. Office premises, canteen, toilets, and surrounding areas adjacent to the building have been cleaned and potted plants have been put to create an eco-friendly environment. A poster/slogan competition was organised on the theme of Swachh Bharat. An appreciation certificate will be awarded for the best workstation in the Department. The Department has implemented 100% e-office. All records have been digitized and the physical files, which were not required to be retained, have been removed. The Department has replaced plastic bottles by glass bottles. The gents toilet has been renovated. The DARPG spent the entire Rs.6 lakhs sum allocated to it during 2017-18. The allocation has been enhanced to Rs.10 lakhs during the current financial year.


    Earlier, Smt. Meenakshi Lekhi, MP (Lok Sabha), New Delhi and Member, Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice administered the Swachhta Pledge to the officers and staff of the Department on the occasion of launch of Swachhata Pakhwada on 16.05.2018.


    ***


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1533808) Visitor Counter : 127
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu