      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      When research and farmers’ hard work come together, India will become self-reliant in the food sector: Union Agriculture Minister Shri Narendra Singh Tomar
      Gujarat Chief Minister Shri Vijay Rupani and Union Minister Shri Narendra Singh Tomar inaugurates 9th Agri Asia Exhibition and Conference along with 7th Dairy Livestock and Poultry Expo in Gandhinagar, Gujarat

      Posted On: 06 SEP 2019 5:05PM by PIB Ahmedabad

    Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare, Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Shri Narendra Singh Tomar said that PM Narendra Modi has added ‘Jay Anusandhan’ in the slogan ‘Jay Jawan, Jay Kisan, Jay Vigyan’. Our agriculture scientists are working hard in this direction. When research in Agriculture sector and Farmers' hard work come together, it will lead India to become self-reliant in the food sector, he added. The Minister was addressing after inaugurating 9th Agri Asia Exhibition and Conference along with 7th Dairy Livestock and Poultry Expo in Gandhinagar today.


    Emphasizing on doubling the farmers' income, Shri Tomar said we should switch to income centric thinking from production centric thinking. We should also promote animal husbandry, honey farming and gardening along with traditional farming. He said Central and State governments along with cooperative sector should come on a table to brainstorm the ideas for increasing Farmers' income.


    Praising Gujarat's efforts, the Minister said that Gujarat is a model for the country in the field of agriculture and cooperative sector. He said Gujarat has not only implemented Central schemes fully but also started new schemes for the benefit of the agriculture sector.


    Informing about Government’s initiatives, Shri Tomar said that Modi Government almost doubled the budget of Agriculture Ministry compared to previous UPA government. He informed the farmers about Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sanman Nidhi Yojana (PM-KISAN) and Pradhan Mantri Kisan Maan Dhan Yojana and asked them to get benefit of it.


    Gujarat Chief Minister Shri Vijay Rupani expressed happiness over the water level in Sardar Sarovar dam. He said the dam will reach its highest level very soon and the water can be used for irrigation. He appealed to farmers for using a drip irrigation system and avail Government subsidy to install it.


    The exhibition will remain open till 8th September. Gujarat's Ministers Shri Jaydrathsinhji Parmar, Shri Ishwarsinh Patel, Shri Bachubhai Khabad along with other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    DK/J.Khunt


    

    
    (Release ID: 1584358) Visitor Counter : 120
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati