      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Union Sports Minister Shri Kiren Rijiju inaugurates Sanskardham Sports University in the presence of Gujarat Chief Minister Shri Vijay Rupani
      
      Gujarat Chief Minister Shri Vijay Rupani kicks off Khel MahaKumbh 2019

      Posted On: 08 SEP 2019 9:10PM by PIB Ahmedabad

    Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports (I/C) and Minority Affairs Shri Kiren Rijiju inaugurated Sanskardham Sports University at Ahmedabad today in presence of Governor of Uttar Pradesh Smt. Anandiben Patel and Gujarat Chief Minister Shri Vijay Rupani. Gujarat Khel MahaKumbh 2019 was also kicked off and Khel Pratibha Award were conferred to the talented sportspersons of Gujarat on the occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Kiren Rijiju said that fitness will play a key role in building new India. “New India will not be satisfied by getting one or two medals in the international competitions. India is ready to shine on a global platform. I can see that India is emerging as a 'MahaShakti' in the field of sports”, The minister added.


    Appreciating the efforts taken by Gujarat Government in the field of sports the Minister said that he had not seen such massive sports infrastructure in any other state than Gujarat. He said that Sanskardham Sports University and Gujarat can be a role model for the other states and the Union Government will also learn from the initiatives of Gujarat government. The Minister said that Central Government is planning to hold a conference of states’ sports ministers in Kevadiya Colony.


    The Minister appealed to the people to join fit India movement launched by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. He said that Fit India is not the campaign of Sports Ministry alone. To remain fit is not the requirement of others but it is necessary for our self to be fit. Fit body is important for fit mind and without fit citizens fit India cannot be created, he added. The Minister said that sports unite the Nation and that is why each person should play at least one game.


    Gujarat Chief Minister Shri Vijay Rupani said fitness should not remain as a word but it should be a part of our daily life. He showed confidence that Gujarat will be leading state in Prime Minister’s Fit India campaign.


    After the inauguration ceremony a panel discussion was held on the subject contribution of fitness in building new India. Shri Kiren Rijiju, Boxer MC Mary Kom, Chess Grandmaster Shri Vishwanath Anand, Badminton National Chief Coach Shri Pullela Gopichand, Para Olympian Ms. Deepa Malik, Shooting champion Shri Gagan Narang and Rifle shooter Ms. Elavenil Valarivan shared their experiences of fitness with students of Sanskardham.


    When asking about his personal Mantra for fitness, Shri Rijiju said anybody can be fit if He or She maintains certain discipline in life. The minister stressed on physical fitness and asked everybody to join the Fit India Movement.


    Ms. Deepa Malik said that fitness had changed her identity and helped her to explore her ability from the disability.


    Smt. Mary Kom said that being a women boxer her journey was full of challenges. She said that if she can overcome the odds, anyone can do it. She challenged the youngsters to work hard and keep the Indian flag high.


    P. Gopichand said India has marched ahead in numerical and alphabetical literacy but it has lagged when it comes to physical literacy. Stressing upon the need of the physical fitness he said it is very important that each kid can explore his or her physical ability to the fullest in our country.


    Answering the question about the importance of fitness in a game like chess Shri Vishwanathan Anand said the chess per se doesn’t need physical fitness but it is very important for mental stress relief.


    Shooter Shri Gagan Narang and Ms. Elavenil Valarivan said that mental fitness is very much important for the games like shooting and it can’t be achieved without being physically fit.


    DK/J.Khunt

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584503) Visitor Counter : 172
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati