      Ministry of Shipping

      Lothal to get Modern Maritime Heritage Complex and Maritime Park to be set up at Gift City: Union Minister Shri Mansukh Mandaviya
      
      Water transport is the best way to reduce transportation cost: Shri Mandaviya

      Posted On: 21 SEP 2019 5:03PM by PIB Ahmedabad

    Union Minister of Shipping (I/C) and Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers Shri Mansukh Mandaviya today made an announcementto set up modern maritime heritage complex at Lothal in Gujarat. Mr Mandaviya said that Lothal was an important port in Harappan culture. He added that the maritime sector is not new to India and therefore, to put its history in front of the country and the world, a heritage complex will be set up at an estimated cost of around Rs. 500 crore in Lothal which will feature maritime history, relevant replicas, evidences, maritime researches and resources. The Union Minister was addressing a conference on "Ports and allied sectors in the state vis-a-vis India and the world: emerging opportunities and challenges”organized at Gujarat University today.


    Union Minister Shri Mandaviya also announced the establishment of a Maritime Park at Gift City in Gandhinagar. He saidthat shipbuilding and ship breaking industry is flourishing in Gujarat. Also, there are several important ports located in the state, thereforethe establishment of such a maritime park at Gift City will promote the maritime sector.


    Addressing students of Maritime Management, he said that transportation cost in India is 14 percent whereas it is average 9 percent in the world. If India wants to survive in competition, then it becomes necessary to reduce transportation costs. In India, it costs three rupees to transport one tonne of goods for one kilometre by road, two rupees by railway and 90 paisaby waterways. Therefore, developing and adopting a water transport system is essential if the transportation cost is to be reduced. So there is a wide range of opportunities in this sector and the future is very bright in the field of Maritime Management,he added.


    Talking about the prospects of employment in the maritime sector, Union Minister said that his aim is to create 5 lakh new jobs in the shipping sector over the next five years. For this, he brought about 360 degree transformation in the examination conducted by the Director General of Shipping, which has improved the result of the examination and the number of seafarers has increased from 94,000 in 2014 to 2,14,000 today.


    Speaking about the employment opportunities in the cruise tourism sector, the minister said that his ministry is planning to set up cruise terminals at five destinations in Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Visakhapatnam and Goa. This will create huge employment in this sector too. He further added that Tuticorin and Cochin are being developed as transhipment hubs.


    Union Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that the government is moving towards making India a hub for barge construction. Citing an example of the Philippines, he said that this small country ranks first in the tug boat manufacturing sector. India, too, could be number one in the medium-size ship building. He said that the Centre of Excellence has been set up at IIT Chennai, which is conducting research on dredging in the sea.


    On the basic education system, which was an invaluable gift given by Mahatma Gandhi to this country, Shri Mandaviya said that the foundation of basic education lies in collective life, self-reliance and inclusive development of the child. By adopting this education system, the country can become a ‘world guru’ again. He stated that 22 points have been prepared by the United Nations regarding the modern education curriculum; In 18 of these points, the basic education system provided by Gandhiji is reflected.


    After the inauguration ceremony, Union Minister Shri Mansukh Mandaviya had discussions with businessmen associated with the shipping industry. On this occasion, ViceChancellor of Gujarat University, Dr. Himanshu Pandya, Pro-Vice Chancellor Dr.JagadishBhavsar, Trade and Investment Commissioner, Embassy of Netherlands Shri Amlan Bora, and other dignitaries were present.


    J.Khunt

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585766) Visitor Counter : 93
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati