      Ministry of Rural Development

      MGNREGS Water Conservation Thrust – transforming lives and livelihoods
      Posted On: 06 JUN 2018 4:55PM by PIB Delhi


    Durable Water Conservation assets have been a priority under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) over the last 3 years. Over 143 lakh hectares have benefitted in the last 3 years through Water Conservation under MGNREGS. The Institute of Economic Growth study and the Council for Social Development study have indicated improvements in productivity, acreage, incomes and water table. Hon’ble Prime Minister had reviewed with Hon’ble Chief Ministers of States at the time of 2015-16 rainfall deficiency and has again reiterated the need for fully utilizing MGNREGS in April to June period for Water Conservation.


    To ensure a concerted thrust on Water Conservation during the summer months, already Rs. 25,376 crore have been released to the States and UTs in the current Financial Year. Every State has taken up Water Conservation works as per its felt needs. 2,156 river rejuvenation works have also been planned by the States across the country. Some very meaningful work has been undertaken to revive water bodies, and to construct new ponds. Districts in nearly every State have come forward to start a people’s movement for Water Conservation. Efforts in Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha, West Bengal, Sikkim, Maharashtra, are all designed as per local needs to ensure that durable Water Conservation assets contribute to the well-being of marginal and small farmers. Through these concerted efforts, over 15 lakh farm ponds have already been completed besides a very large number of dug wells, community water bodies, check dams etc. Each and every asset being created is also geo-tagged. The Ministry’s thrust on ensuring timely wage payments is showing remarkable results. Of the 38.4 crore persondays already generated in the current Financial Year, payments in over 95% cases have been generated within 15 days. In 86.4% cases, the same has even reached the Bank account of the beneficiaries within the stipulated time period. The Water Conservation thrust, with a focus on transparency, technically sound planning and execution, and timely wage payments, is transforming the lives and livelihoods of a large number of Villages and households in Rural India.


    <><><><><>


    APS/SNC/AS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1534564) Visitor Counter : 545
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil