      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Rapid rise likely in water and levels of rivers in Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala
      Posted On: 06 JUN 2018 4:52PM by PIB Delhi


    Rainfall Forecast issued by India Meteorological Department todayindicate that Heavy to Very Heavy rainfall is likely at a few places with extremely heavy fall at isolated places over Konkan and Goa, Madhya Maharashtra during June 07 to 12, 2018. Heavy to Very Heavy rainfall is also likely to occur over Coastal Karnataka tomorrow and throughout Karnataka during 9June to June 11, 2018. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely to occur at isolated places over Kerala during June 09 to June 10 , 2018.


    Due to this warning, there is likelihood of rise in water levels in various river basins such as West Flowing rivers Between Tapi and Tadri, Godavari and its tributaries near the west coast, Krishna and its tributaries near west coast, Cauvery and its tributaries near west coast as well as in West flowing rivers between Tadri and Kanyakumari.


    Due to the forecast of very heavy rains in and around Mumbai and advance of Southwest monsoon causing tidal waves, there is likelihood of inundation in some of the heavy rainfall affected urban areas of Mumbai City. Rivers having source in Western Ghats and flowing into Arabian Sea may witness flash floods in association with the forecasted rainfall. Since most of the rivers are dry, necessary precautions to control the activities along the river bed may be taken as flow may increase suddenlydrowning men and materials.


    Due to the expected rainfall, River Damanganga and its tributaries are expected to rise in Nasik district of Maharashtra, Valsad district of Gujarat and Daman district in Daman and Diu Union Territory.Since most of the rivers are dry, necessary precautions to control the activities along the river bed may be taken as flow may increase suddenly drowning men and materials.


    River Godavari is likely to rise in Upstream reaches in district of Nasik, Ahmednagar and Aurangabad district. Since almost all the dams are in very low level, this rain may give inflows into various upstream reservoirs. River Krishna and its tributaries are likely to rise in upstream districts of Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Pune, Sholapur in Maharashtra as well as in Bagalkote, Vijayapura and Kalaburagi districts on Krishna and in Chikmagaluru, Shivamogga and Bellari districts on river Tungabhadra in Karnataka. Since almost all the dams are in very low level, this rain may give inflows into various upstream reservoirs.


    Rivers flowing West into Arabian Sea south of Tapi in Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka are also likely to rise and inundate areas in Raigad, Thane, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts of Maharashtra and in Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts in Karnataka. Traffic along the old road and rail bridges in Konkan Railway along these river reaches have to be regulated accordingly.


    River Cauvery and its tributaries in upstream reaches in Kodagu, Chikmagaluru, Hassan and Mysuru districts of Karnataka and Wynad district of Kerala are likely to rise in association with the forecasted rainfall. However, as the dams in the basins have sufficient storageand hence the expected rainfall may give some inflows into these reservoirs depending on the severity of the rainfall.


    NP/SKP/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1534560) Visitor Counter : 793
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi