      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Ministry of Women and Child Development holds National Consultation on Child Protection
      Posted On: 05 JUN 2018 6:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of WCD organised National Consultation on Child Protection in New Delhi today. The conference deliberated on the Juvenile Justice (Care and protection of Children) Act, 2015 and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) 2012. Police Departments from various States shared best practices and experiences during the consultation.


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development has taken the initiative to deliberate the issues concerning child protection and welfare with the State Women and Child Development Departments and State Police Departments, along with Ministry of Home Affairs and NCPCR. The first part of the National Consultation focused on deliberations with regard to JJ Act, 2015 and POCSO Act, 2012, Trackchild, Childline (1098) with an objective to introspect on various issues and concerns which have manifested lately, gaps and shortcomings in the processes and identifying solutions for the same.


    The second part of the National Consultation largely focused on the Child Care and Protection issues of CPS Scheme and identify areas of concern vis-à-vis implementation issues in the States and seek proposals, solutions and way forward.


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development is implementing various laws and schemes viz Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act 2012 (POCSO) Act and Child Protection Services (CPS) under the Umbrella ICDS for the Protection of Children from various abuses and ensuring their best interest. The JJ Act, 2015 mandates upon the State to provide a safety net to children in need of care and protection as well as children in conflict with law. It provides for Institutional and Non-institutional care for these children, along with certain statutory services. The Act is gender neutral and acknowledges person upto 18 years of age as child.


    The Child Protection services, under the Umbrella ICDS provide for the safety net of statutory support Services along with Institutional and Non-institutional facilities to ensure best interest of child. It also provides for the 24*7 child helpline and an online portal to track the missing children. Under the scheme, 1508 no. of CCIs are being supported with average occupancy of 50 children.


    Childline has been expanded to 437 locations and Railway childline is functional at 60 major stations. Track child portal and KhoyaPaya App have been quite successful in restoring the missing children.


    ***


    AKR/NG/SKK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1534434) Visitor Counter : 731
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil