      Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA)

      Cabinet approves construction of a new 6 - Lane bridge with its approaches across River Ganga at Phaphamau, Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh
      Posted On: 06 JUN 2018 3:13PM by PIB Delhi


    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, approved the project for construction of 9.9 km long new 6 - lane bridge across river Ganga on NH - 96 at Phaphamau in Allahabad with total capital cost of Rs. 1948.25 crore.


    The construction period for the project is three years and likely to be completed by December, 2021. The new bridge will resolve the traffic congestion on existing old 2 - lane Phaphamau bridge on NH-96 at Allahabad.


    The new bridge will also facilitate to the large congregation of people at Holy City Allahabad during Kumbh, Ardh-Kumbh and other yearly ritual baths at SANGAM in Prayag. This will give a boost to pilgrimage tourism and local economy of Holy city of Prayag.


    This new 6 - lane bridge will also be beneficial for the Lucknow / Faizabad bound traffic coming from Madhya Pradesh via National Highway - 27 and National Highway - 76 through Naini Bridge.


    In addition, this project of new bridge will generate direct employment during construction for about 9.20 lakh mandays.


    At present all the Allahabad bound traffic coming from National Highway - 96, National Highway - 24 B, Asian Highway -1 and other local highways are using the existing old 2 - lane bridge at Phaphamau for crossing the River Ganga. There is no entry for goods vehicles on this bridge from 06 am to 11 pm. The present traffic on the old bridge is about 40,000 PCUs (Passenger Car Units) which is manifold greater than its designed capacity of 15,000 PCUs (Passenger Car Units), resulting in severe jam over bridge all around the day and night. This new 6 - lane bridge will decongest the old bridge and will also ensure fast and safe movement for traffic.


    Background:


    It may be noted that there were only 13 bridges on river Ganges between Allahabad to Farakka before May'2014. After 2014, additional 20 bridges were planned, out of which five have been opened to traffic and seven are under construction on the above stretch, thus bringing the total number of bridges to 33. Out of balance 8 bridges, which are planned for construction, work on Farakka, Sahebganj and Mokarnah is likely to start very soon. The present Phaphamau bridge would be therefore 29th Bridge on river Ganges between Allahabad and Farakka.


    ****


    AKT/VBA/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1534491) Visitor Counter : 882
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi