      Ministry of Defence

      Geo-Intelligence Asia - 2018
      Posted On: 05 JUN 2018 6:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Eleventh edition of GeoIntelligence Asia 2018 organised by GeoSpatial Media and Communication with Directorate General of Information System as Knowledge Partners and Military Survey as Co-organisers, took place at Manekshaw Centre, New Delhi on 04-05 June 2018. The theme of Seminar was ‘ GeoSpatial : A Force Multiplier for Defence and Industrial Security ’. The seminar brought together the military, security officials including BSF and Police Forces, Government and industry together to examine the latest technology solutions and on the critical role of geospatial technology in military and security applications.


    Gen Bipin Rawat, Chief of the Army Staff, during his Keynote address, said that the Armed Forces are the repository of big data and there is a need to record and institutionalize the information and carry out predictive analytics using AI. He stressed on the need for collaboration with industry and academia to automate the Indian Army and emphasized the need to leverage the various technologies available in the Geo Spatial field to find solutions for the challenges faced by the Indian Army.


    Lt Gen Anil Kapoor, Director General, Information System, brought out the fact that data is being treated as the next oil. He mentioned that Indian Army is in the process of redefining and refining legacy applications into state of the art softwares by using contemporary technologies.


    After the inaugural session, Chief of the Army Staff inaugurated the exhibition comprising stalls of various technological firms dealing with geospatial technologies. The Sessions during the seminar covered crucial subjects including Enhanced Situational Awareness for Combat, Smart Cantonments, GIS and Logistics, Cyber Security and LIDAR. The Seminar witnessed learned speakers putting forth their views during the thought provoking sessions. The latest advancements in Geospatial Technologies discussed during the sessions and the exhibits in the stalls were widely appreciated by all participants.


    Manoj Tuli


    APRO (Army)


    

    
    (Release ID: 1534425) Visitor Counter : 2330