      Ministry of Power

      Shri R K Singh chairs ‘Review, Planning and Monitoring (RPM) Meeting’ with States and Power Utilities; asks States to speed up work under Saubhagya
      
      Draft on amendments to Electricity Act to be circulated soon

      Posted On: 06 JUN 2018 4:58PM by PIB Delhi

    Minister of State(IC) for Power and New & Renewable Energy, Shri R K Singh chaired the ‘Review, Planning and Monitoring (RPM) Meeting’ with the Secretaries of Power/Energy Departments of the States/UTs and Managing Directors of the Power Utilities here, today. The meeting discussed the progress of work under Saubhagya, Gram Swaraj Abhiyan and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojna. This was the first RPM meeting after achieving the 100 per cent village electrification.


    Shri R K Singh congratulated all States for achieving the 100 per cent village electrification and exhorted them to work further for universal household electrification under Saubhagya. The Minister assured the States of all possible support in this regard. He also asked the State officials to give suggestions on the revised draft of tariff policy keeping in mind the long term health of the sector. Shri Singh said that draft on amendments to Electricity Act will also be circulated soon.


    Addressing the meeting, Shri AK Bhalla, Secretary, Power asked the States to maintain the momentum generated by the Gram Swaraj Abhiyan.


    In the meeting, discussions were held on various aspects of the rural electrification e.g.- availability of trained manpower and material, incoming monsoon and tendering process at local level etc. Representatives of the States and Union Territories shared their experiences and best practices and expressed their commitment to worktowards the universal household electrification.


    Presentations were made by the Union and State officials during the meeting and ‘Feeder Manager Awards’ for reduction in AT &C losses were given away by Shri Sanjiv Nandan Sahai , Additional Secretary, Ministry of Power, Government of India. Discussions were moderated by Shri Arun Kumar Verma, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Power.


    Dr. PV Ramesh, CMD, REC and Shri Rajeev Sharma, CMD, PFC were among the officials present from the State/UT Governments and DISCOMs.


    *****


    JN/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1534566) Visitor Counter : 458