      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare undertakes slew of key measures to improve the state of Agriculture in India
      
      Ministry of Agriculture highlights key initiatives and policies in line with Hon’ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of doubling farmers’ income by 2022

      Posted On: 05 JUN 2018 6:57PM by PIB Delhi

    National Farmers Commission was constituted in February 2004. After that, the National Policy for Farmers was approved on the basis of the Commission's recommendations in the country, which aimed at improving the economic condition of agricultural sector as well as the net income of the farmers. Most of the recommendations had been left in the cold storage during the UPA government. As soon as Prime Minister Narendra Modi led government came to power, an inter-ministerial committee was set up to examine the increase of income of farmers and to accelerate these initiatives. While studying this, the committee started the task of accelerating this work under the direction of Hon'ble Prime Minister, which is as follows -


    (A) Model Agricultural Land Leasing Act, 2016 issued to States, which is a very important step in terms of agricultural reforms through which not only the needs of landlords but the needs of the lease holders are also taken care of. Through this act, land holders can legally lease the land with mutual consent for agriculture and allied sectors. It is also noted that under any circumstances, no claim on the agricultural land of the lease holder will be valid.


    From the point of view of the lease recipient, it has been taken care that it is provided institutional credit, insurance and disaster relief, so that they can invest more and more agriculture.


    (B) In April 2016, a new entrance process for revolutionizing agricultural markets started by introducing transparency and competition, by ensuring better value search under national agricultural market scheme (e-NAM).


    (C) Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Simplification) Act, 2017 has been released on April 24, 2017 for adoption by the States/UTs. Which comprises of e-business, the announcement of warehouses, silos, cold storage in the form of sub-yard, rationalization of mandis duty and commission charges and improvements in private sector.


    In 2018, an amount of two thousand crores rupees has also been proposed through NABARD for the development of 22,000 rural agricultural markets in the country. It is clear here that in relation to the National Agricultural Market, the implementation of the suggestion given after the year 2004 was also done within these 4 years.


    (D) Government has revised them after a detailed study of old schemes and has started the world's largest farmer friendly crop insurance scheme i.e. Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana and Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme. By 2019-20, 50 percent of the gross cropped area is to be covered.


    (E) Enhanced substantial increase in the adoption of micro irrigation has been recorded. Compound annual growth rate of micro irrigation (MI) coverage is 15 percent. During the year 2017-18, about 9.26 lakh hectare area has been brought under MI, which is the maximum coverage so far received in a calendar year. The target is to cover 1.5 to 2 million hectare per year by year 2022-23. In addition to the increase in budgetary allocation, a corpus fund of 5,000 crore has also been set up.


    (F) National Agro-Forestry Policy has been prepared for increasing the income of farmers and for achieving climate support. During the year 2016-17, a special scheme "Agriculture Forestry Sub-mission" was started and operated with the aim of "Har Medh Par Pedh". Exemption in transit regulations for assistance under the Agriculture Forestry Sub-Mission is a pre-requisite. 21 states (8 states in year 2016-17 and 12 states in the year 2017-18) have given exemption to this regulation and all the states are being motivated in this direction.


    (G) The reconstituted National Bamboo Mission- National Bamboo Mission (NBM) was initially started as a centrally sponsored scheme in the year 2006-07 and brought it under the Integrated Horticulture Development Mission (MIDH) during the year 2014-15. And was continued till the year 2015-16.


    This scheme is mainly limited to the cultivation and promotion of bamboo due to limited weather and purification units and bamboo market. The main drawbacks of this scheme were lack of contact between producers (farmers) and industries.


    The Indian Forest Act, 1927 was amended last year, from which the bamboo sown outside the forest area has been removed from the definition of 'trees' and the implementation of National Bamboo Mission reorganized with the outlay of Rs.1290 crore is also being done.


    (H) Government has started the largest Universal Soil Health Card scheme in the world to provide information on the fertility of the land to the farmers on the basis of tested soil samples according to 12 parameters.


    A study shows that due to the recommendations of the Soil Health Card, due to the application of fertilizer and micro nutrients, a decrease of chemical fertilizer application has been found ranging from 8 to 10 percent and the total crop production has increased by 5-6 percent.


    (I) Traditional Agricultural Development Scheme (PKVY) - PKVY is being implemented with the objective of encouraging organic farming in the country. It will improve soil health and biological content and increase the net income of farmers so that premium values can be identified. The progress of targeted 50 acres (2015-16 to 2017-18) is remarkable. Now it has been started on cluster base (about 1000 hectares).


    It is worth noting that on the recommendation of National Farmers Commission to promote sustainable agriculture, it was also institutionally and systematically implemented at the time of the Modi Government.


    (J) Central Regional Scheme has been introduced by identifying the potential of organic farming in the North Eastern Region of the country. Biological Value Chain Development Mission (MOVCDNER) for the North East Region. The Northeast is being developed as the biological center of India.


    (K) The present government has released Model Contract Farming and Services Act, 2018 in 2018, which for the first time has been added to the country's food additives farmers and agro-based industries. Through this act, where a young farmer can get good prices for the farmers, the losses will also be reduced after harvesting. Besides, employment opportunities will also be created in rural areas. Through this, FPA / FPC will be promoted.


    (L) In the year 2003-2005, the scientists of this country had said that 100% neem coated to coated urea was also lying in cold storage which was completed in two years after the arrival of the Narendra Modi led NDA government.


    *****


    APS/RCS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1534447) Visitor Counter : 1175