      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Government committed to ensure transformation of India up to the last mile: Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 01 JUN 2018 6:36PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (Independent Charge), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh today said that the Government was committed to ensure transformation of India through economic upliftment and social reform. He said this while speaking at a press conference on four years of Union Government organized at Jammu.


    While listing out the achievements, Dr. Singh said that Government was committed to ensure all round and inclusive development of the country. Dr. Singh said that a renewed trust has developed between the people and the Government under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. He further said that this credibility was the foundation of certain tough measures like demonetization taken by the Government.


    Dr. Singh emphasized that the overall development of the country was possible only through equitable development of all regions. He also said that the Central Government was making efforts for equitable development of Jammu, Kashmir & Ladakh Regions. He further added that various schemes and initiatives started by the Government were not only aimed at economic reforms, but also at social and behavioral reforms.


    While giving the details of the implementation status of various schemes in Jammu and Kashmir, Dr Singh said that 20 lakh Jan Dhan accounts have been opened in J&K. Regarding Swachhata Campaign, he also informed that 7 out of 22 districts in J&K had been declared Open Defecation free. While appreciating the positive response of people for various initiatives of the Government he said that nearly 4 lakh women have benefitted from Ujwalla scheme in the state. He added that the Government was keen to protect the interests of all sections of society by providing insurance to farmers, senior citizens, etc., at a low cost.


    Dr. Singh also emphasized that there was a need to create favorable environment for entrepreneurship as well as investment in the country. Various initiatives were being taken to improve the ease of doing business and simplification of procedures. Initiatives like rationalization of tax through GST and Start-up India would be yielding benefits in the coming years.


    Dr. Singh reiterated the commitment of the Government in fighting corruption and providing clean governance to people.


    A Power point presentation was given by Miss Neha Jalali, Deputy Director, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Government of India highlighting the details and implementation status of various schemes.


    Earlier, Dr. Singh also had an informal interaction with Radio Jockeys of various Private FM channels and Radio Kashmir Jammu.


    *****


    BB/NK/NJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1534132) Visitor Counter : 424