      Ministry of Earth Science

      Advance of Monsoon and associated heavy rainfall spell along west coast and formation of low pressure system over north Bay of Bengal
      Posted On: 08 JUN 2018 1:37PM by PIB Delhi

     1. Monsoon Advance:

    Southwest Monsoon has further advanced into some more parts of Central Arabian Sea, remaining parts of Goa, Karnataka and Rayalaseema, some parts of south Konkan, south Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, Vidarbha, south Chhattisgarh and south Odisha, entire Telangana, most parts of Coastal Andhra Pradesh, remaining parts of West Central Bay of Bengal and most parts of North Bay of Bengal. The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) passes through Lat. 17°N/ Long. 60°E, Lat. 17°N/ Long. 70°E, Ratnagiri. Solapur, Nanded, Adilabad, Bailadila, Malkangiri, Kalingapatnam, Lat. 21°N/ Long. 90°E, Agartala, Lumding, north Lakhimpur and Lat. 29°N/ Long. 95°E. (Figure 1)


    Conditions are favorable for further advance of Southwest Monsoon into some more parts of Central Arabian Sea, Maharashtra (including Mumbai), Chhattisgarh & Odisha and remaining parts of Coastal Andhra Pradesh during next 24 hours.


    Conditions are very likely to become favorable for further advance of Southwest Monsoon into most parts of Arabian Sea, remaining parts of Maharashtra, some parts of south Gujarat region, southern parts of Madhya Pradesh, some more parts of Chhattisgarh and Odisha, some parts of West Bengal & Sikkim, remaining parts of Northeastern States and Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 48 hours.


     1. Strengthening of Monsoon leading to enhanced rainfall activity along west coast:


    Increased rainfall activity over coastal Karnataka, Goa and south Maharashtra is likely to continue till 10 th June. It is very likely to extend to north coastal Maharashtra, including Mumbai from tomorrow. Extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places in these regions is also very likely during this period. The rainfall activity over these regions is likely to reduce from 12 th June.


    Date-wise heavy rainfall warning for the next five days is given in the following table:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Region                      08 June                                                09 June                                                10 June                        11 June                       12 June                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Coastal Karnataka           Scattered heavy to very heavy with isolated extremely  Isolated heavy to very heavy                           Isolated heavy to very heavy   Isolated heavy                Isolated heavy to very heavy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                            heavy                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Goa                         Scattered heavy to very heavy with isolated            Scattered heavy to very heavy                          Isolated heavy to very heavy   Isolated heavy to very heavy  Isolated heavy.             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                            extremely heavy                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
South Konkan                Scattered heavy to very heavy with isolated extremely  Scattered heavy to very heavy with isolated extremely  Scattered heavy to very heavy  Isolated heavy to very heavy  Isolated heavy.             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                            heavy                                                  heavy                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
North Konkan                Scattered heavy to very heavy                          Scattered heavy to very heavy with isolated extremely  Scattered heavy to very heavy  Isolated heavy to very heavy  Isolated heavy              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                   heavy                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
South interior Maharashtra  Scattered heavy to very heavy with isolated            Scattered heavy to very heavy with isolated            Isolated heavy                 Nil                           Nil                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                            extremely heavy                                        extremely heavy                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
North interior              Nil                                                    Isolated heavy                                         Isolated heavy                 Nil                           Nil                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Maharashtra                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

    Legends:


    Yellow- Be updated; Orange- Be prepared; Red- Take action Heavy: 64.5-115.5 mm/day;


    Very heavy: 115.6-204.4 mm/day; Extremely heavy: more than 204.4 mm/day


    Wind warning:


    In association with strong monsoon conditions over Arabian Sea, squally wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph likely along and off Konkan and Goa coasts during 8 th to 12 th June.


    Sea condition:


    Sea condition will be rough to very rough over east central Arabian Sea off Konkan and Goa coasts as well as over west central and adjoining southwest Arabian Sea off Somalia coast during 8 th to 12 th June.


    Fishermen warning:


    Fishermen are advised not to venture into over east central Arabian Sea off Konkan and Goa coasts as well as west central and adjoining southwest Arabian Sea off Somalia coast during 8 th to 12 th June.


     1. Formation of low pressure system:


    A low pressure area is very likely to form over north Bay of Bengal during next 24 hours. It is very likely to intensify into a depression during the subsequent 48 hours and move towards Bangladesh coast.


    Heavy rainfall warning:


    Rainfall activity will increase over north Odisha, West Bengal & Sikkim, Assam and Meghalaya during 9-11 th June with occurrence of isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall.


    Wind warning:


    Squally wind speed reaching 40-50 gusting to 60 kmph wind is very likely over north Bay of Bengal along and off West Bengal, Odisha and Bangladesh coasts during 9 th to 10 th June.


    State of Sea:


    Sea condition will be rough to very rough during this period over north Bay of Bengal along and off West Bengal, Odisha, Bangladesh and Myanmar coasts .


    Fishermen warning:


    Fishermen are advised not to venture into north Bay of Bengal during 9 th and 10 th June.


    (Figure 1)


    ***


    SRD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1534878) Visitor Counter : 1388
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi
    
    
    

          
          
          
          
          
          
          
          
          
          
          
          
          
          
1.