      AYUSH

      Third National Health Editors’ Conference on Yoga held in New Delhi today
      
      Ministry of AYUSH developing a Yoga protocol for 40 Plus women in consultation with Indian Menopause Society: Shri Shripad Naik

      Posted On: 05 JUN 2018 6:38PM by PIB Delhi

    The Third Edition of Health Editors’ Conference on Yoga was inaugurated by the Minister of State for AYUSH (Independent Charge), Shri Shripad Yesso Naik at Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga in New Delhi today. The Conference was jointly organized by Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga and Press Information Bureau (PIB), Ministry of Information Broadcasting ahead of International Yoga Day, which is celebrated across the globe on June 21 every year. The objective of the Conference was to spread awareness about principles and practices of Yoga and to bring out the scientific and technical aspects of Yoga with the help of experts.


    Inaugurating the Conference, the Minister said that this is the third consecutive year that Health Editors’ Conference was being successfully organised by both Ministry of AYUSH and Press Information Bureau, marking it as a beginning of International Yoga Day, which will be organised in Dehradun this year. He informed that Dehradun has been chosen as the Centre this year because Rishikesh and Haridwar are known as the ‘Capital of Yoga’.
    Shri Naik further said that Yoga is one of the most priceless and key heritages of India to the world. He said that in today’s hectic life where stress has become synonymous with lifestyle, Yoga is the way forward to live a balanced and peaceful life. The Minister informed that this year Ministry of Ayush is paying special attention to the women of 40 plus age group and is developing a Yoga protocol specially aimed at this age group in consultation with Indian Menopause Society (IMS). This programme will benefit women who may have health issues particularly is this age group.


    While addressing the media persons the Minister said that the Ministry of AYUSH has taken many steps to popularise Yoga among the masses. He further said that this year ISRO will be mapping the 4 th International Day of Yoga.


    On this occasion, Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH said that with Yoga becoming popular day by day, the Ministry has taken several important steps to provide healthy lifestyle to everyone. He also informed that a Curtain Raiser to International Yoga Day is being organised in Dehradun, where about 10,000 people are expected to perform Yoga on June 7. He also briefed the media about the activities being organized this year to celebrate the International Day of Yoga 2018. The Secretary said that this year every state will organize yoga events at the grass-root levels, i.e., State/District and Sub-District.


    To inculcate Yoga in educational system, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga and Amity University to open a study – cum research centre at Amity University. The MDNIY has the expertise in yoga whereas Amity University has expertise in Psychology, Physiology and Allied Sciences. MoU is expected to help, the two organizations for education, therapy and research and also reach the 120,000 students, of the university where yoga can be popularized among students, faculty and other members.


    Eminent Scholars of Yoga and Allied Sciences like Dr. H.R. Nagendra, Chancellor, SVYASA University; Dr. W. Selvamurthy, Chancellor, Amity University, Chhattisgarh, former distinguished scientist and Chief Controller R&D (LS), DRDO and Dr. B. N. Gangadhar, Director, NIMHANS presented their research papers, highlighting the benefits of Yoga.


    Around 150 Health Editors and media persons from National, Regional and International media organizations attended the conference. Senior officers of PIB and Ministry of AYUSH were also present on the occasion. Earlier, an hour-long workshop on How to Manage Stress through Yoga, for the Media persons was conducted by Dr. I.V Basavaraddi, Director, MDNIY.


    RJ/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1534441) Visitor Counter : 537
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil