      Ministry of Education

      Successes of Indian Institutions in QS World Ranking is the result of relentless work in premier institutions & transformational initiatives for promoting research taken up by HRD Ministry - Shri Prakash Javadekar
      Posted On: 07 JUN 2018 5:00PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of Human Resource Development , Mr. Prakash Javadekarhas said that the successes registered by Indian Institutions in QS World Best Universities Ranking 2019 released today is the result of relentless work in the premier institutions and various initiatives of HRD Ministry under the guidance and dynamic leadership of Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi.


    “The positive performance recorded by India’s most prominent institutions is symptomatic of a successful year for the country’s higher education system. 24 universities feature fromIndia, of which 7 improve their rank, 9 remain stable and 5 are newly-ranked,” Shri Javadekar said in a statement.


    In the QS World Best Universities Ranking, 9 Indian institutions have been individually ranked in the top-500 as against 6 last year. Indian Institute of Science (IISc) Bangalore, rises 20 places to 170th ; 17 of India’s 24 ranked universities improved their rank for Academic Reputation, while 13 improved their rank for Employer Reputation.


    Congratulating the Indian Institutes which have been ranked among the top 500 institutions in the QS World Best Universities Ranking 2019, the Minister said: “It is very encouraging to note that the position of Indian institutions is improving in world rankings. This is the direct result of the transformational initiatives undertaken in promoting research and innovation in Higher Education under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. We at Ministry of HRD will ensure further spread of the research and innovation culture, which will bring laurels to Indian Institutions.”


    “With government's flagship initiatives like UchhatarAvishkarYojana, which is industry-academia partnership for finding solutions by teams of faculty and students of IITs to customised requirements of the industries; GIAN -foreign faculties coming to India to courses in specialised topics for students in Indian Higher Educational institutions; Smart India Hackathon, a competition to find digital solutions to various problems faced by the people; and IMPRINT - promotion of research & innovation activities in 10 domains; coupled with more funds for research infrastructure through HEFA and launch of Prime Minister’s Research Fellowships are shoring up the performance Indian Institutions which is reflected in the latest QS World Best Universities Ranking” ShriJavadekar said.


    Congratulating the faculty and students of IISC Bangalore for being ranked world’s second-highest in the “research impact per faculty member category”, ShriJavadekar said due to the emphasis on and impetus given to Research by the current Government, the Research impact per faculty member has become the strength of India’s Institutes of Technology.


    Four IITs have received top-100 scores for Citations per Faculty. These are Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee (89.5/100), Indian Institute of Technology Delhi (84.0/100), Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur (76.8/100), and Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (75.6/100).


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1534790) Visitor Counter : 725
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil