      President's Secretariat

      49th Conference of Governors Concludes at Rashtrapati Bhavan; Raj Bhavans Can Present a Model by Adopting Modern Technology, Says President in his Closing Remarks
      Posted On: 05 JUN 2018 2:43PM by PIB Delhi


    The two-day 49 th Conference of Governors concluded at Rashtrapati Bhavan today (June 5, 2018).


    In his closing remarks, the President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, expressed satisfaction that participants at the Conference contributed to meaningful discussions. He was confident the deliberations would strengthen our national effort to improve the lives of every Indian.


    The President noted that today (June 5) is World Environment Day. The approach of ‘Think Global, Act Local’ is considered effective for environment protection. Keeping in mind the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Accord and the International Solar Alliance, local and state-level contributions are very important to achieving national goals. The Directive Principles of our Constitution specifically mention issues of the environment and conservation of forests and wildlife. In this context, Governors can make efforts to develop Raj Bhavan complexes and state universities as an environmental ideal.


    The President said that Raj Bhavans must take the lead in adopting modern technology and methods. By using a wide variety of IT initiatives, including real-time dashboards, Raj Bhavans can create a demonstration effect and motivate other institutions.


    The President said that Governors can inspire universities towards USR (University Social Responsibility). University students should visit villages at regular intervals. They should engage with residents of the village in regard to cleanliness, literacy, immunisation and nutrition programmes. Governors could hold discussions with Vice Chancellors to make the ‘Swachhta Internship’ programme more effective.


    The President urged Governors to convene meetings of Vice Chancellors of state universities from time to time. He was happy that some Governors were already doing this. He emphasised that the agenda of such conferences could be decided in consultation with the VCs. And to find quick solutions, representatives of State Education and Finance Departments, as well as officials from the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development, the UGC and other institutions, could be invited.


    The Vice President, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Home Affairs also addressed the concluding session of the Conference. Earlier in the day, the Conference of Governors discussed ideas on the commemoration of the 150 th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Presentations were made on the Gram Swaraj Abhiyan and Swachhata Internship. Governors/Lt. Governors gave their suggestions.


    Click here for the text of President's speech.


    ***


    AKT/SH/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1534379) Visitor Counter : 1181
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Tamil