      President's Secretariat

      President Kovind in Greece; Addresses Indian Community in Greece; Urges Indian Community in Greece to Help Enhance Economic, Cultural and People-to-People Links between the two Countries
      Posted On: 17 JUN 2018 9:50PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, reached Greece yesterday evening (June 16, 2018) on the first leg of his 3 - nation State Visit to – Greece, Suriname and Cuba.


    Today (June 17, 2018), the President addressed an impressive gathering of Indian community in Athens at a reception hosted by the Ambassador of India in Greece, Ms Shamma Jain.


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that Greece and India are ancient civilizations having old and deep relations. Both nations greatly respect the democratic values followed by each other. These similarities have ensured that relations between the two countries have remained strong over the years. He expressed confidence that his visit, which is a visit by an Indian President after around 11 years, will further strengthen these relations.


    The President emphasized the strong economic potential between the two nations across a variety of areas. He said that Greece has expertise in the fields of agriculture, food and dairy technology, and shipping whereas India is extensively expanding its capacity in the areas such as infrastructure, supply chain, energy, etc. He said that the two nations have immense potential for working together. He stated that Greek companies have been active in India. He noted that Indian businessmen and companies have also started setting up enterprises in Greece, and thus are generating employment opportunities in Greece.


    Addressing the Indian community, the President said that we are proud of our overseas Indians and their success. He said that that today there are plenty of opportunities for business, innovation and investment in India. He stated that Indian diaspora has an emotional connection with India and they will continue to make their contribution towards the development of India.


    The President said that there is considerable scope for increasing investment and trade between India and Greece. The two countries will benefit greatly from a mutual partnership. He said that the Indian community in Greece has an important role in strengthening the economic relations between the two countries. He stated that while there is an Indian ambassador in Greece appointed by the Government of India to look after our interests. But according to him, it is each member of the Indian community in Greece who is a cultural ambassador of India. He urged the community to help enhance economic, cultural and people-to-people links between the two countries.


    Earlier in the day, emphasizing India’s deep respect for the age old civilization of Greece, the President visited the Acropolis as well as the Panathenaic Olympic Stadium and Temple of Zeus.


    Tomorrow (June 18, 2018), the President will hold bilateral meetings with the Greek leadership and lead the India-Greece delegation level talks.


    Click here for the President's speech


    ***


    AKT/KP/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1535701) Visitor Counter : 744
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil