      Ministry of Railways

      Shri Piyush Goyal launches “Rail Madad” – An App to expedite &streamline passenger grievance redressal
      Posted On: 11 JUN 2018 3:20PM by PIB Delhi


      In line with digital initiatives of Hon’ble PM, Indian Railways has for the first time completely digitized the Complaint management system. Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of Railways & Coal today launched a new App “Rail Madad” – An App to expedite & streamline passenger grievance redressal. RPGRAMS (Railway Passenger Grievance Redressal and Management System),which has been developed by Northern Railway (Delhi Division) and comprises many novel features including ‘ Rail Madad ’ – a mobile App to register complaints by passengers through mobile phone/web. It relays real time feedback to passengers on the status of redressal of their complaints- the passenger gets an instant ID through SMS on registration of complaint followed by a customized SMS communicating the action taken thereon by Railway. RPGRAMS integrates all the passenger complaints received from multiple modes (14 offline/online modes currently) on a single platform, analyzes them holistically and generates various types of management reports which enable the top management to continuously monitor the pace of grievance redressal as well as evaluate the performance of field units/ trains/ stations on various parameters viz cleanliness, catering, amenities etc. It also identifies weak/deficient areas and laggard trains/stations for undertaking focussed corrective actions.


      Salient features of Rail Madad application are-


      ❖ Rail MADAD ( M obile A pplication for D esired A ssistance D uring travel ) registers a complaint with minimum inputs from passenger(option of photo also available), issues unique ID instantly and relays the complaint online to relevant field officials for immediate action. The action taken on complaint is also relayed to passenger through SMS, thus fast tracking the entire process of redressal of complaints through digitisation.


      ❖ Rail MADAD also displays various helpline numbers (e.g., Security, Child helpline etc) and provides direct calling facility for immediate assistance in one easy step


      ❖ All modes of filing complaints including offline and online modes are being integrated on a single platform, therefore the resultant management reports present a holistic picture of weak/deficient areas and enable focused corrective action by officials concerned.


      ❖ The data analysis would also generate trends on various performance parameters of a selected train/station like cleanliness, amenities etc thus making managerial decision more precise and effective.


      ❖ Hierarchy based dashboard/reports will be available for management at Division /Zonal/Railway board level and sent through auto email to every concerned officer weekly


      *****


      SBS/MKV/ENS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1535028) Visitor Counter : 1716
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Tamil , Malayalam