      Ministry of Education

      Highlights of Minimum Qualifications for Appointment of Teachers in Universities and Colleges and Measures for Maintenance of Standards in Higher Education
      
      Ph.D Degree will be mandatory for direct recruitment to Assistant Professors in Universities w.e.f. 01.07.2021- Shri Prakash Javadekar

      Posted On: 13 JUN 2018 7:05PM by PIB Delhi

    In order to attract and retain the best quality teachers and other academic staff in Universities and Colleges, the UGC has brought out new regulations. This was disclosed by Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri Prakash Javadekar while addressing media persons in New Delhi today. The Highlights of the Regulations are as below:

     1. Incentives to teachers as provided in the earlier Regulations of 2010 and subsequent amendments have been retained. These include incentives for M.Phil/Ph.D.
     2. API based PBAS System has been removed. A new simplified teacher evaluation grading system has been introduced and research score added for Universities to improve research output.
     3. Promotion criteria under CAS for University teachers has been made more research oriented while in case of College teachers, CAS criteria is more focused on teaching.
     4. For the first time provision for promotion in Colleges will be up to Professor level.
     5. Special provision for recruitment of Assistant Professors in Universities and Colleges for Ph.D Degree holders from a University/Institution in the top 500 Global rankings has been made.
     6. The Regulations mandate introduction of one month induction programme for newly recruited Assistant Professors in Universities/Colleges/Higher Education Institutions.
     7. Ph.D Degree has been made mandatory for promotion to Assistant Professor (Selection Grade) in colleges from 01.07.2021. Ph.D Degree will be mandatory for direct recruitment to Assistant Professors in Universities w.e.f. 01.07.2021.
     8. For the first time, weightages are assigned for CAS in respect of MOOCs and E-Content in Universities and Colleges.
     9. Research clusters will be created in the Universities within the State for sharing research facilities, skills and infrastructure to ensure optimal utilization of resources and creating synergies amongst higher education institutions.
    10. Up to 10% of the existing sanctioned strength of Professors in Universities shall be appointed as Senior Professors in the Universities. Senior Professors in Universities will be appointed through direct recruitment and through promotion under CAS.
    11. Universities will accord permission and provide need based facilities to Colleges teachers to supervise Ph.D/M.Phil scholars.
    12. Special category of medal winners in Olympics, Asian Games and Commonwealth Games in eligibility criteria for Assistant Director/College Director, Physical Education and Sports and Deputy Director, Physical Education and Sports in Universities has been made to promote sports in Universities and Colleges.

    Note: Ph.D Degree shall be mandatory requirement for Direct Recruitment to the post of Assistant Professors in University with the effect from 1st July, 2021. However Masters degree with NET or Ph.D. will continue to be the minimum eligibility requirement for Direct Recruitment to the post of Assistant Professors in colleges.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1535367) Visitor Counter : 3043
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Bengali
    
    
    

12.