      Vice President's Secretariat

      Peace, both beyond and within the boundaries is crucial for rapid development of our country: Vice President
      
      
      India believes in resolving differences through negotiations in an atmosphere of trust and good will;
      
      Lays foundation stone for two projects under AMRUT Mission
      Posted On: 16 JUN 2018 7:03PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that peace, both beyond and within the boundaries is crucial for rapid development of our country. He was addressing the gathering after laying foundation stone for Septage Management System and Storm Water Drainage System for the benefit of the people of Itanagar under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) Scheme, in Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh today. The Governor of Arunachal Pradesh, Brig. (Dr) B.D. Mishra, the Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh, Shri Pema Khandu, the Deputy Chief Minister, Shri Chowna Mein and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President said that India believes in resolving differences through negotiations in an atmosphere of trust and good will and added that no problem or issue is beyond solution if the intentions are right. Our country has all along demonstrated right intentions and we don’t set our eyes on other’s properties and would never allow others target ours, he added.


    The Vice President called for determined efforts to address the few unresolved issues so that this cradle of nature would prove to be a real heaven for its people. It is only in an atmosphere of peace that the full potential of this region could be realized, he added.


    The Vice President said that Atal Mission will help Arunachal address infrastructure issues relating to water supply, septage management and sewer networks, storm water drains, non-motorised urban transport and open spaces and parks.


    The Vice President also recalled the launch of the AMRUT Mission in June, 2015 as the then Minister of Urban Development.


    The Vice President has said that winds of change are sweeping across the country driving the much needed transformation. He further said that new energy, new resolve, new hope, new approaches and new thinking are driving this change. North-Eastern Region is an important vehicle of this change and can lead the march of our country on the path of progress by reaching new horizons, he added.


    The Vice President said that the fight against corruption must become people’s movement. Reaching out to the people, delivering system are important in the context of North-East and the Digital, Online, DBT, JAM are the way forward. Transparency and accountability are very important for the success of development and for speedy development, he added.


    The Vice President complimented the Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh, Shri Pema Khandu for his efforts to bring the transparency and accountability in the State of Arunachal Pradesh.


    Following is the text of Vice President's address :


    “I am indeed delighted to be here with all of you today on the happy occasion of laying foundation stone for some important projects for the benefit of the people of Itanagar under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). I am glad to have not missed this occasion as my visit to Itanagar was virtually derailed by the weather and I was advised to drop my visit on that count. But I was keen to come here on two counts.


    I thought that when the people of the North-East could live with the challenges of difficult terrain and associated problems on a daily basis, why should not I take a few risks to keep my tryst with Itanagar and make my first visit as Vice President and meet all of you.


    Second reason being that I had the good fortune of being associated with the conceptualization and launch of the AMRUT Mission in June, 2015 as the then Minister of Urban Development. This mission was one of the four major new urban missions launched abut three years back to make a radical difference to the urban landscape of our country. The other missions being – Smart City Mission, Swacchh Bharat Mission and Prime Minister’s Awas Yojana (Urban).


    At that time, while formulating these new urban missions, the central government has ensured that the towns in North-East would benefit substantially though urban population is relatively smaller when compared to other States and regions. It was so done with the objective of enabling the North- East herald a N ew E ra by addressing the serious gaps in urban infrastructure.


    I share your happiness over Arunchal Preadesh getting two smart cities – Itanagar and Pasighat. Itanagar is also among the 500 AMRUT cities in the country.


    Could any one of you have imagined an investment of Rs.1,242 cr investment in Itanagar and Rs.1,535 cr in Pasighat for core urban infrastructure development. This order of huge investments have been approved under Smart City Mission launched in June, 2015 and these plans are under implementation. This is a clear indication of the major transformation taking place in the country. This is also a clear indication of ‘big and bold’ thinking which is needed for the quick transformation of our country. I am happy that North-East is also enthusiastically marching forward with this big and bold thinking unlike in the past.


    The new urban missions were launched three years back with a holistic perspective to make our towns and cities better places to live. Each mission was to address specific deficiency in urban infrastructure so that on completion of the planned projects, mission cities would be radically different from what they were earlier. This was a paradigm shift introduced in urban planning with the personal interest taken by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


    To elaborate further, Atal Mission is aimed at addressing basic infrastructure deficit relating to water supply, septage management and sewer networks, storm water drains, non-motorised urban transport and open spaces and parks. Smart City Mission targeted urban mobility, core infrastructure, education and health care, improved service delivery and efficient use of infrastructure through technology solutions. Swachh Bharat Mission seeks to make urban areas free from Open Defecation and solid waste menace. PMAY intends to ensure a decent home to all. This is what is a holistic vision targeting specific outcomes in specific time frames. This is a clear beginning of urban renaissance in our country. I am confident of ‘acche din’ in our towns and cities on completion of these new urban missions.


    I am indeed happy to be associated with the laying of foundation stone for Septage Management project for Itanagar under which an investment of Rs.16.59 cr and Storm Water Drainage System at a cost of Rs.14.53 cr. These two projects would help in addressing the problems of septage flowing into near by drains and finally entering water bodies and flooding. Given the nature of the terrain of Itanagar, it would not be feasible to build sewer networks. I am happy that it is planned to construct 73 septic tanks to prevent flow of sewer into water bodies, a 100 kilo liter per day capacity septage treatment plant besides procurement of 18 suction vehicles. The byproducts of treated septage include Biogas, Reused Water and Organic Manure. This avoids public health and environmental hazards.


    Storm Water Drainage System planned will avoid flooding which many times leads to huge loss of life and assets. This is necessary as Itanagar receives annual rainfall of 2,229 mm per year. I am glad the city and state governments are rising to the occasion taking advantage of Atal Mission. I hope that these projects would be successfully executed in time so that the people of Itanagar can heave a sigh of relief.


    I am also particularly happy that the urban planning and execution capacities of city governments are fast improving under the new urban missions. Adequate capacity building is crucial to address chronic urban problems.


    Friends !


    Winds of change are sweeping across the country driving the much needed transformation. New energy, New resolve, New hope, New approaches and New thinking are driving this change. North-Eastern Region is an important vehicle of this change.


    For long, it used to be said that the North-East needs to be brought into the mainstream. Not anymore. The current flavor is that the so called mainstream needs to rally behind the North-East as this region is the gateway to realizing the Act East Policy as our country strives further expand partnerships with the leading growth centres of the world.


    North East is yet another jewel in the crown of India given its strategic location and huge potential. Arunachal Pradesh has a pride of place in our national scheme of things being a very important border state.


    The people of North East are cultured, educated and enlightened. They can prove to be effective vehicles of enterprise and progress if adequately empowered and backed up. I would like to assure the people of North East of the full support and good wishes of your fellow citizens and the Government of India. It is an undeniable fact that the development of North East and the rest of our country are closely interlinked.


    Peace, both beyond and within our boundaries is crucial for rapid development of our country. True to our civilisational values, we are a peace loving nation. We believe in resolving differences through negotiations in an atmosphere of trust and good will. No problem or issue is beyond solution if the intentions are right. Our country has all along demonstrated right intentions. We don’t set our eyes on other’s properties and would never allow others target ours.


    Who would have imagined that the top leadership of the USA and North Korea shake hands and sit across the table in the quest for the much desired peace. This historic summit in Singapore earlier this week underlines the importance of peace for the progress of humanity across the oceans. Let mankind live and progess in an atmosphere of peace.


    North Eastern Region was troubled by violence for too long. People of this region are now longing for peace in their quest for a better life. Let all of us make determined efforts to address the few unresolved issues so that this cradle of nature would prove to be a real heaven for its people. It is only in an atmosphere of peace that the full potential of this region could be realized.


    I would like the North Eastern Region to lead the march of our country on the path of progress by reaching new horizons.


    I am indeed delighted to be here today against all odds. Otherwise, my heart would have got heavier.


    I thank the Chief Minister and all concerned for this opportunity.


    Thank you all ! Jai Norht-East ! Jai Arunachal Pradesh !


    Jai Hind ! Jai Bharat !”


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1535684) Visitor Counter : 572
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil