      Ministry of Railways

      Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of Railways & Coal reviews the performance of three Zones viz. North Central Railway, North Eastern Railway & East Central Railway
      
      Minister of Railways & Coal directs the General Managers to improve the punctuality significantly by introducing planned integrated corridor blocks for maintenance work
      
      Sanctioning of project of Third line between Allahabad- Mughalsarai is to be taken on priority to minimize congestion in Delhi- Mughalsarai route
      
      All Production Units of Indian Railways to work in full capacity to meet the demand of coaches, if any by Zonal Railways
      Posted On: 16 JUN 2018 8:44PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of Railways & Coal reviewed the performance of three Zonal Railways viz North Central Railways, North Eastern Railways & East Central Railways with the General Managers of each zone along with officials of Zonal Railway in Rail Bhavan today i.e.16 th June 2018.


    He reiterated that punctuality of the trains needs to be improved without affecting the routine maintenance work related to Safety of passengers.


    He urged General Managers to holistically plan weekly integrated traffic blocks of long duration. During these blocks all maintenance works related to engineering, signal, electrification, bridge, track renewal should take place simultaneously. These planned integrated blocks may be advertised well in advance so that the passengers are well informed about the blocks and any inconvenience to them may be minimized.


    Taking slew of decisions to improve punctuality, Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of Railways & Coal has instructed that the third line project between Allahabad- Mughalsarai is to be taken on high priority to minimize congestion in Delhi- Mughalsarai route.


    Shri Goyal emphasized that if required additional rakes/coaches shall be given to Zones to improve punctuality & minimize time loss in case of delayed trains arriving at terminating stations. All Production Units of Indian Railways to work in full potential to meet the demand of coaches by Zonal Railways.


    Construction of Limited Height Subways to be strictly monitored and timely executed.


    Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of Railways & Coal directed that all Zonal Railways should do root cause analysis based upon passenger feedback to identify the real cause of passenger inconvenience & take the corrective steps.


    For real time monitoring, Global Positioning System (GPS) technology should be used in the locomotives.


    All stations across Indian Railways should have separate toilets for men & women with proper lighting, water facility, facility for divyaang & proper cleanliness.


    He stressed on the need to provide Point of Sale (PoS) machines in all Mail/ Express trains so that the bill can be given to every customer.


    He urged that every coach conductor shall be given a hand held terminal for the optimum occupancy of vacant berth during the journey. He stressed on installation of CCTVs in kitchens of IRCTC so it may be remotely monitored by the concerned officials.


    ****


    SBS/RDB/ENS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1535687) Visitor Counter : 646