      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      All CSCs across the country will become Business Correspondents of Banks: Shri Piyush Goyal
      
      PM to address CSC VLEs on 15th of June

      Posted On: 11 JUN 2018 3:49PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Electronics & IT and Law Justice, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad today launched major services in a conference organized by CSC SPV showcasing the impact and progress made by the Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLEs) in promoting rural Wi-Fi network infrastructure.


    The services that were launched are:-

      * 5000 Digital Villages in India : Through Wi-Fi facility, people in 5,000 villages can now enjoy Internet connectivity. Wi-Fi Choupal aims to connect 2.5 lakh Gram Panchayats in the country through highly scalable network infrastructure i.e. optical fiber cable.
      * MoU between CSC and IRCTC : CSC SPV has entered into an agreement with IRCTC for delivery of services through CSC centres. Now, CSC centres will be able to work as IRCTC agents. They would also be able to book general tickets.
      * CSR Support by IndusInd Bank : IndusInd Bank is supporting CSC SPV for the digital literacy of 3 lakh candidates through CSR fund. The candidates are also certified under PMGDISHA.

    Addressing around 3,000 VLEs from across the country the IT Minister said, “All Wi-Fi choupals will become knowledge centers in India. In the age of technology, Information is power. Now, no villager should be able to go to cities for the services, as the same can be availed through CSCs.” He mentioned that recently, Hon’ Prime Minister appreciated CSCs efforts in Singapore which is a great recognition for all the CSC VLES. Shri Prasad announced that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is going to address CSV VLE’s on 15 th of June.


    Hon’ Minister of Finance, Railways & Coal Shri Piyush Goyal also present at the conference announced that now, 2.90 lakh CSCs will be able to work as Business Correspondents (BCs) . Shri Goyal said that “The expansion of Digital Technology in our country will add 5 % more growth in our GDP. CSC has the potential to change the social fabric of our country.”


    Ms. Aruna Sundararajan, Secretary-DoT said, “CSC SPV will become Public Data Office Aggregator. It will develop a powerful content delivery network. Rural India will get benefit of technology advancement and BharatNet will facilitate direct and indirect employment opportunities for many, and can contribute to the inclusive growth of India. The infrastructure created under Wi-Fi Choupal will be a national asset, accessible on a non-discriminatory basis to the service providers. CSC will also be used for first line maintenance of BharatNet in the country.”


    On the occasion, a special publication highlighting initiatives undertaken by CSC VLEs in Wi-Fi Choupal was also launched by the Hon’ Minister. Four VLEs from Haridwar, Gondia, and Seohar shared the success stories of CSC Wi-Fi Choupal which had given employment to several people including people from SC/ST communities.


    NNK/GK/MD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1535032) Visitor Counter : 1371
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Tamil , Malayalam
    
    
    

*