      Ministry of Home Affairs

      More than 1,200 nominations received for Padma Awards – 2019, process open till 15th September
      Posted On: 12 JUN 2018 5:50PM by PIB Delhi


    The last date for online nominations/recommendations for the Padma Awards to be announced on the occasion of Republic Day, 2019 is September 15, 2018. Already 1,654 Registrations have been made on the website, out of which 1,207 nominations/recommendations completed since the nominations opened on 1 st May, 2018.


    Nominations have been invited from Central Ministries/Departments, States/UT Governments, Bharat Ratna and Padma Vibhushan awardees, Institutes of Excellence as also from several other sources to enable broadbased consideration. The MHA communication dated April 25, 2018 requested them to make concerted efforts in identifying talented persons whose excellence and achievements really deserve to be recognized, and make suitable nominations in their favour.


    The nominations/recommendations for the Padma Awards are being received online only on the Padma portal www.padmaawards.gov.in . All citizens can make nominations/recommendation including self-nomination. The nominations/recommendations should contain all relevant details specified in the format available on the above said website, including a citation in narrative form (maximum 800 words), clearly bringing out the distinguished and exceptional achievements/service of the person recommended in her/his respective field/discipline. While recommending a person online, it should be ensured that all the necessary details are filled properly.


    The Padma Awards, namely, Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri, are amongst the highest civilian awards of the country. Instituted in 1954, these Awards are announced on the occasion of the Republic Day every year. The award seeks to recognize ‘work of distinction’ and is given for distinguished and exceptional achievements/service in all fields/disciplines, such as, Art, Literature and Education, Sports, Medicine, Social Work, Science and Engineering, Public Affairs, Civil Service, Trade and Industry etc.


    All persons without distinction of race, occupation, position or sex are eligible for these Awards. Padma Vibhushan’ is awarded for exceptional and distinguished service; ‘Padma Bhushan’ for distinguished service of high order and ‘Padma Shri’ for distinguished service in any field.


    The MHA communication requested that efforts may be made to identify talented persons from amongst women, weaker sections of the society, SCs & STs, divyang persons, etc., who deserve to be considered for the award. Government servants including those working with PSUs, except Doctors and Scientists, are not eligible for Padma Awards.


    For further details click 'Awards and Medals' on the Union Home Ministry's website: www.mha.nic.in . The statutes and rules relating to these awards are available on the Union Home Ministry's website with the link http://padmaawards.gov.in/SelectionGuidelines.aspx


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/KGS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1535185) Visitor Counter : 493
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali , Tamil , Malayalam