      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Dharmendra Pradhan on a visit to Austria and Germany
      Posted On: 18 JUN 2018 7:43PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship Dharmendra Pradhan will lead an official delegation to participate in the 7 th OPEC International Seminar organised by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) as a special guest in Vienna, Austria from 19-20 th June 2018.


    The visit comes at a crucial time when the global crude oil prices are at the highest since the peak of 2014. India’s engagement with OPEC is important as India sources about 82% of crude oil, 75% of natural gas and 97% of LPG from OPEC member countries.


    During the visit Pradhan will deliver a key note speech on “Sustainable Global Energy Future”. Energy Ministers from all the OPEC countries including Saudi Arabia, UAE, Iran as well as Russia, China, Oman are expected to participate in the Conference.


    Pradhan will also visit Germany from 21-22 nd June, 2018. He will visit Lapp Company - a German SME that has expanded onto the global stage; Vocational School ‘Berufsschule’ at Stuttgart and a Utility Company ‘Berlin Water and Energy supply’ wherein he will get acquainted with the apprentices training in the utility sector. He will meet apprentices in person to have a firsthand view of apprentices’ training in Germany. He will lead International Day of Yoga at Alexander Platz on 21 st June, 2018, Berlin wherein he will take part in an event organised by Indian Embassy to promote Yoga.


    He will be apprised about the German VET system and role of the Chamber of Crafts in German Dual Training System at the Chamber of Crafts in Berlin, Germany. The discussions will be followed by a visit to Siemens Dual VET Centre, Berlin, Germany.


    He will also meet Ms. Anja Karliczek, German Federal Minister for Education and Research on 22 nd June, 2018 and discuss mutual issues on Vocational Education & Training (VET) Cooperation between India and Germany. Pradhan will be accompanied by senior officials of Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas and Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship apart from CMDs of IOCL, BPCL and HPCL and CEO of NSDC.


    *****


    PP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1535838) Visitor Counter : 542
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil