      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      National Tribal Museum proposed to be set up at Delhi-Shri Jual Oram
      
      Rs. 5405 cr disbursed as pre/post matric scholarshiships in last 4 years, 30 lakh ST students benefitted every year
      
      70000 tribals currently enrolled with Tribes India for sale of products, numbers expected to increase to 1.5 lakh soon

      Posted On: 14 JUN 2018 4:51PM by PIB Delhi

    A National Tribal Museum along with a National Level Tribal Research Institute is proposed to be set up at Delhi by the Ministry of Tribal Affairs. Briefing mediapersons on four years of initiatives and achievements of the Tribal Affairs Ministry, the Minister of Tribal Affairs Shri Jual Oram said that the Museum will showcase the rich tribal culture and heritage using state-of-the-art technologies. The proposal to set up the Museum and TRI has already been sent to the Niti Ayog. The Ministers of State for Tribal Affairs Shri Jaswantsinh Bhabhor and Shri Sudarshan Bhagat were also present at today’s briefing. As per the announcement made by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi in his Independence Day Speech on 15th August, 2016, MoTA is setting up six Tribal Freedom Fighters Memorials including two of national importance ie. Narmada (Gujarat) and Birsa Munda Central Jail (Ranchi), the Minister disclosed.


    The Minister also talked about the amendments in the Allocation of Business Rules in 2017 whereby Ministry of Tribal Affairs was given the mandate for monitoring STC funds of Central Ministries. An online monitoring system (www.stcmis.gov.in) has been put in place for monitoring of expenditure vis-à-vis allocations, physical performance and outcome monitoring. He further added that the funds allocated to various Ministries and Departments under the Schedule Tribe Component has seen a 94% increase in the last 4 years from Rs. 19437 crores in 2014-15 to Rs. 37803 crores in 2018-19.


    Shri Jual Oram disclosed that the students of Eklavya Model Residential Schools are performing well in competitive examinations. In the current year, 146 EMRS students have cleared NEET, 253 have cleared JEE Mains Examination and 8 have cleared CLAT. The Minister also highlighted the achievements of EMRS students in the field of sports including Kho Kho, Karate, Badminton, Volleyball and Basketball. The Ministry is also planning to organize a National Level EMRS Sports Meet in December 2018.


    The Ministry also finances states in establishing Ashram Schools. Till date, the Ministry has funded establishment of 1205 Ashram Schools with a capacity of around 1,15,500 seats. The Minister highlighted the recent scaling of Mount Everest by students of Ashram Schools from Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh.


    In some of the other important achievements highlighted by the Minister, Rs. 5405 crore worth scholarships have been disbursed in the last 4 years, benefitting around 30 lakh ST students every year under Pre/Post Matric Scholarships. Implementation of Post Graduate Fellowship scheme has been taken over from UGC and made online and DBT compliant. National Overseas Scholarship scheme has been made student-friendly, with online application process and allowing for flexibility in course choices and changes.


    He said that through the sustained developmental work undertaken by the Government, the number of Left Wing Extremism affected tribal districts has gone done considerably.


    Secretary, Ms. Leena Nair said that of the 115 Aspirational Districts as identified by Niti Ayog, MoTA is focussing on 40 tribal dominated Aspirational Districts. She also highlighted the Van Dhan Yojana launched by the Prime Minister this year for generating livelihood for tribals by harnessing non-timber forest produce having an estimated value of Rs 2 lakh crore per year. For this purpose, Van Dhan Vikas Kendras are being set up in various tribal districts across the country, she explained.


    MD TRIFED, Shri Pravir Krishna informed that TRIFED has achieved record sales of Rs. 20cr in 2017-18, a significant jump from sales of Rs. 11.37 cr in 2016-17. He also informed about the launch of Tribes India banner on major e-commerce portals and m-Tribes mobile app. He informed media persons that currently around 70,000 tribal artisans are enrolled with Tribes India for supply of products, and this number is expected to be increases to 1,50,000 soon. He also added that 40 major Aadi Mahotsavs are proposed to be organized this year, which may see participation of around 25000 tribals.


    For further details on achievements, please click on the link below:


    http://pibphoto.nic.in/documents/rlink/2018/jun/p201861402.pdf


    *****


    NB/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1535535) Visitor Counter : 721
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil