      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      KVIC distributes 2330 Bee-Boxes in Kashmir beating its own record
      Posted On: 12 JUN 2018 4:11PM by PIB Delhi


    KVIC Chairman distributing “bee boxes” in Kupwara


    KVIC has created a world record of distributing maximum number of bee-boxes in one day. This was achieved by the KVIC in the Zangalee Army area at Kupwara in Kashmir beating its previous best of 1000 bee boxes distributed in Kaziranga forest area among theMishing tribe on the occasion of World Honey Bee Day. Two thousand three hundred thirty(2330) bee-boxes were distributed among 233 beneficiaries in the Zangalee Army area.


    On this occasion, Jammu and Kashmir Deputy Chief Minister,Kavinder Gupta, said that the KVIC’s programmes could generate jobs in the valley.


    The KVIC Chairman,Vinai Kumar Saxena, said that the ‘Honey Mission’ is aimed to fulfil the call of Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, for a Sweet Kranti. The KVIC made an action plan named ‘Honey Mission’ – with a target to distribute 1.3 lakh bee-boxes before November 2018 across the country and so far 27,000 bee-boxes have already been distributed. The Chairman further added that KVIC is the nodal agency of Prime Minister Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP) under which loans will be provided for setting up units of processing, bottling, packaging and labelling units for the honey.


    The programme in Kupwara was held in association with the Indian Army under its Sadbhawna programmein order to establish peace and harmony in the valley.Major General C. B Ponappa, GOC Vajra Division Kupwara, in his address, said that such developmental programmes could play a pivotal role in establishing peace and harmony in Jammu and Kashmir.


    Indian Army helped in providing training and also provided 10 percent financefor setting up of theapiaries, thereby providing the beneficiaries a platform for earning livelihood.


    ***


    MM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1535159) Visitor Counter : 552
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali