      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Yoga at work helps keep the inner self calm and also aids in achieving maximum productivity: Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi
      
      WCD Ministry launches Yoga Day Contest: #YogaFor9to5

      Posted On: 11 JUN 2018 5:57PM by PIB Delhi

    The Ministry of Women and Child Development has launched '#YogaFor9to5’ : A contest focused on generating awareness regarding benefits of Yoga at Workplace for Women. The contest invites self-demonstration Videos & Pictures of Yoga Asanas being practiced during office hours. "The idea is to make people aware at large that effortless Yoga Asanas can help in transforming one’s lives especially during a hectic working day. Yoga at work helps keep the inner self calm and also aids in achieving the perfect balance between mind and body, to achieve maximum productivity at work," said Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi, Union Minister for Women & Child Development.


    The Ministry has been constantly engaging with netizens through regular online contests. For this contest, '#YogaFor9to5’ , the Ministry proposes to invite entries on easy Yoga Asanas which can calm Women during her work hours. The deadline for the contest is June 21, 2018. Interested participants can submit their applications in the form of a self-demonstration video or multiple pictures and mail it to creativecorner.mwcd@gmail.com


    International Yoga Day is celebrated globally in order to generate awareness about the benefits and life changing effects that Yoga has in our day to day lives. The Contest aims to imbibe Yoga in our daily lives especially during work. The Ministry supports the idea of inculcating yoga in our daily lives.


    The participants will be judged on the basis of elements of creativity, originality, composition, technical excellence, simplicity, artistic merit and visual impact.


    The WCD Ministry is actively engaging with the netizens on social media platforms by organizing contests to generate awareness on women and children issues. The recently held contests # Backtoschool and # MeriKhoj got overwhelming response. The Ministry has announced the winner in its recently held #LikeYouDoMaa Mother’s Day Contest on its Twitter Platform with handle @MinistryWCD and on its Facebook page @ministryWCD.


    ***


    AKR/NG/SKK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1535062) Visitor Counter : 721
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali