      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey releases 11th Common Review Mission (CRM) report
      Posted On: 18 JUN 2018 4:52PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare released the 11thCommon Review Mission (CRM) report of the National Health Mission, here today. Speaking at the function, Shri Choubey stated that India has registered a record 22% reduction in MMR since 2013,which is the highest percentage decline so far when compared to all the previous reductions in MMR as per the earlier rounds of SRS. “Maternal Mortality Ratio of India has declined from 167 in 2011-2013 to 130 in 2014-2016. It is because of the joint efforts of the Ministry and the States. I congratulate the States and all stakeholders associated with this achievement,”Shri Choubey said.


    Smt Preeti Sudan, Secretary (Health), Shri Manoj Jhalani, AS & MD andDr. S Venkatesh, DGHS was also present at the occasion.


    Addressing the participants, Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey said that 60% to 70% of health work in the States is done through NHM. NHM has a huge responsibility in making India healthy and disease free. He further said that it has led to improved health outcomes and health indicators due to strengthened system of healthcare delivery. “National Health Mission continues to play an important role in strengthening public health systems at the state and sub district levels, Shri Choubey stated.He was also of the view that state Health Ministers should also be adequately informed about NHM activities as this shall enhance their involvement in the programme.


    Smt Preeti Sudan, Secretary (Health & Family Welfare) stated that NHM is a great institutional framework as it helps to assimilate government structures, diverse working conditions and priorities existing in the states. She further added that NHM provides multi-sectoral flexibility and convergence to the States to implement shared health goals.


    Smt Preeti Sudan further said that the Ministry has undertaken to strengthen Sub Health Centres as Health and Wellness Centres (HWC-SHC) in a phased manner so as to meet the commitment of operationalizing 1,50,000 HWC by 2022. “One of the key elements is the midlevel provider in HWCs. We must focus on training them and enhancing their capacities,” she added.She further stated that the NMC Bill will enable flexibility in hiring manpower in the States. She suggested that NHM needs to look at Anti-microbial Resistance (AMR) especially in SNCUs and should ensure that they are infection free. She also emphasized on the need for developing specific time bound strategy for leprosy and kala-azar districts.


    The 11th CRM team visited 16 States/UTs, of which 4 were North-Eastern States, 6were High Focus States and 6were Non-High Focus States. The terms of reference include service delivery; quality assurance; RMNCH+A; human resources; community processes; information and knowledge; healthcare financing; procurement of drugs, diagnostics and supply chain management; NUHM; and governance and management. The CRM report spans all aspects of health system reform and uses a mix of methods- including secondary data review, rapid assessment of facilities, and implementer and beneficiary perspectives.


    ***


    MV/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1535780) Visitor Counter : 923
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil