      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      DG, NMCG Instructs Officials to Expedite Work on All 29 Projects in Bihar Under Namami Gange Programme
      Posted On: 20 JUN 2018 11:04AM by PIB Delhi


    Director General, National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) Shri Rajiv Ranjan Mishra held a review meeting yesterday in New Delhi about projects in Bihar under Namami Gange programme and urged the officials of the state government, executing agencies and contractors to expedite the work.


    In Bihar, presently, a total of 29 projects are sanctioned which are at various stages of implementation at a sanctioned cost of Rs. 4942.13 crore. In the meeting, it was decided that tenders will be called on sewerage projects in Munger, Hajipur, Begusarai and Bhagalpur by the end of this month.


    DG, NMCG also reviewed in detail the progress of 8 projects for which Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone in Mokama and Motihari on 14 th October 2017 and 10 th April 2018 respectively. While in Mokama foundation stone was laid for 4 projects in Beur and Karmalichak sewerage zones of Patna, in Motihari, PM laid the foundation stone for 4 projects in Pahari and Saidpur zones of Patna.


    The Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Nitin Gadkari had said during the signing of the concession agreement for the Mathura project on 13 th June 2018 that the Government is determined to clean the tributaries of Ganga as well. During yesterday’s meeting with the DG, a detailed discussion was carried out on the projects being taken up on the tributaries of Ganga in Bihar. The towns in Bihar for which Detailed Project Reports (DPRs) are being prepared are Supaul, Madhepura, Samastipur, Arwal, Gopalganj, Bagaha, Lakhisarai and Jamui. These projects will be taken up on Kosi, BurhiGandak, Mahananda, Sone, Gandak, Kiul and Bagmati tributaries of Ganga.


    DG, NMCG along with other senior officials took stock of the progress of all projects going on in Bihar under the Namami Gange programme. Apart from the representatives of the state government and the executing agencies, the meeting was also attended by the representatives of contractors. While urging the state government officials to ensure that deadlines are adhered to, DG, NMCG exhorted the contractors to expedite the work and keep to the timelines of the projects.


    *****


    NP/SKP/JK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1535964) Visitor Counter : 388
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil