      Ministry of Railways

      Chairman, Railway Board conducts review meeting with Central Railway and Western Railway
      Posted On: 18 JUN 2018 6:44PM by PIB Delhi


    Chairman Railway Board, Shri Ashwani Lohani held a review meeting regarding all the ongoing and future projects with General Manager, Central Railway, Shri D.K. Sharma and General Manager, Western Railway, Shri A.K. Gupta, at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Mumbai today. Shri Ashwani Lohani also held discussions with Mumbai Railway Vikas Corporation Ltd (MRVC) regarding capacity enhancement works under Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP), particularly Diva-Thane and Kurla-Parel 5th and 6th lines. On this occasion, Principal Heads of Departments of Central, Western Railways and MRVC were present. Presentation was given on various developmental works by Divisional Railway Managers Mumbai, Mumbai Central and also Director MRVC. Shri Ashwani Lohani also addressed Press and Media at the Heritage Hall before inspecting the station.


    Shri Ashwani Lohani first inaugurated the Self Ticketing Zone at the Suburban booking concourse (Star Chamber) where one can buy tickets through CoTVM, ATVM and QR code. Besides, Shri Lohani interacted with the UTS App booth staff popularising the app amongst the commuters. Mobile charging station was also inaugurated at CSMT main line concourse. The mobile charging station supports 12 direct charging and 8 USB charging points. Such stations will be provided at CSMT (total 7 stations), Dadar -4 and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus -5 soon.


    Shri Ashwani Lohani also inaugurated the child helpline 1098 day and night helpdesk at CSMT where destitute and run away kids are after identification sent to their homes back or to the shelter homes as the case may be. Such helpdesks are available at Lokmanya Tilak Terminus and Kalyan. Shri Lohani also met Ms. Rekha Mishra, who has rescued and united hundreds of destitute and runaway kids. Shri Lohani also met outstanding sports persons of Central Railway and appreciated their contribution to the Nation.


    General Manager, Central Railway, Shri D.K. Sharma then gave a presentation on the Self Propelled Inspection Car (SPIC) which has been converted from Diesel Power Car. Shri Lohani also inspected the 250th periodical overhauled (POH) Siemens EMU train. This POH is done by Matunga Workshop by replacing all conventional lights with LED, Screen Printing of instructions, Aluminium chequered plate on doorways, Polyurethane (PU) painting and intensive cleaning of the rake. Shri Lohani also inspected the passenger facilitation centre, signage board (you are here map) at CSMT. The facilitation centre is equipped with all basic amenities such as wheel chair, stretcher, battery operated cars, etc.


    During the meeting with branch managers of Mumbai Division, Chairman enquired from officers whether they regularly meet their staff or not. Shri Lohani reiterated the need to look after the well-being and welfare of the staff. Shri Lohani also enquired about the result of decentralisation of many powers. The feedback of staff was very encouraging. There has been remarkable momentum in execution of works due to decentralisation of powers. Shri Lohani also encouraged officers to come up with innovative ideas without any hesitation and fear for the betterment of the organisation.


    *****


    SBS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1535830) Visitor Counter : 473
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi