      Ministry of Home Affairs

      UK MoS for Countering Extremism, Baroness Williams meets MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju
      
      Shri Rijiju proposes India and the UK elevate bilateral dialogue on counter-terrorism to the ministerial level

      Posted On: 11 JUN 2018 6:39PM by PIB Delhi

    A delegation from the United Kingdom led by the Minister of State for Countering Extremism and Minister for Equalities, Baroness Williams of Trafford, held talks with the Indian delegation led by the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju here today. The discussions covered variety of important issues ranging from cooperation in matters of migration, tackling extremism, extradition, sharing of criminal records etc. During the meeting, Shri Rijiju also called for implementation of the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to check money laundering and terrorist financing.


    While underlining the need for cooperation in fighting international terrorism, Shri Rijiju said terrorism cannot be viewed with a prismatic view and urged the UK Minister to check anti-India activities on its soil. Baroness Williams assured cooperation of the highest level on this issue. Raising the issue of fugitive tycoons wanted by New Delhi for frauds and financial misappropriations, Shri Rijiju said Britain should not be viewed as a safe haven for men wanted by the law of the other country for various offences. He said while India respects the courts and will pursue the legal procedures in Britain to bring back wanted men, New Delhi expects the cooperation of the UK Government. Allaying concerns over prison conditions in India, Shri Rijiju said there are absolute safeguards against Human Rights violations in Indian prisons.


    In response to the UK Minister’s request for facilitating repatriation of illegal migrants, Shri Rijiju said that while the issue of timeframes is important, Government would like to reassure itself about the completion of verification before repatriation process begins. Shri Rijiju also lauded the cooperation of the UK Government on various international forums.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK/KGS/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1535078) Visitor Counter : 426
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil