      Ministry of Defence

      Year of Disabled Soldiers In Line of Duty
      Posted On: 18 JUN 2018 5:31PM by PIB Delhi


    To honour soldiers who have been disabled in line of duty, while serving the Nation and to celebrate the undying spirit of ‘Soldiering’, Indian Army is observing the year 2018 as the ‘Year of Disabled Soldiers in Line of Duty’. The primary focus is towards alleviating the sufferings of these soldiers, who have done their duty with utmost dedication to the Nation and have been disabled for the life.


    The endeavour this year is to provide a onetime financial assistance to disabled soldiers who have been boarded out from service on medical grounds and are rendered non-employable due to their medical or physical conditions.


    Indian Army recognizes the inherent stress and strain on such soldiers & their dependents and has well established rehabilitation programmes and beneficiary schemes but these require to be reinforced. The Government is considering proposal of major grant to establish a separate fund which can be further enhanced by contributions from individuals, establishments and corporate sector thus facilitating meaningful initiatives for disabled soldiers.


    Indian Army plans to create awareness on organizational support available to soldiers and their dependents with respect to medical, rehabilitation, various beneficiary schemes of Central and State Governments, vocational opportunities and assistance for their placement. Indian Army also plans to showcase talent of disabled soldiers by organizing sports and physical activities, cultural events and their art exhibitions. These disabled soldiers have inspiring deeds behind them, hence, it is planned to felicitate them along with selected organizations which dedicate in their rehabilitation.


    Management of disabled soldiers is an onerous responsibility. Indian Army plans to galvanise due support for the unemployable disabled soldier, his wife and his family with initial financial support to ensure a life of dignity through partially-funded entrepreneurship venture.


    Aman Anand


    Col PRO (Army)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1535789) Visitor Counter : 1003
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil