      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Shri J P Nadda highlights the achievements of the Health Ministry
      
      There are nearly 12,000 fewer maternal deaths in 2015 as compared to 2012: J P Nadda
      
      India has met the MDG target for MMR of 139/lakh live births: J P Nadda
      
      We will be signing MoUs with 14 States for implementing Ayusman Bharat-PMRSSM: J P Nadda
      Posted On: 11 JUN 2018 6:47PM by PIB Delhi


    “We are saving nearly 12,000 mothers in 2015 (mid-year) as compared to 2012. Compared to 44,000 earlier annual maternal deaths, now there are 32,000 maternal deaths only.” This was stated by Shri J P Nadda, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfareduring a press conference to highlight the achievements of 48 months of the Government, here today. Shri Nadda further said that India has registered a record 22% reduction in MMR since 2013, which is the highest percentage decline so far when compared to all the previous reductions in MMR as per the previous rounds of SRS.“India has met the MDG target for MMR of 139/lakh live births by achieving 130 by 2015. At this rate, we shallachieve SDG target of 70 by 2022, ahead of target timeline of 3030,” ShriNadda added.


    Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey and Smt Anupriya Patel, Ministers of State for Health and Family Welfare along with Smt Preeti Sudan, Secretary (Health) and Shri InduBhushan, CEO, Ayushman Bharat Missionwere also present at the press conference.


    Shri Nadda further stated that 10 States have already achieved the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) targets for MMR. The efforts of the government are paying off with Uttar Pradesh showing 30% decline in MMR since 2013. “Lifecycle approach and ‘continuum of care’ framework under RMNCH+A umbrella have strongly contributed to India meeting MDG target for MMR reduction, ShriNadda said.


    Reiterating the commitment of the government, the Union Health Minister said India’s vision of Universal health Coverage is based on assured range of comprehensive primary care, linked to robust secondary and tertiary care being translated through ‘Ayushman Bharat’ which spells out the country’s strategy of making universal healthcare a reality. “This will change the healthcare landscape in the country. We are moving as per the set timelines for implementing “Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya SwasthyaSuraksha Mission”. We shall be signing MoUs with 14 States very soon. Similarly, we shall convert 1.5 lakh primary health centres and sub-centres as Health and Wellness Centres. Approval has been given to 19,000 this year,” Shri Nadda stated.


    Addressing the conference, Shri Nadda further said that the Government has given total flexibility to the States to choose their health system and how it suits them the best and further Government is ready to provide the financial support also. “Under free Drugs and Diagnostics Service Initiative medicine worth Rs 14,000 crores have been disbursed in last 2.5 years,” Shri Nadda added. He further said that under Pradhan Mantri National Dialysis program, more than 2.38 lakh patients have been benefitted. Shri Nadda further said that the AMRIT outlets provide drugs for cancer, cardiovascular diseases including implants at 60-90% discount on prevailing market rates. These outlets have helped patients save Rs 346.59 crores so far.


    The Health Minister also stated that Cabinet has approved 8 new AIIMS atMangalagiri (Andhra Pradesh),Nagpur (Maharashtra),Kalyani (West Bengal),Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh),Bathinda (Punjab),Guwahati (Assam) andBilaspur (Himachal Pradesh).


    Shri Manoj Jhalani, AS & MD (NHM), Shri R K Vats, Additional Secretary, Smt Vandana Gurnani, Joint Secretary, along with the Health Secretaries and other senior officers of the Ministry were also present at the conference.


    ***


    MV/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1535081) Visitor Counter : 890
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil