      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Activities being planned by CAPFs to observe International Day of Yoga
      Posted On: 15 JUN 2018 4:48PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) – Border Security Force (BSF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and National Security Guard (NSG) have lined up Yoga competitions and training camps on the occasion of 4 th International Day of Yoga (IDY) being observed on 21 st June, 2018.


    The BSF has planned to celebrate IDY at 25 Bn BSF, Chhawla Camp New Delhi. The Programme will be organized by conducting a Yoga session in which BSF troops including Officers with their wives, SOs & ORs serving in Delhi will participate. In addition to all field formations, BSF will also organize Yoga demonstrations in 04 State Capital/Prominent City i.e Kolkata, Agartala, Ahmedabad and Bengaluru in which maximum personnel of CAPFs deployed in nearby locations will participate. Similarly, all field formations are planning to celebrate the day with full zest & dedication at respective locations by utilizing services of Master Yoga trainers trained from Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY) and Yoga trainers trained from Patanjali Yogpeeth and Isha Foundation to lead Mass Yoga Demonstrations. The BSF will encourage Local population residing near the campuses and bordering areas for participation in the programme and to create awareness about the Yoga’s importance in our life.


    The CRPF will celebrate IDY at SDG ground, Old JNU Campus, New Delhi. Approximately 200 officers/personnel will participate in Yoga programme. Apart from this, programmes will also be organized at all Offices/Institutions/Bns. The Yoga fests, Seminars, Workshop, Musical & cultural programmed based on the yoga will also be organized and best performer awarded. In-Situ Yoga will be performed at all locations for CRPF personnel and their families following the common Yoga protocol. Competitions will be held to inspire employees especially the younger generation. Renowned personalities from the field of Yoga education will also be called to generate interest about Yoga among all personnel and family members of jawans.


    The National Security Guard (NSG) will organise a Yoga session at NSG Stadium, Manesar, Gurugram.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1535637) Visitor Counter : 654
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi