      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh to participate in Yoga Day activities in Lucknow
      
      CAPFs and Delhi Police to organise various activities to observe Yoga Day

      Posted On: 18 JUN 2018 4:34PM by PIB Delhi

    On the occasion of 4 th International Yoga Day, 2000 CAPFs personnel will participate in the function which will be held at Forest Research Institute (FRI) Dehradun, Uttarakhand. The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will also participate in this event. In Lucknow, 2,000 CAPFs personnel (SSB/CRPF/ITBP) will participate in Yoga Demonstration in which the Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh will participate.


    The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) has been designated as the Nodal Force for coordination among CAPFs for Mass Yoga Demonstration at Dehradun. The ITBP troops will also participate in Yoga sessions at various locations across the country. Border Out Posts (BOPs) of the Force across the Himalayan border will also observe the day with active participation of Himveers at high altitude areas. Apart from this, ITBP jawans will take part in Yogabhyas being organised in different cities of J&K, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.


    In Delhi, Yoga demonstration is being organised by NDMC at Rajpath and CISF being the Nodal force for Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) of said function will coordinate with concerned authorities of NDMC for participation of 1,000 CAPF personnel. About 2,000 CAPF’s women personnel (700 CRPF, 600 CISF, 300 BSF, 200 ITBP, 150 SSB and 50 Assam Rifles) will do Yoga at Red Fort on 21 st June 2018. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) has been designated as Nodal Force to conduct Yoga demonstrations in Delhi, Mumbai and Hyderabad. Also, in-situ Yoga will be performed at all CISF Units, Reserve Battalions, Training Institutions & Office establishments by following the Common Yoga Protocol. The Mobile App. Named ‘Yoga Locator’, launched by Ministry of AYUSH, which provides ongoing details of Yoga activities in surrounding areas, is being downloaded by all CISF Units/field formations for availing the facility.


    The SSB will be organizing a Mass Yoga Demonstration as Nodal Force in State Capitals/Prominent cities in which 1,000 personnel of CAPFs will participate i.e. Shimla, Patna, Guwahati and Gangtok. In addition, SSB personnel will participate in the Yoga in all other state capitals in collaboration with nominated Nodal Force of concerned state where SSB is deployed. All 6 Frontiers, 18 Sectors, Training Centres and 73 Battalions of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) will be celebrating the 4th International Yoga Day on 21 st June 2018 at their establishments. All the senior officers and official of Force Hqrs SSB will participate in Yoga event in the premises of 25 th Bn SSB Ghitorni, New Delhi. SSB is also planning to organize Yoga Fests, Seminars, Workshops, Cultural programme on Yoga at field formations deployed on Indo-Nepal and Indo-Bhutan Borders.


    The Delhi Police is also organising various activities on Yoga Day. A dedicated Yoga Cell has been created in Delhi Police, which is relentlessly educating personnel about importance of Yoga in working atmosphere. The Cell has organized 967 Yoga related programmes with participation of more than 55,000 personnel. Delhi Police has been holding a centralized event, besides other events at District/Units level to celebrate International Yoga Day for the last two years. Last year, Delhi Police had held the event at Ramlila Ground with participation of 2,000 personnel, including C.P./Delhi and senior officers. Further, Welfare unit as well as other District/Units have been organizing Yoga Camps for police personnel on regular intervals. This year, total 216 Yoga Camps have been organized in different Units/Districts with participation of around 10,000 personnel. It is planned to hold an event at Thyagraj Sports Complex, Laxmi Bai Nagar. Around 2,000 personnel from various Units will take part in the event in presence of C.P/Delhi and other senior officers. Common Yoga Protocol and Yoga CDs have been distributed amongst the participants, in coordination with Ayush Ministry and agencies.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1535776) Visitor Counter : 452
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil