      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh felicitates the students of ‘Kashmir Super 30’ initiative qualifying for JEE (Mains & Advance), 2017-18
      Posted On: 12 JUN 2018 5:42PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh felicitated the students from Jammu and Kashmir (supported by ‘Kashmir Super 30’ Project) who have qualified for the JEE (Main & Advance), 2017-18, at a function organised here today.


    These students belong to the ‘Kashmir Super 30’ initiative of Indian Army, training partner Petronet LNG Limited (PLL) and Centre for Social Responsibility and Leadership (CSRL). The project aims to support the talented underprivileged students of the economically weaker sections of the State to achieve educational success by providing engineering entrance exam coaching. Total 50 students were enrolled under the project this year and in the result declared of JEE this year, 32 students have qualified the JEE Mains Exam, 2017-18. Out of these successful students, 7 students have cracked the JEE Advance test and made it to the prestigious IITs.


    Dr Jitendra Singh congratulated the students and their mentors for their achievement. While interacting with the Minister, the students shared their experiences about their journey. The students thanked the Indian Army, Petronet LNG Limited (PLL) and Centre for Social Responsibility and Leadership (CSRL), for supporting them in their efforts.


    While addressing the students, Dr Jitendra Singh said that these students have set an example before others to follow. He complemented the Indian Army, PLL & CSRL, for their contribution in supporting these students. He appreciated the students for their hard work and focussed approach. He said that we have one of the best talents in the State. The Minister added that under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, various new schemes have been initiated which are youth-centric like Start-up India, Stand-up India and the youth of country are getting benefitted due to these schemes.


    The Minister said that the students of remote and peripheral areas earlier were at disadvantage because of constraint of resources and lack of material available for studying. But now with the changing times and onset of latest technology, the information is easily available to them and there is no dearth of study material. This has helped the students from remote areas to achieve their goal in life, he added.


    The Minister also advised the organisers to explore the possibility of expanding their noble initiative in other areas and fields, which will be of great help to the underprivileged sections of society. He also advised them to use latest technology like tele-education for giving lectures to the students studying in remote areas.


    
    Brigadier A. Sridhar, Commander, 19 Artillery Brigade, Shri Rajesh Singh, Director (Tech), PLL and other officials were also present on the occasion.


    ***** ***


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1535183) Visitor Counter : 500
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi