      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Chairman, NCSK discusses various issues of Safai Karamcharis of NDMC With Chairman, NDMC
      
      Distributes Reinforced Prior Learning (RPL) Certificates to 25 Safai Karamcharis of NDMC and unveils newly acquired wheel barrows
      
      Posted On: 19 JUN 2018 4:54PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Manhar Valji Bhai Zala, Chairman of of National Commission for SafaiKaramcharis (NCSK) along with the MemberSmt. Manju Dilermet Shri Naresh Kumar, Chairman and other senior officers of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) at NDMC Headquarters today to discuss various issues of Safai Karamcharis and follow up action by NDMC on Commission’s earlier recommendations/directions. Shri Naresh Kumar, Chairman, NDMC briefed them about the new initiatives and steps taken by the Council for the welfare of the Safai Karamcharis. Representatives of SafaiKaramcharis of the Council were also present in the meeting.


    ShriZala and Smt. Manju Diler distributed Reinforced Prior Learning (RPL) certificates to 25 Safai Karamcharis of NDMC. They also unveiled the newly acquired wheel barrows which will simplify the work of the Safai Karamcharis.


    Shri Zala raised the issue of exploitation of contractual Safai Karamcharis by their contractors and exhorted the council to explore the possibility of direct hiring of Safai Karamcharis on contract basis instead of leaving them at the mercy of the unscrupulous contractors. He also expressed his dismay at the large number of compassionate appointment cases pending in the Council due to ceiling of 5% on such appointment. In this regard, he suggested the Council to pursue the matter with the Central Government for seeking relaxation of this condition in the case of Safai Karamcharis. After listening to the demands of the Safai Karamcharis present in the meeting, Shri Zala directed the Council for converting Temporary Muster Roll workers into Regular Muster Roll and Regular Muster Roll into Permanent workers. A demand for allotment of houses by the Council was also made by the Safai Karamcharis. In this regard, while acknowledging the shortage of accommodation with the Council, Shri Zala advised the Safai Karamcharis to acquire their own houses under Pradhan Mantri AwasYojana. The Chairman and Member of the Commission also impressed upon the Council to provide necessary safety kits/gears to the Safai Karamcharis to carry out their job.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E/19-06-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1535898) Visitor Counter : 326
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi