      Ministry of Shipping

      ‘Sagarmala’ receives Gold Award at the 52nd Skoch Summit 2018
      Posted On: 27 JUN 2018 5:21PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Shipping’s flagship programme for port-led-prosperity ‘Sagarmala’ received the ‘ Gold Award’ in infrastructure sector in the recently concluded 52nd Skoch Summit 2018 in New Delhi, recognizing the programmes’s contribution to India’s socio-economic transformation and it's role in propelling fast-track growth and infrastructure development. The Sagarmala Programme also received the ‘Order of Merit’ at the Summit. The Secretary (Shipping) Sh. Gopal Krishna shared the award with Minister for Shipping, Road Transport & Highways, Water Resources, River Develooment and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri. Nitin Gadkari today.


    The Skoch Awards recognize leadership and excellence in accelerating socio-economic changes. These a wards have become a benchmark of best practices in India in the fields of governance, infrastructure, finance, banking, technology, corporate citizenship, economics and inclusive growth.


    The Joint Secretary (Sagarmala), Ministry of Shipping, Sh. Kailash Kumar Aggarwalreceived the award from Shri SameerKochar, Chairman, Skoch Group and Shri Gopal Krishna, Secretary, Ministry of Shipping, who was the Chief Guest at the valedictory session of the awards ceremony. The ‘Order of Merit’ was received by Shri. Abhishek Chandra, Deputy Secretary (Sagarmala) Ministry of Shipping.


    Sagarmala is the flagship programme of the Ministry of Shipping for port-led-development of the country through harnessing India’s 7,500 km long coastline, 14,500 km of potentially navigable waterways and strategic location of India on key international maritime trade route. The Sagarmala Programme hinges on four pillars, namely; Port Modernization, Port Connectivity, Port-linked Industrialization and Coastal Community Development. The programme aims to double the share of domestic waterways (inland & coastal) in the modal mix, generate logistic cost savings of Rs. 35,000-40,000 Cr per annum, boost merchandize exports by USD 110 Billion and enable creation of 1 Crore new jobs, including 40 Lac direct jobs, in the next 10 years.


    Under Sagarmala programme, more than 576 projects with an estimated project cost of Rs. 8.7 Lac Crore have been identified for implementation over 20 years. Development would be done across areas of port modernization and new port development, enhancing connectivity of ports, industrialization linked to ports and coastal community development. Out of 576 projects identified, 69 projects worth over Rs. 13,500 Crore have already been completed so far and another 424 projects worth over Rs. 4.1 Lac Crore are under various stages of implementation and development. Around 97 projects worth over Rs. 38,000 Crore are expected to be completed this year.


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, had given its ‘in-principle’ approval for the concept and institutional framework of Sagarmala Project on 25 th May 2015. The National Perspective Plan (NPP) was released by the Prime Minister Sh. Narendra Modi during the inaugural Maritime India Summit held in April 2016, in Mumbai.


    The Secretary (Shipping) Sh. Gopal Krishna shared the award with Minister for Shipping, Road Transport & Highways, Water Resources and Ganga Rejuvenation Sh. Nitin Gadkari at his office today.


    The Ministry of Shipping’s flagship programme for port-led-prosperity ‘Sagarmala’ received the ‘ Gold Award’ in infrastructure sector in the recently concluded 52nd Skoch Summit 2018 at New Delhi.


    ****


    NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536779) Visitor Counter : 859