      AYUSH

      Instead of Increasing Suffering, Yoga Heals, Yoga is Beautiful because it is ancient yet modern, It is Constant yet Evolving: Prime Minister
      
      4th International Day of Yoga celebrated

      Posted On: 21 JUN 2018 12:50PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has stated that the way to lead a calm, creative & content life is Yoga. “It can show the way in defeating tensions and mindless anxiety. Instead of dividing, Yoga unites.” He was addressing the main event of the 4 th International day of Yoga, which was celebrated at the Forest Research Institute(FRI) in Dehradun here today. Shri Krishna Kant Paul, Governor, Uttarakhand; Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat, Chief Minister, Uttarakhand, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik, Minister of State (I/C), Ministry of AYUSH and Shri Harak Singh Rawat, Uttarakhand State Minister (AYUSH) also attended the event.


    During his address the Prime Minister further said that, “Instead of increasing suffering, Yoga heals. Yoga is beautiful because it is ancient yet modern, it is constant yet evolving. It has the best of our past and presents and a ray of hope for our future. In Yoga, we have the perfect solution to the problems we face, either as individuals or in our society. The world has embraced Yoga and glimpses of this can be seen in the manner in which International Day of Yoga has been marked every year. In fact, Yoga Day has become one of the biggest mass movements in the quest for good health and well-being.”.


    More than 50000 people performed yoga on the sprawling FRI lawns in the event. Yoga enthusiasts across India and from several countries took their places to demonstrate the ancient practice. This was just one of the numerous places across the world marking the 4th International Day of Yoga. In his opening remarks Uttarakhand Chief minister stated that Yoga is not only a movement towards wellness but holistic happiness. The path to increasing gross domestic happiness goes through the practice of Yoga, he added.


    Shri Shripad Yesso Naik, MoS (I/C), Minister of AYUSH during his address stated that the public health issues and capacity of Yoga to solve them in the context of our nation’s socio-economic conditions need to be propagated fully. He further said that 60 representatives from various countries are participating in Yoga Tour in India which culminates today. Ministry of AYUSH has established Yoga Pramanan board to certify the Yoga practitioners and connected organisations, the minister informed. It has also set-up Yoga Parks across the country to give impetus to the practice, he further added.


    International Yoga Day is being celebrated all over India with many central ministers leading the events in various states.


    ****


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536111) Visitor Counter : 492
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Urdu , Marathi