      Ministry of Home Affairs

      19th All India Conference of Directors of Finger Print Bureaux concludes in Hyderabad
      Posted On: 22 JUN 2018 8:02PM by PIB Delhi


    The valedictory function of the two-day 19 th All India Conference of Directors of Finger Print Bureaux was held in Hyderabad today. The Chief Guest, Shri Naini Narsimha Reddy, Minister of Home, Telangana said the state government has strengthened the Police force. He said reorganization of the districts has led to decentralization of powers, resulting in improvement in the district administration. The Telangana State Police has been successful in reducing and preventing crime, he observed.


    Shri Rajiv Trivedi, Principal Secretary for Home, Telangana, in his speech, said training and increasing the capacity of manpower and mobility has improved policing in the state. Social schemes are implemented successfully with the wide usage of biometrics.


    In his address, Shri M. Mahendar Reddy, DGP, Telangana, said Finger Printing is a great tool to detect the offenders for prosecuting them successful. Use of scientific tools improves conviction rate, confidence of the citizens and makes the police investigations transparent and accountable.


    Addressing the conference, Dr. Ish Kumar, Director, NCRB said that that FP research, CCIS software, Vahan Samanvay, Talash, FICN, IMOT, CCTNS, link with ICJS are some of the works done by NCRB; latest works being creation of registry for sex offenders, economic offenders and cyber offenders. He said that the Union Government has agreed for the CCTNS phase 2 wherein NAFIS would be a part and involve planning for technical refresh, fresh solutions for the States, besides filling the gaps of Phase-1 in CCTNS. He also mentioned plans to create C-Mac.


    Shri Sanjay Mathur, JD (CCTNS), NCRB, read out of the recommendations of the Conference. The prominent recommendations being establishing interconnectivity through NAFIS, issue of special medal for finger print fraternity, to change the nomenclature of the conference to ‘All India Conference of Fingerprint science’, to have a unique number throughout the country to establish uniformity, to modernize FPBx, creation of database for suspects, amendment of Identification of Prisoners Act and to change the name to Identification of Arrested and Suspect Act, and creation of three committees to study various issues.


    Later the Chief Guest Shri Naini Narsimha Reddy released a book titled “Award of excellence in FP Identification / science competition-compilation of cases” and presented certificates and Mementos.


    Earlier, deliberations were held on issues related to legal, administration, training, standardisation of fingerprint slips, qualification of candidates appearing for AIBE and capacity building of fingerprint experts. Shri M.N. Krishnamurthy, former DSP, Karnataka state and Smt. Vaijayanti, Director of Prosecution of Telangan expressed their opinions on amendments to the Identification of Prisoners Act 1920 and concluded that amendments are essential to enact a concrete law to include other biometrics as Iris, palm, hand geometry, face and DNA. They said that as crime is not static, technology has to be update, and also law should not be static and be amended accordingly. It was also suggested that safeguards should be included so that innocents are not implicated.


    Students from universities and experts from CFPB/NCRB presented research papers on latest work in the field of fingerprints. The sessions incuded demonstrations by the vendors of the Fingerprint equipment.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536349) Visitor Counter : 452