      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      MoS Dr Jitendra Singh to participate in Yoga Day activities in Jammu tomorrow
      
      Various activities organised by Ministry of Personnel, Pubic Grievances & Pensions as a run up to International Day of Yoga

      Posted On: 20 JUN 2018 7:18PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh will participate in the Yoga Day activities in Jammu on the occasion of 4 th International Day of Yoga tomorrow.


    The Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions organised various activities in the run up to the International Day of Yoga. The Department of Personnel & Training (DoPT) has organised Yoga training classes for the employees working at North Block. Various special classes on breathing exercises were also held.


    T he Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances (DAR&PG) organized these activities in its premises at Sardar Patel Bhawan. The Department conducted Yoga Classes for the active participation of the employees. Yoga classes were conducted by Yoga Guru, Dr. Satinder Singh on common yoga asanas which witnessed enthusiastic participation of employees. The Department shared Prayer and Common Yoga Protocol videos on Social Media Platforms of Ministry of AYUSH in the Social Media Accounts i.e. Twitter and Facebook of DARPG for wider dissemination of the invaluable information to benefit the various strata of population for their well-being.


    Similarly, Department of Pensions & Pensioners’ Welfare has been organising three-day (19 th -21 st June) Yoga classes for the benefit of its employees. A Yoga Guru from the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga was invited to train employees on various Yoga asanas. He also guided the employees on leading a healthy lifestyle and specific Yoga asanas for particular diseases.


    *****


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536076) Visitor Counter : 157
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi