      Ministry of Education

      Teachers of Government schools can now directly apply for National Teachers’ Award – Shri Prakash Javadekar
      Posted On: 20 JUN 2018 4:52PM by PIB Delhi


    Teachers of Government schools can now send their entries directly for National Award for Teachers. Announcing this, Union Minister for Human Resource Development Shri Prakash Javadekar said that this is a new initiative, as earlier entries were selected by the State Government. He said that Government Teachers themselves can apply for National Award for Teachers. In the new system, Government teachers/heads of schools can nominate themselves online. Three teachers will be selected from every district; likewise upto 6 teachers will be selected from every state. An independent jury at national level will select 50 outstanding teachers/ heads of schools for the National award for Teachers. Teachers can also upload the videos of their work done.


    Shri Javadekar said National jury will select the best teachers for the National Award on the basis of their innovations and revolutionary changes in education system and style of teachings. The purpose of National Award to the Teachers is to celebrate the unique contribution of some of the finest teachers in the country and to honor those teachers, who through their commitment have not only improved the quality of school education but also enriched the lives of their students.


    All teachers working in Government and Government aided schools of States/ UTs, Central Govt. Schools i.e. Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs), Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNVs), Central Schools for Tibetans (CTSA), Sainik Schools run by Ministry of Defence (MoD), Schools run by Atomic Energy Education Society (AEES) and schools affiliated to C.B.S.E. and C.I.S.C.E. are eligible to apply for National Award for Teachers.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/YP/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1536023) Visitor Counter : 527
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi