      Ministry of Finance

      PM to inaugurate the Third AIIB Annual Meeting 2018
      Posted On: 22 JUN 2018 3:56PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Government of India and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) will jointly host the third Annual Meeting of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) on June 25-26, 2018 at Hotel Trident/Oberoi and NCPA, Mumbai, India.


    The theme for this year’s meeting is *“Mobilizing Finance for Infrastructure: Innovation and Collaboration”* that will see leaders from varied organizations and levels of government to share ideas and experiences for creating a sustainable future through sound infrastructure investment.


    This year will also see the launch of the inaugural Asian Infrastructure Forum, which will gather infrastructure practitioners in a practical and project-driven discourse, focused on matching innovative finance to critical infrastructure needs.


    The two-day meeting will witness the presence of top policy makers, Ministers from AIIB members, participants from partner institutions, the private sector and civil society organizations. Moreover, leading experts from a range of fields will be present to lead discussions and share insights on addressing Asia’s infrastructure gap in an environmentally and socially friendly way.


    Apart from several high-ranking government officials gracing the occasion, Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, Shri. Narendra Modi will inaugurate the third Annual Meeting of AIIB on June 26, 2018. Furthermore, Mr. Piyush Goyal, Hon’ble Finance Minister, and Mr. Subhash Chandra Garg, Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance will also be present during the course of the meeting, to discuss the environmental landscape of investing in infrastructure plans in India and also share an overview about the third Annual Meeting.


    Industries Department, Government of Maharastra is the nodal Department, Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Government of Maharashtra is the nodal agency, Confedartion of Indian Industry (CII) is the Professional Conference Organiser (PCO), Research and Information Systems for Developing Countries (RIS) is the knowledge partner, for the third Annual Meeting of AIIB.


    In the run up to the Annual Meeting 2018, the Government of India has organised a number of lead up events in different cities in India from February to June 2018, aimed to stimulate debates on several important themes of infrastructure.


    During the Annual Meeting, there will be several seminars that focus on topics including mobilizing finance for infrastructure, gender and infrastructure and connectivity within and beyond Asia. There will also be Host Country Seminars on topics including the sources and instruments of financing and new technology choices and alternatives, and a panel discussion with Chief Ministers on the vision of infrastructure development in India.


    The Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Government of India, in partnership with the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI), is also organising an exhibition “India Infrastructure Expo 2018. The objective of the exhibition is to offer companies from the public and private sector to showcase their latest solutions, technologies and offerings in the realm of infrastructure project development and delivery.


    *For more details on the exhibition, log on to http://aiib-am2018.gov.in/exhibition.php*


    *To know more about Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank third Annual Meeting log on to:*


    http://aiib-am2018.gov.in/


    https://www.aiib.org/


    Hashtag: #AIIB2018


    *Twitter:* @AIIB_Official @FinMinIndia @PIBMumbai & @PIB_India


    In the past, AIIB annual meetings were held at Beijing, China in 2016 and Jeju, Republic of Korea in 2017.


    *About AIIB*


    The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) is a multilateral development bank with a mission to improve social and economic outcomes in Asia and beyond. Headquartered in Beijing, we commenced operations in January 2016 and have now grown to 86 approved members from around the world. By investing in sustainable infrastructure and other productive sectors today, we will better connect people, services and markets that over time will impact the lives of billions and build a better future.


    DSM/RM/NW

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536286) Visitor Counter : 2107
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali , Tamil , Malayalam