      Ministry of Corporate Affairs

      MCA invites comments from stakeholders on introductory note and draft on Cross-Border Insolvency
      Posted On: 20 JUN 2018 6:17PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), Government of India, invites comments and views from stakeholders on introductory note and draft on ‘Cross-Border Insolvency. The MCA is keen to introduce a globally accepted and well-recognised cross-border insolvency framework, fine-tuned to suit the needs of aspirational Indian economy. The Government has taken initiative for Cross-Border Insolvency within the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (the Code) to provide a comprehensive legal framework.


    As the size of the Indian economy grows, business and trade have adopted an increasingly international character. Creditors and corporates frequently transact business in more than one jurisdiction. Foreign banks and creditors finance Indian companies and Indian banks have foreign exposure. Moreover, as part of its Ease of Doing Business and Make in India policies, India seeks to attract foreign companies to set up manufacturing facilities in India. Global experience demonstrates that cross-border investment decisions and their outcomes, are considerably affected by the insolvency laws in force in a country. Towards this end, even though the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (“Code”) has resulted in significant improvement in India’s insolvency regime, there is a need to include cross-border insolvency in the Code to provide a comprehensive insolvency framework.


    Inclusion of cross-border insolvency framework will further enhance ‘ease of doing business’, provide a mechanism of cooperation between India and other countries in the area of insolvency resolution, and protect creditors in the global scenario. Furthermore, it will make India an attractive investment destination for foreign creditors given the increased predictability and certainty of the insolvency framework.


    On the global scale, the UNCITRAL (United Nations Commission on International Trade Law) Model Law on Cross-Border Insolvency, 1997 (“Model Law”) has emerged as the most widely accepted legal framework to deal with cross-border insolvency issues while ensuring the least intrusion into the country’s domestic insolvency law. Due to the growing prevalence of multinational insolvencies, the Model Law has been adopted by 44 States till date, including Singapore, UK and US.


    Introductory note and draft on Cross-Border Insolvency have been uploaded on MCA website mca.gov.in . Suggestions on the draft on Cross-Border Insolvency are invited from the stakeholders to further enhance the same and ensure views after wider consultation are incorporated. Suggestions in the format prescribed in public notice on MCA website may be mailed to the email id: crossborder@mca.gov.in till 30.06.2018.


    ****


    DSM/RM/KMN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536053) Visitor Counter : 377