      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      All possible steps will be taken to make Kannur Airport fully operational by September – Shri Suresh Prabhu
      
      Keen to provide air connectivity, develop commodities, create infrastructure and developmarine sector and tourism in Kerala

      Posted On: 23 JUN 2018 4:01PM by PIB Delhi

    The Minister for Civil Aviation Shri Suresh Prabhu has said that the Kannur airport will be provided with all possible help to make it fully operational by September this year. After meeting with Kerala Chief Minister Shri Pinarayi Vijayan, Shri Prabhu has directed Chairman, Airport Authority of India and other officials from the Ministry to take all possible steps to make Kannur Airport as a point of call for foreign airlines.


    During the meeting, the Kerala Chief Minister has requested for the intervention of Civil Aviation Minister for granting permission to foreign airlines to operate from Kannur and direct Indian airlines to operate more international flights from Kannur. Shri Prabhu assured the Chief Minister that all possible steps will be taken to make Kannur as a fully operational international airport.


    During the meeting Shri Prabhu has asked the Chief Minister of Kerala to submit a proposal to develop tourism sector in Kerala. He said that the Commerce Ministry has identified 12 champion sectors in which Tourism is also a part. Union cabinet has allocated Rs 5000 crores towards development of these champion sectors.The Commerce Minister has also informed the Chief Minister about the efforts taken to develop marine industry in Kerala. “I spoke to Japanese, Chinese, Koreans and others about setting up processing factories for marine products in Kerala and other parts of India as this would add to creation of employment. This will also make the foreign markets available to Indian fishermen. Our idea is to develop commodities, create infrastructure, develop tourism and provide air connectivity inKerala. We are also working on making Kerala a hub for logistics”, Shri Prabhu added.


    *****


    MM/RC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536366) Visitor Counter : 373