      President's Secretariat

      President of India Participates in the Fourth International Yoga Day Celebrations in Suriname; Says Yoga is Part of Humanity’s Intangible Heritage and in Today’s World of Stresses and Lifestyle Diseases, it Can Help all of us
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2018 7:32PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, participated in the 4 th International Yoga Day celebrations in Paramaribo, Suriname today (June 21, 2018) along with the President of Suriname, Mr Desiré Delano Bouterse, the Vice President of Suriname, Mr Michael Ashwin Adhin and other dignitaries.


    Addressing the gathering, the President said that yoga is an ancient Indian tradition, but it does not belong to India alone. It is part of humanity’s intangible heritage. Millions across the world, in every continent and among all communities, have embraced yoga and interpreted yoga in their own way. The practice of yoga has had a beneficial impact on their bodies as well as their minds. Particularly in today’s world of stresses and lifestyle diseases, yoga can help all of us.


    The President said that yoga embodies the symbiotic relationship of mind and body; and of thought and action. It promotes harmony between human beings and nature, a sentiment that is so much at home in the culture of Suriname. It promotes a holistic approach to health and wellbeing. The benefits of yoga must also spur us, in different countries and cultures, to explore traditional wisdom and consider how this could be useful for the modern age – or simply repackaged for our times. Many societies, including Suriname and India, have a wealth of traditional knowledge to offer.


    The President said that along with Suriname and India, the fourth International Day of Yoga is being celebrated in practically every country in the world. Yoga is the ultimate expression of Indian soft power. It has won us love and affection among yoga practitioners in all corners of the planet, including in Suriname.


    Later today, the President also laid the foundation stone of an Indian Cultural Centre in Paramaribo. The Indian Cultural Centre in Suriname will be dedicated to the promotion of Hindustani music and culture. Later, he will be leave for Cuba - the last leg of his visit to three nations.


    Yesterday (June 20, 2018), the President attended a luncheon banquet hosted in his honour by the President of Suriname. He also addressed a community reception in Paramaribo.


    Speaking at the banquet, the President said that Suriname is part of the “New World’’. People and ideas from far and wide have mingled in Suriname. Whoever came to these shores soon became its own. He paid his deepest respects to the people of Suriname for this togetherness. He stated that he found it a truly humbling experience to have set foot in Suriname among the celebration of the 145th Anniversary of the arrival of Indians to Suriname.


    The President said that India and Suriname have an engaging relationship. There is high potential to enhance trade and investment relations between the two countries. Agriculture, tourism, forestry, mining, energy and health are areas which we need to explore.


    At the community reception yesterday (20.06.2018), the President said that the Hindustani community is a colourful part of the Surinamese fabric. He was happy to note that the Hindustani community has beautifully assimilated in the Surinamese society and yet, has preserved and kept their traditions and culture alive.


    ***


    AKT/KP/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536234) Visitor Counter : 423
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil