      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Workshop on End of Pipe Treatment of Waste Water entering River Yamuna & Ghaggar organised in New Delhi
      
      Database on towns along River Yamuna to be prepared; reuse of treated waste water to be promoted

      Posted On: 22 JUN 2018 6:23PM by PIB Delhi

    A workshop on “End of Pipe Treatment of Waste Water Entering River Yamuna and Ghaggar” was organised today by Public Health Engineering Department, Haryana during which a detailed discussion on pollution in River Yamuna took place and new technologies for sewage treatment were deliberated upon.


    Addressing the gathering, Shri U.P. Singh, Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation said: “Cleaning of tributaries of River Ganga is also the mandate of Namami Gange programme and projects on Rivers like Yamuna are being taken up.” Speaking on the relationship between River Cleaning and Water Conservation, Shri Singh added: “Steps like recharge of groundwater, rejuvenation of water bodies etc. are important for River Rejuvenation and should be worked upon.”


    DG, NMCG Shri Rajiv Ranjan Mishra informed the gathering about the MoU which has been signed between NMCG and Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL) for reuse of treated waste water in Mathura, a town on River Yamuna where project under Hybrid Annuity mode has been taken up. Stressing on the need to promote reuse of treated waste water Shri Mishra added that such partnerships are the need-of-the-hour and that NMCG has also signed MoUs with railway and power ministries for reuse of treated waste water. NMCG offered to provide technical support in developing projects on the line of “One-City-One-Operator” under Hybrid Annuity-PPP mode.


    During the workshop, a need to focus on preparing a comprehensive database on towns and villages along River Yamuna was stressed upon. Yamuna Nagar, Karnal, Panipat, Sonipat and Faridabad are some of the major towns along River Yamuna in Haryana.


    Under Namami Gange programme, two interventions have already been made for two projects in Panipat and Sonipat sanctioned at a cost of Rs. 217.87 crore for creation of 70 MLD STP capacity and rehabilitation of 75 MLD STP capacity.


    Some of the topics which were discussed during the workshop are “Suitable technologies available for treatment of waste water flowing in drains”, “Using Micro-Irrigation technology and use of wastewater for irrigation”, “Adaptability of various treatment technologies with respect to treatment of waste water entering River Yamuna” etc.


    *****


    SKP/rv


    

    
    (Release ID: 1536323) Visitor Counter : 321