      President's Secretariat

      President Hosts President of Seychelles; Says India and Seychelles Need to Work Together as Partners in Strengthening the Regional Architecture of the Indian Ocean
      Posted On: 25 JUN 2018 8:59PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, received His Excellency Mr Danny Antoine Rollen Faure, the President of the Republic of Seychelles, at Rashtrapati Bhavan today (June 26, 2018). He also hosted a banquet in his honour.


    Welcoming President Danny Faure to India , the President said that India recognises the leadership role of Seychelles in Small Island Developing States (SIDS), Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA) and on climate change and maritime security issues. Seychelles has also emerged as the top African country in the Human Development Index. It has consistently figured among the top five ranking countries in Africa for overall governance. He complimented the Government of Seychelles for these extraordinary achievements.


    The President said that India and Seychelles have a very special relationship, built on the foundation of mutual trust, enormous goodwill and shared values. The two countries are happy to share the same geostrategic vision of maintaining peace, security and stability in the Indian Ocean. Our countries need to work together as partners in strengthening the regional architecture of the Indian Ocean.


    The President said that the vast natural resources provide limitless opportunities for the growth and prosperity of our future generations. Our common goal should be to harness the full potential of the ocean based Blue Economy in sustainable manner. He stated that India is happy that Seychelles is partnering it in the International Solar Alliance initiative as a founding member. India looks forward to working with Seychelles to develop solar energy projects in Seychelles.


    The President assured the President of Seychelles India’s continued commitment for extending development assistance to Seychelles in all the areas which the Government of Seychelles considers critical and of direct benefit to its people.


    Subsequently, in his banquet speech, President Kovind said that close bonds of friendship between India and Seychelles have stood the test of time. For the past four decades, since the independence of Seychelles, our countries have been working together as partners in tackling common challenges, addressing critical issues, and strengthening regional and global cooperation frameworks.


    The President said that India has a robust defence, security and strategic cooperation with Seychelles. India-Seychelles strategic convergence has reinforced the resolve to secure their oceanic space, in the region and beyond. India views the Indian Ocean and the Pacific as a contiguous construct sharing similar economic opportunities and security challenges. Our vision is for a free, open, peaceful, prosperous and inclusive Indo-Pacific region, based on a rules-based order and respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity.


    ******


    AKT/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536559) Visitor Counter : 726
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu