      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      UN MSME Day to be celebrated on 27th June 2018
      Posted On: 25 JUN 2018 6:26PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Micro Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME), will organizea National Conclave (UdyamSangam) on 27 th June 2018 on the occasion of UN MSME Day.The purpose of the Conclave is to encourage dialogue and partnership among various stakeholders of the MSME ecosystem and for promoting innovation and knowledge sharing on MSME related issues.


    President of India, Ram Nath Kovind, will inaugurate the Conclave in Vigyan Bhawan.On this occasion the Solar Charkha Mission of the Ministry will be launched by the President. The Mission will cover 50 clusters and every cluster will employ 400 to 2000 artisans. The Mission has been approved by the Government of India for which the MSME Ministry will disburse subsidy of Rs. 550 crores to the artisans. A Website of the Ministry will also be launched which will act as a bridge between the talent pool and those enterprises seeking trained man power. Nearly one lakh fifty thousand persons have received training in the 18 State-of-the-art Technology Centres of the MSME Ministry last year.


    During the day long conclave there will be parallel, break-out sessions on various subjects.Stakeholders from grass root level, associations and other experts on the subject will deliberate upon a range of issues which include strategy to build a financial ecosystem of seed and growth capital of micro and small ventures, role of SMEs in Make-in-India programme, role of women led enterprises for gender parity, role of GST in helping micro and small ventures, research and development of SMEs, role of infrastructure in the development of MSMEs, MSME knowledge services, MSME in health services and traditional medicines and market access development for MSMEs with special focus on Public Procurement Policy. In order to develop a system for creating awareness about Government schemes, a session on communication and media will also be held.


    The need for convergences of all government initiatives relating to MSME sector has always been emphasized. UdyamSangam is a step forward towards consolidating that process. UdyamSangam will be followed by a fortnightlong MSME Pakhwada called Udyam Lehar.


    The UN General Assembly in its 74 th Plenary held on the 6 th April, 2017 declared 27 th June as Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Day, recognizing the importance of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in achieving sustainable development goals and in promoting innovation, creativity and sustainable work for all.


    ***


    MM/ KA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1536525) Visitor Counter : 550