      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Ministry of Women & Child Development receives the ‘Best Performing Social Sector Ministry’ SKOCH Award for its Achievements and Initiatives
      Posted On: 22 JUN 2018 4:49PM by PIB Delhi


    Lauding the achievements of the Ministry of Women and Child Development in delivering the promises made and for its significant achievements and initiatives from the last 4 years, SKOCH has conferred the ‘Best performing Social Sector Ministry’ award on the Ministry of Women and Child Development. Minister for Women and Child Development Smt.Maneka Sanjay Gandhi has received the award on behalf of the Ministry in an event held in New Delhi today.


    Outlining the achievements and initiatives of the Ministry, Smt.Maneka Sanjay Gandhi has said that under the leadership of the Prime Minister, flagship schemes like Beti Bachao Beti Padhao has achieved huge success within a very short period of time. Under this scheme, efforts were made at National, regional and local level which led to behaviour change which is reflecting in the improved sex ration at birth.


    The Minister further shared the details on the achievements of the Ministry including 6 months maternity leave, Sexual Harassment at Work Place Act, SHe-box, One stop centres, Universal Women help line (181), 33 per cent reservation in police. The Minister also mentioned that a special division has been set up recently by Ministry of Home Affairs for women related issues, on the request of WCD Ministry. Stressing that forensic analysis plays a critical role in nabbing the culprits in sexual assault cases, the Minister has said that earlier this month, foundation of Sakhi Suraksha Advanced DNA Forensic Laboratory was laid in Chandigarh and added that 5 more advanced forensic labs would come up in Guwahati, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Pune and Bhopal. The Minister also said that special forensic kits for rape cases will be provided to all police stations and hospitals.The funds for these kits will be provided from Nirbhaya Fund.


    Speaking during the event, Sh. Rakesh Srivastava, Secretary, Ministry of Women and Child Development thanked the skoch group for the award and listed out various initiatives of the Ministry.


    ***


    NG/SKK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1536300) Visitor Counter : 847
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil