      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Advisory Forecast for Rapid Rise in Water Levels of Rivers in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Assam, Meghalaya And North Bengal Following Heavy Rainfall
      Posted On: 26 JUN 2018 11:21AM by PIB Delhi


    The India Meteorological Department has forecast heavy to very heavy rains for the next three days in Gujarat region – that is from today to the 28 th of June, and heavy to very heavy rains for this entire week in Konkan and Goa, Coastal Karnataka, West Bengal, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura


    Due to this warning, there is likelihood of rise in water levels in various river basins. The likely impact of these rains as inferred from rainfall runoff model run for 3 days advisory forecast is detailed as under:


    Damanganga Basin - Rapid rise in water level in Damanganga basin in the districts of Nasik in Maharashtra, Valsad in Gujarat and Daman in UT of Daman and Diu during the next 48 hours. Since the level in Madhuban Dam in Valsad district of Gujarat is low, there will be good inflows increasing the water level and storage in the reservoir


    Mumbai - Due to very heavy rainfall forecast with isolated extremely heavy rainfall in North Konkan on 26 th June, there is likelihood of urban flooding and associated inundation in view of the high tides associated with severe monsoon conditions.


    West Flowing Rivers Basin - Rivers having source in Western Ghats and flowing into Arabian Sea may witness flash floods in association with the forecast rainfall during the next 5 days. Necessary precautions in the old bridges along the highways and along the Konkan Railway routes needs be taken as flow may increase suddenly along the course of these rivers in districts of Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg in Maharashtra, Goa, Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada Districts of Karnataka.


    Krishna Basin - River Krishna and its tributaries are likely to rise in upstream districts of Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Pune, Sholapur districts in Maharashtra. Since most of the dams in Krishna Basin are having very low storage, the inflows into Dams in Maharashtra may increase with the forecasted rainfall.


    Brahmaputra Basin - River Teesta and its tributaries are likely to rise in the districts of Jalpaiguri and Coochbehar in West Bengal and in Sikkim. Necessary precautions need to be taken in these rivers in Sikkim and West Bengal. In view of the forecast rainfall in Arunachal Pradesh and Assam in the districts of Siang, East and West Kameng, Lakhimpur, Dhemaji, Jorhat, Sonitpur, Barpeta, Chirang, Goalpara, Bongaigaon, Kokrajhar, South Salmara and Dhubri districts, strict vigil along the rivers in these districts have to be maintained for the next 3 to 5 days.


    Barak Basin - River Barak and its tributaries in Cachar, Hailakhandi and Karimgunj district of Assam and rivers Manu, Gumti, Haora and their tributaries in Tripura are also likely to rise depending on the intensity of rainfall.


    Updated site-wise status and forecast can be seen at http://india-water.gov.in/ffs and http://120.57.32.251


    ******


    NP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536578) Visitor Counter : 606
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu , Marathi