      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh participates in Yoga Day activities in Lucknow
      
      MoS (Home) Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir participates in IDY celebrations in Medchal, Telangana
      
      
      Various activities organised by CAPFs on IDY

      Posted On: 21 JUN 2018 6:08PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh participated in Yoga Day activities on the occasion of 4 th International Day of Yoga (IDY) in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh today. Addressing the gathering, Shri Rajnath Singh said that Yoga has been accepted universally and it is being celebrated as a festival across the world today. The credit for this must go to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, he added. He said that Yoga is not associated with any relgion and being accepted by all. The Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir participated in the Yoga day celebrations in Medchal District, Telangana.


    The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) organised different activities and Yoga classes on the Yoga Day today.


    The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) troops participated in the 4 th International Day of Yoga organized at various locations across the country. Border Out Posts (BOPs) of the Force across the Himalayan borders also observed the day with active participation at high altitudes. Jawans, female personnel alongwith their families jointly participated in Yoga sessions in various units of Laddakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. Around 30,000 Jawans displayed their spirit during yoga practice including places at a height of 18,000 ft in minus temperature in Laddakh region. Apart from this, ITBP Jawans took part in yogabhyas organised in 28 cities of different states across the country. Jawans of ITBP also participated in Yoga session with Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi in Dehradun. ITBP was the nodal agency for organizing this day in Dehradun, Chandigarh and Itanagar. ITBP troops deployed in Anti-Naxal operations in Chhattisgarh have also participated in Yogabhyas. Senior officers of ITBP HQ, Jawans alongwith families took part in the Yogabhyas organized at ITBP 22 nd Bn, campus in Tigri, New Delhi.


    The National Security Guard (NSG), popularly known as "The Black Cats" of the country organized Yoga sessions at its Campuses, Manesar (Gurugram), Headquarters at New Delhi and five Regional Hubs at Mumbai (Maharashtra), Chennai (Tamil Nadu), Hyderabad (Telangana), Kolkata (West Bengal) and Gandhinagar (Gujarat). 2,600 Black Cat Commandos including Officers and their families participated in Yoga sessions. Shri Sudeep Lakhtakia, Director General of the Force participated in the Yoga session at Manesar (Gurugram) and also addressed the participants and encouraged them to adopt Yoga as part of routine life.


    The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) celebrated the Yoga Day across the country with the aim to make personnel stress free and raise awareness among the force personnel. On this occasion, NDRF organized a Yoga and Meditation Session at Nehru Park, New Delhi, in which yoga asanas and pranayama s were performed by personnel. Besides, a free medical camp was also organized at Nehru park, in which the medical health check-up and medicines was provided to the needy persons. The DG, NDRF also instructed all the battalions to conduct a yoga session on a regular basis and briefed, how yoga can benefit the force personnel. NDRF rescuers work in life threatening situations and they exposed to different kinds of human tragedies during disaster and they are at greatest risk of severe stress. A few minutes of yoga by NDRF personnel during the day can be a great help to get rid of stress. Practicing yoga improves balance, endurance, flexibility, and strength, while meditation helps keep the mind sharp, relieves stress and anxiety, and can strengthen immune system . It helps NDRF personnel to have a sound body and mind.


    The Central Industrial Security Force ( CISF) celebrated Yoga day in all the 343 units and 74 Formations which includes Training institutions, Reserve Battalions, Zonal, Sector and Force HQrs across the length and breadth of the country. The CISF personnel of Dehradun and Haridwar based units alongwith other fellow CAPF personnel participated in a Mass Yoga Demonstration organized at Dehradun (Uttrakhand) led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. A team of 1,000 personnel from CAPFs consisting of various ranks participated in the International Day of Yoga at Rajpath, New Delhi. Before yoga demonstration, CISF women commandos of CISF Unit, DMRC, New Delhi trained in “Pekiti-Tirsia Kali”, a Filipino martial art showcased the self-defence techniques to generate awareness among masses specially women in self-defence at Rajpath, New Delhi. The gathering applauded the demonstration presented by the CISF women commando team. In Yoga demonstration at Red Fort, 2000 CAPF’s women personnel including 600 CISF women personnel participated in the demonstration. CISF was designated as Nodal Force to coordinate with other Central Armed Police Forces for the demonstration. The CISF was also designated as Nodal Force to conduct Yoga demonstration at Mumbai and Hyderabad on the occasion. 1,000 Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) personnel participated in the said demonstration at each location. On this occasion, a yoga session was also conducted at CISF Headquarters New Delhi, wherein Shri Rajesh Ranjan, DG, CISF and other senior officers & CISF personnel also participated.


    Today, Border Security Force (BSF) celebrated Yoga Day with the fervor all across the BSF. Yoga sessions were also conducted at all BSF establishments throughout the country. The BSF has already adopted yoga kriya in its physical training session, as it is a proven the best ancient practice to meet mental and physical challenges with equanimity. It is now on its way to become a way of life majority of force personnel. To mark the occasion, the Border Security Force (BSF) headquarter conducted a special session at BSF facility at Nizamuddin, New Delhi. Qualified experts from force, conducted a yoga session in different locations of Delhi. About 4,000 personnel attended this session very enthusiastically. In this special session, force’s leadership participated along with Parharies Parivar . In addition to all field formations, BSF organized yoga demonstrations in 4 states capital/ prominent cities i.e. Kolkata, Agartala, Ahmedabad and Bangalore for CAPF yoga contingents. Till date border security force has trained 9,172 yoga instructors from reputed institutions like Isha Foundation, Patanjali Yogpeeth, Morarji Desai National Institute, Foundation of Vedic Science & Technology and Vivekananda Yoga Research Institute of India. Now these trained experts are conducting yoga courses also, to improve and build a maximum strength of experts in force.


    *****


    BB/NK/KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536195) Visitor Counter : 152
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi