      Ministry of Finance

      State Chief Ministers discusses the Vision of Infrastructure Development in India at 3rd Annual Meeting of AIIB in Mumbai
      Posted On: 25 JUN 2018 10:50PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government of India has recently taken several steps to strengthen India’s federal structure. Many State Governments are pursuing transformative approaches and undertaking robust and futuristic projects in infrastructure, which span across connectivity (road, rail, air and inland waterways development), smart cities, sanitation and logistics hubs.


    While Speaking at a Host : ‘Panel Discussion with Chief Ministers on Vision of Infrastructure Development in India' in Mumbai today, the Union Minister for Railways, Coal, Finance & Corporate Affairs, Shri Piyush Goyal elaborated on measures such as GST that the Central Government has taken in collaboration with the State Governments to boost the spirit of cooperative federalism. In this direction, Shri Goyal also discussed the Government’s efforts regarding implementation of recommendations of the 14 th Finance Commission. Additionally, he mentioned that Ayushman Bharat Program would be launched soon, which would provide free medical coverage, of up to $7000 per year, to over 500 million people in the country.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Chief Minister of Maharashtra Shri Devendra Fadnavis highlighted his Government’s vision to become a US $1 trillion sub-national economy by 2025 and to align it with the country’s plan to be a US $5 trillion economy. In its efforts to combat climate change, he said that the Maharashtra Government has introduced major policy shifts focusing on urban infrastructure, clean energy, bio-diversity conservation, eliminating hunger and universal access to water. The Government of Maharashtra has also lined-up several infrastructure projects with AIIB, the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri Devendra Fadnavis said here at the panel discussion.


    Enumerating the road-map of infrastructure development, Shri Fadnavis said that Maharashtra accounts for 15% of national GDP, more than 22% of India’s industrial output and 30% of India’s exports. Furthermore, over the past three years, Mr Fadnavis said that Maharashtra attracted around 42-47% of India’ total FDI. He also emphasized on the urban infrastructure development projects such as Mumbai metro, new airports in Navi Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur and coastal connectivity initiatives such as Trans Harbour link among others.


    Shri Sushil Kumar Modi, Deputy Chief Minister, Bihar, highlighted the infrastructure development and investments made in Bihar, in the last 10 years. Showcasing the milestones, the Deputy CM spoke about the improved air and road connectivity with a total investment of Rs. 1,19,000 crore for road infrastructure, in the past decade.


    Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat, Chief Minister, State of Uttarakhand spoke about the increase in tourism with a rise in international travellers, demand for village tourism, enhanced rail, air and road connectivity. Being the provider of the cheapest electricity in India, Uttarakhand enjoys 24 hour electricity throughout the year. He also spoke about the River Rejuvenation Project benefiting the State with continuous water supply throughout the year. Focusing on the upcoming projects, Shri Rawat stated his Government’s plans to establish Medi city, an Ayurvedic Medical Centre and the International Convention Centre in Rishikesh.


    Industries Department, Government of Maharashtra is the nodal Department, Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Government of Maharashtra is the nodal agency, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) is the Professional Conference Organiser (PCO), Research and Information Systems for Developing Countries (RIS) is the knowledge partner, for the third Annual Meeting of AIIB.


    *********************


    DSM/RM/NW​

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536583) Visitor Counter : 431
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi