      Ministry of Shipping

      Shri Nitin Gadkari Says India Trying to Make Chabahar Port in Iran Operational by 2019
      
      Inaugurates Swami Vivekananda Cultural Centre at Dushanbe

      Posted On: 22 JUN 2018 12:09PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Nitin Gadkari, the Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation, Road Transport & Highways and Shipping said in Dushanbe yesterday, that India is trying to make Chabahar Port in Iran operational by 2019. Shri Gadkari was addressing the Indian Community at the inauguration of the Swami Vivekananda Cultural Centre at the Indian Embassy in Dushanbe. He said the opening up of the Chabahar Port would make the CIS countries more accessible.


    Shri Gadkari also spoke at length about the efforts and initiatives taken by the NDA Government in the last four years to bring qualitative change in the lives of people. He talked about the massive work being done in the infrastructure sector, with National Highways being built at an unprecedented pace of 28km/day. He said the country is growing at a very fast pace under a corruption free, transparent and committed government led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. India's image and respect has grown across the world in the last four years and our rankings have improved globally on various parameters like ease of doing business, cleanliness etc, he added.


    Shri Nitin Gadkari was on a two day official visit to Tajikistan to represent India at the high level global conference on “International Decade for Action: Water for Sustainable Development”. He held wide-ranging talks with Shri Sirodjidin Muhridin, Foreign Minister of Tajikistan during this visit, in which the two leaders underlined the need to give further impetus to the ongoing bilateral cooperation in various fields and agreed to enhance mutual cooperation in the area of sustainable water development. Shri Gadkari had also conveyed to the Tajikistan leader, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi's commitment towards expanding economic cooperation between the two countries and said that New Delhi would be willing to share with Tajikistan, Indian expertise in building quality infrastructure.


    Swami Vivekananda Cultural Centre at Dushanbe will offer classes in Hindi, Sanskrit, Yoga and various performing arts like music and dance to the Indian diaspora as well as Tajik people. The Centre has generated a lot of interest and excitement amongst the Tajik people.


    ***


    NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536258) Visitor Counter : 1273
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Urdu , Hindi , Bengali