      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      WCD Ministry to organise TECH-THON: Seminar on Technology Partnership for POSHAN Abhiyaan tomorrow in New Delhi
      Posted On: 27 JUN 2018 5:57PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India will organize a day-long Seminar on Technology Partnerships for Steering POSHAN Abhiyaan called ‘TECH-THON’ for POSHAN Abhiyaan - PM’s Overarching Scheme for Holistic Nourishment on 28 th June, 2018 at PravasiBharatiya Kendra in New Delhi.


    The WCD Minister Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi and Minister of State for WCD, Dr.Virendra Kumar will be present in the Seminar. Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog will inaugurate the Seminar and launch the Jan Andolan Guidelines of POSHAN Abhiyaan. Secretaries of convergent Central Ministries will also be present during the course of the day-long seminar to discuss technology and also share an overview about POSHAN Abhiyaan. Seminar will also be attended by the Secretaries of State WCD/Social Justice Department, Director in-charge of ICDS/POSHAN Abhiyaan and nodal officer of the States/UTs.


    The Seminar is being organised to showcase and orient the environment towards the initiative, exchange ideas and to explore avenues of cooperation and partnerships for technology support, as well as, reaching-out to the beneficiaries for effective behavioural change to initiate a ‘Peoples Movement’ or Jan Andolan towards Nutrition.


    The Seminar will witness the presence of Ministers, top policy makers of Government of India and States/UTs, participants from multilateral partner institutions like UNICEF, World Bank, WHO, WFP etc, the partners of MWCD – Tata Trust, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) etc, Philanthropic Private Sectors (viz CSR) and Civil Society Organizations. Moreover, leading experts from a range of fields will be present to lead panel discussions and share insights on addressing avenues of cooperation and partnerships for technology support.


    An exhibition will also be organised showcasing the technology and other materials of POSHAN Abhiyaan in the gallery of PravasiBharatiya Kendra .Approximately 300 participants are expected to grace the Seminar.


    POSHAN Abhiyaan (National Nutrition Mission) was launched by the Hon’ble Prime Minister on 8 th March, 2018 in Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan. The programme through use of technology, targeted approach and convergence strives to reduce the level of Stunting, Under-nutrition, Anemia and Low Birth Weight in Children, as also, focus on Adolescent Girls, Pregnant Women & Lactating Mothers, thus holistically addressing malnutrition.


    To know more about POSHAN Abhiyaan please visit


    http://www.icds-wcd.nic.in/nnm/home.htm


    ***


    NG/SKK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536807) Visitor Counter : 620