      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Rs 340.4 crore flood relief released for Assam
      Posted On: 26 JUN 2018 8:16PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North E​​astern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh​ disclosed in Guwahati (Assam) today that an amount of Rs. 340.4 crore has been released for flood relief work in Assam. This amount includes Rs.239.40 crore by way of the first installment of central share of State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) and Rs.101 crore as the contribution from the Ministry of Northeast (DoNER).


    Dr Jitendra Singh was presiding over a high-level meeting between the Union Ministry of Northeast (DoNER) and the State Government of Assam to assess the current situation of flood in Assam and the relief measures undertaken so far. Among others, the meeting was attended by Assam Minister for Water Resources Shri Keshab Mahanta, Assam Minister for Revenue Shri Bhabesh Kalita, Secretary DoNER Shri Naveen Verma, Chief Secretary of Assam Ms T.Y. Das and other senior officers from the Ministry of DoNER and the State Government of Assam.


    Speaking after the presentation made by the State Government, Dr Jitendra Singh said, heavy rainfall and flood has virtually become a regular annual feature in Assam, but, this year, we are faced with early rains and early flood. Nevertheless, he complimented the State Government for their prompt response in timely undertaking all the required measures which helped in containing further loss to life and property.


    Dr Jitendra Singh expressed his condolence to the bereaved families of 26 persons who were reported dead till last evening, as a result of the flood situation. He said, even though there could not be any compensation for the loss of life, everything would be done to help the State Government to meet the natural calamity.


    The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi always has a special concern for Northeast, said Dr Jitendra Singh and added that the Prime Minister accords high priority to all the issues related to the region. He recalled that on 1st of August last year, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi personally traveled to Guwahati where he convened separate meetings with the State Administration of the flood-affected States and announced flood-relief of Rs. 2,000 crore. On his personal behalf as well as on behalf of the Ministry of DoNER and Government of India, Dr Jitendra Singh assured full assistance to the State Government. He said that the Union Government is monitoring the flood situation in the affected States of Northeast on a day-to-day basis.


    Striking a note of caution, Dr Jitendra Singh forewarned about the possibility of epidemic diseases in the aftermath of flood and suggested that appropriate preemptive measures can be initiated in advance. Like in earlier years, he suggested that the government can involve the Health Ministry also to arrange for measures like chlorination of water, maintenance of hygiene and availability of appropriate medicinal drugs.


    *****


    
    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536652) Visitor Counter : 273
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu