      Ministry of Finance

      The Union Minister of Railways,Coal, Finance & Corporate Affairs, Shri Piyush Goyal inaugurates India Infrastructure Expo 2018 at the NCPA, Mumbai
      
      Exposition to showcase achievements under major national infrastructure development programs as well as related investment opportunities to investors from over 80 countries
      
      Companies from public and private sector, state governments and central government ministries come together to present India’s ambitious infrastructure development programs as well as exhibit latest solutions, technologies and offerings in the realm of infrastructure project development and delivery
      
      Posted On: 24 JUN 2018 8:00PM by PIB Delhi


      The Union Minister of Railways,Coal, Finance & Corporate Affairs, Shri Piyush Goyal inagurated the India Infrastructure Expo 2018 today in Mumbai.Two day expo is being organised by the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Government of India, in partnership with the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) on the sidelines of the 3rd Annual Meeting of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) at NCPA, Mumbai from 25th to 26th June 2018.


      Expressing delight at hosting the Third Annual Meeting of the AIIB, Shri Goyal said, “The Asian Infrastructure Investment bank has really matured in a short period of time and is rapidly progressing to become one of the most important infrastructure financiers across the world. A very strong management team with robust management practices, some of which have never been seen in the global stage have been put in place. India is the 2nd largest shareholder of the AIIB and is the largest recipient of concessionaire finance for various infrastructure projects with nearly 25% of the total funds committed to projects in India, both in the government sector and the private sector”, he said.


      He further said “Earlier today, I had an opening meeting with the President of AIIB, and he was expressing satisfaction that India has shown a lot of enthusiasm, and put up very good proposals before AIIB. It truly is a very happy occasion for India, and particularly for Mumbai to host this very important engagement. There are 86 countries which are members of AIIB who are participating. Over 3,000 delegates have already come on board, and I am told the number is growing by the minute”.


      The Exposition offers companies from the Public and Private Sector to showcase their latest solutions, technologies and offerings in the realm of infrastructure project development and delivery. Participating companies will also highlight their capabilities and key projects delivered over time for information of all delegates. Several State Governments and Central Ministries will also be showcasing investment opportunities for financial investors from across the world.


      The Exposition is having state of the art digital display and offers participants ample avenues to network and have business meetings with potential partners and investors.


      The highlight of the Exposition is the Oil & Gas Pavilion which has participation of leading Public Sector Companies who are showcasing the upcoming projects in their respective areas of operation.


      Some of the key flagship programs that are showcased at this Exposition include Smart Cities, Sagarmala, Bharatmala, Ganga Rejuvenation Plan and the River Linking project. Details on the modernisation plans of the Railways sector in India will also be of interest to the delegates.


      The Government of Chhattisgarh & Government of Gujarat are the partner States to the Exposition while the Government of Maharashtra is the host State to the Exposition.


      Over 50 organisations are participating in the Exposition including leading entities such as IL&FS, Essel Infrastructure, GAIL, JSPL, Wapcos, HPCL, BPCL, NHAI, MMRDA, MIDC, CIDCO, IREDA, ONGC, Indian Oil, EIL and IIFCL.


      ****


      DSM/RM/NW

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536423) Visitor Counter : 582