      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      President to Present ‘National Awards for Outstanding Services in the Field of Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) Abuse’
      
      M/o Social Justice & Empowerment to Celebrate ‘International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking’ on June 26, 2018

      Posted On: 24 JUN 2018 12:56PM by PIB Delhi

    The President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind will present the “Fourth National Awards for outstanding services in the field of Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) Abuse” to the institutions and individuals on the occasion of ‘International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking’ (26 th June, 2018) at a function organized by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment on 26 th June, 2018 in Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Ministers of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar, Shri Ram Das Athawale and Shri Vijay Sampla will grace the occasion. State Government Officials, NGOs, National and International organizations working in this field, Students from Colleges & Schools, professionals & experts and Personnel from Para Military Forces will also attend the function.


    The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment celebrates 26th June every year as International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. The Government of India has instituted a Scheme of the National Awards for outstanding services in the field of prevention of Alcoholism & Substance (Drug) Abuse from the year 2013. The Awards were earlier conferred annually till 2014. However, the Scheme of the Award has now been revised and the Awards are now conferred biennially. The Scheme is applicable to Institutions and individuals working in the field of Prevention of Drug and Alcoholism Abuse. So far three National Awards have been successfully conducted on 26th June, 2013, 26th June 2014 and 26th June, 2016.


    Nominations for the year 2018 were invited by publishing advertisements in the newspaper and writing letters to all the State/UT Governments, concerned Ministries in seven different categories. A National Selection Committee under the chairmanship of Union Minister of Social Justice & Empowerment considered the shortlisted nominations by the Screening Committee and approved the names of the awardees.


    The Ministry has started an online system for processing of Grant-in-Aid to Voluntary Organizations (VOs)/Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) from the financial year 2014-15. At present, approximately 400 Integrated Rehabilitation Centre for Addicts (IRCAs) are being run across the country with support from this Ministry. About one lakh drug/alcohol addicts are benefitted every year under the Scheme. A National Toll Free Helpline (1800-11-0031) has also been launched to assist the alcoholics and drug dependent persons, their family members and community.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E/24.06.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536400) Visitor Counter : 758