      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir to inaugurate the 19th all India Conference of Directors of Finger Prints Bureaux in Hyderabad tomorrow
      Posted On: 20 JUN 2018 8:15PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir will inaugurate the 19 th all India Conference of Directors of Finger Prints Bureaux in Hyderabad tomorrow. During the two-day conference, participants will deliberate on latest Automatic Fingerprint Identification Systems (AFIS), usage experience of AFIS in Maharashtra and Telangana, integration of Finger Prints with CCTNS/ICJS. Sessions are also scheduled for improving training curriculum, modernization of State Finger Print Bureaus and staffing pattern. In the conference issues related to administration, standard operating procedures for uniform functioning of bureaus would also be deliberated.


    Other issues related to proper functioning of FP Bureaux, educational qualifications at the entry level, pay scale across India, standardization of FP slips would be deliberated upon and recommended. Directors of Finger Prints Bureaux who would be retiring during 2018 will be sharing their lifetime experience and associations. They would be felicitated in the conference.


    University students would be presenting research done by them in the field of Fingerprint science. Vendors would demonstrate the latest advancements in the field of fingerprint development so that the experts are benefitted with the latest knowhow in their technical field.


    Two books entitled ‘Compendium of Fingerprint equipment 2018” & ‘Award of excellence in FP identification / science competition –compilation of cases’ would be released during the Conference.


    Candidates who acquired first position in the All India Examination of Finger print experts would be awarded with ‘Aziz ul Haque Trophy’ and cash prize. Other winners would be awarded certificates and cash prize. The competition was conducted by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) based on the solved cases. Awardees will be presenting the techniques used by them in solving the criminal cases reported at various Police Stations.


    Among major issues to be discussed during the two-day conference is the imperative need for amendment in the Aadhar Act, - essential for identifying unidentified dead bodies as well as first time offenders. Amendment in Identification of Prisoners Act 1920 is also required to include other biometrics as face, palm and voice etc which are the need of the hour.


    NCRB, in cooperation with CMC Ltd., Secunderabad, developed the first indigenous AFIS called FACTS. Now this technology has improved a lot and within seconds it is possible to match the finger prints of more than a million individuals.


    Last year Telangana FPB procured latest AFIS from Papillion and was able to solve several cases which were unsolved with FACTS. Out of total of 868 undetected cases solved by the new AFIS since installation, 480 cases are old unsolved scene-of-crime cases. In addition, 42 cases of unknown bodies were also identified through fingerprints. A total a/w 7.2 crores property has been recovered through identification of chance prints developed from scene-of-crime.


    Telangana Police are also using Mobile devices for verifying criminal antecedents of suspects. More than 7,000 offenders with criminal history were apprehended using these devices.


    Incidentally, the world’s first finger print bureau was established in 1897 at Calcutta during British period. Different countries started using Finger Print as unique identity for land registration, authentication, access control and many other ways. Even today although several other biometric like iris, face, DNA are available, mainly used authoritative mechanism is the Finger Print. Rapid technological advancement in information technology has improved finger print usage enormously and today entry of foreigners in the country is through finger Print biometric.


    ******


    ABB/NK/PK/KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536088) Visitor Counter : 330