      AYUSH

      Prime Minister’s Awards for Outstanding Contribution for Promotion and Development of Yoga - 2018
      Posted On: 20 JUN 2018 5:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Vishwas Mandalik, Nasik and The Yoga Institute, Mumbai are the recipients of the Prime Minister's Award for outstanding contribution for promotion and development of Yoga for the year 2018. The selection was done from among 186 nominations received under different categories.


    On the occasion of the 2 nd International Day of Yoga celebrations at Chandigarh on 21 st June, 2016, the Hon’ble Prime Minister had announced the institution of awards for the promotion and development of Yoga. The Ministry of AYUSH developed the guidelines for the awards. Two committees were constituted, viz., Screening Committee (for preliminary evaluation) and Evaluation Committee (Jury), so that a transparent process is followed in finalizing the awards. Nomination for the awards were invited through open advertisement.


    The Screening Committee chaired by Secretary (AYUSH) drew up a shortlist from the 186 applications. The Jury chaired by the Cabinet Secretary, with the Additional Principal Secretary to Prime Minister, the Foreign Secretary, Secretary (AYUSH), Dr. H. R. Nagendra, Sh. O. P. Tiwari and Dr. B. N. Gangadhar as members, examined the recommendations of the Screening Committee, and also made its own analysis of the contributions made by the institutions and individuals shortlisted.


    After considering all relevant facts and other inputs, the Jury recommended that the Award for the current year be given to Sh. Vishwas Mandalik (in the category Individual – National) and The Yoga Institute, Mumbai (in the category Organisation – National).


    The Government of India has accepted the recommendation to honour the Sh. Vishwas Mandalik, Nasik and The Yoga Institute, Mumbai with the Prime Minister’s Award for Outstanding Contribution for the Promotion and Development of Yoga for 2018. The award for 2017 was won by Ramamani Iyengar Memorial Yoga Institute, Pune.


    Sh. Vishwas Mandalik acquired in-depth knowledge of authentic Patanjali & Hatha Yoga, Bhagwad Gita and Upnishad by study and research of ancient scriptures for over last 55 years. In 1978, he set up first branch of Yoga Vidya Dham, and as of today there are 160 centres in India. He established Yoga Institute called Yoga Vidhya Gurukul in 1983 for the Yoga Education. Yoga Chaitanya Seva Pratisthan, a trust was set up by him to propagate Yoga in remote parts of India in 1994. He has written 42 books and developed 300 CDs to cover various training courses.


    The Yoga Institute - established in 1918 by Shri Yogendraji, has completed its 100 years serving the society, touching the lives of over 10 Million people during its journey. It has produced more than 50000 yoga teachers and has over 500 publications to its credit. The Yoga Institute has contributed to the promotion and development of holistic Yoga for over 10 decades, and served every section of the society both locally and globally.


    The winners will be felicitated with of a Trophy, Certificate and a Cash Award each. The value of each Cash Award would be Rs. 25.00 lakhs.


    ***


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1536037) Visitor Counter : 866
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Tamil