      Ministry of Rural Development

      National Generic Document Registration System adopted in Punjab and Andaman& Nicobar Islands
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2018 2:59PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister for Rural Development, Panchayati Raj and Mines Shri Narendra Singh Tomar has inaugurated the National Generic Document Registration System (NGDRS)in all sub-registrar offices in Andaman & Nicobar Islands from New Delhi through a Video-Conferencing. To aptly address the diversity and variations prevailing across the States on account of languages, processes, formulae and formats, the Department of Land Resources has developed a National Generic Document Registration System (NGDRS) through the National Informatics Centre (NIC) to include the requirements of all the States. After the Inauguration, Shri Tomar said that this generic customizable software, when universally adopted in the Country, will enable ‘anywhere access’ to data and information to both the common man and the enforcement and regulatory agencies. He also said that transparency will be promoted due to registration through digital means and people will get the benefits in a hassle-free manner.


    To encourage the offices working in geographically far situated areas and to interact with the people availing benefit of this system, Shri Tomar held a video conference with Chief Secretary, Deputy Commissioner and Sub Registrars of Andaman & Nicobar Islands and the people present in the sub-registrar offices.All 5 sub-registrar offices in the UT of Andaman & Nicobar Islands have been computerized and the NGDRS has been adopted in all 5 offices.


    Similarly, all 173 sub-registrar offices in the State of Punjab have been computerized and the NGDRS has been adopted in all 173 offices. State-wide inauguration of the NGDRS was done by the State Government on 27 th June 2018 with the technical assistance and collaboration of NIC including its software development unit at NIC Pune and its technical unit in Department of Land Resources, Ministry of Rural Development.


    The NGDRS system has been piloted in 3 States (Punjab, Rajasthan, Maharashtra). 6 more states and UTs (Goa, A&N Islands, Bihar, Jharkhand, Manipur, Mizoram) are moving towards this system. Moreover, 5 states (HP, AP, MP, Kerala, Uttarakhand) have shown interest to adopt this common software (NIC has given them guidance and technical demos). The Department is presently focussing on implementation of NGDRS in these 14 States, to optimally use the available funds in a cost-effective, productive and time-bound manner.


    Digital India Land Records Modernization Programme (DILRMP)


    With its priority to updated and error-free land records and easy access to information thereto, Government of India made the DILRMP into a cent per cent centrally-funded central sector scheme from 01 st April 2016.


    National Generic Document Registration System (NGDRS) for rural and urban areas


    Computerization of sub-registrar offices is beinggiven focussed attention.Out of total 5083 sub-registrar offices in the Country, 4509 have been computerized and 2769 have been connected with tehsils.


    <><><><><>


    APS/SNC/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1537141) Visitor Counter : 703