      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Sewage Treatment Projects in Varanasi on A Fast Track: Dinapur STP Nears Completion, Ramana Ham Project Progressing Well
      
      DG NMCG Reviews Ongoing STP Projects and Cleaning of Ghats in the City

      Posted On: 29 JUN 2018 4:55PM by PIB Delhi

    In a recent review of the ongoing sewage infrastructure projects under Namami Gange programme in Varanasi, Shri Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, Director General of National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) has sought fast tracking of the work. There are two major upcoming STP projects in the city which will together prevent 19 crore litres of sewage water from entering the river once they are complete. Of these, the 140 MLD STP in Dinapur is almost complete, while the 50 MLD STP project in Ramana under Hybrid Annuity Mode is progressing well. One of the most important features of HAM model is that both the Annuity and O&M payments are linked to the performance of the STP. This will ensure continued performance of the assets created due to better accountability, ownership and optimal performance.


    The DG also reviewed 10 projects of rehabilitation of old trunk sewer in Varanasi, work on all of which are in the final stages of execution. The rehabilitation work is expected to be complete by October 2018. Apart from the STP works, DG reviewed the cleaning being undertaken on the 84 ghats in the city, spread along an 8.5 km stretch. Activities like sweeping, washing, mopping, collection and transportation of silt, construction and demolition waste, awareness generation and education are conducted as part of this project. As per feedback received from the local population and visitors, 65.4% people have rated this work as Very Good and 33.5% people rated it as Good. DG also took stock of the progress on a project for improvement of 26 bathing ghats in Varanasi, which was sanctioned in January 2018 at a cost of Rs. 11.73 crore.


    A presentation was also made on the JICA assisted Ganga Action Plan projects, including sewerage, non-sewerage and Institutional Development Plan components costing a total of Rs. 641.19 crore, during the review. The components of the non-sewerage project are construction of community toilets, construction of dhobi ghats, ghat improvement etc. Cumulative physical progress of all projects is 87%. The sewerage component projects include construction of relieving trunk sewer lines, procurement and construction of Chaukaghat/Phulwaria pumping stations, design and construction of 140 MLD STP at Dinapur including 10 years Operation & Maintenance, Condition Assessment and Rehabilitation of Old Trunk Sewers, Renovation/Rehabilitation works at Konia Pumping Station, Bhagwanpur and Dinapur STP and 5 ghat pumping stations.


    *****


    NP/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1537181) Visitor Counter : 272