      President's Secretariat

      President of India lays the foundation stone for an Auditorium of the Kanpur Bar Association in Kanpur; addresses the centenary celebrations of Allahabad medical association in Allahabad
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2018 7:04PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, laid the foundation stone for an auditorium of the Kanpur Bar Association in Kanpur today (June 29, 2018).


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said the legal profession is a very noble profession. Every advocate is an integral part of the justice system. That is why he or she is also called ‘Officer of the Court’. From this broad perspective, every advocate is a friend of the court as well as of the justice system and of society.


    The President said that justice delivery becomes more effective with coordination between judicial officers and advocates. In this context, Bar Associations have an important role to play. He urged the Kanpur Bar Association and the Lawyers Association to strengthen this aspect of our judicial system. He stated that in the past few years, strikes by advocates in district courts and their discontent with the justice system have been noticed. Such incidents interfere with the process of justice. All Bar Associations should try and avoid such obstacles.


    Later in the day, in Allahabad, the President graced and addressed the centenary celebrations of the Allahabad Medical Association and inaugurated the AMA Convention and Rehabilitation Centre.


    Addressing the gathering, the President said that medical associations have the social and moral responsibility to keep in mind the interests of patients, especially the poorer sections, in addition to taking care of the interests of doctors.


    The President said that the government has taken many steps under the ‘National Health Mission’, ‘National Health Policy’ and ‘Ayushman Bharat’ scheme to provide citizens adequate health services at low cost. Prices of medicines and medical devices have also been reduced. But ultimately, doctors play the key role in providing effective health services to fellow citizens.


    *****


    Please click here for President’s speech at Allahabad


    Please click here for President’s speech at Kanpur


    AKT/SH/SBP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1537220) Visitor Counter : 466