      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      12th Statistics Day celebrated today
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2018 2:58PM by PIB Delhi


    National Sample Survey Office, Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation celebrated 12 th Statistics Day on 29 th June, 2018 at Sankhyiki Bhawan, New Delhi.


    In recognition of the notable contributions made by Professor PC Mahalanobis in the fields of statistics, statistical system and economic planning. In 2007, Government of India designated 29 th June as the “Statistics Day” in the category of Special Days to be celebrated every year at the National level. Every year, one particular theme of current national importance is selected for focused discussions and efforts throughout the year aimed at bringing about improvements in the selected area. The theme selected for the Statistics Day this year is ‘‘Quality Assurance in Official Statistics’ . The theme has been chosen to underscore the importance of compliance with essential parameters of quality in statistical systems and products.


    Shri K. V. Eapen, Secretary, Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation presided over the function. Shri Eapen said that the objective of celebration of this Day is to create public awareness about the importance of statistics in socio-economic planning and policy formulation, to acknowledge the contribution of Prof. Mahalanobis, and to pay homage to him. Prof. Manoj Panda, Director, Institute of Economic Growth, New Delhi delivered the key note address on the occasion. He said that Late Prof. Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis (29 th June, 1893 – 28 th June, 1972) was a visionary Indian scientist whose prime contribution was in development of Statistics. Other dignitaries who participated in the event included Shri Rajeev Lochan, Director General, Social Statistics, Central Statistics Office, Shri D. P. Mondal, Director General, National Sample Survey Office, Shri Amitabha Panda, Director General (Statistics), Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and the statistical fraternity placed at Delhi .


    Since 2005, every year, the Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation organises an all India Essay Writing Competition on the subject relevant to Statistics/Official Statistics for the Post Graduate students of statistics studying in the recognized universities / colleges/institutions to commemorate the birth anniversary of eminent statistician Prof. PC Mahalanobis. This year a total of 11 prizes - one First Prize, two Second Prizes, three Third Prizes and five Consolation Prizes were also handed over to the winners during the aforesaid celebration.


    *****


    AKT/RC/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1537140) Visitor Counter : 751