      Ministry of Culture

      The two day Kabir Mahotsav at Maghar in Uttar Pradesh celebrates the life and teachings of poet saint Kabir with cultural performances from different parts of the country
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2018 4:33PM by PIB Delhi


    The two day ‘Kabir Mahotsav’ organized by the Ministry of Culture to commemorate the 500 th year of death anniversary (punya tithi) of 15 th century poet-saint Kabir concludes today with much fanfare in Maghar, Sant Kabir Nagar District of Uttar Pradesh. Artists and Artisans from all over the country with several cultural performances rejuvenated the tone of spiritualism through folk music and dance along with musical and theatrical performances.


    In its journey of 2 days in Maghar, Sant Kabir Nagar, Uttar Pradesh the festival was graced and addressed by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on day one. The Prime Minister offered floral tributes and Chadar at mazar of Saint Kabir , visited Sant Kabir Cave and later unveiled a plaque to mark the laying of Foundation Stone of Saint Kabir Academy, which will highlight the great saint’s teachings and thoughts. Union Minister of State for Culture (I/C) and Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Dr. Mahesh Sharma and Union Minister of State for Finance, Shri Shiv Pratap Shukla and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister, Yogi Adityanath among others also graced the occasion.


    The second day of the Mahotsav started with the performance of local artist groups, which was then followed by a theatrical performance titled ‘Kabira Khada Bazar Mein’ directed by Shri Azhar Alam from Kolkata. The cultural evening of Kabir Mahotsav witnessed mysticism with Mirasi Sufi singing of Anwar Khan from Jaisalmer. Presentation of Baul singing by Ravidas and Abhang singing by Vijay Pandey left a magical spell on the crowd. Later, the recital of Sufiana kalam by Muktiyar Ali transported the listeners into a tranquil, relaxed and serene world. In the concluding performance the mahotsav captured the fascination of the crowd with the performances of various folk dances from different states.


    The two day festival was organized by the Ministry of Culture to portray the glory of Kabir’s literature and his message of oneness uniting all sections of the society. Various folk music and dance along with musical and theatrical performances were presented in which artists and artisans from all over the country participated celebrating the plural traditions of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat.


    ******


    NB/PS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1537170) Visitor Counter : 458