      Ministry of Culture

      ‘Machined to Think’ a new exhibition of Nehru Science Centre Inaugurated by Dr. Anil Kakodkar
      Posted On: 09 MAY 2018 6:44PM by PIB Mumbai


    On the occasion of the National Technology day a new exhibition “Machined to Think”, which provides a bird’s eye view into the technologies that are destined to usher in what is now hailed as the "fourth industrial revolution", is inaugurated today at the Nehru Science Centre, Worli, Mumbai by Dr. Anil Kakodkar. Addressing the gathering he said that the old technology has advanced a lot. Now the human intelligence is supplemented by artificial intelligence.


    He appealed the current generation to understand the principles of science and maintain our competitiveness in technology. He complimented Nehru Science Centre for this new endeavor.


    Shri Kakodkar also released a leaflet ‘Machined to Think’ giving details of the exhibition.


    Officials at the Nehru Science Centre feel that the extraordinary pace of technological change in the so-called fourth industrial revolution, which was articulated by Klaus Schwab, founder and executive chairman of the World Economic Forum, holds great promise for India. They said benefits have been reaped from IT and greater and new opportunities in the fourth industrial revolution to achieve success in fields like agriculture and rural growth, at an accelerated speed and transition toward high yield productivity and other rural economic benefits will be seen. This will mean a lot to India, which has almost 60 percent of its population living in rural areas with agriculture as their main profession.


    ‘Machined to Think’ a new exhibition of Nehru Science Centre Inaugurated by Dr. Anil Kakodkar in Mumbai.https://t.co/BIxKDurrBI pic.twitter.com/3F3vvQ5xOa

    — PIB in Maharashtra (@PIBMumbai) May 9, 2018

    The Centre also said that further combination of IoT technologies, digital tools, robotics, machine intelligence and 5G networks and all their building blocks, which will be central to the fourth industrial revolution, will provide a wealth of opportunities for cooperation between machined to think technologies and humans to bring about a paradigm shift and vastly improve productivity and speed up the delivery of services for the welfare of citizens. The Centre also believes that it is therefore necessary that students in particular and the public at large are prepared to face the many diverse and fascinating challenges in understanding this new technological revolution to cope up and shape the fourth industrial revolution. It is this necessity of educating the public about the fourth industrial revolution, which is likely to fundamentally change the way we live, work, and relate to one another and therefore the Nehru Science Centre has decided to curate the Machined to Think Gallery. The scale, scope and complexity of the fourth industrial revolution, some experts predict, will be something which humankind has never experienced before.


    

    In a release by the Nehru Science Centre, it is mentioned that the Fourth Industrial Revolution or the Industry 4.0, will also be the new benchmark in production, which will be an outcome of the many groundbreaking concepts that have resulted in a quantum leap in the networking of humans, machines, robots and products. Harvesting the Internet backbone, the Industry 4.0 will be leveraging on new technologies across the complete value chain from suppliers to customers, to significantly increase the flexibility of the production line, and shorten production lead times leading to more affordable and scalable customization in both goods and services.


    To view the glimpses of this new exhibition please visit to


    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=64urtgpgIkY&feature=share


    ***


    NS/IJ/SP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531747) Visitor Counter : 432
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi