      Ministry of Culture

      Historically significant original Science & Technology antiquity objects will be on display at Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai from 11th May to 13th May 2018
      Posted On: 10 MAY 2018 6:13PM by PIB Mumbai


    On the occasion of the National Technology Day, 11th May 2018, Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai (NCSM), is to display historically significant original Science & Technology antiquity objects, which were featured in the recently concluded, ‘Illuminating India: 5000 Years of Science and Innovation’ exhibition at the Science Museum, London. These objects will be displayed in Mumbai for the first time and they include the great Lambton’s Theodolite, the Compound Lever, Sir C V Raman’s spectroscope, J C Bose’s Crescograph and Phytograph. These objects are from the collections of the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science, Kolkata, Sir J C Bose Trust, Kolkata and Survey of India, Dehradun.


    Nehru Science Centre Mumbai states that the ‘Illuminating India: 5000 Years of Science and Innovation’, which was organised at the Science Museum, London was one of the major event under the India –UK Year of Culture. The Nehru Science Centre, the Nodal Agency appointed by the Ministry of Culture, Government of India, was responsible for sending six antiquity objects and eight non-antiquity objects for this exhibition. The Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi visited the exhibition on 18th April, 2018, during his recent visit to the United Kingdom for the Heads of Commonwealth meeting. On conclusion of the exhibition the objects have now come back to India and will be on display for the press and public only for three days from 11th May to 13th May 2018.


    Mumbai Metro is another technological marvel that is destined to improve the traffic conditions of Mumbai. In collaboration with MMRC, Mumbai, another exhibition “Making of Underground Metro Line –III”, will be inaugurated by Ms. Ashwini Bhide, MD, MMRC, Mumbai on the occasion of the National Technology day 11th May, 2018 at 10:00 AM at the centre.


    ***


    

    
    (Release ID: 1531825) Visitor Counter : 291