      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      National Consultation with the States/UTs on Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Swasthya Suraksha Mission (PMRSSM)
      Posted On: 24 APR 2018 8:40PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Health and Family Welfare organized a National consultation with States/UTs to seek feedback on draft guidelines for implementing PMRSSM, on 23 rd April, 2018 at New Delhi. The workshop was attended by CEOs of the State Health Agency, State Nodal Officers and Senior IT officials of the state agencies. Most of the States participated in the consultations, except for few like Delhi & West Bengal.


    The consultation was inaugurated by Ms Preeti Sudan, Secretary MoHFW and Mr. Indu Bhushan, CEO (designate), PMRSSM. Mr. Manoj Jhalani, Additional Secretary-MD, NHM, also participated in the inaugural session.


    Secretary, MoHFW, while welcoming the participants, briefed the states on the broad contours of the mission and encouraged increased participation from the states. The CEO (designate), PMRSSM highlighted the importance of the mission in the Indian healthcare landscape and the need to focus on its successful implementation. Mr. Indu Bhushan mentioned that States would get ample flexibility to contextualize the scheme based on their local needs. He stressed the importance of Additional Data Collection Drive being undertaken during Ayushman Bharat Diwas on 30 th April, alongside the awareness generation activities.


    The states were divided into three sub groups to ensure detailed deliberations and seek in-depth inputs on the draft set of guidelines. This included guidelines on beneficiary identification process, empanelment of hospitals, portability of the benefits, model tender document, modalities of premium release and other related aspects. Based on the inputs received from the states, each sub group presented the summary of proposed changes and inputs they had suggested during the discussion.


    Based on the feedback received from states, Ministry will release model RFP (Request for Proposal) and operational guidelines latest by 2 nd Week of May. Most States were keen to release their RFP in the May month itself.


    Each state also shared the roadmap and the progress made for the implementation of the mission. All states showed their keenness to join the mission. The states shared their individual timelines.


    ***


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1530107) Visitor Counter : 768
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil