      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Photo exhibition on voter awareness programme by Regional Outreach Bureau
      Posted On: 12 APR 2019 3:32PM by PIB Bengaluru


    Photo exhibition on voter awareness programme by Regional Outreach Bureau


    Bangalore, April 12, 2019


    Regional Outreach Bureau , Bangalore has organised a three day long Photo Exhibition Programme on ‘ SVEEP (Systematic Voter's Education and Electoral Participation) programme’ at Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Railway Station, Bangalore .


    The photo exhibition displays twenty panels on District Voters’ Helpline, Chunavana App, facilities available at polling booths, process of election and SVEEP related information to create awareness about the importance of voting among general public.


    The exhibition was inaugurated by Shri. Sanjeev Kumar, Chief Electoral Officer, Karnataka today. A Voter’s pledge was administered by the Chief Electoral Officer after the inauguration of the photo exhibition. A book titled ‘General Elections-2019 ‘ published by ECI and translated to Kannada by the Press Information Bureau, Bangalore and ‘Yojana’ magazine published by Publication Division were released during the inaugural function .


    Addressing the media after the inaugural function Shri. Sanjeev Kumar, Chief Electoral Officer, Karnataka said that such exhibitions help in creating awareness among voters about the importance of voting. He said that the public can visit the website of ECI, Karnataka, where the details related to the election process and contesting candidates are available. Stressing on the importance of voting in a democratic country, Shri. Sanjeev Kumar said that every citizen must cast his vote without fear and favour.


    Shri. M. Nagendra Swamy, Additional Director General, PIB & ROB, Bangalore, Shri. R.S Saxena, Divisional Railway Manager, South Western Railways, Smt. Kalyani Sethuraman, ADRM, South Western Railways, Shri. S. G Raveendra, Special Commissioner, BBMP, Bangalore and Shri. Bhrungeesh. N, Director, DIPR, Bangalore were present during the occasion. Artists of Song Drama Division, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting gave performances on SVEEP in the venue of function.


    The photo exhibition was jointly organised with District Information and Public Relations Department, Indian Railways and BBMP. The exhibition is free for public and will be kept open from 10 am to 6pm till April 14, 2019.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1570482) Visitor Counter : 125
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Kannada