      Ministry of Culture

      City Hosts Sixth International Conference of Society of South Asian Archaeology
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2018 2:04PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, March 19, 2018


    The Indian Museum, Kolkata organised the sixth International Conference of Society of South Asian Archaeology (SOSAA) in association with All India Digamber Jain Heritage Preservation Organization, New Delhi from March 16 to March 18, 2018.


    The programme started with the inauguration of a special exhibition on Jain sculptures form the collection of the Indian Museum – Jina, the winner .


    Apart from this, Indian Museum also arranged for two cultural events during the evenings by Tanusree Shankar Dance Academy ( Chirantan ), on the evening of March 16, while The Creative Arts staged their renowned production – Beyond Borders on the evening of March 17.


    The inaugural ceremony of the conference was attended by several dignitaries and delegates including Shri Rajesh Purohit, Director, Indian Museum, Kolkata, ), Shri A. S. Manekar, Director General, National Council of Science Museums, Prof. Vasant Shinde, VC Deccan College, Pune and General Secretary, SOSAA, Shri Nirmal Kumar Jain, President, All India Digamber Jain Heritage Preservation Organization (Shri Bharatvarshiya Digamber Jain (TS) Mahasabha), Dr. Shrikant Ganvir, Assistant Secretary, SOSAA, Shri Raj Kumar Sethi, All India Digamber Jain Heritage Preservation Organization (Shri Bharatvarshiya Digamber Jain (TS) Mahasabha), Prof. Arvind P. Jamkhedkar, Chairman, Indian Council of Historical Research and Dr. Sayan Bhattacharya, Education Officer, Indian Museum, Kolkata.


    It is to be noted that the South Asian countries, share a common cultural heritage which cannot be studied in isolation. Therefore, each year SOSAA brings together archaeologists, historians, anthropologists, social scientists, and archaeological scientists from across South Asia on one platform, to exchange data, ideas and insights into new discoveries made in the last couple of years in South Asia.


    ********


    SSS/ 19.3.18/…

    
    
    (Release ID: 1525100) Visitor Counter : 8