      PIB Headquarters

      Inauguration of Indo-US collaborative FTF-ITT programme in ICAR-CIFT, Cochin
      Posted On: 13 SEP 2017 5:18PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    ‘Unless the information and technologies developed in fisheries sector is transferred to needy people across the globe, the entire process of knowledge generation will remain futile’, said the Chief Guest Dr.P.Rajendran, Vice Chancellor, Kerala Agricultural university. While inaugurating the training programme on “Recent Trends in Harvest and Post- Harvest Technologies in Fisheries” at ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Cochin he highlighted that scope for growth in crop sector is almost achieved, but there exists tremendous potential for growth in fisheries and livestock sector. Fisheries is important sector as far as the economies of Kerala and India are considered. It contributes to 1% of total GDP of India supporting the livelihood security of more than 15 million people in the country directly and indirectly. With an estimated 12 fold increase in export earnings from fishery sector during the last two decades, it need to be given proper attention for creating employment generation opportunities. He also pointed about the importance of mobilizing Self Help Groups, Producers Organizations and Cooperatives for facilitating the socio economic development of the fisher folks


    The fifteen-day training programme is the eleventh in the series of the ‘Feed the Future India Triangular Training (FTT-ITT) programme’, a triangular cooperation between India, US and Africa for adapting technological advances and innovative solutions to address Global Food Security. This Indo-US joint initiative is funded by USAID, India representing US Government and coordinated by National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management(MANAGE), Hyderabad under the aegis of Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Govt. of India. Twenty-two executives representing 8 member countries viz., Afghanistan, Ghana, Kenya, Liberia, Malawi, Mongolia, Sudan and Uganda are participating.


    Dr. C. N. Ravishankar, Director, ICAR-CIFT highlighted the role of CIFT in promoting application based research in harvest and post-harvest fisheries sector during the presidential address. Dr. Ravi Nandi, Programme Manager at MANAGE, Hyderabad briefed about the genesis of FTT-ITT programme. He told the programme was announced during the visit of then U.S. president, Mr. Barak Obama to India in November 2010. The intention is to utilise the institutional and technological strength of India in the field of agricultural and allied areas for achieving global food security. Dr.A.K. Mohanty, Head, Extension, Information and Statistics division gave an overview of the training programme at CIFT. Dr. Susheela Mathew, Head, Biochemistry and Nutrition Division gave the welcome address and Dr. Ashok Kumar, Head, Fish Processing division offered vote of thanks.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1502726) Visitor Counter : 5