      PIB Headquarters

      Convocation Ceremony at Naval Base, Kochi
      Posted On: 03 OCT 2018 11:36PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    The sixth Convocation Ceremony of the Naval Institute of Aeronautical Technology (NIAT) was held on 03 Oct 18, at naval base Kochi. A total of 76 officers and sailors of the Indian Naval Air Arm were awarded M.Tech (Aeronautics) and B.Sc. (Aeronautics) degrees in Mechanical, Electrical and Avionics discipline. The Chief Guest for the ceremony was Rear Admiral RJ Nadkarni, VSM, Chief of Staff, Southern Naval Command (SNC), while Dr J Letha, Vice Chancellor, Cochin University of Science and Technology graced the occasion as the Guest of Honour. The Chief Guest also released biennial Technical journal of NIAT “Take Off” during the ceremony. The ceremony was attended by many senior functionaries of CUSAT besides naval personnel of SNC.


    Rear Admiral Nadkarni, in his address, commended NIAT for growing from strength to strength in the last 62 years of its existence. He stated that the Institute had distinguished itself in training air technical sailors to carry out comprehensive and quality maintenance of naval air assets. The Chief Guest also expressed his sincere gratitude to CUSAT for the whole hearted cooperation and academic support that they had extended to various training units of the Southern Naval Command, through the MoU signed in 2002, especially in recognizing the efforts of trainees in their pursuit of academic excellence by the award of formal degrees . RAdm Nadkarni also congratulated all awardees on being conferred with the Post Graduate and Graduate Degree in Aeronautics and urged them to discharge their professional duties with professionalism, diligence and zeal so as to ensure comprehensive maintenance support for the Naval Air Arm.


    NIAT is recognised as “Centre of Excellence for Aeronautical Science and Technology” of CUSAT as a training institute. Presently, training on 12 by type aircraft is being imparted at the Institute

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548505) Visitor Counter : 1