      PIB Headquarters

      India Rubber Meet 2018 from tomorrow onwards
      Posted On: 29 OCT 2018 5:32PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    The fourth edition of India Rubber Meet, an event proposed to be held biennially, will be held at Grand Hyatt, Kochi Bolgatty, Kerala on 30 and 31 October 2018. India Rubber Meet (IRM) is organized by the Rubber Board in partnership with stakeholder associations in rubber and related sectors. The Meet is a major initiative of Indian rubber industry to organise a regular forum for interaction, networking and exchange of information. Smt. Sheela Thomas IAS, former Secretary General, ANRPC (Association of Natural Rubber Producing Countries & Former Chairman, Rubber Board) will inaugurate the Meet. The inaugural function will begin at 10.00 am. D. Anandan IAS (Chairman & Executive Director, Rubber Board), Chairman of the Organising Committee will welcome the gathering and Mr. Vinod Simon (Chairman, Rubber Skill Development Council), Vice - Chairman, Organising Committee, IRM 2018 will propose a vote of thanks in the inaugural function.


    The theme of India Rubber Meet 2018 is ‘Towards a sustainable rubber value chain’ . IRM 2018 has a combination of invited talks and panel discussions, with ample time set for networking. Topics of invited talks and panel discussions cover global economic outlook, rubber industry outlook, global and domestic NR scenario, synthetic rubber developments, trends in auto and tyre sectors. Speakers are internationally known experts in the respective fields and represent major industry bodies and key enterprises.


    The rubber sector is frequently undergoing economic, industrial, technological and developmental changes. The critical conditions like depressed raw material prices, declining product sales, economic slowdown, oil price changes, currency fluctuations, speculative factors, global warming, crop loss etc. are also affecting the sustainability of the rubber and related sectors. Rubber is a strategic commodity. Because of the strategic importance of rubber, the industry has to overcome the challenges by ensuring a long term support from the related sectors. The last three IRMs could create a strong platform of stakeholder associations to formulate appropriate strategies for ensuring balanced and sustained growth of rubber industry.


    India Rubber Meet 2018 will provide opportunities to hear experts from across the world on prospects of rubber industry and allied topics. Panel discussions on challenges and opportunities at global level will be led by technocrats and management professionals and rubber industry stakeholders. There will be discussions for stakeholders on Indian perspectives also.


    There are four sessions on the first day (30 October) of IRM 2018. The first session ‘Economy & Sustainability – I’ will be chaired by Mr. Ajay Shah (President, Polymer Chain, Reliance Industries Ltd) and the speakers are Dr. D. K. Joshi (Chief Economist, CRISIL) and Gunther Lottmann (CEO at Grupo Fortaleza, Guatemala). The second session ‘Changing Technology Landscape - Impact on the Value Chain’ will be chaired by Mr. M.P. Cherian ( Chairman, UPASI Rubber Committee). Mathew George (General Manager, Petrochemicals, Indian Oil Corporation Ltd, Mumbai), Mr. Rakesh Batra (Partner and National Leader, Automotive Sector, Ernst &Young), are the speakers. The third session on ‘Natural Rubber & Synthetic Rubber Scenario - New Technologies & Focus on Productivity and Quality’ will be chaired by Mr. Rajiv Budhraja (Director General, ATMA, New Delhi) and the speakers are Mr. Jom Jacob (Sr. Economist, ANRPC, Malaysia), Dr. James Jacob (Director, Rubber Research Institute of India) and Mr. Kishor Katkar (Head, Technical Services and Business Development, ISRPL). Last session of the first day is ‘Innovations / Breakthroughs / Success Stories- Learnings & Takeaways’, which will be chaired by Dr. A. K. Krishnakumar (Former Rubber Production Commissioner, Rubber Board of India & Adviser, IL&FS). The speakers are Mr. Jose Mathew Kochukudy (Planter) and Mr. N. Dharmaraj, Director (Harrisons Malayalam Ltd., & Advisor to Sector Head , HML (SBUA).


    D. Anandan IAS (Chairman & Executive Director, Rubber Board) will give out the mementos to the sponsors of IRM 2018 on the first day.


    The last session ‘Economy & Sustainability-II’ on 31 October will be chaired by Mr. Vinod Simon (Chairman, Rubber Skill Development Council and Vice Chairman, IRM 2018 Organizing Committee). Mr. John Heath (Director, Latex Services and Sustainability - Corrie Maccoll International, United Kingdom), Dr. Hidde Smit (Consultant on Analysis and Forecasts of the Rubber Economy, The Netherlands and Former Secretary General, IRSG, Singapore) and Dr. Prabhakar Reddy Patil (CGM, Department of Economic Policy Analysis & Library, SEBI, Mumabi) will speak on related topics.


    The talks will be followed by panel discussions. The panel discussion on international scenario ‘Global Challenges and Emerging Alternatives’ will be chaired by Dr. Hidde Smit (Consultant on Analysis and Forecasts of the Rubber Economy, The Netherlands and Former Secretary General, IRSG, Singapore). The panellists are Mr. Jom Jacob (Senior Economist, ANRPC, Malaysia), Dr. Lakshmi Nair (Head of Economics and Statistics, International Rubber Study Group, Singapore), Mr. Diogo Esperante (Executive Director, APABOR, Brazil), Mr. C. Vinayaraghavan (President, Harrisons Malayalam Ltd.) and Mr. C.J. George (Managing Director, Geojit, Kochi).


    The second panel discussion on ‘Challenges & Opportunities from Stakeholders' Perspective’ will be chaired by Mr. D. Anandan IAS (Chairman & Executive Director, Rubber Board of India). Mr. Rajiv Budhraja (Director General, ATMA, New Delhi), Mr. V.T. Chandrasekharan (Vice President, AIRIA, Mumbai), Mr. Radhakrishna Hebbar (Planter, Neria Estate, Belthangady, Karnataka), Mr. Shiyaz Ali (Secretary, Block Rubber Processors Association of India, Kottayam) and Mr. Tomy Abraham (President, Indian Rubber Dealers Federation, Kottayam) are the panellists. More details can be had from ‘www.indiarubbermeet.in’

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551127) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam