      Ministry of Defence

      SOUTHERN ARMY HONOURS THE CORONA WARRIORS
      Posted On: 03 MAY 2020 5:45PM by PIB Mumbai


    Pune: May 3, 2020


    As the country got united in its fight to control the spread of COVID-19 pandemic by staying indoors due to Government enforced lockdown for the past 39 days, the Corona warriors were seen fighting a valiant battle for future of humanity with complete disregard to their personal safety. Lieutenant General CP Mohanty, General Officer Commanding in Chief Southern Command on behalf of all ranks the Southern Command, commend the courage, selfless sacrifice and dedication to duty of the Corona Warriors that has ensured that we win the fight against this contagion that is causing such devastation across the globe. Placing themselves at the Front line our Doctors, Nurses, Paramedical staff, Sanitisation workers, Police personnel and essential supply service employees worked round the clock with unshakable faith to ensure that the citizens of the country remain safe and their requirements are met in these testing times. It is because of their perseverance and hardwork that India has been able to relatively control the spread. As the country prepares itself to relax the restrictions, Southern Command thanks and felicitates all the Corona warriors to further inspire them to continue with these extraordinary efforts of saving human lives.


    Statement by the Army Commander


    “The Corona warriors are undertaking this challenging task of fighting COVID-19 and have demonstrated resolve and grit by which the country has been able to suppress the spread to a large extent. The enthusiasm shown by these brave men/women is unmatchable and surely deserves compliments from all the citizens of our country. We all members of the Southern Army, salute the valiant Corona Warriors for their selfless contribution to the Nation.”


    Photo Captions


    Army felicitated the agencies involved in the fight against COVID-19. Sanitation workers, Conservancy staff, Police, district administration, doctors and hospital staff and other front liners were appreciated on 3 May 2020 at multiple locations in Pune.


    *****


    
    MI/PM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1620648) Visitor Counter : 104
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi