      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Doubling time of COVID-19 cases has improved from 3.4 before lockdown to 12 days today: Health Ministry
      
      Centre has not ever talked of charging workers for the Shramik Special Trains fare. 85% of the fare will be borne by Indian Railways and 15% by state governments: Health Ministry
      
      9 out of 10 people who have concluded the battle against COVID-19 have emerged victorious
      
      Fresh restrictions can be imposed if cases emerge in districts where no cases have been reported so far: Health Ministry
      
      MHA issues advisory to states, UTs and all central armed forces on safety measures for police and armed forces personnel
      
      Empowered Group 6 has harnessed the competencies of a network of 92,000 civil society organizations & NGOs, in the fight against COVID-19: Group Chairman and NITI Aayog CEO, Amitabh Kant

      Posted On: 04 MAY 2020 6:28PM by PIB Mumbai

    New Delhi / Mumbai, May 4, 2020


    The number of COVID-19 positive cases stands at 42,533 as on date, while 29,453 people are under active medical supervision as on today. 1,074 recoveries have been reported in the last 24 hours, which is the highest till date. 11,706 people have been cured till date, which takes up the recovery rate to 27.52 %. Also, 2,553 new cases have been reported in the last 24 hours. This was informed by the Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Shri Lav Agarwal, at the daily media briefing on the actions taken, preparedness and updates on COVID-19, held at Shastri Bhawan, PIB New Delhi today.


    The Joint Secretary stated that the outcome ratio has been calculated out of the closed cases till now, as a ratio of the number of people recovered versus the number of deaths reported. This indicates the clinical management status of hospitals. The present outcome ratio in the country stands at 90% versus 10%, which is a marked improvement compared to the ratio of 80% versus 20% on April 17, 2020. It is important to develop deeper understanding of COVID-19 treatment and focus on further improving the outcome ratio.


    The Joint Secretary said, as lockdown is being eased in a staggered manner, it is imperative to continue rigorous containment, effective clinical management and infection prevention and control. In pandemics such as COVID-19, historically it has been noted that if social distancing is not respected when social mobility is allowed, chances of disease transmission increase rapidly once restrictions are eased. Hence, in order to prevent such a situation and to maintain the benefits from lockdown, we should understand our social responsibility and ensure we behave responsibly as lockdown eases and diligently follow all protocols and guidelines, said the Joint Secretary. “There is a fine line that we need to follow; being complacent can lead to emergence of new COVID-19 cases. Also, emergence of cases in districts where no cases have been reported so far can lead to imposition of fresh restrictions”, added the Joint Secretary.


    Shri Agarwal also said, since we are transitioning to a new normal, we need to compulsorily wear face masks/covers in public places and follow preventive measures outside containment zones as well. While buying essential items or meeting people in common areas, we should try to avoid crowds. Shri Agarwal reiterated that we need to diligently maintain physical distancing, hand hygiene, environmental hygiene and preventive measures.


    The Chairman of Empowered Group 6 and CEO, NITI Aayog, Shri Amitabh Kant briefed about the works and activities of this group, which has been entrusted with coordination with private sector, NGOs, and International Organisations for COVID-19 related response activities. Shri Kant explained how his Group has succeeded in galvanising a network of 92,000 civil society organizations and NGOs to harness their strengths and resources, expertise in key social sectors and extensive reach in the community. The NGOs/CSOs have been assisting the State Governments and District Administrations in identifying hotspots and deputing volunteers; delivering essential services to the vulnerable, including the homeless, daily wage workers, migrants, and urban poor families; and in creating awareness about prevention, social distancing, and isolation .


    There are about 610 cases in the Aspirational Districts, fairly low at less than 2% of the national level, stated the CEO of NITI Aayog. Notably, the aspirational districts programme piloted by NITI Aayog has been a big success in uplifting lives of millions in 112 most backward districts. In the next phase of their work, the group will mobilize Civil Society Organizations/ NGOs for movement against COVID-19 stigmatisation and in protecting the elderly and senior citizens, informed Shri Kant.


    The Joint Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs Ms Punya Salila Srivastava briefed that:

      * Looking at the increasing figures of COVID-19 infection among police and armed forces personnel, MHA has issued an advisory to all states and UTs and all central armed forces on the basis of advice given by Bureau of Police Research & Development (BPRD) and Health Ministry. The advisory brings their attention to all the advisories on COVID-19 issued by Health Ministry from time to time and about the safety measures to be adopted while being in the line of duty. A detailed Standard Operating Procedure has also been issued for police personnel manning prisons, about how to remain safe from COVID-19.
      * Action has been taken on approximately 12,000 complaints received in MHA control room till May 3, 2020.
      * MHA and Ministry of Road Transportation has opened toll-free number 1930 for truck drivers who may face any difficulties in inter-state movement while transporting essential items. While travelling on National Highway, they can call at the NHAI helpline number 1033 also for assistance.

    Pointing out salient points from the MHA order on extension of lockdown for a further period of 2 weeks with effect from May 4, 2020 , Ms. Srivastava said, all the districts in the country have been identified as red, orange and green zones on the basis of Health Ministry's set parameters. The relaxations in lockdown have been given on basis of zones. Classification of zones is being done on the basis of Health Ministry's consultation with states and UTs every week or whenever necessary. If there are some restrictions, then relaxations have also been given. In places where restrictions are very necessary to curb the spread of infection, on the basis of extensive survey, some relaxations in lockdown have been provided in those places for activating the country's economy, adding momentum to business activities and providing means of employment to workers. According to the new guidelines, certain movements will remain restricted throughout the country. Travelling by air, rail and metro as well as inter-state movement by roads will remain prohibited. Only on the basis of medical, safety and other grounds allowed by MHA, relaxations may be provided in such movements. The containment zones under red and orange zones will have strict perimeter control, which means movement within and outside containment zones will not be allowed, other than for emergency medical purposes and essential services.


    Responding to a media query on the transport of migrant labourers via Shramik Special Trains, the Joint Secretary clarified: “The government’s guidelines clearly state that as an infection control measure, everyone is required to remain where they are. However, based on request of states, permission has been given to run special trains for movement of stranded people such as migrant workers. Government of India has not ever talked of charging workers for the train fare for these journeys. 85% of the transportation fare will be borne by Indian Railways and 15% by state governments.”.


    On testing capacity, Shri Agarwal informed: “We have 426 COVID-19 testing labs in the country today - 315 in public sector and 111 in private sector. A total of 57,474 tests were done yesterday. We have progressively increased our testing capacity as per need and number of tests has been rising as per sampling criteria.”


    On the impact of lockdown, the Joint Secretary stated: “Doubling time of COVID-19 cases has improved from 3.4 days before lockdown to 12 days today. Lockdown and containment efforts are yielding results, our challenge now is how to further improve these results, to further increase doubling time.”


    LIVE tweets by @PIB_India can be found on this thread .


    ***


    DJM/SC


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com


    

    
    (Release ID: 1620965) Visitor Counter : 248
    
    
    
    
    

*