      Ministry of Earth Science

      The National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research – In the fight against COVID19
      Posted On: 08 MAY 2020 3:16PM by PIB Mumbai


    Goa, May 08, 2020


    National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research , Goa (erstwhile NCAOR) continues to contribute its share in the fight against COVID19 Pandemic. Scientists and Research Scholars at NCPOR have done significant analytical work in the different laboratories for research work maintaining proper social distance as per the MHA guidelines on COVID-19 precautions. NCPOR Scientists / Research Scholars could make use of the Lockdown period to read research papers pertaining to respective research area and it is expected that good number of research publications is expected in the forthcoming days. Technology has been put into full swing during the lockdown period to achieve collaboration with sister organisations. All official meetings with Ministry of Earth sciences and other organisations like Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology -Pune, National Institute of Ocean Technology - Chennai, Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services - Hyderabad, National Centre for Earth Science Studies -Thiruvananthapuram and other organisations like ISRO HQ Bangalore, Space Applications Centre -Ahmedabad, National Remote Sensing Centre, Hyderabad have been arranged through various online modes . Various Webinars and sessions were organized by Web of Science team for MoES Institutes during the lockdown; NCPOR actively participated in the Webinars.


    All the Outsourced employees, ninety in number have been paid full wages without consideration of attendance. Approximately 40 Civil Construction Workers are staying inside the NCPOR at construction site without any difficulties during the lockdown and necessary arrangement done for their comfortable stay. Mask and gloves have been provided to all Security Staff (30) deployed at NCPOR. NCPOR bus is deployed for staff to travel from their home and return with due consideration of MHA guidelines on COVID-19 precautions. One vehicle of NCPOR is deployed with District Collector South Goa for COVID-19 operation in the State of Goa.


    Two American Scientists who were on board Ocean Research Vessel Sagar Nidhi were dropped to Mumbai International Airport using NCPOR official vehicle with support and kind cooperation of Goa Government. Dissertation students who completed their project works are being helped to reach their native at Kerala with the help of Government of Goa and Government of Kerala.


    The National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research (NCPOR) was established as an autonomous Research and Development Institution of the Ministry of Earth Sciences (formerly Department of Ocean Development), Government of India on the 25th May 1998.With a mission mandate that is quite challenging, the Centre is designated as the nodal organization for the co-ordination and implementation of the Indian Antarctic Programme, including the maintenance of India’s permanent station in Antarctica.


    ***


    VK/PK


    *


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1622118) Visitor Counter : 275
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi