      Ministry of Railways

      Western Railway loads 6.14 Million tonnes of essential goods amid lockdown
      Posted On: 09 MAY 2020 5:07PM by PIB Mumbai


    Mumbai: 9 th May 2020


    As the nation observes lockdown to control the spread of COVID19, it is our frontline warriors who ensure the supply of essential goods and services. Western Railway (WR) has made significant contribution to serve the nation amid lockdown. So far, 3258 rakes have been loaded amounting to 6.14 Million tons of essential goods to different states including North East region. The commodities being carried include fertilizer, salt, food grain, cement, coal. In addition to these 178 rakes of Millennium Parcel Van and Milk Tank Wagons with essential commodities such as medicine, medical kits, frozen food, milk powder and liquid milk has also been loaded.


    Chief Public Relations Officer, Ravinder Bhakar informed that, commodities weighing more than 27000 tonnes have been transported by Western Railway through its various parcel special trains, which includes agricultural produce, medicines, fish, milk etc. Similarly, 149 Covid-19 special parcel trains have been run to transport essential commodities, for which the revenue earned is approx Rs 4.36 crore. In addition to this, 4 indented rakes also run with 100% utilization. The loading of food grains has shown a growth of 200% in the month of April 2020 compared to April 2019. During the period, diesel utilization has improved by approximately 26% and electric utilization by 10%, as compared to last year.


    It has also extended assurance to its customers with all necessary assistance needed to carry out transportation from placing of indent to transit and delivery at destinations. In addition to this significant policy changes made by the Board to facilitate customers has also greatly helped. Relaxation of demurrage/wharfage charges, delivery at destination in absence of receipt, withdrawal of haulage charges are a few among them.


    In order to ensure smooth flow of work, Western Railway has issued 1350 passes to labourers and trucks. Liaison with state authorities namely Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan has been done to facilitate labourers/trucks with passes.


    In order to ensure safety of the employees, a sanitizer tunnel has been set up at Ahmadabad division at goods shed. At other major goods shed, masks, hand gloves, sanitizers have been provided. 27 Thermal scanning guns have been procured by Western Railway to check the body temperature of labourers/workers at goods shed.


    CPRO, Bhakar also added that due to lockdown, the total loss of earnings over Western Railway has been Rs 761.56 crore. Despite of this, a refund amounting to Rs 238.22 crore, (Mumbai division alone - Rs 115.11 crore) has been made owing to cancellation of tickets. 37.24 lakh passengers have cancelled their tickets with the Western Railway and have received their refund amount till now.


    Container loading at Gandhidham goods shed


    Loading Unloading activities at stations of WR


    Loaded Goods train at WR station


    Sanitizer tunnel installed at Linch Goods shed for labourers


    ****


    RT/DL/PM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1622490) Visitor Counter : 99
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi