      Ministry of Railways

      Heading Home amidst Lockdown
      Posted On: 12 MAY 2020 5:31PM by PIB Mumbai


    Mumbai: May 12, 2020


    “I would request you all to contact police stations, fill up the forms and government will arrange for journey after mandatory medical check-up”, said an elated passenger who headed home in Barauni through Shramik Special train. He was happy with arrangements done by Railways as well as state government.


    One Shramik Special Train left Thane station on 9 th May to reach Barauni in Bihar. It took around 1,200 stranded labourers from Mumbai-Thane area to their homes. Shramik Special trains are the main hope for labourers stuck in various parts of country and they are winning hearts and minds by taking India’s manpower to the safe confines of their homes by undertaking long journeys. “The trains have capacity of 1,600 passengers. However keeping the physical distancing in mind, we are taking 1,200 passengers at a time. Tickets are being booked through state government”, informed Station Master of Thane.


    Another Shramik special train on 9 th May from Solapur took 981 stranded labourers, workers and students to Tiruchirappalli in Tamil Nadu. This train started from Pandharpur and covered Kurduwadi, Solapur, Gulbarga, Wadi, Hyderabad stations.


    Similarly, 700 labourers stuck in Wardha district were relieved when Shramik Special Train taking them to Patna left from Wardha on May 6. 1,019 passengers headed home by that train. More than 300 labourers from Chandrapur district were brought to Wardha train station for this purpose. All passengers were medically examined and were given health certificate for being fit.


    A Shramik special train also left Bhiwandi for Patna with 1,200 passengers at 4:05 pm on 6 th May 2020. Labourers on board expressed desire to return to the city after lockdown is lifted. This is third train which started from Bhiwandi.


    “Earlier Labourers from Bhiwandi were sent home to Gorakhpur and Jaipur by special Shramik Trains. Online registration of labourers from Bhiwandi is going on and in coming days, Railways will be requested for more trains as the registration process proceeds further”, informed DCP Bhiwandi, Shri Rajkumar Shinde.


    State government and local administration are making arrangements for travel up to station for those labourers who had received permission to do the travel via train. They are also being provided with food and water at boarding station by state government. IRCTC has done arrangements for food and water during journey. Railways meanwhile appealed to the people not to crowd railway stations without necessary permission and not to create law and order problems.


    “No individual or group is being issued ticket by railways for travel by Shramik Special Trains. Only those passengers who are being brought to railway stations under supervision of state officials are allowed to do train travel for designated places”, railways appealed.


    MC/PM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1623302) Visitor Counter : 128