      Ministry of Railways

      Western Railway resumes normal passenger services in graded manner with two special trains
      Posted On: 12 MAY 2020 6:55PM by PIB Mumbai


    Mumbai, May 12, 2020


    Ministry of Railways in consultation with Ministry of Health & Family welfare (MoHFW) and Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has decided to partially commence passenger train services on Indian Railways w.e.f. from 12th May, 2020 in a graded manner; connecting the national capital majorly with the state capital cities. As per this decision, 15 pairs of special trains commenced their journey from various major places of the country, out of which 2 trains departed from Mumbai Central & Sabarmati (Ahmedabad) of Western Railway to New Delhi - the national capital of India. These 2 special trains to facilitate passengers were run by WR on 12th May, 2020 originating from Mumbai Central and Sabarmati respectively to New Delhi.


    Train No. 02951 running between Mumbai Central - NDLS was occupied by 1,487 passengers, including 1,107 from Mumbai Central, 97 from Surat, 83 from Vadodara, 23 from Ratlam & 177 from Kota stations. Similarly, train no. 02957 running between Sabarmati - New Delhi had occupancy of 1,228 passengers. including 830 from Sabarmati, 223 from Jaipur, 104 from Palanpur, 66 from Abu Road & 5 from Gurgaon stations. In all total 2,715 passengers were reserved in these two special trains.


    It's worth mentioning that Indian Railways had announced the timings of 15 pairs of special trains (thirty trains) which started running from 12 th May, 2020, These special trains presently will have only Air conditioned classes i.e. First, Second & Third AC. The fare structure for these ‘Special Trains’ are as applicable for the regular time tabled Rajdhani trains, excluding catering charges and the tickets (E-Tickets) are only available online through IRCTC website or through Mobile App. The maximum Advance Reservation Period (ARP) for these special trains will be of maximum 7 days. The tickets for these trains cannot be booked across the reservation counter on any Railway Station nor through ‘agents’, (both IRCTC Agents and Railway Agents). Also, booking of RAC/Waiting list ticket and on board booking by ticket checking staff is also not permitted. Similarly, current booking, tatkal and premium tatkal booking as well as Unreserved tickets (UTS) is also not permitted. Since, catering charges is excluded in the fare, passengers are encouraged to carry their own food and drinking water. No stalls/ booths on the platforms shall be opened. No train side vending would be permitted. However, IRCTC shall make provision for limited eatables and packaged drinking water on payment basis inside the train and information to this effect shall be made available to passengers during the time of booking ticket. Online cancellation for these trains shall be permitted up to 24 hrs before scheduled departure of train. No cancellation permitted less than 24 hrs before departure of train. Cancellation charge shall be 50% of fare. Further, as per MHA guidelines the movement of the passenger(s) as well as the driver of the vehicle transporting the passenger(s) to and fro the Railway Station shall be allowed on the basis of the confirmed e-ticket.


    Shri Ravinder Bhakar - Chief Public Relations Officer of Western Rly stated that, out of these 15 pairs of special trains, two pairs of train services are being operated from Western Railway, the details of which are as under:

     1. ​Train No. 02951 Mumbai Central - New Delhi AC Special train will be operated daily from 12 th May, 2020. The train will depart at 17.30 hrs from Mumbai Central and will reach New Delhi at 09.05 hrs, the next day. Similarly, Train No. 02952 New Delhi -​ Mumbai Central AC Special train will be operated daily from 13 th May, 2020. The train will depart at 16.55 hrs from New Delhi and will reach Mumbai Central ​at 08.45 hrs, the next day. The train comprises of First AC, II Tier AC & III Tier AC coaches. The train will halt at Surat, Vadodara, Ratlam & Kota stations in both directions.
     2. ​Train No.02957 Sabarmati (Ahmedabad) - New Delhi AC Special train will be operated daily from 12th May, 2020. The train will depart at 18.20 hrs from Sabarmati station and will reach New Delhi at 08.00 hrs. next day. Similarly, Train No. 02958 New Delhi -​ Sabarmati (Ahmedabad) AC Special train will be operated daily from 13th May, 2020. The train will depart at 20.25 hrs from New Delhi and will reach Sabarmati station at 10.05 hrs. next day. The train comprises of First AC, II Tier AC & III Tier AC coaches. The train will halt at Palanpur, Abu Road, Jaipur & Gurgaon stations in both directions.

    Passengers travelling by these special services are required to observe the following precautions:

     1. Only passengers with Confirmed tickets shall be allowed to enter the Railway station.
     2. All passengers shall be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic passengers are allowed to enter /board the train.
     3. Passengers are advised to travel light.
     4. It is compulsory for all passengers to wear face covers/masks at the entry and during travel.
     5. The passengers shall reach the station at least 90 minutes to 2 hrs in advance to facilitate thermal screening at the station. Only passengers who are found asymptomatic will be permitted to travel.
     6. All passengers are advised to download and use the Aarogya Setu application before arriving at the station.
     7. No Linen, blankets and curtains shall be provided inside the train. Passengers are advised to carry their own linen for the travel. The temperature inside AC coaches shall be suitably regulated for this purpose.
     8. Passengers shall observe government guidelines on social distancing both at the station and on trains.
     9. On arrival at their destination, the travelling passengers will have to adhere to such health protocols as are prescribed by the destination state/UT

    ​These services are in addition to the Shramik specials for transporting stranded persons, which are under operation w.e.f. 1st May 2020. ​Other regular Passenger services including all mail/express, passenger and suburban services shall remain cancelled until further advice .


    *****


    DJM (based on inputs from PRO, Western Railway)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1623333) Visitor Counter : 183
    
    
    
    
    

9.