      Ministry of Culture

      3D Printing Technology Put into use By Goa Science Centre in the fight against COVID 19
      Posted On: 12 MAY 2020 2:35PM by PIB Mumbai


    Goa: May 12, 2020


    Goa Science Centre & Planetarium, Ministry of Culture, Government of India scrambled up their resources in Fabricating Face Shield frames meant for frontline medical professionals attending to COVID patients using 3D printing technology, these face shield frames were processed in the Innovation Hub of the Goa Science centre. The items were supplied to Directorate of Health services, Govt. of Goa.


    3D Printed Face Shield


    Project Coordinator GSC Inspecting the 3D Printer


    The video of the 3D printer in action can be seen here:


    https://twitter.com/PIB_Panaji/status/1260117492632084481?s=20


    During the lockdown period, GSC has resorted exclusively online channels in conducting the regular programmes for the public and members. To cite a few, Online Quizzes on testing knowledge about the various facilities and exhibits of Goa Science Centre and general knowledge about National Council of Science Museums on were done on various digital platforms and social media channels. In addition to this Do at Home activities, online Brain Teaser puzzles were also carried out by Goa science centre. In connection with the International Technology day Scientific Toy Making competition was also hosted on the website.


    The Upcoming events are on International museum day and Constitution Day which will commence on 14 th May and 20 th May respectively.


    Goa Science centre can be reached on the following Handles


    Website : www.sciencecentre.goa.gov.in


    Twitter : https://twitter.com/GSCPGoa


    Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/GSCPGoa


    You Tube : bit.ly/3bqCSDo


    Goa Science Centre has been developed as a place of edutainment in Science & Technology. Main objective of the centre is to inculcate a scientific temper and bring the excitement of science to the common public. It provides a perfect environment for exploring science through hands-on, sci-fi exhibits.


    3D Printer in action at Goa science Centre, printing face shield frames for medical professionals. pic.twitter.com/Y5GMfd8VXO

    — PIB in Goa (@PIB_Panaji) May 12, 2020

    VK/PM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1623245) Visitor Counter : 166
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi