      Ministry of Communications

      India Post releases Special Postal Cover dedicated to Migrant Workers
      Posted On: 13 MAY 2020 4:48PM by PIB Mumbai


    Mumbai, 13 May 2020


    India Post, Mumbai today paid tribute to migrant workers, by releasing a Special Postal Cover dedicated to them at the Bicentennial Hall of the historic Mumbai GPO building.


    The highlight of the event was that, five migrant workers from different sectors were called upon to release the Special Cover in the presence of the Chief Postmaster General, Maharashtra and Goa State, Shri Harish Chandra Agrawal and Postmaster General, Mumbai Region, Ms Swati Pandey. There were two workers from the construction sector, a taxi driver, a jewelry craftsman and a tailor, who is stitching masks for the India Post.


    The event took place at a time when, migrant workers, stuck in different parts of the country following the nationwide lockdown, were making efforts to go back to their home states.


    

    Chief Postmaster General Harish Chandra Agrawal, said that India Post wanted to acknowledge the contribution of natives of other states in building Mumbai. “They are an integral part of the cityscape, and what better time to recognise their effort than the present,” he said.
    “These migrant workers belonging to remotest parts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar or West Bengal, have been immensely contributing to building the city of Mumbai, by making the lives of Mumbaikars smooth and seamless. The Special Cover is an attempt to keep their struggles and contributions recorded in the history of India” said PMG Swati Pandey.


    Eminent philatelist Sandeep Murjani distributed groceries to the migrant workers present during the release. The event was conducted by strictly observing all social distancing norms.


    * * *


    PIB Mum /RT/DL/DR


    ***


    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1623558) Visitor Counter : 308
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi