      Ministry of Communications

      Maharashtra Postal Circle ties up with Central Railways to start special bulk parcel service
      
      India Post special parcel service begins at Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur; to include Aurungabad and Goa soon

      Posted On: 16 MAY 2020 2:33PM by PIB Mumbai

    Mumbai, 16 May 2020


    India Post has tied up with Central Railways for transportation of parcels from and between Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur within Maharashtra. In the current lockdown situation due to prevalence of COVID-19, under this India Post Railway Parcel Service, large consignments of goods/parcels will be collected from the customers’ premises and delivered at the destination address. As for now, the parcels will be delivered in the three stated cities by means of four special parcel trains being operated by the Central Railways and India Post Mail Motor Service. The parcel delivery service is planned to be extended to cover Aurangabad and Goa in the next phase. The service started operations on May 15, 2020.


    The trial run of the special parcel delivery service was carried out on 9 th May by picking up a consignment of 16 big size parcels from Hingana in Nagpur and delivering it at Dadar in Mumbai on the next day. Thus, while the doorstep pickup and delivery service will be carried out by India Post destination using its fleet of vehicles and network of Post Offices, the transportation between origin and destination stations will be done by Central Railways which is operating special parcel trains between important stations amid COVID-19 lockdown.


    Bulk parcel was despatched from Hingana at Nagpur during trial run of Special Parcel Service on May 9, 2020.


    The first consignment from Nagpur was received at Dadar in Mumbai on May 10, 2020.


    The customers may contact the nodal officers and helpline numbers of the specific postal division and region under Maharashtra Postal Circle, given in this link , to avail of the special parcel delivery service.

    
    A need for this service was felt because individuals and commercial establishments were finding it difficult to move their large size consignments containing essential and other items. Hence Maharashtra Postal Circle worked out this service with a focus on customers who have consignments in higher weight slab. Now, for bulk consignments weighing above 200 kg the Special Parcel Service will come to their use.


    In the lockdown period, customers in the state have widely used the Speed Post service for sending their parcels. Till date, Department of Posts has delivered thousand tonnes of essential items like medical equipment, masks, etc. by means of speed post services. However, the commercial customers were finding it difficult to utilise this service as they had to visit Post office for availing speed post services and other road transports are not cost effective. In order to remove these bottlenecks, India Post has come up with this new service for convenience of the general public.


    * * *


    PIB Mumbai / SC/DR

    Follow us on social media: @PIBMumbai / PIBMumbai /pibmumbai pibmumbai@gmail.com

    
    
    (Release ID: 1624373) Visitor Counter : 138
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi