      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Union Minister Smt Harsimrat Kaur Badal lays Foundation Stone of Mega Food Park at Mathura District in Uttar Pradesh
      Posted On: 09 FEB 2019 4:42PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Food Processing Industries Smt Harsimrat Kaur Badal today laid foundation stone for M/s Nandvan Mega Food Park Private Limited located in Badawal, Chhata-Barsana road in Mathura in Uttar Pradesh. Also present on the occasion today were Smt. Hema Malini, Member of Parliament from Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, Lakshmi Narayan Chaudhari, Minister of Dairy Development, Govt. of Uttar Pradesh and Krish Iyer, President and CEO of Walmart India.s


    The Mega Food Park is being set up in 57.41 acre of land at a cost of Rs. 120.77 Crore. Government of India has approved a financial assistance of Rs. 50.00 Croreto the project. The facilities being created by M/s Nandvan Mega Food Park Private Limited at Central Processing Centre (CPC) of this Mega Food Park include Multipurpose Cold Storage - 2000 MT, Individually Quick Frozen (IQF)with Frozen Storage - 2 MT/Hr and 4000 MT, Dry Warehouse - 10000 MT, Raw milk packaging Line – 2 LLPD, Pulses and Grain packaging line – 2 MT & Food testing lab. In addition, the lead promoter will also setup an Anchor Unit with an investment of approxRs. 24.13 Crore for Dairy Processing with plant capacity of 500 TPD.The Park also has a common administrative building for office and other uses by the entrepreneurs and 5 PPCs at Aligarh, Mathura, Kanshiram Nagar, Bharatpur & Agra having facilities for primary processing and storage near the farms.


    Speaking on the occasion, Smt. Badal said that the Mega Food Park will leverage an additional investment of about Rs. 250 crore in 25-30 food processing units in the park and generate a turnover of about Rs. 450-500 crore annually. The Park will also provide direct and indirect employment to 5,000 persons and benefit about 25,000 farmers in the CPC and PPC catchment areas.


    The minister said that the modern infrastructure for food processing created at Park will benefit the farmers, growers, processors and consumers of Uttar Pradesh and adjoining areas immensely and prove to be a big boost to the growth of the food processing sector in the State of Uttar Pradesh.


    Smt. Badal also said that the present government is fully committed to providing an environment that is smooth, transparent and easy for investors wanting to start an enterprise in India and in a bid to make India a resilient food economy and the Food Factory of the World, the government has made Food Processing a major thrust area of ‘Make in India’.


    Smt. HarsimratKaurBadal thanked the Chief Minister and the State Government for the support extended by them in setting up the Mega Food Park.


    Background:


    Under the Visionary guidance of Prime Minister ShriNarendraModi, Ministry of Food Processing Industries is focusing on boosting the food processing industry so that agriculture sector grows exponentially and become a major contributor to doubling the farmer’s income and ‘Make In India’ initiative of the government.


    To give a major boost to the food processing sector by adding value and reducing food wastage at each stage of the supply chain with particular focus on perishables, Ministry of Food Processing Industries is implementing Mega Food Park Scheme in the country. Mega Food Parks create modern infrastructure facilities for food processing along the value chain from farm to market with strong forward and backward linkages through a cluster based approach. Common facilities and enabling infrastructure is created at Central Processing Centre and facilities for primary processing and storage is created near the farm in the form of Primary Processing Centers (PPCs) and Collection Centers (CCs). Under the Scheme, Government of India provides financial assistance uptoRs. 50.00 Crore per Mega Food Park project.


    ***


    RM/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563655) Visitor Counter : 538
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi