      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Activities under POSHAN Abhiyaan
      Posted On: 08 FEB 2019 6:05PM by PIB Delhi


    The Progress made and achievements under POSHAN Abhiyaan (erstwhile National Nutrition Mission) are as follows:

     1. Under POSHAN Abhiyaan, all districts of 36 States/UTs have been covered for roll-out.
     2. State, District and Block level Convergence meetings are held regularly in most of the States/UTs.
     3. 6,413 Master Trainers have been trained, as of now, in 13 States/UTs.
     4. Procurement of Smartphones has been coordinated through Government e-Marketplace (GeM) Portal. States/UTs are at various stages of procurement of smartphones. Till date, 2.74 lakh Smart Phones have been procured by the States/UTs.
     5. The guidelines /manuals of POSHAN Abhiyaan covering all aspects of the ICDS-CAS software, implementation, etc. have been formalized, printed and distributed up to district level.
     6. A ‘Call Centre’ has been established for interventions and beneficiary feedback.
     7. A comprehensive Jan Andolan Guidelines have been prepared in consultation with all partners and released to States/UTs and has been implemented by the States/UTs.
     8. Song & Drama Division, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has been engaged to conduct Nationwide programmes.
     9. Mass Media Campaign has also been rolled out through Television and Radio.
    10. September, 2018 was celebrated as the Rashtriya Poshan Maah across the country. Approximately, 25 Crore people had participated and more than 20 lakh activities were conducted across the country during the Rashtriya Poshan Maah.
    11. Under Incremental Learning Approach (ILA), functionaries are trained on thematic modules following the cascade mode of training of State Resource Group (SRG), District Resource Groups (DRGs) and Block Resource Groups (BRGs). Twenty one (21) ILA modules have been provided to the States/UTs. The States/UTs have started rolling out ILA modules.
    12. Community Bsaed Events (CBEs) are organized in a converged manner in Anganwadi Centres with the field functionaries. Around 45.69 lakh CBEs have been organized till the end of 3rd Quarter of the current financial year.
    13. Three (03) National Council meetings under the Chairmanship of Vice-Chairman, NITI Aayog and five (05) meetings of Executive Committee under the Chairmanship of Secretary, MWCD have been convened till date.

    The above Information was given by Minister of State for Women and Child Development, DR. VIRENDRA KUMAR in reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, today.


    *****


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563586) Visitor Counter : 1051
    
    
    
    
    

13.