      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Ujjwala Utsav observed to celebrate the stellar role played by various stakeholders in making PMUY a success;
      
      PMUY anthem – Ujjwala Bharat Ujjwala – composed by Kailash Kher released

      Posted On: 07 FEB 2019 6:50PM by PIB Delhi

    Oil industry today observed Ujjwala Utsav, celebrating the stellar role played by all stakeholders – District Nodal Officers, Policy makers, Distributors, and beneficiaries – in making Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) a resounding success.


    The event was organised here under the aegis of Ministry of Petroleum &Natural Gas to encourage, motivate as well as felicitate all frontline field forcefor their outstanding contribution to PMUY.


    The occasion also saw the launch of the PMUY anthem – Ujjwala Bharat Ujjwala – composed and developed by eminent singer and film industry personality PadmaShriKailashKher. The PMUY anthem is available on online music platforms such as Amazon, Apple,Hungama, Wynk, Google Play, Saavn, and many others. The anthem aims to reach the Ujjwala message to every household in the country by its powerful and inspiring rendition.


    During the occasion, the top three performers in three states which garnered the highest LPG penetration figures i.e. J&K,Chhattisgarh and Assam, were acknowledged and the respective Oil Marketing Companyofficers in-charge of these states were felicitated by Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Union Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, Dr. M. M. Kutty, Secretary, MoP&NG, and the CMDs of the three Oil Marketing Companies. The 24 top performing district nodal officers were also felicitated on the occasion for their commendable work during Gram Swaraj Abhiyaan and Extended Gram Swaraj Abhiyaan in more than 50,000 villages pan India.


    A compilation of experiences from select stake holders across PMUY spectrum was also released on the occasion.


    *******


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563393) Visitor Counter : 909
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi