      Ministry of Tourism

      Shri K.J. Alphons to inaugurate ‘Eco Circuit: Pathanamthitta – Gavi – Vagamon – Thekkady’ project in Kerala tomorrow
      Posted On: 16 FEB 2019 6:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri K.J. Alphons, Union Minister for Tourism will be inaugurating the project ‘Development of Eco Circuit: Pathanamthitta – Gavi – Vagamon – Thekkady’ under the Swadesh Darshan scheme of Ministry of Tourism in the presence of Shri K. Surendran Minister for Tourism, Government of Kerala at Vagamon, Kerala on 17 th February 2019.


    This Eco Circuit project was sanctioned in December 2015 for Rs. 76.55 crores. Major works carried out under the project includes Eco Adventure Tourism Park at Vagamon, Cultural Centre at Kadamanitta, Eco Log Huts at Peerumedu, Idukki, Approach Roads, Walking trails, Rain Shelters at Pine Valley Forest, Thekkady, Kumily, Moozhiyar Dam, Penstock and Kakki Dam.


    Swadesh Darshan scheme is one of the flagship schemes of Ministry of Tourism for development of thematic circuits in the country in a planned and prioritised manner. Under this scheme the Government is focussing on development of quality infrastructure in the country with objective of providing better experience and facilities to the visitors on one hand and on other hand fostering the economic growth. The scheme was launched in 2014 -15 and as on date the Ministry has sanctioned 77 projects worth projects for Rs. 6131.88 Crore to 30 States and UTs. 30 projects / major components of projects are expected to be completed during the current financial year, of which 12 projects worth Rs.1024.49 crore, covering the states of Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh Kerala and Sikkim have already been inaugurated.


    The Ministry of Tourism recognizing the tourism potential of the State has sanctioned 7 projects in the State of Kerala under the Swadesh Darshan and PRASHAD schemes for an approximate amount of Rs. 550 crores .


    ***


    NB/JP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1564880) Visitor Counter : 790
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi