      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Prime aim should be to make the poor aware of Government schemes & programmes: MLA Rupak Sharma
      PIB organizes media workshop ‘Vartalap’ in Nagaon

      Posted On: 02 NOV 2018 3:17PM by PIB Guwahati

    The Press Information Bureau, Guwahati, Government of India, organised a media workshop for journalists titled “Vartalap” in collaboration with the District Administration, Nagaon today.


    In the welcome address, Shri Gopajit Das, Media and Communication Officer, PIB Guwahati spoke about the purpose of the workshop.


    The Chief Guest of the Programme, Shri Rupak Sharma, MLA, Nagaon, said, “Lots of centrally sponsored developmental schemes are being implemented across the country today. Our prime aim should be to make the poor aware of such programmes so that they can avail benefit of the schemes.”


    Shri Biswajit Pegu, the Deputy Commissioner, Nagaon, said, “The objective of this programme is to make all the journalists aware of the various Government programmes and schemes and how to present them in the media. It is essential to know and report about the schemes in such a way so that the common people get the correct information and can avail of such opportunities”. During his speech, the Shri Pegu also elaborated about the schemes of the Government of India like PMAYG and explained how these schemes are being implemented in the Nagaon District. During his interaction with the journalist fraternity of Nagaon, the Shri Pegu further added that journalists serve as a vital link between the Government and the people and they play a significant role in the process of disseminating information and establishing communication between the administration and the citizens.


    Shri K. S Dhatwalia, Director General, NE Zone, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting(MIB), in his speech, said, “The main aim of the workshop is to ensure effective communication and dissemination of information about government policies, programmes and schemes to the masses”. He urged the media persons to work with utmost sincerity and dedication without any biased approach.


    Senior Journalist, Shri Samudragupta Kasyap, talked about the role of media in the health sector elaborately in his session. He stressed upon the need to give preference to proactive development journalism in the region so that people at grassroots can be made aware about the schemes being run by Central and State Governments for the welfare of the people. He urged the participating journalists to play a positive role in highlighting major government schemes such as Swachh Bharat, National Nutrition Month, Mission Indradhanush and so on.


    Special technical sessions about various schemes of development journalism and role of a journalist in the development in rural areas were also held in the workshop, which was addressed by a number of senior and experienced working resource persons in various fields.


    Shri Chandan Kalita, ITO, Zila Parishad, Dr. Atul Chandra Pator, Joint Director of Health service, Shri Pankaj Bordoloi, Executive Enginer, PHE, Shri Tarun Hazarika, officer, Agriculture department, Nagaon, Shri Subir Kumar Das, State Consultant, UNICEF, Nagaon, were among the resource persons who spoke on the occasion on various schemes of the Government like PMAYG, Mission Indradhanush, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, agriculture, Poshan Abhiyan among others.


    The workshop was aimed to act as interface between PIB and the journalists working at district and sub-district levels. The workshop is part of the Governments media outreach strategy with the aim of establishing direct contact with working journalists.


    More than 100 working journalists across the Nagaon district participated in the one-day event. The journalists were sensitized about their role in highlighting important issues and making people aware in rural areas about the numerous welfare schemes.


    Dr. A. M Farooqi, Head, Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati and Shri Samar Kalita, DIPRO, Nagaon also attended the programme.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1551729) Visitor Counter : 13
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese