      Ministry of Defence

      The Third North Eastern Zonal Meeting Of RajyaSainik Board Held In Guwahati Today
      Posted On: 26 NOV 2018 2:31PM by PIB Guwahati


    The third North Eastern states zonal meeting, 2018 of the Secretaries and Directors of Rajya Sainik Board held today in Guwahati at Sainik Bhawan, Directorate of Sainik Welfare, Assam. The meeting was chaired by Smt. Sanjeevanee Kutty (IAS), Secretary, Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare, Ministry Of Defence, Government of India. The Chairman Smt. Kutty reviewed the functioning of all State Sainik Boards/Directorates. Many significant issues pertaining to welfare, rehabilitation and medical facilities to entire Ex-Servicemen Community of the region were discussed in great detail to further improve the wellbeing and existing infrastructure for the welfare of veterans and dependents.


    In his welcome address Brig Joshi Narain Dutt Ganesh Dutt, Director of Sainik Welfare, Assam said that the main objective of the meeting is to discuss the issues of importance of the ex-servicemen community. He requested the representatives to come forward with the issues in their respective states.


    Some of the agenda points that were discussed in the meeting and were reviewed by the Secretary Smt. Kutty were Appointment of short service commissioned Officers/ Non Pensioners as ZilaSainik Welfare Officers (ZSWOS), Establishment of Zila Sainik Welfare Office in Zila Sainik Board, Non availability of empanelled hospitals under ECHS(Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme), Extension of ECHS facilities to veterans/ widows (non pensioners) etc. Directors of Rajya Sainik Boards of all the North Eastern States present in the meeting put forward their issues through presentation and all issues were discussed through an open house discussion.


    ShriPudiHari Prasad, Joint Secretary, Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare, Ministry Of Defence and Major General Vikram Dogra, Director General, Directorate-General Resettlement, Ministry of Defence were also present in today’s meeting.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553865) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese