      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      The whole country has welcomed the National Education Policy 2020: Shri Kanwar Pal, Minister of Education, Government of Haryana Haryana all geared up to implement NEP 2020: Dr. Mahavir Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, School Education, Government of Haryana
      Posted On: 13 AUG 2020 6:29PM by PIB Chandigarh


    Chandigarh, August 13, 2020


    The whole country has welcomed the National Education Policy (NEP)2020 and there is a wave of happiness regarding this , said Shri Kanwar Pal,Minister of Education, Government of Haryana. He said this while delivering his key note address during a webinar on National Education Policy2020 organized today by Press Information Bureau and Regional Outreach Bureau, Chandigarh of Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Government of India.During the webinar, Shri Kanwar Pal informed the participants that it took a long time to formulate this policy with many experts from myriad fields participating in the process. Talking aboutprovisions in the policy, he said, thrust provided on vernaculars in the initial years, is indispensable for learning and understanding.He appreciated that as per the policy, the Union and State Governmentwill be working together to increase the public investment in education sector to reach 6 % of GDP. While expressing satisfaction, he said the policy will lead to a responsible and ethical citizenry.


    ( Shri Kanwar Pal, Minister of Education, Government of Haryana speaking during the webinar)


    During the Webinar, Dr. Mahavir Singh, Additional Chief Secretary, School Education, Haryana informedthat the Haryana Government is all geared up to implement the National Education Policy, 2020. While speaking on the transfer policy of teachers in Haryana, he said that it is being done online in a very transparent manner. Shri Ankur Gupta, Principal Secretary, Higher Education, Haryana also gave his views on the National Education Policy 2020.


    Prof. Rajbir Singh, Vice Chancellor, Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak, Haryana said the National Education Policy2020 is holistic, flexible and multi-disciplinary in its approach taking into account the needs of 21 st century. The policy has made a couple of notable structural changes at school and college education level. He said the universalization of school education by 2030 is a laudable step while multiple entry and exit will help in arresting the dropout rates.The Vice Chancellor said that implementation is the key with educational institutes and administration playing a vital role.


    Smt. Devpreet Singh, ADG (North Zone), Ministry of Information & Broadcasting in her welcome address said education is fundamental to achieving full human potential, developing an equitable and a just society and promoting national development . She further said that with the quickly changing employment landscape and global ecosystem, it is becoming increasingly critical that children not only learn, but more importantly learn how to learn.


    While broadly appreciating the National Education Policy 2020, Dr. Vikas Dogra, Chairman & Professor, Department of Journalism & Mass Communication, Himachal Pradesh University, pointed out that the issue of media literacy is not adequately addressed in the policy which should have been taken care of. He also added that the implementation of the policy would need to be effective so as to cut down red-tapism.


    The webinar was attended by Faculty members, research scholars and students from Himachal Pradesh University and Maharshi Dayanand University, Rohtak. Shri Ashish Goyal, Director, Regional Outreach Bureau, Chandigarh moderated the webinar. The session concluded with Shri Himanshu Pathak, Assistant Director, PIB, Shimla, presenting a vote of thanks to all the participants. Other officials of Ministry of Information & Broadcasting from the region participated in the webinar.


    *****


    DS/AG/HP/HR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1645600) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi