      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 lays emphasis on the development of creative potential: ADG (North Zone) Webinar on NEP 2020 organized today
      Posted On: 21 AUG 2020 7:03PM by PIB Chandigarh


    Chandigarh, 21 August 2020


    National Education Policy 2020 lays particular emphasis on the development of creative potential of each individual, said Smt. Devpreet Singh, ADG (North Zone), Ministry of Information & Broadcasting. She was briefing the participants during a webinar on National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 organized today by Press Information Bureau and Regional Outreach Bureau, Chandigarh, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Government of India. Highlighting the salient features of the policy, she said universal high-quality education is the best way forward for maximizing our country’s rich talents and resources for the good of the individual, the society, the country and the world .


    Robin Aggarwal, Director, Learning Paths School, S.A.S. Nagar said that NEP 2020 has been formulated after extensive deliberations and has incorporated suggestions of people from all walks of life. He presented an overview of the Policy and highlighted major initiatives of policy that will transform the education sector.


    Smt. Raj Bala, Principal, Government Girls Model Sr. Sec. School , Chandigarh underlined the importance of regional language/local language as the medium of instruction in schools. She said that it will result in decline in dropout rate from schools.


    Mrs. Sangeeta Sekhon, Principal, Strawberry Fields High School, Chandigarh said clustering of schools will help in sharing and collaboration among the schools. Career counselling departments in schools and appropriate assessment strategy are crucial for policy implementation, said Mrs. Sekhon.


    Dr. Karminder Ghuman, Associate Professor, LM Thapar School of Management said the current system of education is exam driven where parents assess education in terms of marks obtained. Showing optimism, he said educated & aware parents will be main drivers of the policy.


    The webinar was attended by students from Learning Paths School, S.A.S. Nagar and Government Girls Model Sr. Sec. School & Strawberry Fields High School, both from Chandigarh . Shri Ashish Goyal, Director, Regional Outreach Bureau, Chandigarh moderated the webinar. The session concluded with Shri Himanshu Pathak, Assistant Director, PIB, Shimla, presenting a vote of thanks to all the participants. Other officials of Ministry of Information & Broadcasting from the region participated in the webinar.


    ****


    DS/AG/HP/HR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1647724) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi