      Ministry of Education

      Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ and Union Minister for Jal Shakti Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat launch ‘Samagra Shiksha-Jal Suraksha’ Drive for School Students
      Posted On: 09 AUG 2019 5:38PM by PIB Delhi


    Union HRD Minister Sh. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ and Union Minister for Jal Shakti Sh. Gajendra Singh Shekhawat launched ‘Samagra Shiksha-Jal Suraksha’ drive at KV no. 2 Delhi Cantt today. The dignitaries planted more than 350 saplings along with School Students and inaugurated Drip Irrigation System in the School campus. In order to create awareness about water conservation among school students, this mega drive targets to connect more than 10 crore students with this programme.


    Union HRD Minister Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ while launching the Drive asked School Students to take pledge for saving one litre water every day. 10 Crore Students together can save 10 Cr. Litres of water per day, he said. He appealed all School Students to become brand ambassador of water conservation. Students shall spread awareness about water conservation in their School, home and locality on the lines of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan.


    Union Minister for Jal Shakti Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat expressed his deep concern on water scarcity in the Country and discussed various methods of water conservation. Quoting the example of Israel he explained how a small country with very limited sources of water generated innovative methods of water conservation and became a water exporting country. He also appreciated the efforts of Ministry of HRD and Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan towards water conservation.


    Shri ‘Nishank’ and Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat also launched a booklet prepared by Department of School Education and Literacy, titled- ‘How I am going to save 1 litre water every day?’ This booklet discusses those small efforts which can save a lot of water.


    Inspired by Prime Minister’s impetus on Jal Sanchay, Government of India has launched the Jal Shakti Abhiyan (JSA). It is a time bound campaign with a mission mode approach. This concept of water conservation is essential for students so that they can understand the importance of water and how it is shaping their lives meaningfully, thereby enabling them to participate in water conservation activities in their day to day lives.


    The Department of School Education & Literacy, MHRD has launched the ‘Samagra Shiksha-Jal Suraksha’ drive to promote water conservation activities for School Students, so that they can become competent, conscientious and committed water citizens of our nation. The Department has prepared a detailed outline to implement this programme in all the schools of the country.


    Five Major Objectives:

     1. To educate Students learn about conservation of water
     2. To sensitize Students about the impact of scarcity of water
     3. To empower Students to learn to protect the natural sources of water
     4. To help every Student to save at least one litre of water per day
     5. To encourage Students towards judicious use and minimum wastage of water at home and school level

    Target


    One Student - One Day - To Save One Litre of Water


    One Student - One Year - To Save 365 Litres of Water


    One Student - 10 Years - To Save 3650 Litres of Water


    Secretary (SE&L), MHRD Ms. Rina Ray and Joint Secretary Shri R.C. Meena also graced the occasion at Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Auditorium, KV No. 2 in Delhi Cantt.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1581679) Visitor Counter : 1081
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi
    
    
    

5.