      Ministry of Defence

      Military Nursing Service celebrates its 92nd Raising Day
      Posted On: 01 OCT 2017 4:23PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar


    Military Nursing Service (MNS) of the Armed Forces celebrated its 92nd Raising Day today. New Addl. Director General Military Nursing Service Maj Gen Elizabeth John led the celebrations at MNS Officers Mess of Army Hospital (Research & Referral), Delhi Cantt.
    
    In order to pay homage to the Nursing Officers who did supreme sacrifice for the nation, 30 MNS Veterans team, led by Maj Gen Usha Sikhdhar and Maj Gen Sushila Shahi, laid wreath at Amar Jawan Jyoti, India Gate. Names of three nursing officers Matron Fransis Mary F M, Miss Ethel E and Miss Letetia Gladys L G are engraved on India Gate War Memorial who lost their lives in the line of duty during 1st World War. On October 1, 1926 MNS was formally established as permanent nursing service in the Indian Army, which has come a long way in serving the three Services round-the-clock.
    
    Since the time of its inception the MNS has been a part and parcel of the war efforts of the country. During the 1st World War, dire need of nursing care of Indian soldiers was recognised; the Army nurses served in Flanders, the Mediterranean, the Balkans, West Asia and on board hospital ships. More than 200 nurses died in active service and many of whom were Indian.
    
    MNS officers have played a pivotal role in care of sick and injured soldiers during four wars with Pakistan in the year 1947, 1965, 1971 and 1999. They made invaluable contributions in war with China in 1962. They have served with Indian Peace Keeping Force in Sri Lanka, OP Parakram & other peace keeping missions. The MNS officers are presently serving with troops in armed conflicts and humanitarian endeavours in troubled states of Jammu and Kashmir & in the North-East and with combat troops deployed abroad in UN Missions.
    
    For distinguished service, utmost dedication and remarkable contribution, MNS officers have been awarded 3 PVSM, 17 AVSM, 45 VSM and 3 Sena Medals till date in addition to various other civil awards and honours which includes 12 National Florence Nightingale Award which is the highest national level award in field of nursing, awarded by the President of India.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504637) Visitor Counter : 23