      Ministry of Rural Development

      Unprecedented community action in Gram Samridhi Evam Swachhata Pakhwada from 1st to 15th October, 2017
      Posted On: 23 OCT 2017 6:01PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar


    In partnership with State Governments and other Departments, Department of Rural Development organized Gram Samridhi Evam Swachhata Pakhwada from 1st October to 15th October, 2017. Gram Sabhas were held in nearly all the Gram Panchayats of the Country on 2nd October.
    
    Hon’ble Prime Minister launched the DISHA Monitoring Portal and Gram Samvaad App on 11th October, 2017 during this period. Disha Monitoring Portal would enable Members of Parliament to track progress in implementation of various centrally sponsored scheme in their constituency. Gram Samvaad Mobile app allows a citizen to access information on and implementation of Rural Development schemes at Panchayat level. As reported on the Swachh Gram Portal (reports are being still updated) over 4.75 lakh cleanliness drives were taken up in villages during this period. 38,283 villages were declared open defecation free, 5.98 lakh individual households latrines completed and initiatives for Solid and Liquid Waste Management undertaken across Gram Panchayats. Thrust was placed on skill development among youth and total of 1404 Skill Raths were launched in different parts of the country to register demand through the Kaushal Panji App for skill training. A total of 1.35 lakh youth were placed during job fairs organised during this period. Over 4 lakh photographs of events organized during this period have already been uploaded in Swacchh Gram Portal. Public accountability thrust was seen at Panchayat offices, with complete disclosure of beneficiary lists and works under execution with details.
    
    Large scale Grih Parvesh of PMAY (Gramin) Houses and Bhumipujan for construction of new houses were undertaken during this period. Selection of Social Auditors from among Self Help Group women was also undertaken in 92,000 Gram Panchayats where Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihood Mission is working.
    
    Special efforts were made in the 50,000 Gram Panchayats that States have been selected purposively by State Governments for coverage under Mission Antyodaya. Community Resource Persons from Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihood Mission along with other Panchayats and village representatives undertook a ranking of these 50,000 Gram Panchayats on parameters of physical infrastructure, human development and economic activity. Grading of these 50,000 Gram Panchayats/5000 rural clusters will be available in the public domain before the end of October on Ministry of Rural Dvelopment’s site. These clusters include RURBAN clusters, Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana villages, villages which have become open defecation free, villages with strong social capital in the form of Self Help Groups and Gram Panchayats with strong Panchayat leadership.
    
    Gram Samridhi Evam Swacchata Pakhwada was also an effort to prepare the Gram Panchayat Development Plan through extensive community participation specially of women and youth. The recommendations of this plan will be given top most priority in finalization of Annual Action Plan across schemes and programmes of various Ministries and Departments.

    <><><><><>

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507008) Visitor Counter : 53