      Ministry of Defence

      Mos Defence Visits Shillong for Mudra Promotion Campaign and Review of HQ EAC OP Readiness
      Posted On: 09 OCT 2017 7:28PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar


    The Minister of State for Defence Dr Subhash Bhamre today made a one day visit to Shillong to promote the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojna and review the operational preparedness of HQ Eastern Air Command (HQ EAC).

    
    The Minister after arriving at Shillong straight away headed to the U Soso Tham Auditorium, to be the Chief Guest at the “Mudra Promotion Campaign” conducted by the Government of Meghalaya and State Level Bankers Committee(SLBC). Minister for Taxation, Government of Meghalaya Shri Zenith Sangma was the Guest of Honour in the event.
    
    Speaking at the function Dr Bhamre brought out the salient aspects of the Prime Ministers Mudra Yojna (PMMY) the flagship scheme of Indian Government, which aims to provide formal access of financial facilities to the small businesses thereby creating more self-employment opportunities. He flagged the fact that since the launch of the scheme on 08 April 2015, 9.13 crore loans have been sanctioned under PMMY. The total amount sanctioned is Rs. 3.96 lakh crore. Out of 9.13 crore loans, loans to women constitute 6.89 crore (76%), SC/ST/OBC constitute 5.07 crore (55%). With this, self-employment has been generated and some of the entrepreneurs have also created the job opportunities.
    
    The Minister also said that the Government has launched National Digital Payment Mission (NDPM) to encourage digital payment. NPCI is assisting in this regard by way of providing the digital payments modes like UPI, USSD, IMPS, Aadhaar Pay and RuPay Debit Cards. Digital payment mode is very easy and safe. He exhorted all to adopt the digital payment method and asked all to unite and pledge to make India a digitally enabled society.
    
    It is pertinent to note that the Government looks at the North East region of the country with its tremendous potential for growth and contribution towards the Act East initiative, ushering a new era of peace and prosperity for the region coupled with carving the rightful space for India as an economic super power.
    
    Dr Bhamre also visited HQ EAC, Shillong and reviewed the operational readiness of the Command. Senior Air Staff Officer HQ EAC Air Marshall Rajesh Kumar received the Minister and gave him a detailed operational briefing on all aspects of Air Force preparedness in the Eastern Theatre.
    
    The Minister also made a visit to various units and branches of HQ EAC, where he was briefed in detail with regard to the operational aspects and also the projects under planning and execution. He conveyed his satisfaction on the op readiness of the formation, appreciated the high level of Air Warriors morale and exhorted upon all ranks to continue the good work. He also reassured them that the Government stands behind them steadfastly in all their endeavours.

    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507495) Visitor Counter : 40