      Ministry of Defence

      WAC Station Commanders’ Conference
      Posted On: 24 OCT 2017 6:53PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar


    The Western Air Command, Station Commanders’ Conference was held on 23 and 24 Oct 17 at New Delhi. Air Officers Commanding / Station Commanders of all Air Force Stations under Headquarter Western Air Command and all Principal Staff officers at HQ WAC attended the conference. The Chief Guest, Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa, PVSM AVSM YSM VM ADC, Chief of Air Staff was received by Air Marshal C Hari Kumar, AVSM VM VSM ADC, Air Officer Commanding in Chief of Western Air Command. On arrival, the CAS was presented a ceremonial guard of honour.
    
    Addressing the Commanders, the CAS emphasized the need to enhance mission capability of all platforms and weapon systems. He reiterated the need for development and upkeep of operational infrastructure and continuous orientation of human resource so as to absorb induction of new technologies for a smooth transition of the IAF into a potent Aerospace power. The Chief re-emphasized the importance and pivotal role of Western Air Command in all future conflicts and in humanitarian assistance and Disaster Relief Missions. He appreciated the aerospace safety record of WAC and urged the commanders to continue the earnest efforts towards creating an environment for safe operations. He appreciated the rapid response and untiring efforts of Western Air Command in providing humanitarian assistance and disaster relief in recent times, which included numerous casualty evacuation and transportation of live organs. He exhorted the commanders to revise their plans in consonance with lessons learnt during various exercises to bolster the mission capability of WAC. CAS made a special mention on the need to maintain very high levels of vigil to ensure security of our air bases in the backdrop of the existing internal security situation.
    
    During the conference, discussions and reviews were focused on critical analysis and measures to enhance operational preparedness, further improvement in maintenance practices and ensuring fool-proof physical and cyber security.
    
    The CAS was accompanied by Mrs Kamalpreet Dhanoa, President Air Force Wives Welfare Association (AFWWA), who was received by Mrs Devika Hari Kumar, President AFWWA (Regional). Mrs Kamalpreet Dhanoa presided over the Board of Management Meeting of AFWWA (Regional) and reviewed various welfare activities undertaken by local AFWWA Units of Western Air Command. She also interacted with the Sanginis of WAC.

    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507055) Visitor Counter : 18