      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Focus on Banning Single-use Plastic in the Country to Make Environment Clean While Observing the 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma
      Posted On: 02 OCT 2019 4:39PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, October 2, 2019


    Single-use Plastic should be banned in the country to make environment clean and green. The idea has been thrusted upon today while discussing on Mahatma Gandhi’s philosophy of ‘Swacchata Hi Seva’ in a programme organised jointly by Regional Outreach Bureau (ROB), Press Information Bureau (PIB) and Publications Division, Kolkata while celebrating the 150 th birth anniversary of Mahatma. The programme was inaugurated by Additional Director General (M & C), PIB, Kolkata Ms Jane Namchu, who is also the head of the West Bengal region of ROB.


    Speaking on the occasion Ms Namchu delineated the philosophy of Mahatma in keeping the environment pollution-free and also the Union Government’s initiative to make the country free from open defecation.


    Dr Amitabha Aich, Senior Science Consultant (Programmes), South Asian Forum for Environment (SAFE) emphasised upon stopping the selling of thermocol (polystyrene) plates, cups & cutlery made of polypropylene and encourage alternatives for them. He even pointed out that use of micro-plastic in detergents, toothpastes needs to be banned also along with the use of packaged food items like milk, saline, pet bottles and medicines.


    Professor Supriya Munshi, former Director Secretary, Gandhi Smarak Sangrahalaya, Barrackpore, said, Mahatma Gandhi not only offered an alternative system or philosophy, but the right humane methodology to achieve it- Satyagraha to fight injustice, oppression and exploitation.


    Shri Arup Rakshit, the head of Mahatma Gandhi Gramodyog Seva Sangsthan (MGGSS), said, his organisation is attempting to enhance the use of ‘Charkha’ in society and thereby reducing the possibilities of increasing pollution. Smt Ruby Rakshit and Kumari Prerna Rakshit demonstrated weaving through Charkha to the audience.


    An exhibition on 150 th birth anniversary of Gandhiji was also organised in the office of ROB.


    *******


    CC/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586970) Visitor Counter : 60
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali