      Ministry of Railways

      S E RAILWAY OBSERVES GANDHI JAYANTI THROUGH MASSIVE SHRAMDAN & CLEANLINESS DRIVE
      Posted On: 03 OCT 2019 2:48PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, October 3, 2019


    South Eastern Railway organized a massive Shramdan & Cleanliness Drive at its headquarters, Garden Reach this morning (02.10.19) in commemoration of 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.


    Shri Sanjay Kumar Mohanty, General Manager, South Eastern Railway inaugurated the Shramdan amongst mass gathering of officers and staff, members of SER Bharat Scouts & Guides, St. John Ambulance Brigade, RPF Personnel, members of SER Women’s Welfare Organization, various Associations, Civil Defence Personnel etc. On this auspicious occasion, General Manager administered Swachhta Pledge amongst all officers & staff including members of different organizations. This apart, S E Railway has undertaken a host of programmes like Tree Plantation, Nukkad (Street Drama), door to door campaign on Cleanliness & Not to Use Plastics less than 50 micron and to encourage cloth bags.


    General Manager himself along with Principal Head of Departments and other officials took part in the Shramdan. A mass Rally moved around the Railway Colony to spread the message of Swachh Bharat and create wide spread awareness on “Ban on Single Use Plastics” & “Say No To Plastics”. During the Rally, Illustrated Guide Books on Plastic and Thermocol Use were distributed among the colony people and others. A Nukkad was staged in front of BNR Officers’ Club by SER Bharat Scouts & Guides about the importance of Cleanliness Drives and the utility of Banning Single Use Plastics. A Tree Plantation Programme at Maitri Park in S E Railway Colony was undertaken where saplings were planted by the General Manager and other Principal Officers to make the railway area more green.


    Massive Shramdan Programmes were also organized in four Divisions of S E Railway to mark Gandhi Jayanti spreading the message of eco friendly and green Railways to step forward the Clean India Movement. Members of various organizations , NGOs & charitable organizations and officials of different PSUs participated in the mass Shramdan programme.


    The Central Control, Emergency Control and Commercial Control of S E Railway Headquarters have been declared as Plastic Free Zone and Smt. Jaya Varma Sinha, Principal Chief Operations Manager, S E Railway administered pledge to all Staff and Officers against use of plastic in future.


    CG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587057) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali