      Ministry of Education

      Super speciality hospital of IIT Kharagpur to start MBBS programme with 50 students
      Posted On: 21 OCT 2019 4:53PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, October 21, 2019


    To cater healthcare need of the huge community who are currently away from the reach of super specialty healthcare services, IIT Kharagpur’s super specialty hospital, Dr B C Roy Institute of Medical Science & Research would start the outdoor patient department by the end of 2019. The indoor facilities in the first phase with 400 beds are scheduled to start next year. The MBBS programme with 50 students will also begin in phase-I. In phase-II, number of seats would be increased to 100 and the hospital would be scaled up to 750 beds. Postgraduate degree will also be introduced later on along with health care data sciences and data analytics. The course corriculum will be as per Medical Council of India (MCI) guidelines.


    IIT Kharagpur will manage the MBBS and postgraduate degrees along with the academic affairs while the day-to-day hospital management will be run by the special purpose vehicle floated under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013. The hospital’s board of directors will be headed by the IIT Kharagpur director and will include senior IIT faculty.


    10% of the beds would be free as the hospital will run on a cross-subsidy model in a not-for-profit mode. 65% of the beds would be charged as per the rates in the central and state health insurance schemes.


    The Institute has also decided to set up mobile healthcare units. Basic diagnostics and treatment will be done by these mobile units, which will reduce the patient load in the hospital.


    The Institute has formed collaborations with All India Institutes of Medical Sciences, Tata Medical Center, South Eastern Railway Hospital. It has also set up a Common Research & Technology Development Hub supported by Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) to promote healthcare technology innovation and supporting manufacturing by Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs).


    *******


    CG/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1588621) Visitor Counter : 17
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali