      Ministry of Education

      DBT NATIONAL WORKSHOP ON BIOENERGY 2019
      Posted On: 17 OCT 2019 3:52PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, October 17, 2019.


    The PK Sinha Centre for Bioenergy and Renewables, Indian Institute of Technology(IIT), Kharagpur, has organized a two-day DBT National Workshop on Bioenergy(DNWB 2019) which started today. Funded by the Department of Biotechnology, Government of India, this workshop aims to bring together bioenergy scientists from around the country to promote a national conversation and solve technological challenges towards achieving the national mission of deploying clean energy to fight climate change. The workshop provides a rare opportunity to DBT's five Bioenergy Centres, namely, the DBT-Pan IIT Centre for Bioenergy, the DBT-ICGEB Centre for Bioenergy, the DBT-IOCL Centre, the DBT-TERJ Centre for Bioenergy, and the DBT-ICT Centre for Energy Biosciences, to come together, discuss their bioenergy researches, exchange new ideas, and collaborate towards building a renewable energy future for India.


    Coordinated by Prof.Saikat Chakraborty and Prof.Mrinal K. Maiti of IIT Kharagpur, DNWB-2019 aims to bridge the gap between researchers from academia and industries with other professionals within India through various keynote addresses, scientific and technical lectures and poster presentations encompassing the current situations and future trends on various aspects of bioenergy, including combating climate change through biofuels, algal biofuels, lingo cellulosic biofuels,and cyano bacterial biofuels.


    Professor M.S. Ananth, two two-time Former Director of IIT Madras was the Chief Guest at the workshop's inaugural programme and Dr.Anjan Ray, Director, Indian lnstitute of Petroleum Dehradun was the Guest of Honour. Dr. Sangita M. Kasture, Joint Director, DBT, represented the Union Ministry of Science and Technology.


    ******


    CG/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1588367) Visitor Counter : 12
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali