      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Curtain raiser of IISF-2019 held at CSIR-CGCRI
      
      5th India International Science Festival to be held in Kolkata from 5th to 8th November, 2019.

      Posted On: 30 OCT 2019 10:39PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, 30 August, 2019


    The 5th edition of India International Science Festival (IISF) 2019 is going to be held here in the city from 5th to 8th November, 2019. IISF is a festival to celebrate the achievements of country's scientific and technological advancements with scientists, technocrats, students, innovators, craftsmen and farmers from India and abroad, stated Professor Shekhar C. Mande, Secretary, Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR), and Director General, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) at a curtain raiser event held by CSIR-CGCRI (Central Glass and Ceramic Research Institute) here today.


    

    Professor Mande further stated that the relationship between science society has always led to development of new frontiers of growth both scientifically and economically. IISF has over the years established itself as a unique platform for connecting science, technology and innovation with the masses, he added.


    Around 280 students from different schools of Kolkata participated in the event and visited laboratories to witness and experience scientific procedures there.


    

    The theme for this year's festival is RISEN-India "Reseach, Innovation and Science Empowering the Nation".


    IISF-2019 expects to host a gathering of approximately 12,000 participants from India and abroad. Biswa Bangla Convention Centre and Science City in Kolkata would be the prime sites for the events at IISF-2019.


    Multitude of significant events are lined up for IISF 2019, which will host more than 28 different events during this period. For school students, a Students Science Village will be a major highlight. More than 2500 school students from all over the nation have been invited. The Students Science Village programme is linked with Pradhan Mantri Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana, where in every Member of Parliament has been asked to nominate five students each along with their teacher from their constituency for the village.


    The Young Scientists’ Conference is another major event, where in around 1500 young scientists and researchers are expected to interact with various subject matter experts of international repute. An exhibition of India’s Scientific & Technological prowess would also be in display through several expos, the most prominent being the Science Expo at Science City. New-age Technology show and an expo for the Divyangjan would be another highlight.


    Dr. K. Muraleedharan, Director, CSIR-CGCRI; Shri Sitendu Mandal, Chief Scientist, CSIR-CGCRI ; Dr. Jajati Natak, Member, National Governing Council, Vijnana Bharti and Dr. Nakul Parashat, Director, Vigyaan Prasarit among others were also present on the occasion.

      CC/CG/MSA
    
    
    (Release ID: 1589666) Visitor Counter : 2