      Ministry of Railways

      SOUTH EASTERN RAILWAY OBSERVES VIGILANCE AWARENESS WEEK
      Posted On: 30 OCT 2019 2:17PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, October 30, 2019


    Sri Anupam Sharma, Additional General Manager, South Eastern Railway administered Integrity Pledge to all staff and officers of SER Headquarters, this morning (29.10.19) as a part of observance of Vigilance Awareness Week from 28-10-2019 to 02-11-2019. This year the theme of Vigilance Awareness Week is “Integrity-A Way of Life”.


    S E Railway officials took pledge to follow probity and rule of law in all walks of life; to neither take nor offer bribe; to perform all tasks in an honest and transparent manner; to act in public interest; to lead by example exhibiting integrity in personal behaviour and to report any incident of corruption to the appropriate agency. This was being pledged to promote transparency, integrity and accountability. The observance creates increased awareness amongst the railway employees, public and stake holders to participate in the fight against corruption.


    Sri Sankarsan Nayak, Senior Deputy General Manager & Chief Vigilance Officer, S E Railway and other Principal Head of Departments along with officers and staff attended the oath taking ceremony.


    As a part of mass awareness campaign, two Nukkad Natak (Street Play) were staged at Howrah Station, New Complex by members of Divisional Cultural Team of Kharagpur to raise voice against corruption. Sri Sankarsan Nayak, Senior Deputy General Manager & Chief Vigilance Officer, S E Railway and other Senior Officers witnessed the Street Plays. A large number of Passengers who were moving through Howrah Station also witnessed the Street Plays against corruption.


    During the week-long Vigilance Awareness Campaign, activities like Public Interaction for redressal of grievances, Debates, Surprise Inspections, Postering, Awareness Campaigns in Schools, Drawing and Quiz competition etc. are being conducted over S E Railway.


    Vigilance Awareness Week is also being observed in four divisions of SER viz. Kharagpur, Adra, Ranchi and Chakradharpur.


    CG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589543) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali