      Ministry of Shipping

      Mansukh Mandaviya inaugurates Ease of Doing Business-Implementation of RFID based Port Access Control System at Kolkata Dock System.
      
      88 CCTV cameras installed at Bascule Bridge, Swing Bridge and entire Rabindra Setu and sensitive areas of KPD/NSD gates and yards.

      Posted On: 25 OCT 2019 5:39PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, October 25, 2019


    Shri Mansukh Mandaviya, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Shipping and Chemicals and Fertilizers held a review meeting with the officials of Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT) here today. The Minister inaugurated Ease of Doing Business-Implementation of Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) based Port Access Control System (PACS) at Kolkata Dock System (KDS). Shri Mandaviya also inaugurated CCTV operations at KDS, Rabindra Setu (Howrah Bridge) and dedicated 3 Truck Parking Terminals at KDS. As part of Green Wall Project, the Minister planted a sapling in the premises of KoPT.


    The Minister also inspected CCTV control room and inaugurated Riverfront Tourism Development. He encouraged KoPT to promote river front tourism in Kolkata. On this occasion, Shri Mandaviya stated that cities with ports are very important as they create jobs and bring transport synergy. He congratulated KoPT for serving the Nation for 149 years and suggested to celebrate 150 years of KoPT. He also confirmed that PM has agreed to participate in KoPT’s 150 years celebration. The Minister later visited Maritime Archive and suggested KoPT to upgrade it further to make the new generation aware of Maritime history in the country. Shri Mandaviya also gave away Swachhta awards to the employees and complemented the KoPT for the campaign. Congratulating the winners, the Minister said, we must inculcate the habit to make our surroundings including homes and officers clean and to make the country healthy by stopping single use plastic which has already been banned. He also distributed steel water bottles among the employees and encouraged them to make the country plastic-free.


    For secure and systematic entry and exit of vehicles and visitors in Kolkata Dock System (NSD and KPD) and for ease of doing business with Port users, the project of RFID-based Port Access Control System (PACS) was undertaken for Kolkata Dock System (Netaji Subhas Dock, NSD and Kidderpore Dock, KPD) at a total cost of around 17 Crore. Under this project, 12 gates of NSD and KPD are equipped with RFID based PACS system. RFID devices have been installed at all gates of NSD and will go live today. All gates of KPD will also go live by 31.10.2019.


    RFID based Port Access Control System (PACS) will provide single window system to the Port users for obtaining permit/ pass through 100% cashless transaction. The operational efficiency of KDS will also be increased due to system driven gate operation. To ease out road congestion near the port, Kolkata Port has developed 30,000 sq.m of its own land at Sonai, Coal Dock Road and Bhutghat into 3 truck parking terminals at an approximate cost of Rs. 6 crore. These will cater to approximately 400 trucks/trailers.


    CC/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589240) Visitor Counter : 400
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali , Gujarati