      Ministry of Science & Technology

      OUTREACH PROGRAM FOR 5TH INDIA INTERNATIONAL SCIENCE FESTIVAL 2019 5TH - 8TH NOVEMBER 2019
      Posted On: 25 OCT 2019 3:52PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, October 25, 2019.


    India International Science Festival (IISF) 2019, an annual event organised jointly by science & technology related Ministries and Departments of the Government of India and Vijnana Bharati (Vibha), this year, is being held at Kolkata during November 5th - 8th , 2019.


    To give this mega event a wider publicity amongst the students National Atlas & Thematic Mapping Organisation (NATMO), an attached Office of the Department of Science & Technology, Government of India, today organized an Outreach programme.


    This is the fifth edition since its inception in 2015. IISF 2019 is a festival to celebrate the achievements of India's scientific and technological advancements with students, innovators, craftsmen, farmers, scientists and technocrats from India and abroad. Smt. Tapati Banerjee, Director, National Atlas & Thematic Mapping Organisation (NATMO), today said that the theme for this year's festival is RISEN India - Research, Innovation, and Science Empowering the Nation.


    She said IISF is perhaps the biggest platform in the country to bring together students, researchers, innovators, artists, and the general public to celebrate India's achievements in science and technology. IISF is also an attempt to encourage young minds towards the field of science and to promote networking of stakeholders working towards the propagation of science. She also said IISF 2019 expects to host a gathering of approximately 12,000 participants from India and abroad. Biswa Bangla Convention Centre and Science City in Kolkata would be the prime venue for the events at IISF 2019. Satyajit Ray Film & Television Institute, Bose Institute and Indian Institute of Chemical Biology would be venue for a few other events during the festival. IISF 2019 will host more than 28 different events during this period.


    About 200 students of Science & Engineering faculties from about 24 prestigious Institutions surrounding Kolkata, participated in this outreach programme.


    Detailed information of India International Science Festival (IISF) which is being made available on www.scienceindiafest.org .


    CG/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589207) Visitor Counter : 44
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali