      Ministry of Science & Technology

      OUTREACH PROGRAM FOR 5TH INDIA INTERNATIONAL SCIENCE FESTIVAL 2019 5TH-8TH NOVERMBER 2019
      Posted On: 25 OCT 2019 6:46PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 25 October, 2019


    India International Science Festival (IISF) 2019, an annual event is being organised jointly by science & technology related Ministries and Department of the Government of India and Vijnana Bharati (Vibha) to celebrate the achievements of India’s scientific and technological advancement with students, innovators and researchers . As a precursory event of IISF-2019, CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur organized an Outreach Programme on October 25, 2019 at CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur. The programme was inaugurated by Prof. Ajoy Kumar Ray, Padma Shri and Director, JIS Institute of Advanced Studies & Research, Kolkata in presence of Prof. (Dr.) Harish Hirani, Director, CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur and Prof. Parimal Acharya, NIT, Durgapur .


    In this programme more than two hundred students participated from nearby schools and colleges. They were showcased the innovative & indigenous technologies of CSIR-CMERI and they interacted with the scientists.


    Prof. (Dr.) Harish Hirani, Director, CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur, in his Welcome Address, told that the students are the innovators, creators and leaders for any nation & they can only transform the future of India. He told that the science is a fun which can show a magic .


    He also added that we, Indians usually try to adopt the technology of USA & European countries but the indigenously developed technologies of CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur, in the domain of Solid Waste Management, water purification, waste water management can glorify & enrich the country. Our work is limitless to any country boundary. This may serve even in USA & European countries.


    Porf. Hirani urged to the students to change their psychology and contribute the country through science in a scientific manner.


    In his speech, Prof. Parimal Acharya, NIT, Durgapur told that the main objective of Vibha is to promote science and create awareness about the contribution of Indian science.


    Prof. Ajoy Kumar Ray, Padma Shri and Director JIS Institute of Advance study and Research Kolkata delivered his guest lecture and focused on to work on experimental science rather only to theoretical research. He conveyed that town planning and system management of Sindhu civilization was example of rich science in ancient India. He suggested to work on cooperation with togetherness in multidisciplinary area rather to one engineering or in one field.


    Prof. Ajoy concluded his speech administering to each students an oath as follows. “We students of Durgapur, India pledge on this day that we will put all our efforts and endeavours to ensure that we will be able to make a new system, new products, new processes on a interdisciplinary area with devotion, honesty and sincerity”.


    CG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589268) Visitor Counter : 87
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali