      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Awareness programme on Solid Waste Management & Disposal of Plastic Waste
      Posted On: 24 OCT 2019 5:54PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, October 24, 2019.

    

    
    As a part of the “Campaign to make the country a plastic-free nation” of the Government of India, CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur organised an awareness program on ‘Solid Waste Management & Disposal of Plastic Waste on 24th October 2019 with the students of Hemsheela Model School & Suren Chandra Modern School, Durgapur to create awareness about the re-cycling of the plastics at CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur which was participated by around 80 students.


    
    
    All the participating students were appraised about the various aspects of Solid Waste Management and visited Municipal Solid Waste management pilot plant in CSIR-CMERI Colony Campus. A detailed presentation of all the technologies deployed in the Municipal Solid Waste Management Facility was given to the attending students.


    
    
    
    Addressing a gathering, Prof. (Dr.) Harish Hirani, Director, CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur emphasised upon the importance of generating awareness amongst the students which will help in creating a sense of responsibility among them and equip the students with the requisite information to stand against the growing menace of Municipal Solid Waste management.


    
    
    In his speech Prof. Harish told that 15% of packaging material used is plastic. Use of plastic is not bad, it is not our enemy, banning plastic is not a solution to the waste plastic but appropriate uses and scientific disposal are the solutions.


    
    
    He also told only ignorance, lack of knowledge, lack of science are creating more problems comparative to plastic. CSIR-CMERI has developed end to end solution and working towards self sustainability of the waste management plant. He sought for the decentralise process in solid waste management.

    

    During the interactive session the attending students expressed their appreciation and curiosity for such an interesting and engaging subject. The two-way exchange of information was very effective and useful.


    

    CG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589096) Visitor Counter : 27
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali