      Ministry of Science & Technology

      India’s first Multi-Venue, Mega-Science Exhibition “Vigyan Samagam” begins on November, 4.
      
      All mega projects will be on single stage at one place: Secretary, AEC.

      Posted On: 31 OCT 2019 4:58PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, October 31, 2019.


    India’s first ever multi-venue Mega Science Exhibition “Vigyan Samagam” will be inaugurated by the Union Minister of Science and Technology Dr. Harsh Vardhan here in the city on November, 4, 2019. The exhibition will conclude on December, 31, 2019. This mega science exhibition, named Vigyan Samagam, is aimed to showcase India’s participation in the world’s major mega science projects, in which several developed and developing countries are participating. This exhibition will take visitors through workings of the universe, from discovery of Higgs particle to that of gravitational waves to merger of neutron stars and black holes, stated Shri Arun Srivastava, Secretary, Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) and Head, Institutional Collaboration and Programme Division (ICPD), DAE during a press conference here today. He informed that this exhibition will unite the mind of young students and bring scientists, industrialists and students together.


    Shri Srivastava further informed that these projects will throw light on crucial questions related to the origin of the univers and its evolution through its various stages. The mega science projects in which India is participating are the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN), Facility for Antiproton and Ion Research (FAIR), India-based Neutrino Observatory (INO), International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER), Laser Interferometer Gravitational Wave Observatory (LIGO), Major Atmospheric Cherenkov Experiments (MACE) Square Kilometre Arry (SKA) and Thirty Meter Telescope (TMT). All these projects will be showcased during the exhibition at a single place, Shri Srivastava added.


    Explaining the format of the exhibition, Shri Subhabrata Chaudhuri, Director, Science City said that Vigya Samagam will be one of the major attractions at Science City this November and December. We have arranged live talks by eminent speakers, unique visual interactive kiosks, etc which will provide an opportunity for students and science enthusiasts to gather more information about the projects and other areas of scientific development in the country, Shri Chaudhuri added.


    Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Department of Science and Technology (DST) and National Council of Science Museum (NCSM) are jointly organizing thie mega exhibition.


    The details about the exhibition and projects are also available on the website of Vigyan Samagam, www.vigyansamagan.in


    CC/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1589795) Visitor Counter : 16
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali