      PIB Headquarters

      PALAKKAD DIVISION CELEBRATED 73rd INDEPENDENCE DAY OF THE NATION
      Posted On: 15 AUG 2019 2:29PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Shri Pratap Singh Shami Divisional Railway Manager hoisted the National Flag at the Independence day Celebrations of Palakkad Division at Divisional Railway Manager's office at 09.05 hours today (15.08.2019). Railway Protection Force (RPF ), Scouts & Guides and Students from Railway Mixed Higher Secondary School took part in the ceremonial parade and cultural programmes followed. Shri D.Sai Baba, Additional Divisional Railway Manager, Officers, Supervisors, Staff and family members were present on the occasion.


    Independence day message from the General Manager, Southern Railway was conveyed by the Divisional Railway Manger at the ceremony.


    Excerpts from the message is given below:


    Earnings and Loadings


    Southern Railway achieved 7.37% growth in overall earnings and 8.62% increase in passenger earnings in current financial year up to July, in comparison with last year.
    Southern Railway loaded , 10.862 MTs(Metric Tonnes) of commodities like Coal, Cement, Food grains, Fertilizers , Petroleum, Oil and Lubricants and containerised cargo.


    Infrastructural Works

    Southern Railway is targeting 112 Kms of doubling, 127 Kms of Gauge conversion and 18 Kms of New line, a total of 257 KMs of commissioning of track and 239 Kms of Railway Electrification during the current financial year.


    To strengthen the track, 381 KMs of Complete Track Renewal, 483 Kms of Deep screening of track and Deep screening of 420 turnouts have been planned.


    Safety related works


    Southern Railway has completed interlocking of 98 Level Crossing gates last year and another 45 have been interlocked this year and we are progressing well to complete interlocking of all level Crossings in Palakkad Chennai and Salem Divisions this year.This is a significant and lasting improvement and will go a long way in ensuring safety of Rail and Road users.


    

    Improved punctuality of train services


    Punctuality of train operations in the zone has significantly improved from 77% last year to 82 % this year. Speed Restrictions were relaxed at 15 places during 2019-20 up to July and Increase of speed has been planned in many sections.


    Station Re-development works

    Work on redevelopment of 6 stations Chennai Egmore, Tiruchchirappalli, Salem, Madurai, Kottayam and Palakkad Junction at a total cost of Rs.121.43 Crores is in good progress.


    Technological advancement


    Modern signalling system has been provided at Madukkarai station during 2019.


    Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) networking of the Zone has been completed and this can meet communication requirements of safety circuits, High speed data networks and Passenger services like Wi-Fi, Ticketing etc.


    
    
    Boost to passenger amenities
    In the passenger amenities front the zone is targeting to provide 12 lifts and 12 escalators at Stations.


    Upgraded coaches


    The zone so far had upgraded 25 rakes to the' Utkrisht' rakes and inducted into service in the various coach link of popular trains.
    In the current financial year, four Trains, i.e.,Chennai-Thiruvananthapuram and Thiruvananthapuram-Veraval Express Pallavan Express and Vaigai Express, have been inducted with new LHB coaches and 8 more trains have been planned to be inducted with LHB coaches
    
    Cleanliness
    
    Bio-toilets have been provided in 6,695 coaches so far which is 98.10% of the total rolling stock holding of the zone. This has substantially helped in keeping the environment clean.


    Targeting Cleanliness on-board, 102 trains have been provided with On-Board House Keeping services and with ‘Coach Mitra’ services.

    Appreciation to Ms.P.U. Chitra

    In the message General Manager also registered his appreciations to Ms. P.U. Chithra, who won Gold Medals in 1500 Metres in Asian Athletic Championship at Doha and Next General Invitation Athletic Championship held in Netherlands.


    The parade was followed a cultural performance by Staff, RPF personnel students of Vivekodayam Nursery school and Railway Higher Secondary School, Palakkd . The ceremony was attended by Officers, staff & their family members, Press and Media persons and the Public.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1582084) Visitor Counter : 1