      Ministry of Defence

      Two day seminar on defence production to be inaugurated by Secretary (Defence Production) at Kolkata on 14 September
      Posted On: 05 SEP 2018 1:26PM by PIB Kolkata


    -Kolkata, September 04, 2018


    A two day seminar on ‘Defence Production: Public –Private Partnership – Focus Eastern India’ is scheduled to be held on 14 th and 15 th September at West Inn Hotel in Kolkata which aims to create awareness about the opportunities for MSMEs and private sector as the Union Government is focusing on indigenization of defence production. Dr. Ajay Kumar, Secretary, Department of Defence Production in the Ministry of Defence will deliver the keynote address in this national level seminar that is being organized by Bharat Chamber of Commerce. The participating Defence Public Sector Undertakings include Ordnance Factory Board, HAL, DRDO, MDL and GRSE apart from leading private sector industries and a large number of MSMEs engaged in supplying materials to defence. Top level officials of Army, Navy and Air Force will also take part. Side-by-side, a 3 day ( September 14-16 ) exhibition on defence goods will also be run at the same venue.


    In this connection, it may be stated that ‘Make In India’ initiative by the Government of India is focusing on the indigenous manufacturing in defence industry by means of Public-Private Partnership model. The 13 th Consolidated Defence Five Year Plan from 2017-2022 has been pegged at Rs 26.84 lakh crores over the next five years and the cumulative value of India’s defence market for the next five years would be approximately Rs 1,80,000 crores. With over 6,000 MSMEs presently working in the defence sector contributing around 10,000 products, the Government is focusing on a major increase in the participation of this sector. Further, Government of India has recently denotified 250 defence items which were earlier supplied only by OFB, stated Shri Sitaram Sharma, President of Bharat Chamber of Commerce, This is, again, likely to boost indigenous defence production, he feels.


    ******


    CG/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544951) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali