      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      ‘Rashtriya Poshan Maah’ with a series of month long activities across the state, starting Friday in West Bengal
      Posted On: 07 SEP 2018 1:42PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 07, 2018.


    To provide a fillip to the ‘Rashtriya Poshan Maah’ , an outreach activity by the Central Government in celebrating the month of September, 2018 as the National Nutrition Month with the objective of reaching every tribal household with the message of Nutrition, various activities are being organized by the Tribal Development Department, Government of West Bengal. A host of programs are planned to be organized for creating awareness about nutrition among women and children in the entire state. The first programme of the event was held at Cultural Research Institute (CRI) at Kolkata in West Bengal on 7 th September, 2018.


    Cultural Research Institute (CRI) in West Bengal has lined up a number of events to showcase the necessity of nutrition in day to day life of people, with a particular emphasis on tribal dominated areas of the state. In the 1 st week, a seminar on the topic “Tribal Food and Nutrition in West Bengal” is being held followed by a Tribal Food Mela scheduled in the 2 nd week of September. The purpose is to sensitize people about various types of tribal dishes and tribal cuisine. 7 tribal dominated districts of the state namely Jhargram, Bakura, Purulia, Paschim Mednipur, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri and Dakshin Dinajpur are identified for district level Seminars to highlight the food nutrition requirement. In addition to this, plantation drives in seven Ekalavya Model Residential School (EMRS) and nine Pandit Raghunath Murmu Abasik Schools (state run residential tribal school) are scheduled for promotion of drumsticks as a livelihood among the tribal populace.


    District level Food Melas too have been planned in the three tribal dominated districts of the state- Jhargram, Purulia and Alipurduar during the 3 rd week. Importance of hand washing before eating among the school going children in tribal areas of West Bengal is another point on which an awareness workshops are planned to be organized in districts of state- Jhargram, Purulia, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri and Dakdhin Dinajpur. A sanitary vending machine is planned to be installed in nine Pandit Raghunath Murmu Abasik Schools and Belpahari Tribal Girls High School to educate and create awareness to use sanitary napkins for better health care. In the 4 th week of the month, Growth monitoring among tribal children in 7 EMRS and 9 Pandit Raghunath Murmu Abasik Schools along with Mapping of anemia among school going children are also planned for the month of September.


    ******


    CC/ SB/CG/ Kol……

    
    
    (Release ID: 1545288) Visitor Counter : 12
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali