      Ministry of Shipping

      Swachhta Pakhwada and Swachhta-Hi-Seva activities at Kolkata Port Trust
      Posted On: 17 SEP 2018 4:49PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 17, 2018.


    Kolkata Port Trust has taken up an ambitious and innovative plan to involve various port users, partners, industrial tenants, schools/universities and other stakeholders for a multi-pronged campaign on Swacchta during the Pakhwada, with the aim to create ownership on Swacchta related activities during the Pakhwada.


    Kolkata Port Trust yesterday organised Swachhta March in Port area involving port users, school children in port area, employees of KoPT led by Shri Vinit Kumar, Chairman, Kolkata Port Trust from Truck Parking Terminal on Coal Dock Road to Subhas Bhawan.


    Shri Vinit Kumar, Chairman, Kolkata Port Trust inaugurated the above Swachhta Pakhwada programme at Subhas Bhawan. Shri Kumar administered the Swachh Bharat pledge to the port users, senior officers and employees and stakeholders present on the occasion. Swami Bodhesaranandaji Maharaj, Asst. General Secretary, Ramakrishna Math & Mission, Belur, Shri S. K. Sadangi, Chief Vigilance Officer, KoPT, Shri Ashim Sutradhar, Trustee, KoPT and Shri M. K. Yadav, Sr. Commandant, CISF were also present. Plantation of saplings was done by Chairman, KoPT, Swami Bodhesaranandaji Maharaj and other dignitaries at Subhas Bhawan Complex.


    The cleanliness campaign is being carried out by Kolkata Port Trust involving its 4500+ strong workforce posted in installations and offices at both Kolkata and Haldia. Trade Partners of KoPT, School children and representatives from the public have also been involved.


    This year, the major activities include: –


    Shramdan, No-Plastic Drive, Compost Plant, Tree plantation, Road landscaping, Toilet Construction by involving Sulabh, Renovation and cleanliness of Ghats, General cleaning/cleanliness drives, Health camps highlighting need for sanitation and hygiene


    General Sensitisation through – Audio-visual lectures, Swacchta competitions, Street plays on Swacchta, Exhibition, Wall-Paintings, Resident Committees.


    Involvement of all sections of society – Kolkata Police, Port users, Port tenants, industries in port surrounds, NGOs, academic institutions – University, Schools, Art college, Cruise operators, Unions, Port employees.


    At the end of the Pakhwada, KoPT would conduct an experience sharing session with its collaborators, with the aim to enthuse them to continue and sustain with the collective initiative towards Swacchta.


    ********


    CG/bb/Kol………

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546371) Visitor Counter : 7
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali