      Ministry of Railways

      SWACHHTA PAKHWARA IN EASTERN RAIL
      Posted On: 15 SEP 2018 8:17PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 15, 2018.


    Shri Harindra Rao, General Manager, Eastern Railway(ER), Shri Suchitto Kr. Das, Additional General Manager and all Principal Officers & Staff of ER assembled at ER HQ , Fairlie Place this morning to view Hon’ble Prime Ministers address and video conference for interaction with the volunteers from various parts of the Nation who are rendering selfless service towards “Swachha Bharat” - Cleanliness Drive.


    General Manager, Eastern Railway administered Swachhta pledge amongst the staff and officers of Eastern Railway this morning (15.9.2018) in presence of Shri Suchitto Kumar Das, Addl.GM other principal officers to mark the inauguration of Swachhta Pakhwara observation in Eastern Railway from 15 September to 02 October, 2018 in commemoration of the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.


    Pledge was taken for Shramadan (voluntary work) of 100 hours per year i.e. 2 hours per week for maintaining cleanliness at the work place, locality as well as dwelling area. Pledge was also taken to serve Mother India by keeping the country neat and clean.


    Later, a ‘Shram Dan’ programme was organised at ER HQ and at Howrah station in which GM/ER, AGM/ER, DRM/Howrah, Principal Officers of HQ and divisional officers and staff took part in cleanliness drive.


    A massive Swachhta Awareness campaign has been organised at all the Railway stations, colonies, hospitals , health units etc., through the Prabhat Pheri , NukkadNatak, Video Walls, Public Address Systems.Two thousand (2000) saplings will be planted in the Division today and 20000 during the entire period of Pakhwara.


    During the Swachhta Pakhwara, Indian Railways will undertake a special cleanliness drive in which all the Divisions and Headquarters offices of Eastern Railway as well as all other Zonal Railways will observe the Pakhwara towards fulfilment of Rail Swachh Bharat mission.


    *******


    CG/SSS/bb/kol...........

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546257) Visitor Counter : 21