      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan organises Kashmiri Youth Exchange Programme in Kolkata
      Posted On: 18 SEP 2018 4:27PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 18, 2018.


    The Kashmiri Youth Exchange programme organised by Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS), West Bengal was inaugurated here today. A total of 132 youth under the age group of 18 to 22 years from districts of Anantnag, Kupwara, Baramulla, Budgam, Srinagar and Pulwama are visiting West Bengal till 23 rd of this month. The objective of the programme is to orient, sensitise and to provide a platform for the participants to act as champions of national unity, integrity and peace among young people in Kashmir valley.As part of the programme, interactive sessions are being planned in the next few days on experience sharing and expectations of Kashmiri youth for their development, empowerment and way forward to participate in nation building. Visit to Birla Planetarium, Victoria Memorial Hall and Vivekananda’s House are also scheduled.


    NYKS, an autonomous body under the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India has been working in various fronts in youth development. This exchange programme has been organised with the assistance of Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India.


    The Kashmiri Youth Exchange programme is to also encourage them to visit various places of cultural, historical, industrial and educational importance. This is to also encourage exchange of information on tourism, variety of food, culture and handicrafts of Kashmir valley and an opportunity to understand technological and industrial advancement taking place in other states.


    Series of Cultural programme depicting national unity and national integration also featured in the inaugural function. Present on the occasion were Additional Director General (M&C), Press Information Bureau, Government of India, Kolkata, Ms. Jane Namchu and Shri Nabin Kumar Naik, State Director, NYKS, among others.


    ***


    SB/Kol.....

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546515) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali