      Ministry of Railways

      SER INITIATES SWACHH RAIL SWACHH BHARAT-SWACHHTA HI SEWA PAKHWADA
      Posted On: 15 SEP 2018 8:15PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 15, 2018.


    South Eastern Railway launched a special awareness drive to observe Swachh Rail Swachh Bharat-Swachhta Hi Sewa Pakhwada from 15.09.2018 to 02.10 2018.


    Sri Ajay Vijayvargiya, General Manager, South Eastern Railway initiated the programme by administering Swachhta Pledge amongst all the officers and staff at this Railways Headquarters, Garden Reach this morning (15.09.2018). Smt. Sanjeeta Vijayvargiya, President, South Eastern Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation, huge number of staff, officers, S E Railway Bharat Scouts & Guides, SER Sports Personnel, RPF Personnel, members of railway families, Hospitals staff and Safai Karamcharis were also present and participated in a Prabhat Pheri covering the whole railway colony to spread awareness about cleanliness.


    The objective behind this initiative is to spread wider awareness on sanitation and cleanliness in railway areas, stations, trains, railway premises and make hygiene a habit amongst rail-users. This also makes out the railways commitment by recounting the initiative taken under Swachh Rail Swachh Bharat Mission.


    Earlier, two Nukkad Nataks were staged by S E Railway Bharat Scouts & Guides for propagating the nuances for living in a clean and healthy environment in all the railway areas by spreading awareness about cleanliness. The skits performed by the Scouts & Guides reminded the viewers about the cleaner and healthier railway premises. The concept is to have an overall cleanliness initiative for a healthy and hygienic sanitation system over Indian Railways. With the help of such type of cleanliness drive as a part of Swachh Bharat Mission, awareness can be spread among railway families and users. This Swachhta Hi Sewa Pakhwada is also being observed in all the four Divisions i.e Kharagpur, Adra, Chakradharpur and Ranchi of South Eastern Railway in true spirit.


    …………


    CG/SSS/bb/Kol……

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546256) Visitor Counter : 4