      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      MSMEs should strive hard for greater indigenization in arms production. Public-Private Partnership will make India economically stronger: Ajay Kumar.
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2018 6:18PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 14, 2018.


    India is the world’s largest importer of defence equipment, with 60% of its requirements met from outside the country. This translates into a great business opportunity for those building domestic capabilities in defence sector. As the government is keen on self-reliance in the defence sector, the manufacturers, especially micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and start-ups, should strive for greater indigenization in arms production. Shri Ajay Kumar, Secretary, Department of Defence Production, Ministry of Defence stated this here today. He was speaking through video conferencing at the two-day National seminar on “Defence Production: Public-Private Partnership-Focus Eastern India” organized by Bharat Chamber of Commerce (BCC) in Kolkata.


    Shri Kumar said, “Make in Inida” initiative of the Central government is focusing on the indigenous manufacturing in defence industry by means of public-private partnership model, which provides vast business opportunities to private sectors. The MSMEs and start-ups should make the best use of opportunities in the sector as the government had liberalized the procurement process and simplified procedures, asserted Shri Kumar. This not only will make India self-reliant on defence procurement but will also make the nation economically stronger. In the Department of Defence Production, we treat public and private defence manufacturing firms on an equal basis and we are indeed committed to enhancing the role of the private sector in defence production, Shri Kumar reiterated and informed that we have designated nearly 275 items produced by OFB as non-core and users are therefore free to source these from the domestic private sector provided certain indigenous content level requirements are fulfilled. He also highlighted the civil opportunities in the defence sector and spoke for the creation of defence testing labs across the country with an aim to certify the new products manufactured from time to time.


    Speaking on the occasion, former Air Chief Marshal, Arup Raha said, the public-private partnership in defence production will open a new door for India to become economically stronger and powerful. It is a great opportunity for the country to achieve strategic independence, job creation and economic development. Make in India, Joint venture with private sector and strategic partnership policies are major initiatives to encourage private sectors to take part in nation-building. It will also help in development of eco-system in commercial ship-building and commercial aviation industries etc, he added.


    War heroes and veer naris from the Air Force, the Indian Army and the Navy were also honoured on the occasion. An exhibition on Defence Production was also organized at the premises of the venue.


    *******


    SSS/MSA/bb/Kol…………

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546172) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali