      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Union Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan unveils the foundation stone of the Shyamaprasad Mookerjee advance research and training campus of IACS in Kolkata
      Posted On: 13 SEP 2018 8:34PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 13 September 2018


    Union Minister of Science and Technology Dr. Harsh Vardhan unveiled the foundation stone of the Syamaprasad Mookerjee Advanced Research and Training (SMART) campus of the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science (IACS) at Baruipur in Kolkata. Speaking at the function, Dr. Harsh Vardhan appreciated the efforts of the institute for initiating the SMART campus with state of art technology. He said innovation and scientific creativity is the bedrock for the development of any nation with scientific mindset.The Minister said institutes like IACS can become the role model in scientific research domain. He said there is tremendous scope for research and development in varied fields like Robotics, nano-science , nano-technology, cyber technology among others where the institute can play a pivotal role.


    Science & Technology Minister further added that today India has become an ideal example of Brain Drain to Brain Gain country for talented scientists working in research institutes of the country. He lauded the scientists for their pioneering role in development of science and technology and developing processes to reach the last mile citizen in the growth story of India. He further said that the vision of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and his initiative is driving India to the path of becoming top three nations in the domain of science and technology by 2030.Dr. Vardhan stressed that India has progressed to 3 rd position in the field of nano-technology, 6 th in science publication which speaks volume of scientific study in the entire world. He informed that in area of Tsunami early warning system, India’s progress has grown leaps and bounds with new scientific diagnostic techniques.


    Present on the occasion were Prof Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, DST,Professor MM Sharma, FRS, Chairman, Governing Council of IACS, Professor Santanu Bhattacharya, Director IACS among others.


    ***


    SB/Kol…

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546078) Visitor Counter : 69
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali