      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Union Minister of Science and Technology Dr. Harsh Vardhan unveils the curtain raiser of the India International Science Festival 2018 in Kolkata
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2018 6:35PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 14, 2018.


    Union Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Harsh Vardhan emphasised that Scientific Institutions of the country can be ideal platform for youth minds to develop their latent talent. The Minister was speaking during his visit to the CSIR-Central Glass and Ceramic Research Institute in Kolkata today for the curtain raiser function of the India International Science Festival 2018 (IISF-2018). He said, President Sh. Ram Nath Kovind will open the IISF festival in Lucknow, which will go on from October 5 to 8, 2018 . The Minister launched the App of IISF 2018 also. He informed that Kolkata is hosting the first curtain raiser among the 80 curtain raisers scheduled in the entire country before its formal inauguration in October.


    The Minister emphasised that the advancement of science and technology is driving inclusive growth and requested the scientific organisations to work in synergy and in coordination with stakeholders in the scientific value chain. He said, science should become a revolution and a subject for common man so that the ease of learning leads to innovation and creativity in this sphere. He remembered the great efforts of scientific fraternity of the city of Kolkata in yester years with scientific discoveries by luminaries likes Sir Ashutosh Mukherjee, Dr B C Roy, Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose, Acharya Satyendra Nath Bose among others. He expressed optimism that the IISF festival in the coming year will be celebrated in North Eastern Region or Kolkata (in eastern region) considering the enthusiasm of the people in these regions towards science and technology.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan stressed that Science and Technology is leading the growth in the sphere of Knowledge Economy and Innovation coefficient of individuals are the buzz word in the latest advancement in scientific domain. He said, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi led government is encouraging advancement in Stand Up India and Start Up India, whereby budding scientists and youth are encouraged to develop their scientific ideas into products/services for the betterment of country. He urged the visitors, scientific community, students to participate actively in the coming India International Science Festival 2018.


    ***


    SB/Kol

    
    
    (Release ID: 1546182) Visitor Counter : 14
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali