      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Outreach program of India International Science Festival organised in ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases today at Kolkata
      Posted On: 24 SEP 2018 6:12PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 24 th September 2018


    As a prelude to the main event of 4 th Session of India International Science Festival (IISF) to be organised in Lucknow from 5 th to 8 th October 2018, an outreach program was organised in ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) today at Kolkata. Students, Teachers and Scientific research fraternity participated in the programme. The program was organised with the objective to introduce young students to modern scientific research and development in the domain of medical science.


    Eminent speakers delivered awareness lecture on diarrheal diseases, the progress of its treatment through decades to modern vaccine strategies on the occasion. This programme was followed by laboratory tour as experts from scientific domain demonstrated functional and technical usage of some high-end scientific research instruments used in research. Interactive discussions with the students and visitors played an important role in creating awareness about scientific know-how and to encourage research in scientific domain. The programme was to encourage science and technology as a career opportunity and to channelize the latent potential of the individuals in scientific arena.


    The objective of the programme is to bridge the gap between the science in labs and its reach to the comman man of the nation. The programme endeavoured to provide a platform to create a know-how on modern advancements in medical science and to provide a synergy of the latest technology with digital developments and ‘Make in India’ initiative of the Central Government. Initiatives of the Government of India in various domain was discussed from the scientific perspective so that the development of science and technology becomes all-inclusive for the holistic development of the country.


    Present on the occasion were Dr. Shanta Dutta, Director, ICMR-NICED and Prof. Dhrubojyoti Chattopadhyay as Chief Guest.


    ***


    SB/Kol

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547112) Visitor Counter : 3