      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Shri Ramdas Athawale says atrocities on SC/ST can be addressed by change of mindset among people in society and by encouraging Inter-caste marriages
      Posted On: 28 SEP 2018 3:24PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 28 th September 2018


    Union Minister of State for Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Shri Ramdas Athawale said that atrocities on Scheduled Castes and Tribes (SC/ST) can be addressed by change of mindset among people rather than by change in Atrocities Act. Addressing a press conference yesterday, he exhorted the people to encourage inter-caste marriages so that the inequalities in society can be addressed. He said that even though in West Bengal the cases of atrocities (in numbers) are less, but there is immense scope of addressing the issue by encouraging inter-caste marriage in society. He suggested the State Government to deliberate on methods to eradicate the menace of atrocities and to encourage inter-caste marriage. This will also help in bringing about a change in mindset in society considering the ever changing cultural outlook among people of present era, he opined. He informed that 47 thousand cases of atrocities are registered in the entire country.


    On the aspect of reservation in promotion, Shri Athawale said, there is a need for constructive dialogue with stakeholders to arrive at a solution. He also urged that society needs to follow a path of cordial and good relations to address the pertinent issue of SC/ST atrocities and for the prevention of atrocities.


    Shri Athawale urged people to address persons with disabilities as ‘Divyang’. He said that Divyang are special and their talent needs to be recognized and urged all to channelize their latent talent for the development of society and nation holistically.


    Earlier in the day, Shri Ramdas Athawale had a discussion with Mathua community, presently staying in West Bengal for the past 30 to 40 years. The Minister urged the stakeholders to attend to the issues of the communities. On the issue of citizenship, the Minister opined that there should be a comprehensive discussion so that their problems are understood and provided due attention by the State Government along with others concerned.


    *****


    SB/Kol

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547809) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali