      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Outreach program of India International Science Festival organised in National Institute of Biomedical Genomics at Kalyani, West Bengal
      Posted On: 29 SEP 2018 12:24PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 28 th September 2018


    As a prelude to the main event of 4 th Session of India International Science Festival (IISF) to be organised in Lucknow from 5 th to 8 th October 2018, an outreach program was organised in National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBMG) today at Kalyani in West Bengal. Students, Teachers and Scientific research fraternity participated in the programme. More than 100 students from various schools near Kalyani and Kanchrapara area visited NIBMG along with teachers. The program was organised with the objective to introduce young students to modern scientific research and development in the domain of medical science.


    The outreach program included inaugural speec h from the Prof. Saumitra Das, Director, NIBMG followed by learning and awareness oriented presentation on IISF-2018. The programme endeavoured to provide a platform to create know-how on modern advancements in scientific domain. Blending learning with lab visits was the emphasis and interactive activities were organised for students. Interactive discussion on various topics included on cell and microbiology, molecular biology, genomics and computational biology. During the outreach programme, Laboratory visits included experiments and interactive discussion from the perspective of experimental analyses of data. Special awareness brainstorming sessions for students was a platform to know about latest development in science and technology. The objective of the programme is to bridge the gap between the science in labs and its reach to the common man of the nation. The programme endeavoured to provide a platform to create a know-how on modern advancements in biomedical genomics science and to provide a synergy of the latest technology with digital developments and initiative of the Central Government. Initiatives of the Government of India in various domain was discussed from the scientific perspective so that the development of science and technology becomes all-inclusive for the holistic development of the country.


    ***


    SB/Kol

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547919) Visitor Counter : 16
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali