      Ministry of Tourism

      Digital Platform is Necessary to Acquire Information on Tourism and Tourists’ Destinations and Personal Touch as a Measure of Hospitality is Required to attract tourists: J P Shaw
      Posted On: 27 SEP 2018 11:20PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata: September 27, 2018


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Tourism Shri K J Alphons inaugurated the upgraded Incredible India website and app to mark the digital transformation as a part of observing the World Tourism Day today, at New Delhi. In Kolkata, Shri J P Shaw, Regional Director of Indiatourism, Kolkata today harped on the requirement of improvement of the facilities as well as the services to the international standard so as to invite more and more tourists, both domestic and international at the city.


    Shri Shaw was speaking in a stakeholders’ meet and workshop today here, titled ‘Tourism & the Digital Transformation’ where he spoke on the necessity to improve the promotion and marketing style of tourism also and opt for digital mechanism so as to give a touch of technological innovation. He said, the digital platform is necessary to acquire all information on tourism and tourists’ destinations, but personal touch as a measure of hospitality is very much preferable to invite more tourists in India, the land of rich heritage as well as culture. He even harped on the Indiatourism’s continuous effort to clean the important tourist destinations of West Bengal like Hazarduari of Murshidabad and Belur Math of Howrah district of West Bengal.


    Today on the last day of the Parv, nearly 80 underprivileged girls were provided with a joy ride in two buses to Mandarmani and the department welcomed more than 100 international and domestic tourists at NSCIB Airport, Kolkata with sweets and flowers with a vision of ‘Atithi Devo Bhava’ . In the evening today, Indiatourism organised a colourful cultural event also to on ‘Unity in Diversity’ where a dance-group named Srijak performed. Shri Shaw was present there too along with the Director of Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) Shri Gautam Dey was also present.


    Tourism industry has a very important role for economic development of India. Presently India is the preferred destination both for domestic and overseas travellers. It is to be noted that, to boost up India’s tourism industry, Ministry of Tourism, in collaboration with other Union Ministries, State Government and tourism stakeholders celebrated Paryatan Parv from for the period September 16 to September 27 along with ‘Swachhata hi Seva’ programme.


    *****


    CG/SSS/ SC/ab/Kol......

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547779) Visitor Counter : 8
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali