      Ministry of Textiles

      Smt Smriti Irani urged big players of textile industry to handhold smaller units and help them to grow Textiles Minister stressed on revival of traditional crafts, guiding local artisans on patenting their designs PM Mudra Yojana has empowered women who form 70 percent of the beneficiaries, stated Smt Smriti Irani
      Posted On: 29 SEP 2018 9:10PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 29 th September 2018


    Union Textiles Minister Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani has urged the big players of textile industry to handhold the Small and Medium Enterprises (SME), which form the bulk of the sector in the country, and assist them to attain mid-size. Stating that industries world over is becoming more inclusive, the Minister said, industry members should guide small hubs of textile manufacturing in matters of design innovation and forecasting of fashion trends so as to make them more competitive in domestic as well as international markets. “The Government recognises that growth cannot happen in a silo, it has to take place in an interactive manner with industry, Government and citizens as its part”, said the Minister. The Government is taking up domestic challenges related to proper infrastructure, taxation, organisational set up, workforce productivity and skill development faced by textile sector. In an interactive session with the stakeholders of textile industry organised by Indian Chamber of Commerce in Kolkata today, she said, Government provides financial support to textile industry which is meant to reach farmers and labourers associated with the sector down the line.


    Smt. Irani also laid stress on giving impetus to crafts based industry which is an integral part of textiles. She also urged the members of the Chamber to take up the matter of identifying, revival and preservation of traditional handloom and crafts of every district and also asked them to guide local artisans about protecting and patenting their designs. While replying to a question related to jute industry, the Minister said, Government is in support of diversification of jute products that will go to benefit the jute industry.


    Later in the day, the Union Textiles Minister attended the 117th Annual General Meeting of the Merchants’ Chamber of Commerce and Industries. She stated, the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana has empowered women in the country since seventy percent of the beneficiaries of this central scheme happen to be women. The Minister also mentioned various schemes like PM Suraksha Bima Yojana, PM Ujjwala Yojana started by the Union Government under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, which are contributing to development and empowerment of the poors. The Minister also stated, growth of industry and economy will lead to growth of every single Indian family. Smt. Irani released a book titled ‘Highlights’ that summarises the activities taken up by the Merchants’ Chamber of Commerce and Industries during last one year.


    *****


    CG/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1547953) Visitor Counter : 9
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali