      PIB Headquarters

      Swachhta Pakhwada & Swachhta Hi Seva 2019 programmes conclude in Cochin Port with ‘Plogging for a Plastic-free Port’
      Posted On: 02 OCT 2019 6:54PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Swachhta Pakhwada & Swachhta Hi Seva 2019 programme as part of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan was organized in Cochin Port Trust during 11 th September to 02 nd October, 2019 with various cleaning activities and awareness programmes.


    The programmes were formally launched by Shri Mansukh Mandaviya, Hon’ble Union Minister of State for Shipping (I/C) on 20-09-2019.


    A Cycle Rally with the motto “ Burn Carbohydrates not Hydrocarbon ” to promote Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and Fit India Movement was launched by Hon’ble Minister by taking part in cycling with the employees of Cochin Port Trust, CISF personnel, students of Kendriya Vidyalaya and members of Muziris Cyclists Club on 20-09-2019.


    Employees of Cochin Port Trust were engaged in cleaning of work places, office premises and public spaces within the Port area in Willingdon Island during the above period. Shramdan was conducted by Cochin Port Trust employees at places outside the Port area such as heritage area near Fort Kochi Beach and sides of National Highway / CoPT promenade in Willingdon Island.


    100 truckloads of garbage, vegetation, wooden logs etc were removed from different places in Willingdon Island to the designated dumping ground during the Pakhwada period. Cleaning activities were also carried out in small boats, tugs etc. of Cochin Port Trust. Various awareness classes on importance of cleanliness and steps to be taken to reduce Single Use Plastic (SUP) were conducted by the departments.


    Various competitions such as painting, slogan writing & poster designing for students, short film contest (prepared using mobile phone camera) for employees / family members of Cochin Port Trust were also held during the period.


    “Eco Studio” – a space for ecologically inspired employees, was opened in Cochin Port Trust where employees who create eco friendly alternatives for plastic / who creates artefacts out of plastic waste, showcase their works of art.


    Employees of Cochin Port Trust brought Single Use Plastic (SUP) waste from their homes and deposited in the bins placed for the purpose in different parts of the Port on 01 st October, 2019. The 200 Kg plastic waste so collected will be shredded and utilized for road tarring within the Port area later this month.


    In order to encourage employees to reduce use of plastic pen “Paper pen with Seed” were procured and distributed to all employees of Cochin Port Trust.


    In order to discourage use of Single Use Plastic (SUP) shopping bags, very good quality cloth bags were procured by Cochin Port Trust and distributed to employees at a very discounted price.


    Cultural wing of Cochin Port Trust staged a 30 minute Street Play on the menace of plastic waste at four locations on 01-10-2019. (Kendriya Vidyalaya Port Trust, St. Sebastian’s HSS, Thoppumpady, Jnanodayam Public School, Edacochin, and Kalamukku Junction, Vypin).


    To mark the conclusion of Swachhta Pakhwada & Swachhta Hi Seva 2019, on the Gandhi Jayanthi day (02-10-2019), Cochin Port Trust in coordination with CISF and Kendriya Vidyalaya Port Trust organized Plogging activity (Jogging and picking plastic waste) on the roads within Willingdon Island on 02-10-2019. About 500 participants including employees of Cochin Port Trust, CISF personnel and students of KV Port Trust school attended the event.


    Dr. M. Beena IAS, Chairperson flagged off the Plogging activity at a function held at Kendriya Vidyalaya Port Trust on 02-10-2019 at 8.30 a.m. At the valedictory function held at Samudrika Convention Centre, Cochin Port Trust at 9.30 a.m, the Chairperson distributed prizes to the following prize winners:

     1. Best maintained and clean office of lessees of Cochin Port Trust

    First Prize - M/s. Ambuja Cements


    Second Prize - M/s. Penna Cements


     1. Best maintained and clean offices in Cochin Port Trust


    First Prize - Office of the Traffic Manager


    Second Prize - Office of the Chief Engineer


    Third Prize - Office of the Chief Medical Officer

     1. Employee who lead very good examples towards reducing plastic waste by re-use of Single Use Plastic (SUP).

    Sri. Sudheer. S, Traffic Dept.

     1. Best 3 minutes short film on Swachhta theme, shot on mobile phone camera

    First Prize - Sri. K.B. Abigosh, Accountant, GAD


    Second Prize - Sri. O.B. Gineesh Kumar, PS to Chairman


    Third Prize - Sri. P.B. Subrahmanian, Fireman, Marine Dept.


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587027) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
    
    
    

1.