      PIB Headquarters

      ‘Swachhta Hi Seva Campaign’ By Southern Naval Command
      Posted On: 02 OCT 2019 6:04PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    The Southern Naval Command (SNC) conducted a “Swachhata hi Sewa Campaign” at Kochi and all outstation units under its jurisdiction as part of its commitment towards preservation of the environment by planting trees, undertaking cleanliness drives with emphasis towards clearing of plastic, shrubs, clearing of water bodies/ open drains etc. The Campaign which commenced at all units under SNC on 25 Sep 19 culminated on 02 Oct 19 coinciding with the 150 th birth anniversary of the father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi. About 10,000 service and civilian Personnel, Families and Children actively participated in cleanliness drives of office and residential premises during the week. Personnel were appraised through conduct of lectures and workshops on Environment Sustainability and its protection.


    Pledge taking ceremonies, quiz, painting, poster competitions were also conducted at all units, including at naval schools to commemorate the 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. At Kochi, the naval personnel along with their families, carried out cleaning in and around the Venduruthy Channel, plantation of saplings and. clearing of garbage and debris around naval buildings. Personnel from INS Dronacharya, at Fort Kochi cleared the beach front waste, planted saplings. Besides these, essay and poster competitions, lectures on hygiene and sanitation were also conducted for naval personnel as well as naval schools.


    INS Dweeprakshak at Kavaratti Island in collaboration with the Department of Environment & Forest administration conducted plantation ceremony with élan on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti. Shri R. Mihir Vardhan, IAS, Hon’ble Administrator, UT of Lakshadweep was the Chief Guest for the event. The event saw participation from Shri Mohammad Faizal P.P, Hon’ble Member of Parliament, Lakshadweep.


    Similarly activities at outstation units included awareness marches by school children in naval areas and cleanliness campaigns at shopping complexes at INS Valsura in Jamnagar, Gujarat, clearing of waste and weeds from the Chilka lake front and Kalijai Island at INS Chilka, in Orissa, beach Cleanup in Malad beach front by students of KV, INS Hamla at Mumbai.


    The Campaign culminated on 02 Oct 18, with the Message of Cleanliness, Environment Awareness and Protection and the ‘Swachh Bharath Abhiyan’, to be a constant endeavour by all Units, Personnel and their Families.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587030) Visitor Counter : 4