      PIB Headquarters

      Regional cooperation key to boost fisheries in Afro-Asian nations: AARDO Secretary General
      Posted On: 29 OCT 2019 4:27PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Dr Manoj Nardeosingh, Secretary General of African Asian Rural Development Organisation speaking at the valedictory of an international workshop-cum-training organised by CMFRI.


    Regional cooperation between African Asian countries is vital to improve the fisheries sector in respective countries, said Dr Manoj Nardeosingh, Secretary General of African Asian Rural Development Organisation (AARDO).


    “Fisheries sector has high potential to change the lives of the people in many African Asian countries. The sector can play a vital role in the economic development these nations”, he said. He was speaking at the valedictory of an international workshop-cum-training organised by the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) under the auspices of the AARDO.


    Urging the scientists and professionals working in the sector to seek regional collaborations for the betterment of the fisheries, he said that focusing on value addition would help transform the lives of coastal communities. “The member countries of AARDO can earn benefits by connecting together, transforming technologies and through exchange schemes”, he added.


    The AARDO Secretary General appreciated CMFRI for the smooth conduct of the training programme for the member countries for the third consecutive years and he expressed his willingness to cooperate with the CMFRI in the coming years too.


    The workshop was aimed at imparting training on a range of topics such as marine fisheries assessment, fish stock estimation, marine fisheries environment, impact of climate change on fisheries, responsible fisheries and mariculture activities.


    Fisheries officials from Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, Oman, Morocco, Zambia, Malawi, Mauritius, Malaysia and Sri Lanka attended the 15-day workshop at the CMFRI. The programme was part of an international collaboration between the Ministry of Rural Development, Government of India and the AARDO, which is an inter-governmental organisation in the field of agricultural and rural development with its headquarters in New Delhi.


    Dr A Gopalakrishnan, Director of CMFRI presided over the function. Dr C N Ravi Shankar, Director of Central Institute of Fisheries Technology was the chief guest at the function. Dr Imelda Joseph and Somi Kuriakose spoke on the occasion.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1589455) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam