      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      ESI scheme has presence now in over 461 districts of the country providing benefit to around 10 percent of Indian population- Santosh Kumar Gangwar
      Posted On: 08 DEC 2017 4:10PM by PIB Chennai


    The Union Minister of State for Labour & Employment (I/C), Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar announced that the ESI Scheme is on the path of sustained growth with its presence now in over 461 districts of the country providing benefit to around 10% of India’s population while addressing 172nd Meeting of the ESI Corporation. Some very important decisions were taken towards improvement in its service delivery mechanism in the meeting.


    To improve its services delivery machinery, ESI Corporation had earlier taken decision to form Subsidiary Corporation/Society at State Level. Based on the feedback and suggestions received from State Governments, it has been decided to revise the Memorandum of Association of the Employees’ State Insurance Society (ESIS) in the States who opt for it. The society thus formed will serve as a managerial and health care body for administration & management of medical benefits and medical establishments in the state, besides operating and maintaining ESIS dispensaries run by State Governments.


    Starting of 50 bedded Medical facilities/Hospital at Alwar, Rajasthan and 100 bedded Medical facilities/Hospital at Bihta, Patna, Bihar was also approved in the meeting.


    In order to strengthen the primary care services and decongest the Hospitals, earlier ESI Corporation had decided in-principal for up-gradation of upto 1/3rd of ESI Dispensaries into six-bedded hospitals. This up gradation of ESI Dispensaries into 6 bedded units will be done in phased manner.


    A policy for utilizing the services of UG/PG Pass-outs from ESI Medical Colleges/ESI-PGIMSRs in ESI Hospitals/Dispensaries has been approved. To meet the shortage of Specialist Doctors in ESI Hospitals/Dispensaries, ESI Corporation has approved the policy for promotion of in-house PG qualified Insurance Medical Officers (IMOs) to the Cadre of Specialists.


    The meeting was also attended by Smt. M. Sathiyavathy, Secretary, Labour & Employment, Sh. Raj Kumar, Director General, ESIC, and representatives of Employees and Employers of ESIC and other senior officials.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1512290) Visitor Counter : 129
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil