      PIB Headquarters

      INCOME TAX DEPARTMENT APPEALS FOR VOLUNTARY COMPLIANCE
      Posted On: 15 DEC 2017 7:02PM by PIB Chennai


    Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Region of the Income Tax Department is the fourth largest Direct Taxes contributor to the national exchequer. The Income Tax Department in TN & P has been undertaking a lot of steps to widen and deepen the tax base. The Department in the region has been following a dual strategy of tax payer awareness and enforcement in order to instill voluntary compliance and put up strong deterrence. As deterrence, the Income Tax Department in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry has launched prosecution against defaulters (i) for failure to file return of income in 191 cases, (ii) for evading tax and for failure to pay tax in 58 cases and (iii) for failure to deduct/remit taxes deducted at source (TDS) properly in 69 cases. The Department has been pursuing many such cases of defaults and will be taking appropriate action as per law.


    While pursuing recovery of outstanding tax, interest, penalty the Income Tax Department has taken strong action against defaulters by attaching properties in 98 cases. Further, steps are being taken to auction such properties wherever the situation demands.


    In order to instill voluntary compliance, the Income Tax Department has been sending communications to all those taxpayers who filed returns of income earlier but have been defaulting now, to make use of the time available to them till 31 st March, 2018 to file the returns of income for the Assessment Years 2016-17 (Financial year 2015-16) and 2017-18 (Financial year 2016-17). All may note that the Income Tax Act has been amended and it does not permit filing of return beyond the end of the relevant Assessment Year in case the taxpayer could not file the return within the normal period available under Section 139(1) of the Income Tax Act, 1961.


    The Department makes fervent appeal to the tax payers and encourage them for voluntary compliance in order to avoid deterrence measures as taken in aforesaid cases of the defaulters.


    ****


    RCN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1512846) Visitor Counter : 41
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil