      Cabinet

      Year End Review 2017 –Cabinet Decisions
      Cabinet Decisions 2017

      Posted On: 27 DEC 2017 3:00PM by PIB Chennai

    04 January 2017


    Cabinet approves transfer of 34.87 Ha land in Sector 24, Dwarka, New Delhi from Delhi Development Authority to Land and Development Office for the purpose of proposed Second Diplomatic Enclave


    The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the transfer of 34.87 Ha land in Sector 24, Dwarka, New Delhi from Delhi Development Authority to Land and Development Office (L&DO) for the purpose of the Second Diplomatic Enclave .


    Cabinet approves Agreement between India and Uruguay regarding Cooperation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters


    The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved signing and ratifying an Agreement between India and Uruguay regarding Cooperation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Kenya on bilateral cooperation in the field of agriculture and allied sectors


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Kenya on bilateral cooperation in the field of agriculture and allied sectors.


    Cabinet approves signing of MoU between India and Portugal in the field of agriculture and allied sectors


    The Union Cabinet, chaired by the PrimeMinister Shri Narendra Modihas given its approval for signing of an Agreement for cooperation in the field of Agriculture and allied sectors between India and Portugal.


    18 January 2017


    Cabinet approves the repealing of the obsolete and redundant laws


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for introduction of the Repealing and Amending Bill, 2017 to repeal 105 Acts.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and the United Arab Emirates on Bilateral Cooperation in the Road Transport and Highways sector


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and the United Arab Emirates on Bilateral Cooperation in the Road Transport and Highways Sector to be signed between the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, India and the Federal Transport Authority – Land and Maritime, U.A.E.


    Cabinet approves the exclusion of States from the investments of National Small Savings Fund from 1.4.2016


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to exclude State Governments States/UTs (with Legislature) except Arunachal Pradesh, Delhi, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh from National Small Savings Fund (NSSF) investments from 01.04.2016. It also approved providing a one-time loan of Rs. 45,000 crore from NSSF to Food Corporation of India (FCI) to meet its food subsidy requirements.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and the United Arab Emirates on the Mutual Recognition of Certificates of Competency as per the provisions of the Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping (STCW, 78) and amendments thereof


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and the United Arab Emirates on the Mutual Recognition of Certificates of Competency.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and the United Arab Emirates on Institutional Cooperation in Maritime Transport


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and the United Arab Emirates on Institutional Cooperation in Maritime Transport.


    Cabinet approves amendment in Modified Special Incentive Package Scheme


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for amendment in the Modified Special Incentive Package Scheme (M-SIPS) to further incentivize investments in Electronic Sector and moving towards the goal of ‘Net Zero imports’ in electronics by 2020.


    Cabinet approves MOU between India and United Arab Emirates for cooperation in the field of agriculture and allied sectors


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for Signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and United Arab Emirates in the field of agriculture and allied sectors.


    Cabinet approves MOU between India and United Arab Emirates for cooperation in the field of Small and Medium Enterprises and Innovation


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing the Memorandum of Understanding between India and United Arab Emirates for cooperation in the field of Small and Medium Enterprises and Innovation.


    Cabinet approves the Establishment of Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Jharkhand


    
    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for the 12th Plan Proposal of the DARE/ICAR Plan Scheme of the 'Establishment of Indian Agricultural Research Institute (lARI)-Jharkhand'. It will have an estimated outlay of Rs. 200.78 crores (100% ICAR share) on 1,000 acre land provided by the Government of Jharkhand at the Gauria Karma Village in Barhi Block of Hazaribag.


    Cabinet gives approval to the package for supporting Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) – Augmentation of Corpus of Credit Guarantee Trust Fund for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE)


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval to the package for supporting Micro and Small Enterprises (MSEs) – Augmentation of the Corpus of Credit Guarantee Trust Fund for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE).


    Cabinet approves Trade Agreement negotiations with Peru


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved holding negotiations for Trade Agreement with Peru on trade in goods, services and investment.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Vietnam In the field of cyber security


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Vietnam in the field of Cyber Security. It was signed between Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), India and the Cyber Security Department, Ministry of Public Security, Vietnam on 3rd September 2016 at Hanoi.


    Cabinet apprised of the MoU between the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and the Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) for cooperation in the field of outer space


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed on November 11, 2016 at Tokyo, Japan between the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and the Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) for cooperation in the field of outer space.


    Cabinet approves MoU on cooperation on Youth matters between India and Russia


    Exchange programmes in the field of Youth Affairs between India and Russia will help in promoting exchange of ideas, values and culture amongst Youth through establishment of people-to-people contacts and in consolidating friendly relations between the two countries.


    Cabinet approves India’s Membership in the International Vaccine Institute (IVI), South Korea


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the proposal for India’s taking full membership of the International Vaccine Institute (IVI) Governing Council. The move involves payment of annual contribution of US $ 5,00,000 to the International Vaccine Institute (IVI), Seoul, South Korea.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Serbia for cooperation in the field of Information Technology and Electronics


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between India and Serbia for promoting cooperation in the field of Information Technology and Electronics.


    Cabinet approves a New Scheme for promotion of Rural Housing in the country


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved a new scheme for promotion of Rural Housing in the country. The Government would provide interest subsidy under the scheme. Interest subsidy would be available to every rural household who is not covered under the PradhanMantri Aawas Yojana (Grameen), PMAY(G).


    24 January 2017


    IIMs to be declared as Institutions of National Importance

    Cabinet approves Indian Institute of Management Bill, 2017


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Indian Institute of Management(IIM) Bill, 2017, under which the IIMswould be declared as Institutions of National Importance which will enable them togrant degrees to their students.


    Cabinet approves Interest waiver for the two months of November and December, 2016 for farmers accessing short term crop loans from Cooperative Banks and providing interest subvention to National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development (NABARD) on additional refinance by NABARD to Cooperative Banks


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for interest waiver for the two months of November and December, 2016 for farmers accessing short term crop loans from Cooperative Banks. The decision also provides for interest subvention to National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development (NABARD) on additional refinance by NABARD to Cooperative Banks.


    Cabinet approves exchanging of Airports Authority of India's land measuring 11.35 acres with equivalent land of Govt. of Bihar at Jai Prakash Narayan International Airport, Patna for expansion development purpose


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to transfer 11.35 acres of land to Airports Authority of India (AAI) by way of exchanging equivalent land of AAI at Anisabad. The proposed land at Patna Airport will be used for expansion of the airport and construction of new terminal building along-with other associated infrastructures. The State Government has also agreed in principle for transfer of the land.


    Cabinet approves ratification of the Second Commitment Period of Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to ratify the Second Commitment Period of the Kyoto Protocol on containing the emission of Green House Gases (GHGs). The second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol was adopted in 2012. So far, 75 countries have ratified the Second Commitment Period.


    Varishtha Pension Bima Yojana - 2017


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its post-facto approval for launching of Varishtha Pension Bima Yojana 2017 (VPBY 2017). It is a part of Government’s commitment for financial inclusion and social security.


    Cabinet approves Short term market borrowing by NABARD for on lending to Cooperative Banks


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its post-facto approval for the following decisions.


    01 February 2017


    Cabinet approves Extension of tenure of loans under the Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme (CLSS) of Pradhan Mantri AwasYojana (PMAY) from 15 to 20 years


    Cabinet approves Introduction of The Indian Institutes of Information Technology (Amendment) Bill, 2017 in Parliament


    Cabinet approves Amendments in (i) the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950 to modify the list of Scheduled Castes of the State of Odisha, and (ii) the Constitution (Pondicherry) Scheduled Castes Order, 1964 to change name of the Union Territory from Pondicherry to Puducherry in the Order.


    08 February 2017


    Cabinet apprised of MoU between India and France in the field of Science, Technology and Innovation


    Cabinet approves 'Pradhan Mantri Gramin Digital Saksharta Abhiyan’ for covering 6 crorerural households


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved 'Pradhan MantriGramin Digital Saksharta Abhiyan' (PMGDISHA) to make 6 crore rural households digitally literate. The outlay for this project is Rs.2,351.38 crore to usher in digital literacy in rural India by March,.2019. This is in line with the announcement made by Finance Minister in the Union Budget 2016-17.


    15 February 2017


    Cabinet approves Amending the Collection of Statistics Act, 2008 (7 of 2009)


    Cabinet approves Establishment of Food Legumes Research Platform (FLRP) at Amlaha, Sehore, Madhya Pradesh with Satellite Hubs in West Bengal and Rajasthan by International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas (ICARDA)


    22 February 2017


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Australia for promotion and development of cooperation in civil aviation security


    Cabinet approves signing of Air Services Agreement between India and Greece


    05 March 2017


    Cabinet approves India's accession to the Customs Convention on International Transport of Goods under cover of TIR Carnets (TIR Convention)


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for India's accession to the Customs Convention on International Transport of Goods under cover of TIR Carnets (TIR Convention) and for completion of necessary procedures for ratification, for its entry into force.


    Cabinet approves Food Cash Credit to Punjab for food procurement operations - Resolution for the settlement of Legacy Accounts (upto crop season 2014-15)


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for settlement of Legacy Food Cash Credit Accounts (upto crop season 2014-15) of Punjab Government for food procurement operations. This proposal of Department of Expenditure was approved by Prime Minister under Rule 12 of (Transaction of Business) Rules, 1961 on 02.01.2017 .


    Cabinet approves signing of the Definitive Agreement on Oil Storage and Management between Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserve Ltd (ISPRL) and Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) of UAE


    Cabinet approves Cadre Review of Central Engineering Service (Roads) Group Á’ of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways


    15 March 2017


    Cabinet approves additional 2% Dearness Allowance / Dearness Relief due from January, 2017


    The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved release of an additional instalment of Dearness Allowance (DA) to Central Government employees and Dearness Relief (DR) to pensioners w.e.f. 01.01.2017. It has increased by 2% over the existing rate of 2% of the Basic Pay/Pension, to compensate for price rise.


    Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) declared as Institutes of National Importance


    Cabinet approves Indian Institutes of Information Technology (Public- Private Partnership) Bill, 2017


    Special assistance measure for Andhra Pradesh by way of special dispensation in funding of Externally Aided Projects (EAPs) and funding of irrigation component of Polavaram project


    MoU between LalBahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA), Mussoorieand Namibia Institute of Public Administration and Management (NIPAM) of Namibia for capacity building


    Cabinet approves of MoU between India and Bangladesh on Aids to Navigation (AtoNs)


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Aids to Navigation (AtoNs) between the Directorate General of Lighthouses & Lightships (DGLL), Ministry of Shipping, Government of India and the Department of Shipping, Government of Bangladesh.


    20 March 2017


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the following four GST related bills:


    The Central Goods and Services Tax Bill 2017 (The CGST Bill)


    The Integrated Goods and Services Tax Bill 2017 (The IGST Bill)


    The Union Territory Goods and Services Tax Bill 2017 (The UTGST Bill)


    The Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to the States) Bill 2017 (The Compensation Bill)


    22 March 2017


    Cabinet approves amendment to 'The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009'


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the amendment to Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009. This will ensure that all teachers, in position as on 31st March, 2015, acquire the minimum qualifications prescribed by the academic authority to extend the period for such training for four years up to 31st March, 2019.


    Cabinet approves in situ promotion to the officers of Indian Trade Service (ITS) to the Senior Administrative Grade (SAG)


    Cabinet approves of proposal to establish a Fund of Fund for Start-ups (FFS)


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the following proposals with regard to the Fund of Funds of Start-ups (FFS) which was established in June, last year with a corpus of Rs. 1,000 crores.


    Cabinet approves Amendment of in the Customs and Excise Act, relating to abolition of cesses and surcharges on various goods and services to facilitate implementation of GST Regime


    31 March 2017


    Cabinet approves amendment to 'The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009'


    Cabinet approves ratification of the Minimum Age Convention, 1973 (No. 138) and Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention, 1999 (No. 182) of the International Labour Organization (ILO)


    Cabinet approves moving of official amendments to The Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2016


    To be tabled in Parliament


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal to move official amendments to the Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2016. The Bill will be introduced in the Parliament.


    05 April 2017


    Cabinet approves Collaboration Agreement to support the Belmont Forum Secretariat


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of the Collaborative Agreement with French National Research Agency (ANR), France for supporting the Belmont Forum Secretariat from January, 2015 to December, 2017 at a total estimated expenditure of Euro 40,000. The Cabinet also approved continued financial support to Belmont Forum Secretariat beyond 2017.


    Cabinet approves closure of Mahatma Gandhi Pravasi Suraksha Yojana


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved closure of the Mahatma Gandhi Pravasi Suraksha Yojana (MGPSY) which was set up in 2012 to address the social security-related issues of the Emigration Check Required (ECR)-category workers going abroad for employment to ECR countries.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Bangladesh for fairway development of Ashuganj-Zakiganj stretch of Kushiyara river and Sirajganj-Daikhawa stretch of Jamuna river in the Indo-Bangladesh protocol route


    Cabinet approves setting up of a Special Purpose Vehicle to be called Government e-Marketplace (GeM SPV)


    12 April 2017


    Cabinet approves setting up of Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE) at Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh


    Cabinet approves transfer on lease of 6.5628 acres of Defence land to Kendriya VidyalayaSangathan at Air Force Station Kanpur for construction of school building


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the transfer on lease of 6.5628 acres of Defence land to Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan(KVS) at Air Force Station Kanpur (AFS Kanpur). It will be used for construction of school building and other associated infrastructure in partial modification of its earlier decision on 16.06.2011 wherein it had approved transfer 8.90 acres of defence land to KVS at AFS, Kanpur.


    Cabinet approves MoU on cooperation in the field of justice between India and Tunisia


    19 April 2017


    Cabinet approves signing of the Protocol amending the Convention between India and Portugal for avoidance of Double Taxation


    Cabinet approves encashment of accumulated leave to certain Defence Services Personnel who died or were invalidated out while in service between 30 December 1991 to 29 November 1999 with less than 15 years of service


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved leave encashment up to 180 days in respect of those Defence personnel who died or were invalidated out of service between 30.12.1991 to 29.11.1999 with less than 15 years of service.


    Cabinet approves procurement of Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail Units for use in the General Elections, 2019


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for procurement of Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) Units for use in the General Elections, 2019


    Cabinet approves permission to avail external assistance by State Government entities from bilateral agencies for implementation of vital infrastructure projects


    03 May, 2017


    Cabinet approves cooperation between Indian and Japan on Railway Safety


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the signing the Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC) with Japan on Railway Safety. The MoC has already been signed in February, 2017.


    Cabinet approves modifications in the 7th CPC recommendations on pay and pensionary benefits


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi approved important proposals relating to modifications in the 7th CPC (Central Pay Commission) recommendations on pay and pensionary benefits in the course of their implementation. Earlier, in June, 2016, the Cabinet had approved implementation of the recommendations with an additional financial outgo of Rs 84,933 crore for 2016-17 (including arrears for 2 months of 2015-16).


    Cabinet approves MoU on Urea manufacturing Plant in Malaysia


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the signing of Memorandum of Understanding with Malaysia on development of a Urea and Ammonia manufacturing plant in Malaysia with off take to India and/or off take of existing surplus Urea from Malaysia to India.


    Cabinet approves Policy for providing preference to domestically manufactured iron & steel products in government procurement


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the policy for providing preference to domestically manufactured iron & steel products on Government procurement


    Cabinet approves MoU signed in 2011 and Renewal of MoU between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and Higher Colleges of Technology, United Arab Emirates


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed in 2011 and Renewal of MoU between the Institute of Chartered Accountants, of India (ICAI) and Higher Colleges of Technology (HCT), United Arab Emirates.


    Cabinet approves transfer of land and building belonging to Department of Posts at Thrissur(Trichur) in Kerala to Thrissur Municipal Corporation for widening of Pattalam Road


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved transfer of 16.5 cents of land and building belonging to Department of Posts at Thrissur in Kerala to Thrissur Municipal Corporation for widening of Pattalam Road, in public interest on the principle of land in exchange of land.


    Cabinet approves signing of MoU between India and Spain on cooperation in the sphere of Civil Aviation


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Cooperation in the sphere of Civil Aviation between India and Spain.


    Cabinet approves Vijayawada Airport as International Airport


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for the declaration of Vijayawada Airport as International Airport, as per the provisions of Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014.


    Cabinet approves MoU between the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington and Defence Services Command and Staff College, Mirpur, Dhaka for Cooperation in Military Education


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington and Defence Services Command and Staff College, Mirpur, Dhaka for Cooperation concerning Military Education in the Field of Strategic and Operational Studies.


    Cabinet approves National Steel Policy 2017New Policy - A reflect of long term Vision


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for National Steel Policy (NSP) 2017.


    Cabinet approves MoU on Third Line of Credit of US $ 4.5 billion to Bangladesh for implementation of developmental projects


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Third Line of Credit (LoC) of US $ 4.5 billion to Bangladesh for implementation of developmental projects.


    17 May 2017


    Cabinet approves signing of the Multilateral Convention to Implement Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting by India


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for the Multilateral Convention to Implement Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting.


    Cabinet approves construction of 10 units of India’s indigenous Pressurized Heavy Water Reactors (PHWR)


    In a significant decision to fast-track India’s domestic nuclear power programme, and give a push to country’s nuclear industry, the Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for construction of 10 units of India’s indigenous Pressurized Heavy Water Reactors (PHWR).


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Australia on Cooperation in Combating International Terrorism and Transnational Organized Crime


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Australia on Cooperation in Combating International Terrorism and Transnational Organized Crime.


    Cabinet approves Faculty Exchange Agreement between National Defence College, New Delhi and National Defence College, Dhaka, Bangladesh


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the Faculty Exchange Agreement signed between the National Defence College, New Delhi and National Defence College, Dhaka, Bangladesh.


    Cabinet approves Pan-India implementation of Maternity Benefit Program


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval to Pan-India implementation of Maternity Benefit Program which now has been extended to all districts of the country w.e.f. 01.01.2017.


    Cabinet approves Agreement between India and Tajikistan on Cooperation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing and ratifying, an Agreement between India and Tajikistan on Cooperation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters.


    Cabinet approves amendment of the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorized Occupants) Act, 1971 to enable summary eviction proceedings in Residential Accommodation


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for amendment in Section 2 and Section 3 of the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971 (PPE Act, 1971), by inserting definition of 'residential accommodation occupation' in a new clause in section 2 of the Act and inserting provisions relating to eviction from 'residential accommodation occupation' in a new sub-section 3B below sub-section 3A of Section 3 of the Act.


    Cabinet approves Amendment of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the introduction of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites Remains (Amendment) Bill, 2017 in the Parliament.


    24 May 2017


    Cabinet approves allocation of 2.5 per cent of Central Road Fund for development and maintenance of National Waterways (NWs) by amending in the Central Road Fund Act, 2000


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has accorded its approval today to a proposal jointly mooted by the Ministry of Shipping and the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways (MoRTH) for amendment of Central Road Fund Act, 2000 to allocate 2.5 per cent of the proceeds of Central Road Fund (CRF) for development and maintenance of National Waterways (NWs) and a reduction in the share provided for development of National Highways.


    Cabinet approves setting up of new AIIMS in Kamrup, Assam


    The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for establishment of new AIIMS at Kamrup (North Guwahati Revenue circle). The cost of the project is Rs.1123 crore and it will be set up under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY).


    Cabinet approves MoU between Spain and India on cooperation in the field of Organ Transplant Services


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the National Transplant Organization, Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, Spain and the Directorate General of Health Services, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, India on cooperation in


    the field of Organ Transplant Services.


    
    Cabinet approves phasing out Foreign Investment Promotion Board


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the phasing out of Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB). The proposal entails abolishing the FIPB and allowing administrative Ministries/Departments to process applications for FDI requiring government approval.


    Cabinet approves Joint Declaration of Intent between Germany and India regarding cooperation in the sector of alternative medicine


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Joint Declaration of Intent (JDI) between Germany and India regarding cooperation in the sector of


    alternative medicine.
    
    Cabinet approves Raising of Bonds of Rs. 2360 crores for Renewable Energy


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to Raising of Bonds of Rs. 2360 crores for Renewable Energy.


    Boost to Metro Rail Connectivity Cabinet approves Noida - Greater Noida Metro Rail Project


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Noida - Greater NoidaMetro Rail Project covering a length of 29.707 k.m. Total completion cost of the project is Rs.5,503 crore.


    Cabinet apprised of MoU between India and Bangladesh on cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Bangladesh on cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space. The MoU was signed at New Delhi in April, 2017.


    Cabinet approves policy for providing preference to 'Make in India' in Government procurements


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved a policy for providing preference to 'Make in India' in government procurements. The new policy will give a substantial boost to domestic manufacturing and service provision, thereby creating employment. It will also stimulate the flow of capital and technology into domestic manufacturing and services. It will also provide a further thrust towards manufacture of parts, components, sub-components etc. of these items, in line with the vision of 'Make in India'.


    

    7 June 2017


    Cabinet approves transfer of 4.64 hectares of land belonging to Indian Institute of Soil & Water Conservation (IISWC) Research Centre at Vasad, Gujarat to National Highways Authority of India


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for transfer of 4.64 hectares (46384 Sq. meters) of land belonging to the Indian Institute of Soil & Water Conservation (IISWC) Research Centre at Vasad, District Anand, Gujarat under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on payment of compensation amounting to Rs. 12.67 crorefor extension and six laning of Ahmedabad - Vadodara Highway on NH-8.


    Cabinet approves Signing of Memorandum of Understanding between Securities and Exchange Board of India and European Securities and Markets Authority


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) for entering into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) in relation to Mutual Co-operation.


    Cabinet approves Agreement between India and Somalia on transfer of sentenced persons


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing and subsequent ratification of the Agreement on Transfer of sentenced persons between Indi and Somalia.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Mali for standardization and conformity assessment


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), India and Direction Nationale De Industries (MLINDI), Republic of Mali on Standardization and Conformity Assessment.


    Cabinet approves Bilateral MoU between India and Iran


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Bilateral Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and Securities and Exchange Organization (SEO), Iran in relation to mutual cooperation on matters pertaining to securities markets.


    Cabinet approves agreement between India and Cyprus on Merchant Shipping


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the Agreement between India and Cyprus on Merchant Shipping, which was signed in April 2017.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Korea for export credit of USD 9 billion


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposed Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Export-Import Bank of India (EXIM Bank) and Export-Import Bank of Korea (KEXIM) for export credit of USD 9 billion for infrastructural development in India and for the supply of goods and services as part of projects in third countries.


    Cabinet approves taking over of Dr. B. Borooah Cancer Institute, Guwahati by Department of Atomic Energy


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the following:


    (i) Taking over Dr. B. Borooah Cancer Institute, Guwahati by Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) and bringing it under the administrative control of Tata Memorial Centre, an Aided institution of DAE;


    (ii) Augmentation of additional manpower of 166 posts in medical, paramedical and support positions.


    (14-June 2017)


    Cabinet approves Interest Subvention to banks on Short-Term crop loan to farmers


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Interest Subvention Scheme (ISS) for farmers for the year 2017-18. This will help farmers getting short term crop loan up to Rs. 3 lakh payable within one year at only 4% per annum. The Government has earmarked a sum of Rs. 20,339 crore for this purpose.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Palestine on agriculture cooperation


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare and the Ministry of Agriculture in the State of Palestine on agriculture cooperation.


    Cabinet approves proposal to introduce the Financial Resolution and Deposit Insurance Bill 2017


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal to introduce a Financial Resolution and Deposit Insurance Bill, 2017. The Bill would provide for a comprehensive resolution framework for specified financial sector entities to deal with bankruptcy situation in banks, insurance companies and financial sector entities.


    Cabinet approves signing of Memorandum of Understanding between India and Armenia on cooperation on youth matters


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was apprised about an Memorandum of Understanding which has already been signed between India and Armenia for cooperation on youth matters.


    Cabinet approves signing of Memorandum of Understanding between India and Bangladesh for promoting cooperation in the field of Information Technology and Electronics


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was apprised about an Memorandum of Understanding which has already been signed between India and Bangladesh for promoting cooperation in the field of Information Technology and Electronics (IT&E).


    (22-June 2017)


    Cabinet approves Amendment of the Social Security Agreement between India and the Netherlands


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved Amendment of the bilateral Social Security Agreement (SSA) between India and the Netherlands by incorporating the “Country of Residence” Principle into the said SSA.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and the Netherlands for bilateral Cooperation in the field of water resources management


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation and the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment of the Kingdom of the Netherlands for bilateral cooperation in the field of water resources management.


    Cabinet approves Memorandum of Understanding between India and Portugal on Cooperation in the field of Public Administration and Governance Reforms


    

    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Government of India, and Ministry of the Presidency and of Administrative Modernization, Government of Portuguese Republic, for ‘Cooperation in the field of Public Administration and Governance Reforms’.


    Cabinet approves Constitution of Indian Naval Material Management Service (INMMS) as an Organized Group ‘A’ Engineering Service


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved constitution of an organized Group ‘A’ Engineering Service, namely Indian Naval Material Management Service (INMMS) and consequent changes in cadre structure of existing Group ‘A’ cadre of Naval Store Officers of the Indian Navy.


    Cabinet approves MoU on cooperation in the textiles, clothing and fashion sectors between India and Australia


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on cooperation in the textiles, clothing and fashion sectors between the Ministry of Textiles and the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Australia.


    Cabinet approves Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space between India and Armenia


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was apprised about an Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space between India and Armenia.


    Cabinet approves Memorandum of Understanding for cooperation in Traditional Systems of Medicine and Homoeopathy between India and Sri Lanka


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing an Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for cooperation in Traditional Systems of Medicine and Homoeopathy between Ministry of AYUSH of the Government of Republic of India and the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine of the Government of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.


    Cabinet expresses Gratitude to State CMs and others for their cooperation in introduction of GST


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has passed a resolution expressing gratitude to Chief Ministers of States and others for their cooperation in introduction of GST.


    (28-June 2017)


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Israel on National Campaign for Water Conservation in India


    

    The Union Cabinet in its meeting chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today approved signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Israel on National Campaign for Water Conservation in India.


    Cabinet approves signing of a Memorandum of Cooperation between India and the United States of America on Homeland Security


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today approved signing of a Memorandum of Cooperation between India and the United States of America on Homeland Security.


    (12-July 2017)


    Cabinet approves establishment of the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), South Asia Regional Center (ISARC) at campus of National Seed Research and Training Center (NSRTC) in Varanasi


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the establishment of the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), South Asia Regional Center (ISARC) at campus of National Seed Research and Training Center (NSRTC) in Varanasi.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Palestine on cooperation in the field of Health and Medicine


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Palestine on cooperation in the field of Health and Medicine. The MoU was signed on 16th May, 2017.


    Cabinet approves Joint Declaration of Intent (JDI) between India and Germany on cooperation in the field of Health


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for signing a Joint Declaration of Intent (JDI) between India and Germany on cooperation in the field of Health. The JDI was signed on 1st June, 2017.


    Cabinet approves Joint Interpretative Notes on the Agreement between India and Bangladesh for Promotion and Protection of Investments


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for the Joint Interpretative Notes (JIN) on the Agreement between India and Bangladesh for the Promotion and Protection of Investments.


    Cabinet approves enhancement of the age of superannuation of Medical Officers of Central Armed Police Forces and Assam Rifles


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for enhancement of the age of superannuation in respect of

    
    (i) General Duty Medical Officers of Central Armed Police Forces and Assam Rifles from 60 to 65 years and
    
    (ii) Specialist Medical Officers of Central Armed Police Forces and Assam Rifles of the Ministry of Home Affairs from 60 to 65 years.


    Cabinet apprised of MoU between India and Bangladesh for cyber security cooperation


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Bangladesh on cyber security cooperation between Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology of India and Bangladesh Government Computer Incident Response Team (BGD e-Gov CIRT) Bangladesh Computer Council of Information and Communication Technology Division under the Ministry of Posts, Telecommunications and Information Technology of Bangladesh. The MoU was signed on 8th April, 2.017.


    Cabinet approves creation of three posts of Directors for the three new AIIMS in Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Maharashtra


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the creation of three posts of Directors in the pre-revised scale of Rs.80,000 (fixed) {plus NPA Ceiling limit 85000} for the three new AIIMS at Mangalagiri near Guntur in Andhra Pradesh, Kalyani in West Bengal and Nagpur in Maharashtra.


    Cabinet apprised of MoU between India and Palestine on cooperation in the field of Information Technology and Electronics


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Palestine on Cooperation in the field of Information Technology and Electronics (IT&E)


    (19-July 2017)


    Cabinet approves MOC in respect of tax matters between India and BRICS countries - Brazil, Russia, China and South Africa


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given the approval for the signing of Memorandum of Cooperation (MOC) in respect of tax matters between India and the Revenue administrations of BRICS countries namely, Brazil, Russian Federation, China and South Africa


    Cabinet approves Cadre Review of Indian Defence Accounts Service, IDAS


    

    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Cadre Review of the Indian Defence Accounts Service (IDAS) under the Ministry of Defence. The decision provides for an increase of 23 (twenty three) posts which includes 1 post at Apex Scale, 6 posts at HAG level, 6 posts at SAG level and 10 posts at JAG level and reduction of 1 post at HAG+, 12 posts at STS level and 10 posts at JTS level.


    Cabinet apprised of MoU between India and Netherlands on cooperation in space technology


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Netherlands on cooperation in the exploration and uses of outer space for peaceful purposes. The MoU was signed on May 11 & 22, 2017 at Bangalore and The Hague respectively.


    Cabinet approves IRDAI's admission as a signatory to International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS), Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding (MMoU)


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for IRDAI's admission as a signatory to International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS), Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding (MMoU)


    Cabinet approves revalidation of permission to raise Extra Budgetary Resource (EBRs) of Rs. 660 crore as Government of India Bonds by Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) in 2017-18


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Revalidation of permission to raise Extra Budgetary Resource (EBRs) of Rs. 660 crore as Government of India Bonds by Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) in 2017-18.


    Cabinet approves Central Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2017


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for the promulgation of the Central Goods and Services Tax (Extension to Jammu & Kashmir) Ordinance, 2017 and replacement of the Ordinance by the Central Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2017.


    Cabinet approves Integrated Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2017


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for the promulgation of the Integrated Goods and Services Tax (Extension to Jammu & Kashmir) Ordinance, 2017 and replacement of the Ordinance by the Integrated Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2017.


    Cabinet approves revision of Indian Community Welfare Fund guidelines


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved revision of the Indian Community Welfare Fund (ICWF) guidelines.


    (26-July 2017)


    Cabinet gives ex-post facto approval for amendment of the Constitution (Application to Jammu & Kashmir) Order, 1954


    The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for amendment of the Constitution (Application to Jammu & Kashmir) Order, 1954 by way of the Constitution (Application to Jammu & Kashmir) Amendment Order, 2017.


    Cabinet apprised of the MoU signed between India and Palestine on cooperation in the field of on youth affairs and sports


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between India and Palestine on cooperation in the field of youth affairs and sports.


    Cabinet apprised of the Joint Declaration of Intent between India and Germany on Indo German-Centre for Sustainability


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Joint Declaration of Intent (JDI) between Department of Science & Technology (DST), India and the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF), Germany on Indo German-Centre for Sustainability (IGCS). The JDI was concluded on 30th May, 2017 in Germany during the fourth Inter-Governmental Consultations (IGC) between India and Germany between Prime Minister of India and the German Federal Chancellor in Berlin. The JDI was signed by the Union Minister for Science & Technology and Earth Sciences, India, Dr Harsh Vardhan and Germany’s Minister for Education & Research Prof.Dr. Johanna Wanka.


    Cabinet approves revision of guidelines of Sovereign Gold Bonds Scheme


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given approval for revision of guidelines of Sovereign Gold Bonds (SGB) Scheme with a view to achieve its intended objectives.


    (30-August 2017)


    Cabinet approves Memorandum of Understanding by the Election Commission of India with the Election Management Bodies of other countries/International Agencies


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal of the Election Commission of India to enter into Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on cooperation in the field of electoral management and administration with the Election Management Bodies of other countries/International Agencies


    Cabinet approves MoU with Myanmar for the Conservation of Earthquake-Damaged Pagodas at Bagan


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Myanmar for the conservation of earthquake-damaged pagodas at Bagan, Myanmar. The MoU will be signed during the visit of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi to Myanmar during 6-7 September 2017.


    Cabinet approves promulgation of the Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Ordinance, 2017


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the proposal of the Finance Ministry to promulgate an ordinance to suitably amend the Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act, 2017.


    Cabinet approves MoU on "India-Israel Industrial R&D and Technological Innovation Fund"


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi approved a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Israel on "India-Israel Industrial R&D and Technological Innovation Fund (I4F)". The MoU was concluded in July, 2017


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Brazil for cooperation in the fields of Zebu Cattle Genomics and Assisted Reproductive Technologies


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was apprised of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between India and Brazil for cooperation in the fields of Zebu Cattle Genomics and Assisted Reproductive Technologies. The MoU was signed in October, 2016.


    Cabinet apprised of jointly issue of postage stamps between India and Canada


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was informed today that India and Canada have mutually agreed to jointly issue a set of two Commemorative Postage Stamps on India-Canada: Joint Issue on the theme "Diwali". The joint stamps will be released on 21st September, 2017. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has already been signed signed between Department of Posts and Canada Post for this joint issue.


    Cabinet approves equivalence of posts in Central Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs), Banks, Insurance Institutions with Posts in Government so that the children of those serving in lower categories in PSUs and other institutions can get the benefit of OBC reservations


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the norms for establishing equivalence of posts in Government and posts in PSUs, PSBs etc. for claiming benefit of OBC reservations. This addresses an issue pending for nearly 24 years. This will ensure that the children of those serving in lower categories in PSUs and other institutions can get the benefit of OBC reservations, on par with children of people serving in lower categories in Government. This will also prevent children of those in senior positions in such institutions, who, owing to absence of equivalence of posts, may have been treated as non Creamy Layer by virtue of wrong interpretation of income standards from cornering government posts reserved for OBCs and denying the genuine non creamy layer candidates a level playing field.


    (23-August 2017)


    Cabinet gives in-principle approval for Public Sector Banks to amalgamate through an Alternative Mechanism (AM)


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given in-principle approval for Public Sector Banks to amalgamate through an Alternative Mechanism (AM). The decision would facilitate consolidation among the Nationalised Banks to create strong and competitive banks.


    Cabinet approves allotment of land to Madhya Pradesh Government for construction of its State Guest House in Delhi


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has given its approval to allot Plot No. 29-C & 29-D measuring 1.478 acres or 5882.96 sq. meters on the T-Junction of Jesus and Mary Marg with Dr.Radhakrishnan Marg, Chankyapuri, New Delhi to the Madhya Pradesh Government for construction of its State Guest House in Delhi as per the prevailing rates with the following conditions: -

    
    (i) That the Madhya Pradesh Government will surrender the land measuring 0.89 acres at 2, GopinathBardolai Marg, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi to L&DO/MoHUA after completion of the construction of its State Guest House on the allotted land.
    
    (ii) That the Madhya Pradesh Government will pay for the difference in the area of the land measuring 0.59 acres at the present land rates as both the lands are in the same zone of land rates.
    
    (iii) That the Madhya Pradesh Government will pay the occupation charges on 0.89 acre already in possession at the present land rates, till it is surrendered by Govt. of Madhya Pradesh to L&DO/MoHUA.


    Cabinet approves transfer of 40 acres of AAI land at RR station, Dahisar to MMRDA for its metro shed swapping with 40 acres of State Government land at Gorai, Mumbai


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has given its approval for transfer of 40 acres of Airports Authority of India (AAI) land at RR station, Dahisar to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for its metro shed swapping with 40 acres of State Government land at Gorai, Mumbai. The land transaction will enable MMRDA to complete the Metro rail project in Mumbai.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Nepal on Drug Demand Reduction and Prevention of Illicit Trafficking in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and precursor chemicals and related matters


    

    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has given its approval for signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Nepal on Drug Demand Reduction and Prevention of Illicit Trafficking in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and precursor chemicals and related matters.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Nepal for laying down implementation arrangement for construction of a new Bridge over Mechi River at Indo-Nepal border


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today approved a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to be signed between India and Nepal for laying down implementation arrangement on Cost sharing, Schedules and Safeguard issues for starting construction of a new Bridge over Mechi River at Indo-Nepal border.


    Cabinet approves setting up of a Commission to examine the Sub-Categorization within OBCs


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today approved a proposal for setting up of a Commission under article 340 of the Constitution to examine the issue of sub-categorization of the Other Backward Classes (OBCs).


    (16-August 2017)


    Cabinet approves raising Extra Budgetary Resources upto Rs. 9020 crore for Long Term Irrigation Fund during the year 2017-18


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has given its approval for raising Extra Budgetary Resources (EBR) of upto Rs. 9020 crore as per the requirement during 2017-18 by NABARD through issuance of Bonds for ensuring lending rate of 6% per annum (pa) in respect of borrowings for implementation of Accelerated Irrigation Benefits Programme (AIBP) works of 99 ongoing prioritized irrigation projects along with their command area development (CAD) works under PMKSY.


    Cabinet approves creation of 7 posts of Principal Director and 36 posts of Director on regular basis in the Armed Forces Headquarters Civil Service


    

    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has given its approval for 7 posts of Principal Director and 36 posts of Director on regular basis in the Armed Forces Headquarters (AFHQ) Civil Service, Ministry of Defence as part of restructuring .


    Cabinet approves completion of balance works of North Koel Reservoir Project


    
    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has given its approval to the proposal to complete the balance works of the North Koel Reservoir Project in Jharkhand and Bihar at an estimated expenditure of Rs.1622.27 crore to be incurred during three financial years from the start of the project.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Sweden on IPRs


    

    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has given its approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Sweden on cooperation in the field of Intellectual Property (IPRs).


    Cabinet approves creation of a single non-lapsable corpus fund for Secondary and Higher education from the proceeds of Cess for Secondary and Higher Education levied under Section 136 of Finance Act, 2007


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has accorded its approval today for creation of a non-lapsable pool in the Public Account for secondary and higher, education known as "Madhyamik and UchchtarShikshaKosh" (MUSK) into which all proceeds of "Secondary and Higher Education Cess" will be credited.


    Cabinet approves creation of one post of Director and three non-teaching posts for NIT, Andhra Pradesh


    

    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the creation of one post of Director with basic pay of Rs. 75,000/- + a special allowance of Rs,5000/- and three non-teaching posts (Registrar, Librarian and Principal Students Activity & Sports (SAS) Officer) with Grade Pay of Rs.10,000/- for National institute of Technology (NIT), Andhra Pradesh.


    Union Cabinet approves new Metro Rail Policy; Focus on compact urban development, cost reduction and multi-modal integration


    

    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today approved a new Metro Rail Policy that seeks to enable realization of growing metro rail aspirations of a large number of cities but in a responsible manner.


    (02-August 2017)


    Cabinet apprised of MOU between India and Spain on India-Spain cooperation in renewable energy


    

    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Spain on India-Spain Cooperation in renewable energy. The MoU was signed on 30th May, 2017 at Spain.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and BRICs countries to set up BRICS Agriculture Research Platform


    

    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed among India and various BRICs countries for establishment of the BRICS Agriculture Research Platform (BRICS-ARP).


    12-September 2017


    Cabinet approves release of additional 1% Dearness Allowance to Central Government employees and Dearness Relief to pensionersw.e.f. 01.07.2017


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for release of additional 1% Dearness Allowance (DA) to Central Government employees and Dearness Relief (DR) to pensioners. It will be applicable from 01.07.2017.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Morocco on cooperation in the field of health


    
    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Morocco on cooperation in the field of health.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Armenia on Cooperation in the field of Disaster Management


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Armenia on Cooperation in the field of Disaster Management


    Cabinet approves hiving off mobile tower assets of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited into a separate company, fully owned by BSNL


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for hiving off mobile tower assets of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) into a separate company, fully owned by BSNL.


    Cabinet apprised of MoU between India and Japan for collaborative research in the field of silkworm and silk industries


    

    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Central Silk Board (CSB), India and National Institute of Agrobiological Sciences (NIAS), Japan for collaborative research in the field of silkworm and silk industries.


    Cabinet approves introduction of the Payment of Gratuity (Amendment) Bill, 2017 in the Parliament


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for introduction of the Payment of Gratuity (Amendment) Bill, 2017 in the Parliament.


    (20-September 2017)


    Cabinet approves Revamped Khelo India Programme


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the revamped Khelo India programme at a cost of Rs.1,756 crore for the period 2017-18 to 2019-20. This marks a watershed moment in the history of Indian sports, as the Programme aims at mainstreaming sport as a tool for individual development, community development, economic development and national development.


    Cabinet apprised of the progress under National Health Mission and decisions of the Empowered Programme Committee and Mission Steering Group of NHM


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the progress under National Health Mission (NHM). The Cabinet was also apprised of the decisions of the Empowered Programme Committee (EPC) and Mission Steering Group (MSG) of NHM. National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) was launched in April 2005 and it morphed into National Health Mission (NHM) with launch of National Urban Health Mission (NUHM) during 2013. Thereafter, NRHM and NUHM became two sub-missions under the overarching NHM.


    Cabinet approves Rationalization/Merger of the Government of India Press (GIPs) and their modernization


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its for rationalization/merger and modernization of 17 Government of India Presses (GIPs)/Units into 5 Government of India Presses (GIPs) at Rashtrapati Bhavan, Minto Road and Mayapuri, New Delhi; Nashik, Maharashtra and Temple Street, Kolkata, West Bengal.


    Cabinet approves introduction of the Dentists (Amendment) Bill, 2017


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for introduction of the Dentists (Amendment) Bill, 2017 in Parliament subject to modifications of drafting or consequential nature, if any, as may be considered necessary by the Legislative Department by amending the Dentists Act, 1948 (16 of 1948). The amendment will reduce the redundancy.


    Cabinet approves Productivity Linked Bonus for Railway Employees Payment before Dussehra/Puja Festival season Incentive to Improve Productivity and Efficiency of Railways


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to pay Productivity Linked Bonus (PLB) equivalent to 78 days wages to eligible non-gazetted railway employees (excluding RPF/RPSF personnel) for the financial year 2016-17. About 12.30 lakh non-gazetted Railway employees are likely to benefit from the decision. This payment will be made before Dussehra/Puja holidays, bringing a smile to lakhs of families ahead of the festive season.


    (27-September 2017)


    Cabinet approves Enhancement of age of superannuation of doctors other than Central Health Service (CHS) doctors to 65 years


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the enhancement of age of superannuation of doctors other than Central Health Service (CHS) doctors to 65 years


    Cabinet approves signing of (i) Inter-bank Local Currency Credit Line Agreement and (ii) Cooperation Memorandum relating to Credit Ratings by EXIM Bank under BRICS Interbank Cooperation mechanism


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the signing of the (i) Interbank Local Currency Credit Line Agreement and (ii) Cooperation Memorandum Relating to Credit Ratings by Exim Bank with participating member banks under BRICS Interbank Cooperation Mechanism. As both the Agreement and the MoU are umbrella pacts, and are non-binding in nature, the Board of Directors of Exim Bank has been authorized to negotiate and conclude any individual contracts and commitments within their framework.


    Cabinet approves Agreement on “Cooperation in the field of Information, Communication and Media” between India and Ethiopia


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its approval to sign the Agreement between India and Ethiopia on “”Cooperation in the field of Information, Communication and Media”


    Cabinet approves permanent transfer of land measuring 1899 sq.m. by AAI to Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation (LMRC) at Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport, Lucknow


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the permanent transfer of land measuring 1899 sq.m. by Airports Authority of India (AAI) to Lucknow Metro Rail Corportion (LMRC) at Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport, Lucknow.


    Cabinet approves swapping of 10.25 acres of AAI land at Rajahmundry Airport with equivalent extent of land offered by Government of Andhra Pradesh for the purpose of road construction along the periphery of the airport to provide connectivity to neighbouring villages around the airport


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the Swapping of 10.25 acres of land belonging to Airports Authority of India (AAI) at Rajahmundry Airport with equivalent extent of land belonging to Govt. of Andhra Pradesh. The proposal is intended to provide road connectivity to the villages around the Rajahmundry Airport, in order to facilitate ease of access to the general public of the area.


    Cabinet approves umbrella scheme of Modernisation of Police Forces


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for implementation of umbrella scheme of "Modernisation of Police Forces (MPF)" for years 2017-18 to 2019-20. The financial outlay for the scheme over the three year’s period is Rs.25,060 crore, out of which the Central Government share will be Rs.18,636 crore and the States’ share will be Rs.6,424 crore.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Belarus in the oil and gas sector


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between India and Belarus in the oil and gas sector. The MoU was signed on 12th September, 2017 during the visit of President of Belarus to India.


    Cabinet approves signing and ratification of the Bilateral Investment Treaty between India and Belarus on investments


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing and ratification of the Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT) between the India and Belarus on Investments.


    Cabinet approves bilateral MoU between India and Afghanistan on Technical Cooperation on Police Training and Development


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for signing anMoU between India and Afghanistan on Technical Cooperation on Police Training and Development.


    Cabinet approves revision of policy for providing Defence land to Communication Operators for construction of Shared Communication Towers and allied Infrastructure


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved a proposal for revision of policy of Ministry of Defence for providing Defence land to Communication Operators for construction of Shared Communication Towers and allied Infrastructure, based on experience in implementing the policy and guidelines issued by Department of Telecommunications (DoT) for issue of clearance for installation of Mobile Towers.


    (04-October 2017)


    Cabinet approves the Extradition Treaty between India and Lithuania


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its approval for the signing and ratification of the Extradition Treaty between India and Lithuania.


    Cabinet apprised of the MoU between India and Switzerland on Technical Cooperation in Rail Sector


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Railways, Government of India and the Federal Department of the Environment, Transport, Energy and Communications of Swiss Confederation on Technical Cooperation in Rail Sector. The MoU was signed on on 31 st August, 2017.


    Cabinet approves MoU on Upgradation of the Women’s Police Training Centre at Yamethin, Myanmar


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Myanmar on upgradation of the Women’s Police Training Centre at Yamethin, Myanmar. The MoU was signed on 6th September, 2017.


    Cabinet approves renaming of Kandla Port as Deendayal Port


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the renaming of Kandla Port as Deendayal Port.


    (11-October 2017)


    Cabinet approves MoC between India and Japan on the "Technical Intern Training Program (TITP)"


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of "Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC)" between India and Japan on the "Technical Intern Training Program (TITP)".


    Cabinet approves signing of the Memorandum of Cooperation between India and Japan on establishing a Liquid, Flexible and Global LNG Market


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of the Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC) between India and Japan on establishing a liquid, flexible and global LNG Market.


    Cabinet approves MoU between SEBI and FSC


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and Financial Services Commission (FSC), Gibraltar for mutual co-operation and technical assistance.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Belarus for Cooperation in the field of Vocational Education and Training


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for a Memorandum of Understanding between India and Belarus for cooperation in the field of Vocational Education and Training (VET). The MoU was signed on 12 th September, 2017 during the State visit of H.E. Mr. Alexander Lukashenko, President of Belarus to India.


    Cabinet approves signing of Memorandum of Understanding between Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and Capital Markets Authority (CMA), Kuwait


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) by Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) with Capital Markets Authority (CMA), Kuwait for mutual co-operation and technical assistance.


    Cabinet approves IALA to change its status from Non-Governmental Organization to Inter-Governmental Organization


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its approval for International Association of Marine Aids to Navigation and Lighthouse Authorities (IALA) to change its status from Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) to Inter-Governmental Organization (IGO).


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Morocco on cooperation in the field of water resources


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Morocco on cooperation in the field of water resources.


    Cabinet approves revised pay scales of teachers and equivalent academic staff in Universities/Colleges & centrally funded technical institutions


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its approval for revision of pay scales for about 8 lakh teachers and other equivalent academic staff in higher educational institutions under the purview of the University Grants Commission (UGC) and in Centrally Funded Technical Institutions, following implementation of the recommendations of the 7th Central Pay Commission for Central Government employees.


    01 November 2017


    Cabinet approves trade Agreement between India and Ethiopia for strengthening and promoting trade and economic cooperation


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for the trade Agreement between India and Ethiopia for strengthening and promoting trade and economic co-operation. The trade Agreement was signed on 5th October, 2017 during the State visit of the President of India to Ethiopia from 4th to 6th October, 2017.


    Cabinet approves signing an Agreement between India and Armenia on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing and ratifying an Agreement between India and Armenia on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters.


    Cabinet approves amendment in the National Council for Teacher Education Act, 1993


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for introduction of a Bill in Parliament to amend the National Council for Teacher Education Act, 1993, namely the National Council for Teacher Education (Amendment) Act, 2017 to grant retrospective recognition to the Central/State/Universities who are found to be conducting teacher education courses without NCTE permission.


    10 November 2017


    Cabinet approvesMoU between India and Philippines on agriculture and related fields


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Philippines in the field of agriculture and related fields.


    Cabinet approves the protocol amending the Agreement between India and Kyrgyz for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval forentering into an Agreement between India and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) of China for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to taxes on income.


    Cabinet approves Agreement between India and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to taxes on income


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for the protocol amending the Agreement between India and Kyrgyz Republic for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income.


    Cabinet approves Development of Exhibition-cum-Convention Centre at Dwarka, New Delhi


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the following proposals of the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion:


    (a) Development of Exhibition-cum-Convention Centre (ECC), Dwarka and allied infrastructure in PPP and non-PPP Mode (including Exhibition & Convention spaces, arena, trunk-infrastructure, Metro/NHAI connectivity, hotels, office and retail spaces etc.) at an estimated cost of Rs. 25,703 crore by year 2025.


    (b) Incorporation of a new Government company as a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for the implementation and development of the project with 100% equity from Government through Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion. Government of India will provide budgetary support of Rs. 2037.39 crore to the SPV as equity over a period of 3 years to fund trunk infrastructure, a part of Exhibition centre, Foyer, Convention Centre, Metro connectivity, NHAI road connectivity including cost of land to be paid to DDA, water & Sewerage infrastructure, Railway land for Metro Connectivity and expenses towards other Non-PPP components.


    (c) Mobilization of Rs.1,381 crore from the market as Government guaranteed loan and utilization of Rs. 4,000 crore by way of monetization of Government-owned land and annual project revenue by the SPV. The proceeds from land monetization and annual returns accrued by the SPV will be utilized for funding the non-PPP components of the Project.


    (d) DMICDC will act as a knowledge partner for the project on payment of an annual fee @1% of the yearly internal accruals, subject to a minimum of Rs. 5 crore and maximum of Rs.10 crore per annum for an initial period of 10 years.


    (e) Board of the SPV will be authorized to approve revision in detailed cost estimates, break-up of quantities of project components, phasing of the project, change in scope etc. depending upon the requirement at various stages of project, within the overall approved financial limits. SPV would also be authorized to raise debt/ mobilize resources through land monetization depending upon market conditions.


    Cabinet approves Joint Interpretative Declaration between India and Colombia regarding the Agreement for the Promotion and Protection of Investments signed on November 10, 2009


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing the Joint Interpretative Declaration (JID) between India and Colombia regarding the existing Agreement for the Promotion and Protection of Investments between India and Colombia signed on November 10, 2009.


    Cabinet approves appointment of Second National Judicial Pay Commission for Subordinate Judiciary in the country


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved appointment of Second National Judicial Pay Commission (SNJPC) for Subordinate Judiciary in the country.


    Cabinet approves continuation and Restructuring of National Rural Drinking Water Programme


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has accorded its approval for continuation and restructuring of National Rural Drinking Water Programme (NRDWP) to make it outcome-based, competitive and better monitored with increased focus on sustainability (functionality) of schemes to ensure good quality service delivery to the rural population.


    Cabinet approves Creation of National Testing Agency (NTA) to conduct entrance examinations for higher educational institutions


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved creation of National Testing Agency (NTA) as a Society registered under the Indian Societies Registration Act, 1860, and as an autonomous and self-sustained premier testing organization to conduct entrance examinations for higher educational institutions.


    16 November 2017


    Cabinet approves deputation of Group ‘A’ officers of Department .of Telecommunications (DoT) and other Ministries, with Telecommunication and Information Technology background, to Telecommunications Consultants India Ltd...


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its approval for deputation of Group ‘A’ officers of Department .of Telecommunications (DoT) and other Ministries, with Telecommunication and Information Technology background, to Telecommunications Consultants India Ltd. (TCIL) as per the following details:
    
    Cabinet approves the increase in the carpet area of houses eligible for interest subsidy under the Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme for the Middle Income Group under Pradhan MantriAwas Yojana


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the increase in the carpet area of houses eligible for interest subsidy under the Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme (CLSS) for the Middle Income Group (MIG) under Pradhan MantriAwasYojana (Urban).


    Cabinet approves agreement between India and Belarus on Scientific and Technological Cooperation for mutual benefit in the areas of science, technology, agriculture, etc.


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Agreement between the Indian National Science Academy (INSA) and the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus (NASB) on Scientific and Technological Cooperation for mutual benefit in the areas of science, technology, agriculture, etc.


    Boost to infrastructure facilities for judiciary


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved continuation of the Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS) for Development of Infrastructure Facilities for Judiciary beyond 12th Five Year Plan i.e. from 01.04.2017 to 31.03.2020 to be implemented in a Mission Mode through National Mission for Justice Delivery and Legal Reforms with an estimated outlay of Rs.3,320 crore.


    Cabinet approves the establishment of the National Anti-profiteering Authority under GST


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its approval for the creation of the posts of Chairman and Technical Members of the National Anti-profiteering Authority (NAA) under GST, following up immediately on yesterday's sharp reduction in the GST rates of a large number of items of mass consumption.This paves the way for the immediate establishment of this apex body, which is mandated to ensure that the benefits of the reduction in GST rates on goods or services are passed on to the ultimate consumers by way of a reduction in prices.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Poland for the promotion of Civil Aviation Cooperation


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Poland for the Promotion of Civil Aviation Cooperation. The MoU will be signed on behalf of the two countries after its approval by the two Governments. The MoU would be for a term of five years.


    Cabinet approves Resolution for adoption of the recommendations of the Railway Convention Committee (2014) as contained in their Sixth Report on "Rate of Dividend payable by the Railways to the General Revenues for the General Revenues for the year 2016-17 and other ancillary matters"


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal of Ministry of Railways to move a Resolution in both the Houses of Parliament adopting Railway Convention Committee (2014)'s recommendations that for the year 2016-17, purely as a one-time move, the Rate of Dividend payable by Railways to the General Revenues be waived off.


    22 November 2017


    Cabinet approves Wage Policy for the 8th Round of Wage Negotiations for workmen in Central Public Sector Enterprises


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved the Wage Policy for the 8 th Round of Wage Negotiations for workmen in Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs).


    Cabinet approves setting up of the 15thFinance Commission


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved the setting up of the 15thFinance Commission. Under Article 280 (1) of the Constitution,it is a Constitutional obligation. The Terms of Reference for the 15thFinance Commission will be notified in due course of time.

    
    Cabinet approves revisedsalaries, gratuity, allowances and pension for the Judges of the Supreme Court and the High Courts


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved the revision in the salaries, gratuity, allowances, pension etc. of the Judges of the Supreme Court and the High Courts and retired Judges of Supreme Court and High Courts. It follows the implementation of recommendations of the 7thCentral Pay Commission in respect of Civil Servants.

    
    Cabinet approves continuation of the scheme on Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs beyond the 12th Plan Period


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for continuation of the scheme on Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs (IICA) for another three financial years (FYs 2017-18 to 2019-20) and providing Grants-in-aid of Rs.18 crore to the Institute. It will make the Institute self-sustainable by the end of FY 2019-20.


    Cabinet approves India's Membership for European Bank for Reconstruction & Development


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved India's Membership for European Bank for Reconstruction & Development (EBRD)


    Cabinet approves agreement between India and Philippines on co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved the signing and ratifying of an Agreement between India and Philippines on co-operation and mutual assistance in customs matters.


    30 November 2017


    Cabinet approves transfer of landed assets owned by Hindustan Vegetable Oils Corporation Ltd. to Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for transfer of all land assets owned by Hindustan Vegetable Oils Corporation Ltd (HVOC) to Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) or its authorized agency for appropriate utilization/disposal.


    Cabinet approves investment cooperation and facilitation treaty between India and Brazil


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing and ratification of the Investment Cooperation and Facilitation Treaty (ICFT) between India and Brazil.

    

    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Italy for cooperation in Agriculture and Phytosanitary issues


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Italy for cooperation in Agriculture and Phytosanitary issues. It replaces the earlier MoU signed in January, 2008 which is going to expire in January, 2018.

    
    01 December 2017


    Cabinet approves setting up of National Nutrition Mission


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi yesterday has approved setting up of National Nutrition Mission (NNM) with a three year budget of Rs.9046.17 crore commencing from 2017-18.


    15 December 2017


    Cabinet approves continuation of NLCPR scheme for North East till March 2020


    The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the continuation of the existing Non Lapsable Central Pool of Resources (NLCPR) scheme with funding pattern of 90:10 till March, 2020 with an outlay of Rs.5300.00 crore. It would enable completion of ongoing projects.


    Cabinet approves continuation of Centrally Sponsored Scheme of National Ayush Mission (NAM) from 01.04.2017 to 31.03.2020


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the continuation of Centrally Sponsored Scheme of National Ayush Mission (NAM) from 01.04.2017 to 31.03.2020 with an outlay of Rs. 2400 crore over the 3 year period. The Mission was launched in September, 2014.


    Cabinet approves subsidizing MDR charges on debit card/BHIM UPI/AePS transactions of value less than Rs.2000


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved that the Merchant Discount Rate (MDR) applicable on all debit card/BHIM UPI/ Aadhaar enabled Payment System (AePS) transactions upto and including a value of Rs. 2000 will be borne by the Government for a period of two years with effect from 1st January, 2018 by reimbursing the same to the banks.


    Cabinet approves creation of one circle office of Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety for carrying out the functions of Commission of Metro Railway Safety under the Ministry of Civil Aviation


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the creation of one circle office of Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety (CMRS), along-with all supporting officers and staffs for carrying out the functions of Commission of Metro Railway Safety as envisaged in the "Metro Railways (Operations and Maintenance) Act, 2002", in the Commission of Railway Safety under the Ministry of Civil Aviation.


    Cabinet approves signing of MoU between India and Colombia in the field of agriculture and fisheries


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Colombia in the field of agriculture and fisheries.


    Cabinet approves Agreement with UNESCO on establishment of International Training Centre for Operational Oceanography in Hyderabad


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the establishment of International Training Centre for Operational Oceanography, as a Category-2 Centre (C2C) of UNESCO, in Hyderabad.


    Cabinet approves special package for employment generation in leather and footwear sector


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the special package for employment generation in leather and footwear sector. The package involves implementation of Central Sector Scheme "Indian Footwear, Leather & Accessories Development Programme" with an approved expenditure of Rs. 2600 Crore over the three financial years from 2017-18 to 2019-20.


    20 December 2017


    Cabinet approves conferment of Central Group ‘A’ Service and Cadre Review of Group 'A' Executive Officers of SashastraSeema Bal


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved conferment of Central Group 'A' Service and Cadre. Review of Group 'A' Executive Officers of SashastraSeema Bal (SSB) with net creation of 19 posts of various ranks from Assistant Commandant to Inspector General ranks to enhance the operational and administrative capabilities of SSB.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Italy on cooperation in the field of Health and Medicine


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post-facto approval for a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Italy on cooperation in the field of Health and Medical Sciences. The MoU was signed on 29 th November, 2017 in New Delhi.


    Cabinet approves MoU between India and Cuba on cooperation in the field of Health and Medicine


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post-facto approval for a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Cuba on cooperation in the field of Health and Medicine. The MoU was signed on 06 th December, 2017 in New Delhi.


    Cabinet approves extension of term of the Commission to examine the issue of sub-categorization of Other Backward Classes


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the extension of term of the Commission to examine the issue of sub-categorization of Other Backward Classes, by twelve weeks i.e. upto 2 nd April, 2018. The extension of tenure will enable the Commission to submit a comprehensive report on the issue of sub-categorization of OBCs, after consultation with various stakeholders.


    Cabinet approves Establishing India's First National Rail and Transportation University at Vadodara


    · Indian Railways on the path of modernization through widespread technological and infrastructure upgradation


    · Contribute to 'Make in India' and 'Skill India' and help generate large scale employment


    · Foster innovative entrepreneurship and support start-up India initiative


    · Use of latest pedagogy and technology applications: Envisioned to be a best-in-class institute which will use latest pedagogy and technology applications to provide high-quality education and training.


    · India will emerge as a global leader in transportation sector through cutting edge technology and skilled manpower.


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Ministry of Railways' transformative initiative to set up the first ever National Rail and Transport University (NRTU) in Vadodara to skill its human resources and build capability. This innovative idea, inspired by the Prime Minister, will be a catalyst for transformation of rail and transport sector towards New India.


    Cabinet approves conducting of FM Phase-III e-auctions Batch-III


    The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the way for conducting the auction of 683 channels in 236 cities in subsequent batches. It will usher in new/enhanced experience of FM radio in more cities.
    
    Batch-I and Batch-II auctions of private FM radio Stations under Phase-III of the FM Policy Guidelines, as approved by the Cabinet in 2011, were conducted in 2015 and 2016 respectively. 97 channels in 56 cities were sold in Batch-I. 66 channels in 48 cities were sold in Batch-II.


    Cabinet approves "Scheme for Capacity Building in Textiles Sector (SCBTS)" for the period from 2017-18 to 2019-20


    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for a new skill development scheme covering the entire value chain of the textile sector excluding Spinning & Weaving in organized Sector, titled "Scheme for Capacity Building in Textile Sector (SCBTS)" from 2017-18 to 2019-20 with an outlay of Rs. 1300 crore. The scheme will have National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) compliant training courses with funding norms as per the Common Norms notified by Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE).


    ***


    

    
    (Release ID: 1514607) Visitor Counter : 5445
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil