      NITI Aayog

      Implementable action plan to be developed for NE, says Dr Rajiv Kumar
      Constitution of NITI Forum for NE is first of its kind: MoS DoNER
      
      2nd meeting of “NITI Forum for North East” held in Guwahati today

      Posted On: 04 DEC 2018 6:28PM by PIB Guwahati

    The 2 nd meeting of “NITI Forum for North East” was held today by the NITI Aayog and the Ministry of DoNER in Guwahati. The meeting was held under the Chairmanship of the Vice-Chairman, NITI Aayog, Dr Rajeev Kumar and Co-Chairmanship of the Minister of State (IC), Ministry of Development of North East Region (DoNER), Dr. Jitendra Singh.


    The Chairman NITI Forum, Dr Rajiv Kumar in his address said that the Forum for North East will henceforth hold three meetings every year. After the launch meeting at Agartala on April 10, 2018, the first operational meeting of NITI Forum for NE States was held today and the Experts Group Meetings will be held in between the meetings of the NITI Forum, he said. He said that an implementable action plan is to be developed for the North East which is practical, tangible and doable. He asked the Secretary NEC to present 5 important recommendations of the Expert Panels on Bamboo, Tea, Tourism, Fisheries and Dairy. He said, “The Forum would work for accelerating the pace of socio-economical growth of the Region. It would focus on action based approach and would work towards substantial results in a time-bound manner.” He further added that NITI Forum, North East Water Management Authority and North Eastern Council will coordinate for important development projects on the ground for the region.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh, Minister of State (IC), DoNER, in his address spoke about the various initiatives taken up by the Government of India for the development of the Northeast. He said, “The Constitution of NITI Forum for North East is first of its kind as it is exclusively dedicated for a Region. It is in the line with the Prime Minister’s vision and it is a unique effort that brings Government, Academia, and the civil society all in one place, for providing various new ideas for solving the hurdles in developing the NE.” He also spoke about the various initiatives by the Central Government like the National Bamboo Mission, health sector programmes, Startup India, Youth Hostels for NE students studying outside the Region, tea sector etc. He stated, “As the NE is a very unique region, special and unique measures are to be taken for accelerating the growth of the Region.” The Minister also talked about changing the funding pattern for NE states.


    With the objective of having more focused discussions, the NITI-NER Forum identified five key sectors of Tourism, Bamboo, Dairy, Fisheries and Tea for today’s meeting. Senior Government functionaries, Academia and industry experts were present in these panel discussions.


    The Panel on Bamboo recommended creation of synergy between industry, authorities and academia of the sector. The Tea panel discussed issues of mismatch between demand and supply, rising costs and stagnant prices and organized and unorganized sectors. Tea Tourism was also discussed in details. The panel on tourism discussed connectivity, PPP initiatives, UDAN scheme, accommodation for tourists and transport facilities. This group also highlighted the need to upgrade the regional festivals such as Sangai and Hornbill to international events by associating local tour operators. The panel on Fisheries and Dairy also made their presentations at the end of the discussions.


    Addressing the Forum, the Secretary DoNER, Shri Naveen Verma said, “In February 2018, the NITI-NER Forum was constituted to periodically review the development status in NER. The Forum would identify various constraints on the way for accelerated, inclusive but sustainable, economic growth in the region and to recommend suitable interventions for addressing identified constraints.” Shri Verma further added, “A wide range of issues like infrastructure, horticulture, bamboo, tourism, food processing, livelihoods, health etc. were discussed in the last meeting. He stated about the significant Government initiatives like the restructured National Bamboo Mission approved by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs on 25 th April, 2018 envisages promoting holistic growth of the bamboo sector by adopting area-based, regionally differentiated strategy and to increase the area under bamboo cultivation and marketing of bamboo products, especially those of handicraft items.


    Earlier in his opening remarks, the Secretary of North East Council (NEC), Shri Ram Muivah welcomed all the members of the NITI forum and gave a brief outline covering the objectives of the Forum and the summary of the 1 st meeting of the Forum that was held in Agartala on 10 th April, 2018. He pointed out, “The Forum tries to emphasize on the strengths of the Region and it tries to identify and solve the issues that is hindering the growth and the development of the Region”.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554712) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese