      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB organizes media workshop ‘Vartalap’ in Baksa
      Posted On: 14 DEC 2018 4:00PM by PIB Guwahati


    The Press Information Bureau, Guwahati, Government of India, organised a media workshop for journalists titled “Vartalap” in collaboration with the District Administration, Baksa today in Musalpur, Baksa.


    The Chief Guest of the Programme, Shri Ansumwi Khunguri Boro, Executive Member, BTC, in his speech, said, “We, the Government and the media alike, should ensure that people are aware of the various Government programmes and schemes and they can avail benefit of the schemes. There are a huge range of schemes being implemented by the Govt. nowadays in the country whose main objective is to make the lives of the citizens better. Our main concern is that the backward classes of the society should have access to these schemes. The press has a vital role to play in developing a society.”


    Shri Sanjeeb Kumar Gogoi, the Deputy Commissioner, Baksa, pointed out, “Today, a lot of officers from the various official departments have attended this workshop to explain about the Government schemes and programmes to the media. Baksa is now considered as an Aspirational district; hence, we have put extra efforts in all the developmental spheres so that the people in Baksa are benefitted from the available Government schemes. The journalists have played their role well by making the public aware of these schemes. I appreciate their efforts in publicising the news about our programmes in the right way.” He also added that Baksa district has got the recognition of “best performing district” due to excellent coverage of the Government schemes among the public. He mentioned that the Ujjala scheme has covered almost 90% of households and gas connection has covered 100% homes in Baksa. He further added, “In the field of animal husbandry and agriculture too, Baksa has achieved significant success. But, only with the help of the media, we can disseminate the information about these policies well.”


    Talking about the significance of the workshop, Shri K. S Dhatwalia, Director General, NE Zone, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting (MIB), said, “This is an attempt at sensitising the media about how to report about the schemes in such a way so that the common people can get the correct information.” He appealed to the media to spread the necessary information to the masses in a positive and constructive manner.


    Smt. Jolly Das Brahma, Additional Principal Secretary, Baksa, appreciated the workshop and said that it is a very relevant and pertinent issue. She added, “The media should know about the Governmental flagship programmes and the main objective of this workshop is to make the journalists aware of such programmes. Baksha now is an aspirational district, the important areas like health, agriculture are focussed upon and development schemes are being carried out extensively.” She also said that the journalists should clarify any doubts while reporting any topic and should double verify facts.


    Senior Journalist, Shri Naba thakuriya, talked about the role of media in development elaborately in his session. “The world is a global village now and anyone have access to information easily now on the tip of finger. Internet has made reporting easier; now a journalist in one part of the country can have access to what’s happening in the other part of the country. Therefore, the role of a journalist has grown massively in the past decade. Now, the media is held accountable for every word they write or speak. It is extremely important to present facts and not being biased in any way as it decreases the news value.” “The journalists also have a lot of challenges to face in today’s world. Reporting on Government schemes and programmes has to be done in a way that the people can understand them and take benefits from them”, he further added.


    Special technical sessions about various schemes of the Government and development in rural areas were held in the workshop, which was addressed by a number of senior and experienced working resource persons in various fields.


    Shri Kailash Deka, District agriculture officer, Shri B. M Roy, Executive Engineer, Department of Public Health Engineering, Baksa, Dr. Abhijit Basu, Joint Director, District programme Management Unit, Shri Lalit Basumatary and Shri Bhupen Das, Officials of District Elementary Education Department, Baksa were among the resource persons who spoke on the occasion on various schemes of the Government in areas like health, agriculture, sanitation, water supply, Sarba Siksha Abhiyan, Midday meal etc.


    The workshop was aimed to act as interface between PIB and the journalists working in the Baksa district. More than 50 working journalists across the Baksa district participated in the one-day event. The journalists were sensitized about their role in highlighting important issues and the various welfare schemes.


    Earlier, in the welcome address, Shri Gopajit Das, Media and Communication Officer, PIB Guwahati said that PIB plays a crucial role in disseminating the information about Government schemes and it is also the link between the Government, people, and the media. He also explained the purpose of the workshop.


    Shri Anshumi Mahilary, Regional Officer, DIPR, BTC and Shri Hemchandra Pathak, DIPRO, Baksa also attended the programme.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555947) Visitor Counter : 3