      Ministry of Defence

      Governor urged people to contribute to the Armed Forces fund
      Armed Forces Flag Day observed at Raj Bhavan

      Posted On: 07 DEC 2018 4:10PM by PIB Guwahati

    The Armed Forces Flag Day was observed in different parts of the Country today. Governor of Assam Prof JagdishMukhi urged the people to contribute to the Armed Forces fund for the welfare of ex-servicemen and their families. He was addressing the people during the Armed Forces Flag Day celebration at Raj Bhavan today.


    Prof. JagdishMukhi is his speech said that the day is observed to recall and show respect to the supreme sacrifices made by the soldiers for the country. The day is to acknowledge the sacrifice of the valiant Armed Force personnel for protecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country and securing our lives against the threats of insurgency and terrorism, and during natural calamities. “By giving them respect and providing them with better facilities, we can do our duty”, he added. He said that the money collected by distributing flags on Armed Forces Flag Day is used for the rehabilitation of families of soldiers martyred in wars, serving soldiers, and ex-servicemen and welfare of their dependents. The Governor also enumerated various welfare schemes that are being carried out by the government for the welfare of the Armed Forces, ex-servicemen and their families.


    The day provides an opportunity to connect with Armed Forces personnel, their families and to reciprocate admiration for them by contributing generously to Armed Forces Flag Day Fund to ensure welfare and rehabilitation of war widows, war wounded and dependents of the fallen soldiers and Ex-Servicemen. Brig. N. D Joshi, Director, Directorate of Sainik Welfare, Assam, in his address said that, “The collections have gone up to Rs. 30 lakh today.”


    The Director said that the most important contribution from the Governor and the Chief Minister to the Ex-Serviceman Community of Assam has been the ‘War Memorial’and ‘SainikBhawans’at Guwahati, Jorhat, Haflong, Mangaldai, Dhubri, Diphu and Silchar. These structures have provided the due recognition and respect to the martyrs and Veterans and are one of the best in the region. He said, “Moreover, the Directorate of Sainik Welfare, Assam is working to bring the Ex-Serviceman to support Govt. of Assam by affiliating ESM with Govt. schools and developmental activities without financial implication thereby harnessing the potential of ESM”.


    The Governor also released the Calendar brought by the Directorate of Sainik Welfare.


    Senior bureaucrats, police officers from Govt. of Assam, Senior Armed Forces personnel, Gallantry award winners, war disabled, war widows, Ex-Defence service Officerswere also present in the programme.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555185) Visitor Counter : 1