      Ministry of Communications

      Seminar on ‘Smart Phone Usage’ held in Guwahati by TRAI today
      Usage of smartphones and social media has connected people on an unprecedented level: VC, Cotton University

      Posted On: 20 DEC 2018 9:01PM by PIB Guwahati

    The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) organised a one day seminar on “Smart Phone Usage” at Guwahati today. Dr. Bhabesh Chandra Goswami, Vice Chancellor, Cotton University was the Chief Guest on the occasion.


    During his speech, Dr. Goswami said, “Smartphones have completely transformed our day-to-day lives. The usage of smartphones and social media has connected people on an unprecedented level. Today, these smartphone are capable and powerful of any task and it has simplified modern technology for layman usage. But, there are negative sides also. Too much dependence on smartphone is not advisable. Hence, it is of utmost importance that we use smartphones in a controlled way for our benefit.”


    Delivering the keynote address, Shri Sanjeev Banzal, Advisor (CA), TRAI, New Delhi, said, “TRAI was established in the year 1997 by the Government of India and it has been operating for two decades now. TRAI has been instrumental in bringing a positive change to the telecom & mobile data sector in our country. TRAI makes recommendations to the Government for the benefit of the consumers. We have also appealed to the Government that the North Eastern region should be well connected to the rest of the country and we are working towards it.”


    Shri Rupam Goswami, Chairman, Assam Chamber of Commerce and Shri Souvick Kumar Das, Advisor, TRAI Regional Office, Kolkata were also present in the seminar.


    Many senior officers of TRAI, Govt. organisations, Telecom Service Providers, Consumer Advocacy Groups and individual telecom consumers also participated in the one-day programme.


    There were total five sessions in the seminar organised by TRAI.


    Dr. Prof. Ratnajit Bhattacharjee, IIT Guwahati took the audience into the journey of smartphone from its inception to its present avatar with change of processor, operating system, hardware and software features over the years.


    Ms. Shruti Moghe, Policy Program Manager, Facebook India talked about safety and security issues of facebook online applications viz. facebook, instagram, whatsapp etc. Shri


    Sanjeev Banzal, Advisor (CA), TRAI, New Delhi discussed the purpose of developing various TRAI APPs namely TRAI Myspeed, TRAI Mycall, TRAI DND 2.0 and analytic portals for the benefit of consumers.


    Smt. Suchitra Pyarelal, State Informatics Officer, NIC, Assam talked about role of mobile platform in realising the goal of Digital India and discussed about important mobile apps for the purpose of Mobile-Governance, Mobile- Payment to ease the life of citizens.


    Dr. Salil Kashyap, IIT Guwahati discussed about the impact of smartphone in business, health care, entertainment and social life.


    Each session was followed by lively interactive sessions wherein participants raised their doubts and concerns to session speakers which were aptly replied by the speakers and TRAI officers.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557047) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese