      Ministry of Mines

      7th Asian Mining Congress inaugurated in Kolkata.
      7th Asian Mining Congress

      Posted On: 08 NOV 2017 5:01PM by PIB Kolkata

    7 th Asian Mining Congress organized by the Mining Geological and Metallurgical Institute of India (MGMI) was inaugurated by Shri Susheel Kumar, Secretary, Ministry of Coal, Government of India here today. Over 800 delegates from India and other countries such asAustralia, Canada, France, Germany, The United Kingdom, The USA,Russia, Thailand, Turkey, Poland, South Africa, Sweden,China,Indonesia, Iran, Mongolia, Oman, Nepal, Pakistan andBangladesh participated in the Congress. The theme of this year’s Congress was “International Cooperation in Innovative Technology for growth of Mineral Industry”.


    Emphasizing the importance of environment safety, Shri Kumar saidfuture of the mining sectors will be in danger if correct measures not taken to protect the environment. We must modulate our behaviour and mining activates in such a way that the mining sector sustain longer, he added. He also expressed grief over the loss of lives in mining sectors, Shri Kumar said that safety of workers should be given top priority and sustainable development of mankind must be ensured. Urging professional bodies engaged in mining sectors to employ skilled labours and impart them proper trainings to avoid untoward incident, Shri Kumar said, we must resolve with a new enthusiasm to work for a sound environmental management and to ensure high standards of safety in mining sectors.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Gopal Singh, Chairman and Managing Director, Coal India Ltd. informed that there is huge transformation of the sector in terms of transparency, increasing productivity and capacity. He stated that minerals are important source for innovation and they have capacity to create jobs. Mining is an integral part of our world. We try to provide a forum for promotion and support of Techno-Scientific cooperation towards national and international progress in the areas of mineral production, Shri Gupta added.


    Mr. Milan Hovorka, Ambassador, Czech Republic, Dr.N.K.Nanda, President, MGMI, Shri A.K.Jha, Chairman, Organizing Committee were present among others at the inaugural session.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1508812) Visitor Counter : 150