      Ministry of Mines

      Hindustan Copper Limited golden jubilee celebrations started in presence of MoS for Coal & Mines
      Hindustan Copper Limited golden jubilee

      Posted On: 09 NOV 2017 9:40PM by PIB Kolkata

    Hindustan Copper Limited (HCL)’s golden jubilee celebration kick-started in the presence of Union Minister of State (MoS) for Coal & Mines Shri Haribhai Parthibhai Chaudhary and Secretary (Mines) Shri Arun Kumar, here today. The Minister released a special stamp cover and a coffee-table book on the Category I Mini-ratna PSU at the inaugural ceremony.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Chaudhary congratulated all employees for making HCL profitable and urged that all PSUs should imbibe their attitude. He stated HCL's plan to quadruple its production is in sync with PM's ‘Make in India’ vision. Speaking about the determination exhibited by freedom fighters like Gandhi, Sardar Patel in the past, he gave a call for following the path of ‘Sankalp Se Siddhi’ for fulfilling goals. He also advocated that everyone should imbibe attitudinal change and resolve to perform noble deeds like building toilets, educating girls and so on. The Minister said, alliance governments which existed at Centre in the past did not allow the Centre to be decisive. But the present Government under the dynamic leadership of PM Shri Narendra Modi has taken more than 800 decisions in last three years. The country’s foreign exchange has also increased by 42 percent in this period and because of PM's efforts, yoga has been accepted in 315 countries.


    The Secretary (Mines) Shri Arun Kumar said, it is a matter of pride on 50th foundation day that a PSU is standing on its own feet and making profit for the last 13 years. He said, credit for this goes to all employees including workers, managers and directors of the company. He further stated, HCL's expansion programme is significant as it will strengthen India’s foreign exchange as presently India imports more than 90 percent copper. Speaking about mining auction and focused exploration, the Secretary hoped that more copper mines will be auctioned and thereby reduce dependence on import for the metal.


    Hindustan Copper Limited is presently implementing mine expansion scheme to quadruple its production capacity from 3.4 million tonnes to 12.4 million tonnes per annum within the next 5 years at an estimated capital expenditure of around 700 million US Dollars, stated Shri Santosh Sharma, CMD of HCL. The PSU operates in five states, namely, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat. The dignitaries present on the occasion included Lok Sabha MP from East Singbhum Shri Bidyut Baran Mahto, Chief Post Master General Smt Arundhaty Ghosh, former CMDs of HCL among other dignitaries.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1508923) Visitor Counter : 123