      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Shri J P Nadda inaugurates the ‘Transport Ministers` Forum on Road Safety’ All sectors need to be fully engaged in responsibility, activity and advocacy for preventing accidents: J P Nadda
      Posted On: 13 NOV 2017 4:14PM by PIB Kolkata


    “All sectors including the health sector need to be fully engaged in responsibility, activity and advocacy for preventing accidents”. This was stated by Shri J P Nadda, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare at the ‘Transport Ministers` Forum on Road Safety’ organised by International Road Federation (IRF), here today. Shri Nadda further said that the political commitment and a will to achieve can bring about significant and rapid decline in road injuries and requires planning at all levels, capacity creation, involvement of all sectors and good data.


    Transport Ministers from eight countries along with Shri Yudhvir Singh Malik, Secretary (RT&H), Ministry of Road Transport & Highways, Mr. Jean Todt, UN Secretary General’s Special Envoy for Road Safety and Mr. Kiran K. Kapila, Chairman, IRF, Geneva, were also present at the occasion.


    While emphasizing on the need to have a National Trauma Care Policy for road accident victims, Shri Nadda said that the possibility of novel methods of quick relief through airlifting such as Air Ambulances and providing relief in remote areas, well equipped Mobile Clinics etc., should be explored. The Health Minister further added that it is important to create an enhanced capacity and infuse the knowledge of road safety related actions in public bystanders, road side facilities such as dhabas and amongst commercial truck drivers, who are most often the first on the accident sites and are first responders.


    Speaking at the function, Shri Nadda informed the participants that the “capacity building for developing Trauma Care Facilities in Government Hospitals on National Highways”, was approved for development of 85 new trauma care facilities. He further said that during 12th FYP, 85 Medical Colleges/ District Hospitals have been approved. Out of the 116 trauma care facilities funded during the 11th FYP, 100 are reported to be functional by the States.


    “National Injury Surveillance, Trauma Registry and Capacity Building Centre have been established at Dr. RML Hospital, ATLS/NELS training for doctors and BLS training for nurses is being organized at Dr. RML Hospital. The scheme is proposed to continue as ‘National Programme for Trauma Care’ under the umbrella scheme ‘National Programme for Prevention & Management of Trauma & Burn Injuries’ for establishing 30 new trauma care facilities, Shri Nadda added. The Health Minister further said that the proposal for continuation of the scheme with an outlay of Rs. 554.41 cr has been approved by EFC and is placed before the CCEA for approval.


    Also present at the function were senior officers of the Ministry, delegates from other countries and representatives of development partners.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1509272) Visitor Counter : 3