      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      DoPT employees undertake ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa’ campaign at NDMC school
      Posted On: 19 SEP 2017 6:33PM by PIB Delhi


    As a part of the ongoing “Swachhata Hi Sewa” campaign around 50 officials/officers of the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) visited NP Co-ed Sr. Sec. School at Tilak Marg here today to sensitise the children about “Swachhta” and also to clear the premises of the School.
    
    From NDMC Shri Virender Singh, Director (Personnel) was present. Shri N.C. Joshi, Principal of the School welcomed the officials of DoPT and explained about the Swachhta related activities being carried out jointly with DoPT in the school premises. From DoPT, Shri Suresh Kumar and Shri D.K. Sengupta, both Deputy Secretaries and Shri Rajeshwar Lal and Smt. Manjula Juneja, both Under Secretaries, attended the event.
    
    The children, along with teachers of the school, played two short “Nukkad Natak” on Swachhta. Thereafter, a pledge on Swachhta was taken and officials appended their signature on the pledge board to mark the event. A short presentation was arranged on this occasion by the school regarding usage of Smart Boards which have been installed in all class rooms for digital knowledge of the subject matter and technology as well.
    
    The e-library of the school i.e. “e-Granthalaya” was inaugurated by Women officers/officials of DoPT which is meant for the use of students of the school. Thereafter, officials of DoPT cleaned the premises of the school. At the end of the event there was an interactive session with the children of the School in which Shri Rajeshwar Lal and Smt. Manjula Juneja sensitized the children about hygiene and various Swachhta related issues.
    
    Around 150 children present on this occasion enthusiastically participated in the interactive session and cited self-composed poems in Hindi and English on Swachhta. The children were happy to see the government officials in interactive mode and cleaning their premises. Director NDMC and Principal of the School thanked the officials of DoPT for carrying out such an exercise which will develop their zeal and interest in keeping their surroundings neat and clean.
    
    The DoPT has drawn up an elaborate Action Plan for the ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa’ campaign running from September 15, 2017 to October 2, 2017. The Department has constituted Swachhta Monitoring Committees in each of its three premises in Delhi. The DoPT is moving vigorously towards 100% implementation of e-office which will result in reduced paper consumption and less garbage.

    ***


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1503338) Visitor Counter : 89