      Ministry of Power

      PM launches Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana “Saubhagya”
      Posted On: 25 SEP 2017 9:00PM by PIB Delhi


      The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has launched a new scheme Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana –“Saubhagya” to ensure electrification of all willing households in the country in rural as well as urban areas here today.


      The total outlay of the project is Rs. 16, 320 crore while the Gross Budgetary Support (GBS) is Rs. 12,320 crore. The outlay for the rural households is Rs. 14,025 crore while the GBS is Rs. 10,587.50 crore. For the urban households the outlay is Rs. 2,295 crore while GBS is Rs. 1,732.50 crore. The Government of India will provide largely funds for the Scheme to all States/UTs.


      The States and Union Territories are required to complete the works of household electrification by the 31 st of December 2018.


      The beneficiaries for free electricity connections would be identified using Socio Economic and Caste Census (SECC) 2011 data. However, un-electrified households not covered under the SECC data would also be provided electricity connections under the scheme on payment of Rs. 500 which shall be recovered by DISCOMs in 10 instalments through electricity bill.


      The solar power packs of 200 to 300 Wp with battery bank for un-electrified households located in remote and inaccessible areas, comprises of Five LED lights, One DC fan, One DC power plug. It also includes the Repair and Maintenance (R&M) for 5 years.


      The expected outcome of the Scheme is as follows:


      (a) Environmental upgradation by substitution of Kerosene for lighting purposes


      (b) Improvement education services


      (c) Better health services


      (d) Enhanced connectivity through radio, television, mobiles, etc.


      (e) Increased economic activities and jobs


      (f) Improved quality of life especially for women


      For easy & accelerated implementation of the Scheme , modern technology shall be used for household survey by using Mobile App. Beneficiaries shall be identified and their application for electricity connection along with applicant photograph and identity proof shall be registered on spot. The Gram Panchayat/Public institutions in the rural areas may be authorised to collect application forms along with complete documentation, distribute bills and collect revenue in consultation with the Panchayat Raj Institutions and Urban Local Bodies. The Rural Electrification Corporation Limited (REC) will remain the nodal agency for the operationalisation of the scheme throughout the country.


      RM/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504000) Visitor Counter : 320