      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      SHRI SANTOSH KUMAR GANGWAR, UNION MINISTER OF STATE (INDEPENDENT CHARGE) FOR LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT DEDICATES ESIC MEDICAL COLLEGE AND HOSPITAL TO THE NATION
      Posted On: 21 AUG 2019 5:52PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Union Minister of State ( Independent Charge) for Labour & Employment said the government is planning to set up ESI hospital in all the districts in the country. He said currently, lt there over 450 ESI hospitals across the country and plans are afoot to set up hospitals in other districts too. He was speaking after laying the foundation stone for a new OPD building and dedicating the ESI Medical College and Hospital to the nation, in Hyderabad.


    Shri Gangwar assured all kinds of support for strengthening the ESI Hospital network in Telangana and sought cooperation from the state Government to speed up the processes required. He further said the government has initiated several measures to provide monthly pension to the workers in unorganized sector. He said the Centre is committed to the welfare of the labour force in the country and has introduced two bills in the Lok Sabha, related to wage and occupational safety of workers.


    The minister said steps would be taken to ensure that there is no dearth of doctors or para medical staff at ESI hospitals. The government has reduced the contribution under the Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) Act to 4% from 6.5%, this move, Shri Gangwar said, is expected to increase the take home salary of workers as well as reduce the financial burden of employers.This includes a reduction of 1.5% in employers’ contribution to 3.25% from 4.75% and 1% reduction in employees’ contribution to 0.75% from 1.75%, the Labour minister said. From this reduction, around 3.6 crore employees and 12.85 lakhs employers will be benefitted. He further informed that ESIC has taken many decisions like opening of underutilized ESIC Hospitals for Non-IPs with nominal charges of Rs. 10/- for OPD Consultation, at 25% of CGHS package rates for IPD and medicines on actual rate, Starting of Atal Bimit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana, recruitment drive for the post of para medical staff to meet the shortage of staff in ESIC Hospitals etc. He also informed the crowd about the Pradhan Manti - Shram Yogi Man Dhan Yojna (PM-SYM) started by Govt. of India for workers of unorganised sector.


    The Minister, further said that the Government is committed to ensure wage, jobs and social security for all workers including those in the unorganized sector.40 crore workers from unorganized sector will be covered under ESIC and EPFO, including building construction workers, beedi workers, auto drivers/rickshaw workers, and provided health services under social security scheme, the minister said.


    Speaking on the occasion, Union Minister of State for Home, Shri G.Kishan Reddy stressed the need for announcing the ESI Medical College and Hospital in Hyderabad a model Hospital. Stating that the Centre released Rs. 1200 crore for setting up of an AIIMS hospital in Telangana, he asked the state Government to implement Ayushman Bharat programme also so that more number of people would get health benefits in the state. Shri Kishan Reddy said that ESI Hospitals are providing better medical care than many private hospitals.


    Former Union minister Shri B.Dattatreya, Shri Ch .Malla Reddy, Minister for Labour and Employment,Government of Telangana, Shri Raj Kumar, Director General, ESIC, were also present. Earlier, Shri Hiralal Samaria, Secretary, Ministry of Labour and Employment,Government of India, welcomed the gathering.


    The new multi- storied Out Patient Department Block, constructed at a cost of Rs. 124 crores, will provide medical services in various departments- ENT, Ophthalmology, General Medicine, Dermatology etc The medical college and hospital, one of the six medical colleges, with an intake of 100 MBBS admissions, every year has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 534 crores. The 150 bed super speciality and 470 bed hospital affiliated to the college,has been equipped with state of the art equipment like Modular Operation Theatres, ICU and provide quality medical facilities.


    ***


    

    
    (Release ID: 1582533) Visitor Counter : 23
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu