      Ministry of Education

      Education scholarship increased by 55 %, Rs. 2,200 crore loan for 10 lakh students: HRD Minister Prakash Javadekar
      Posted On: 05 OCT 2018 5:21PM by PIB Chennai


    Union Human Resource Development Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar said on Friday that education scholarship would be increased by 55 percent.


    Inaugurating the 175 th celebrations of St Joseph's college at Tiruchirapalli, he stressed that no youth should lack opportunity for education. “55% increase in education scholarships is being done to ensure this. All the scholarships would be deposited in the students’ bank account on every 1st day from next December onwards”, he added.


    Minister Shri Javadekar re-launched the website of St Joseph’s College and released the Dodransbicentenniel (175 th ) Event Souvenir and Books on ‘Museum of Natural History in St. Joseph’s Institutions’ and ‘Flowering Plants’.


    Delivering his special address, the Minister also said that 10 lakh students would be given Rs. 2,200 crore as loan subvention for the next three years.


    Shri Javadekar said that Educational institutions are vital to human development and added that top priority should be given to the education.


    “India has always been known for its excellent education culture”, the HRD minister said. He also said that in addition to Industry – Academy Partnership, the value system is also very important for education.


    Union minister stressed the need for enhancement in quality right from the school education. Increase in accountability of Educational institutions, teachers and students are also very much needed, he said.


    Shri Javadekar said that 1.5 million teachers are under training and the third batch is to complete the training by next March, he added.


    The minister said that innovation is the basic for sustainable growth and innovation should be the hall- mark in the field of research and education.


    Collector of Thiruchi Shri K Rajamani IAS, Vice chancellor of Bharathi Dasan University Dr P Manisankar and dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    **************

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548746) Visitor Counter : 67