      PIB Headquarters

      CENTRAL FOOTWEAR TRAINING INSTITUTE
      Posted On: 24 OCT 2018 1:28PM by PIB Chennai


    Central Footwear Training Institute (CFTI), Chennai was established in 1957 and modernized in the year 1993.


    Central Footwear Training Institute, (CFTI), Chennai is an autonomous Organisation under the Ministry of Mirco, Small and Medium Enterprises, Government of India. This is an ISO 9001:2015 certified Institution.


    This Institute is one of the premier Training Institutes in the Footwear sector in India and is functioning with the aim to provide training and related inputs to develop and augment a class of trained personnel in Footwear Technology & Allied Industry in the Country. The Institute also aims at to develop human resources in Footwear and Allied Industry by introduction of Advanced training methods and courses to update knowledge and skills and to promote rapid growth of Footwear and allied Industry in the Country.


    CFTI conducts 7 long-term courses and 8 short-term courses (Details are given in the Institute’s information brochure).There are two long-term courses for Graduates, two long term courses designed for 12 th standard passed students, and two long term courses and two short term courses are available for 10 th standard passed students. Four short-term courses are available for even 8 th standard passed students.


    Campus interviews are conducted and placements are given by the leading footwear manufacturing Industries across India and it is ensured that all eligible candidates are placed. There is a growing demand from the Industries for the CFTI trained students. So far students who have successfully completed the course have been placed in major shoe manufacturers like VKC, Tata International and NIKE shoe manufacturer.


    Apart from the above mentioned long-term and short-term courses, CFTI, Chennai in association with the National SC/ST Hub, National Small Industries Corporation is conducting “Condensed Course in Footwear Design & Production” (CFDP) which is of 6 months duration exclusively for SC/ST Students. The highlight of this particular Skill Development Training is that it is an absolutely free programme with free boarding & lodging facilities. The admission is on first-cum-first served basis and no entrance exams. The last date for submission of the application is 5.11.2018.


    Further details can be had from Institute’s website www.cftichenni.in or contact Nos. 09677943633/09677943733.


    •••••••••


    

    
    (Release ID: 1550465) Visitor Counter : 33
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil