      PIB Headquarters

      CCMB and CDFD join hands to address the Genetic Disease burden of Indian population
      Signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between
      CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), and
      Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD)
      Posted On: 03 JUL 2019 6:49PM by PIB Hyderabad


    People have been battling with diseases since time immemorial. Genetic disorders form a major group of the non-communicable diseases. Congenital malformations and genetic disorders are the third commonest cause of mortality in neonates in cities.


    Estimates for genetic disorders show that more than 50 lakh babies are born each year with genetic disease in India. The burden of these disorders has its effects on the economic and social structure of the society. Most of these disorders are presently untreatable and for those which can be treated, the treatment is very expensive. The only option to address this problem is the preventive approach which requires prenatal diagnosis and genetic counselling.


    The last few years have witnessed tremendous changes in the field of Genetics with rapid advancements in technology. The advent of efficient and affordable DNA sequencing technology has a direct impact in improving our understanding of human disease, enabling better ways of diagnosis and treatment. CCMB and CDFD are premier national institutes involved in the cutting edge biological research in these areas. For more than two decades both the institutes have been offering genetic diagnostic services as well, which has made a difference.


    In this context, the directors of CCMB and CDFD, Dr. Rakesh K Mishra and Dr. Debashis Mitra, have decided to enter into a MoU to maximize the potential of both the institutes in human disease diagnostics. The objectives of the MoU include provision of quality DNA based diagnostic services to the public at lower costs, to develop newer diagnostic methods and to engage in scientific research to improve understanding of human genetic disorders. The institutes have also mutually agreed to undertake training and educational activities in the field of Genetic Diagnostics.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1576963) Visitor Counter : 130
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu