      PIB Headquarters

      “All India First Licence to use BIS Standard Mark”
      Posted On: 16 JUL 2019 6:55PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Bureau of Indian Standards is National Standards Body of India working under the aegis of Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Government of India. It operates Certification Marks Scheme under which industries are granted licenses to use BIS Standard Mark (ISI mark), which ensures conformity of a product to the Indian National Standard published by BIS.


    Industries in Telangana are growing at a fast pace, and newer industries are coming up for manufacturing newer products. BIS, Hyderabad Branch Office has granted licenses to two different industries for the first time in India for these products -


    1. M/s Ultratech Cement Limited, Tadipatri for their product “ Ground Granulated Blast Furnace Slag for Use in Cement, Mortar and Concrete according to Indian Standard IS 16714:2018” . It is used in cement, mortar and concrete and results in increase in the Compressive strength of concrete. It enhances the resistance to chloride, alkali and sulphates. Its usage leads to reduction in amount of cement used, emission of greenhouse gases (CO 2 ) (upto 40%) and conserving non-renewable resources like limestone and fossil fuels. Its production consumes less energy (30% less). Its usage in Cement Industries reduces the cost of production and hence reduces the final price of cement for end consumers. It is also used for soil stabilization.


    2. M/s Victory Mattresses Private Ltd., Hyderabad for their product “Bed Mattress according to Indian Standard IS 13489:2000” . While the consumer choices are defined by brands currently, this certification will guarantee the quality of mattresses irrespective of brand.


    BIS conducted a program to award All India First Licensee yesterday at their Hyderabad Branch Office in Moula Ali.


    The occasion was graced by Director General of BIS, Ms Surina Rajan, IAS and Dr R K Bajaj, Deputy Director General (Standardization). The licenses were handed over by DG BIS.


    DG BIS stated how BIS is ensuring consumer protection and contributing towards achieving the vision of sustainable development and Swachch Bharat through standardization and certification. The process of standardization through collaborative efforts of industries, researchers, consumers etc was explained by DDG (Standardization).


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579014) Visitor Counter : 232
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu