      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      NMIC is a fantastic initiative and it will continue to make India proud: Shri Jahnu Barua
      
      We are a country of great storytellers and such bulletins will preserve those stories - DG (West Zone), Ministry of I&B on newly launched NMIC fortnightly bulletin
      
      The NMIC Bulletin will be very helpful to educational institutions and others visiting NMIC: DG, Films Division
      Posted On: 09 JUL 2019 6:09PM by PIB Mumbai


    "It is a fantastic initiative", said film director Jahnu Barua, speaking at the launch of NMIC Bulletin, a fortnightly bulletin brought out by National Museum of Indian Cinema (NMIC). He further said, "These museums are not just about artefacts kept in them; they are also about witnessing the journey that made cinema possible as well as about narrating the untold stories behind those cinemas." He gave the example of an actress of the very first Assamese film, who remained unmarried due to the social stigma attached to the profession in those times.


    Speaking on the occasion, Director General (West Zone), Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Shri R. N. Mishra said that we are we are a nation of great storytellers and the producer of largest number of films. He stated that the diversity that we see in Indian cinema is to be found nowhere else; we just need to market Indian cinema better. He noted that Indian films are already popular the world over, they are conquering territories like China and Japan as well.


    NMIC bulletin is a fortnightly bulletin brought out by Films Division edited by Shri R. G. K. Prasad and published by Director General, Films Division, Shri Prashant Pathrabe.


    Speaking about the necessity of the Bulletin, Shri Pathrabe said that said that lot of educational institutions and students of media studies visit the Museum every month; the Bulletin will give them a physical document to cherish and to get relevant information. He spoke also of the growing popularity of the museum and cited examples of neighbouring countries who have been frequently visiting the museum in in large numbers.


    ***


    DJM/MC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1578005) Visitor Counter : 260