      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Government of Maharashtra will support documentary film screening: MoS, Urban Development, Shri Yogesh Sagar
      
      Documentaries may not be as objective as they are portrayed to be but they showcase a viewpoint and we need to see that viewpoint.: Filmmaker Arunaraje Patil
      Posted On: 12 JUL 2019 6:36PM by PIB Mumbai


    We may not have many platforms for screening of documentaries but what we do have is a large number of subjects for documentary making, as I can tell from my social work among tribal communities, rural people and children of sex workers. Government of Maharashtra will provide all the help to documentary filmmakers by making at least four Sundays available for documentary screening in theatres available with Government of Maharashtra.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Urban Development, Government of Maharashtra, Shri Yogesh Sagar, while inaugurating KSHITIJ, a documentary film club launched by Films Division, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Government of India, in association with Indian Documentary Producers' Association (IDPA).


    Kshitij means horizon and documentary is always about breaking the horizon, by providing reasons for looking beyond the horizon; hence I believe that this initiative will break New horizons for documentary film viewing.


    - said Shri Sanskar Desai, General Secretary of IDPA, during inauguration of the fortnightly public screening programme of acclaimed documentary films at Films Division.


    President of IDPA, Ms. Usha Deshpande said that among various shortages faced by documentary filmmakers, the worst kind of shortage is the shortage of audience.


    Speaking on the occasion, Director General, Films Division, Shri Prashant Pathrabe said that theatres are out of bound for documentaries as theatres are looking at revenue generation; he said that however with the advent of digital and OTT platforms, new possibilities have opened for documentaries films. With 8000 films in its store and a glorious history of 70 years, Films Division believes that not only digital but the physical platform is also necessary for documentaries, he added.


    Filmmaker Ms. Aruna Raje Patil said that it is critical for documentaries to get screened and for that we all are supposed to spread the word by various social media. Documentaries may not be as objective as they are portrayed to be, but they showcase a viewpoint and we need to see that viewpoint, she said.


    Acclaimed documentary film “Secret Life of Frogs” by Ajay & Vijay Bedi was screened as the inaugural film.


    Background


    Film-lovers now have an opportunity to watch acclaimed documentary films at public screenings, as well as interact with the director / curator of the films. This is thanks to KSHITIJ, a documentary film club being launched by Films Division, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Government of India, in association with Indian Documentary Producer’s Association (IDPA). The public screenings will be organized on the 2nd and 4th Friday of every month during 5:00 pm - 6:30pm at Films Division Complex, followed by a short interaction of audience with the director / curator of the film.


    Films Division, established in 1948, has been relentlessly striving to maintain a record of the social, political and cultural imaginations and realities of the country on film. For more than the last seven decades, it has been actively working in encouraging and promoting a culture of film-making in India that respects individual vision and social commitment. It holds more than 8000 titles including priceless INRs (Indian News Review), documentaries, short films and animation films.


    The media are requested to spread the word about the film club, so that people can enjoy and participate in the film screening.


    ***


    DJM/MC/SPatil


    

    
    (Release ID: 1578607) Visitor Counter : 460