      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      IFFI is India’s pride; this year’s IFFI is especially significant since it marks the Golden Jubilee Edition: Prakash Javadekar
      
      First Steering Committee Meeting for IFFI 2019 takes place in Goa
      
      
      
      I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar and Goa CM Pramod Sawant release Special IFFI Golden Jubilee Poster

      Posted On: 14 JUL 2019 1:22PM by PIB Mumbai

    IFFI is India’s pride; this year’s IFFI is especially significant since it marks the Golden Jubilee Edition, said Union Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar while interacting with media post the First Steering Committee Meeting for IFFI, 2019 which is set to take place from 20th to 28th November in Goa. The Steering Committee Meeting was held earlier today to ensure the necessary coordination between key stakeholders involved in the process of organizing the Festival.


    Shri Javadekar announced that Mr. John Bailey, the President of Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences has confirmed his participation for this year’s IFFI. Roadshows will be conducted across seven cities in India to reach out to film fraternity for developing a buzz for the Festival. Business Exhibitions to display relevant technologies for films and Exhibition marking the 150thAnniversary of Mahatma Gandhi will also be organized with this year’s Festival. The number of private theatres taken on board for showing films during the Festival will be further increased to cater to the high demand for extra screening of popular films. Russia may be on board as the country focus this year, said the Minister during the media briefing. Students of premier film institutes including FTII and SRFTI will be involved in management of this year’s Festival. The list of films to be shown is aimed to be finalized by September this year to give sufficient time for cine lovers to plan for attending the Festival. The Minister also added that this year’s Festival will pay tribute to Ex Chief Minister of Goa Shri Manohar Parrikar, who was instrumental in making Goa the permanent venue for IFFI.


    Goa Chief Minister Dr. Pramod Sawant said that organization of 50thIFFI is a proud moment for the state and his government will leave no stones unturned to ensure top notch infrastructure and hospitality arrangement to make this Edition of the Festival a memorable one.


    A special IFFI Golden Jubilee Edition poster was also released by Union Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar and Goa CM Dr. Pramod Sawant during the event.


    The Steering Committee Meeting was attended by Union Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar; Chief Minister of Goa Dr. Pramod Sawant; I&B Secretary Shri Amit Khare; Chief Secretary, Goa, Shri Parimal Rai; Vice Chairman, Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG), Shri Subhash Phal Dessai; representatives of the film community including Shri Shaji N Karun, Shri AK Bir, Shri Rahul Rawail, Ms. Manju Borah, Shri Ravi Kottarakara and Shri Madhur Bhandarkar; senior officials of Directorate of Film Festivals, Entertainment Society of Goa, I&B Ministry and Goa Government.


    Shri Prakash Javadekar also informed that eminent film personalities including Shri Karan Johar, Shri Siddharth Roy Kapoor, Shri Feroze Abbas Khan and Shri Subhash Ghai will also be part of the Steering Committee.


    About IFFI


    It is organized by the Government of India from 20thto 28thNovember every year in Goa. It aims at providing a common platform to the world of cinema to project the excellence of the art of filmmaking. It is India’s most prestigious Film Festival and also the first International Film Festival held anywhere in Asia. It has been hosted by the state of Goa in 2004.


    The key sections at IFFI include International Competition, Festival Kaleidoscope, World Panorama, Indian Panorama, Masterclasses, In-conversations, Special Retrospectives, Homages, Open Air Screenings, Film Bazaar - organized by NFDC, etc.


    ***


    EMD/VK/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1578669) Visitor Counter : 212