      Department of Atomic Energy

      Students have to devote themselves to solving the problems of Sustainable Development, Disruptive technologies and Globalisation: Prof Ashutosh Sharma
      
      Market and Manpower will also be crucial in Scientific research: Secretary DST

      Posted On: 26 JUL 2019 7:36PM by PIB Mumbai

    Students must focus on solving problems that need to be solved rather than solving the problems that they can, this was the message given by Secretary, Department of Science and Technology and Chief Guest for the graduation function of BARC Training School, Prof. Ashutosh Sharma. OCES 2018 (Orientation course for Engineering Graduates and Science Post Graduates) - 62 nd batch and OCDF 2018 (Orientation Course for DGFS Fellows) - 15 th batch received their degree certificates on this occasion.


    Shri Sharma further said that, “The students did their journey until here on the strength of their personal brilliance. However hereafter their success will depend on problem solving which will require team efforts. The world is changing fast and in the presence of large number of disruptive technologies, students should have knowledge in all the proximal areas of their field. Future is all about convergence and alongwith 4 important “M”s of Science (i.e. Mechanical, Materials, Machine, Manufacturing) The 2 more “M”s i.e. Market and Manpower will also be crucial. Students have to be disruptive in science innovation in order to become leader like Bhabha.”


    Chairman of Atomic Energy Commission and Secretary, Department of Atomic Energy Shri K. N. Vyas said in his Presidential address that, “India is proud in giving 3800 tonne Cryostat to ITER (International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor). BARC is dedicated to harnessing the power of the atom for food, health and national security and it is trying to bring the synergy between research, technology and innovation. Students have to focus on technological innovation which will generate wealth through intellectual property.


    Director, BARC Shri A.K.Mohanty in his welcome address gave information about research in BARC in the areas of nuclear reactors, medical treatment and food preservation.


    Shri A.P. Tiwari, Senior Professor at BARC said, “74 OCES trainees and 9 trainee defence officers graduated today. And BARC is proud to have created more than 10000 graduates all over India.


    Shri Vivek Singla won Homi Bhabha prize in mechanical engineering. Total 13 graduates won Homi Bhabha prize including Shri Shivam Gupta in OCDF course.


    ***


    RT/MC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580515) Visitor Counter : 251