      Ministry of Communications

      Department of Posts reaches out to school students with philately competitions and exhibitions
      Posted On: 24 JUL 2019 6:22PM by PIB Mumbai


    On the occasion of 150 th birth centenary of the Father of the Nation, Postal Stamp Design competition on the themes of “Ahimsa Parmo Dharam” and “Communal Harmony” was organized by the Department of Posts. The felicitation function for the winners in the above competition, along with a philately seminar, quiz competition and Philately Exhibition was held in the Mumbai GPO auditorium today.


    The main aim of the function was to build awareness of philately amongst students and to motivate maximum number of students to take part in Pandit Dindayal Sparsh Yojna (Scholarship Scheme) which is conducted by the Department of Posts every year.


    Smt. Swati Pandey (PMG MR), Smt. Kaiya Arora (DPS MR) and Shri. V.V.Nayak (ADPS MR) of the Department of Posts were present on the occasion.


    Shri. Puroshottam Pawar, aged-22 yrs; studying in Sir. J.J. School of Art, Mumbai secured first position in the group of above 18 years in the Postal Stamp design competition, which was based on the theme of “Ahimsa Parmo Dharm” whereas Kumari Viha Amit Shah, aged-8 yrs, studying in 3 rd standard got 3 rd prize in the group of students studying upto 6 th standard, in the Postal Stamp design competition based on the theme of “ Communal Harmony”. Both winners were felicitated with a Cash prize of Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 15,000 respectively.


    Shri Ulhas Chogale, Shri Gunwant Shah and Shri Cyrus Sidhwa, the Philatelist briefed the students about history of various postal stamps since British era till date.


    Students from Bai Kabibai English medium School, Sir J.J. Girls High school, Sir J.J. Boys High School and Anjuman-I-Islam’s Alana English High School were present for the function. Philately Kits were distributed amongst students as a gift from Department of Posts.


    ***


    DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1580151) Visitor Counter : 379