      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      2nd North East Zonal Conference Concludes Today
      Posted On: 17 JAN 2019 4:12PM by PIB Guwahati


    All media units of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting should adopt an integrated approach in disseminating information about Government schemes and programmes said Shri Vikram Sahay, Joint Secretary of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. He exhorted this while reviewing the activities of the media units of Ministry of I& B of the North east Zone in the 2 nd zonal Conference held in Guwahati. Shri Sahay said in his address that Government Schemes will be beneficial only if it reaches common people and Government media has a very important role in disseminating these information to the public. Government schemes have changed lives of many people and these shows what these schemes means, he added. Shri Sahay also appreciated the efforts of Shri Kuldeep Singh Dhatwalia, Diector General, North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting for relocating all the media units of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting functioning in Guwahati under one roof Soochna Bhawan.


    In the Conference Shri Sahay reviewed the publicity activities of all the media units of Ministry of I&B functioning in North East Zone. He took feedback from all the Information officers and other staffs posted at different location about the implementation and impact of various government schemes with a special emphasis on programmes of Poshan Abhiyan, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao and Swachh Bharat Mission. He emphasized that interacting with people at grass root level is very important for the success of the developmental scheme. Shri Sahay assured that the Ministry will provide all possible assistance to develop the office infrastructure of all the media units.


    Shri K.S Dhatwalia, DG, NE Zone in his remark said that for wider dissemination about various developmental schemes of the government connectivity won’t be a problem in the offices of the North East zone as in administrative level all efforts are given to make all the offices well equipped for smooth functioning.


    In the two day long Zonal Conference representatives from all the media units functioning in the 8 states of North East participated. Indian Information Service officers and representatives from Press Information Bureau and Regional Outreach Bureau of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura presented the issues and activities of their respective units. Smt. Ranjana Dev Sharma, the Additional Director General, Bureau of Outreach communication, New Delhi and Ms. Jane Namchu, the Additional Director General, Press Information Bureau, Imphal were also present in today’s conference.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560357) Visitor Counter : 25
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese