      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Participation of Divyangjan is very important to fulfil the Dream of Digital India: Krishan Pal Gurjar Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Inaugurates National Conference on Disability
      Posted On: 10 JAN 2019 3:58PM by PIB Guwahati


    Divyangjan are indispensible part of our society. Divyangjan are full of talent, if they get opportunity they can do anything. In this age of Internet and technology the dream of Digital India will not be possible without the participation and inclusion of Divyangjan- said Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar, Union Minister of State, Social Justice and Empowerment inaugurating a two day National Conference on “Disability and Social Inclusion –The Role of Technology” organized by National Institute for Locomotor Disabilities( Divyangjan), (NILD), Kolkata today at IIT, Guwahati. The Minister said that through the use of technology the lives of Divyangjan can be made easier and they can be made self-dependent. Ministry of social Justice and empowerment has taken the issues of Divyangjan of North East as a challenge. Technology can play a great role in facing this Challenge. It is felt from long time that awareness on this issue are very much needed in this region and so the ministry has decided to organise such conference here, he added.


    The minister further said that Government has launched a new scheme “Accessible India Campaign”(Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan), a nationwide campaign to enable persons with disabilities to gain universal access, equal opportunity for development, independent living and participation in all aspects of life in an inclusive society.

    Under this scheme Government is providing cochlear implant to Deaf children. Government is importing these devices. But if these devices can be produced here, it will give more life to Divyangjan. This is a big challenge and IITs have all the capability to fulfil this Challeng- he added.


    As the Guest of Honour Shri Gautam Biswas, Director, IIT, Guwahati said in his speech that Miracles of science and technology has changed the lives of people including Divyangjan. Health care system has been improved so much that hearing aid is no longer a matter of discussion, he said.


    Shri abhishek Kumar, Director NILD, Kolkata, Professor S.K.Dwivedi, Head of the Department, Mechanical Engineering, IIT, Guwahati, Professor S. Kanakraj, Department of Mechanical Engeneering, IIT, Guwahati, Shi P. K. Lenka, Organising Secretary, NILD were also present in the inaugural session today.


    In this two day conference organized by NILD, Kolkata, under the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan), Ministry of Social Justice and empowerment, Govt. of India in collaboration with IIT, Guwahati there will be about 30 key speakers from Department of Science and Technology, Indian Institute of Technology, National Institute of Technology, National Institutes working for PWDs, Christian Medical College and Industry Stake holders. About 60 papers will be presented by the researchers in the field.


    The Conference will bring together about 300-350 stake holder working in the area of Technology for the Divyangjan including Scientists, Researchers, Engineers, Doctors, Rehabilitation Professionals (Physiotherapists, Occupational therapists, prosthetic & orthotics, hearing & speech therapists, mobility instructors, social scientists, psychologists, vocational counsellors, rehabilitation nurses and special educators etc.) GOs, NGOs, Civil Rights Advocates and students and will give them the opportunity to share latest findings in the field of Technology for Divyangjan.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560265) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese