      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Members of the IMPCC pledged for a clean India
      Posted On: 21 JAN 2019 5:15PM by PIB Guwahati


    As part of the ongoing SwachhataPakhwada (16-31 Jan) Campaign for the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting the members of the Inter Media Publicity Coordination Committee (IMPCC), Guwahati chapter took the Swachhata pledge here today. Director General, NE Zone, Ministry of I & B administered the pledge to the members of the IMPCC. They took pledge to keep ones surrounding neat and clean, and pass on the noble idea to 100 other people to make them aware of maintaining cleanliness and hygiene. Pledge was taken for Shramdan of 100 hours per year, i.e 2 hours per week for maintaining cleanliness at work place, locality and dwelling area. Pledge was also taken to serve Mother India by keeping the country neat and clean.


    In today’s IMPCC meeting the Chairman discussed with the forum about the standard operating procedure to be followed by PIB and DIPR for media facilitation in the state. It was proposed that officers from PIB be included in the accreditation committee of the Assam government. The Chairman informed that soon PIB will start a WhatsApp group where PIB accredited correspondents, Assam government accredited correspondents, officers of the Central and State government dealing with media and media persons recommended by PIB and DIPR will be included. The WhatsApp group will be one way information to the members from the admin of the group, which will jointly be PIB, Guwahati and DIPR, Assam. Director General, NE Zone will be responsible for this group and this will be extended to other states of NE Zone subsequently. The group will start functioning from 1st February 2019.


    IMPCC is constituted of all the heads of local central media units, Directorate of Information and Public Relation, Defence Public Relations Officersand the Publicity Officers of public sector undertakings. The senior most officer among the media units is designated as the chairman of Committee. Officials from DIPR Assam, Defence, Ministry of I & B, MSME were present in today’s meeting of IMPCC which was held at Soochna Bhawan, Chandmari, Guwahati.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1561628) Visitor Counter : 1