      PIB Headquarters

      National Education Policy 2020 will transform India into a global knowledge powerhouse: Th Radheshyam, Education Minister, Manipur
      
      Discussion and participation necessary to effectively implement the new National Education Policy

      Posted On: 17 AUG 2020 2:43PM by PIB Imphal

    New National Education Policy 2020 will transform India into a global knowledge powerhouse, but it will require extensive discussion, information dissemination and participation of all stakeholders for effective implementation. This view was expressed by Shri Th Radheshyam Singh, Education Minister, Manipur, at the Webinar organized by Press Information Bureau and Regional Outreach Bureau, Imphal today.


    In his keynote address, Shri Radheshyam recalled that Albert Einstein had said that if we spend hours to understand a problem, it will take us only minutes to find a solution. He stressed on the need to understand and discuss the comprehensive and transformational National Education Policy that was announced by the Central government recently.


    Education Minister said that the policy aims at providing the best possible education system that is rooted in the Indian ethos. He hailed it as a historic moment in the life of our nation.


    Shri Radheshyam pointed out that the new policy does away with the language barrier that was keeping large number of students away from schools. He said that data shows that only 20 percent of tribal students in the county reach high school due to this barrier. He said that students till class 5, and preferably till class 8 th , will be taught in their mother tongues under the new policy, helping increase in enrolment and decrease in dropout rates.


    Dr. M Meenakumari Devi, Director, State Education Research and Training, summed up the salient features of the policy and gave an overview of the steps being taken to implement it.


    Earlier, in his welcome address, Additional Director General (Guwahati and Imphal Region), Shri S N Pradhan said that Hon’ble Prime Minster has called for wider discussions through webinars and seminars to take the provisions of the policy to the people. He urged the media to give platform to such discussions so that the implementation process becomes smooth and fast.


    Shri Abhishek Dayal, Director, PIB Imphal thanked the Hon’ble Minister, participants and the media persons for actively participating in the webinar. The webinar was attended by over 50 persons including media persons and officials of state government, PIB and RoB of Guwahati and Imphal region.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1646411) Visitor Counter : 10
    
    
      Read this release in: Manipuri