      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Implementation of Reservation Policy for Labourers
      Posted On: 01 AUG 2018 2:12PM by PIB Delhi


    Instructions on implementation of reservation policy has been issued by the Department of Personnel and Training vide Office Memorandum number 36036/3/2018-Estt.(Res.) dated 15 th May, 2018 which stipulates that in respect of appointments to Central Government Posts and services, there shall be reservation for Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribes/Other Backward Class candidates in temporary appointments which are to last for 45 days or more. It is mandatory for the Government Departments to comply with the above said instructions of the Department of Personnel and Training which is the nodal Department in this regard.


    In order to provide social security benefits to contract workers/labourers and to regulate employment of contract labour, the Government is implementing the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970. The Act applies to every establishment in which 20 or more workmen are employed. These workers avail social security and other benefits under the Employees’ Compensation Act (1923), the Employees’ State Insurance Act (1948), the Industrial Dispute Act (1947), the Minimum Wages Act (1948), the Provident Funds Act (1925), the Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act (1952), the Maternity Benefit Act (1961), the Payment of Gratuity Act (1972), etc., as per their eligibility.


    Besides, the Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008 has also been enacted to provide for social security and welfare benefits to unorganised workers relating to life and disability cover, health and maternity benefits, old age protection. Various Ministries/Departments of the Central Government are implementing such social security schemes like Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme (Ministry of Rural Development); National Family Benefit Scheme (Ministry of Rural Development); Health & Maternity Benefit Schemes (Ministry of Health and Family Welfare). In addition, the Central Government has recently converged the social security schemes of Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana (AABY) with Pradhan Mantri JeevanJyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) to provide life and disability coverage to the unorganised workers for the age group of 18 to 50 years depending upon their eligibility. The annual premium is shared on 50:50 basis by the Central Government and the State Governments. The converged schemes give coverage of Rs. 2 lakhs on death at premium of Rs. 330/- per annum and coverage of Rs. 2 lakhs on accidental death at premium of Rs. 12 per annum, besides disability benefit as per scheme. These converged schemes are being implemented by the Life Insurance Corporation of India.


    This information was given by Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Union Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employment in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    JN/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540985) Visitor Counter : 747