      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Pending RTI Applications
      Posted On: 01 AUG 2018 1:52PM by PIB Delhi


    Central Information Commission (CIC) has informed that 23,978 second appeals/complaints are pending as on 26-07-2018. No data is maintained in respect of State Information Commissions.


    For speedy disposal of pending cases, the Government has taken several steps like capacity building through training of Central Public Information Officers (CPIOs)/ Public Information Officers (PIOs) and issue of guidelines for PIOs and First Appellate Authorities (FAAs), so as to enable them to supply information/dispose of first appeals effectively, resulting into less number of ‘First Appeals’ and ‘Appeals’ to the Information Commission.


    Online applications can be made to offices under Central Government. Currently, systems at 2200 Public Authorities have been aligned to receive, process and reply to Online RTIs from the applicants.


    Applicants can visit the portal www.rtionline.gov.in and select the desired Ministry or Department under Central Government and file an Online RTI Application. A detailed user manual and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) are also provided for help in filing the application through this portal. Applicant can make online payment of the requisite fee through this portal and submit the RTI application.


    State Governments have been advised to explore the feasibility of implementing online RTI Portal in their States. NIC has been advised to provide technical support to the States desirous of replicating the web portal of the DOPT for online filing of RTI applications.


    This information was provided by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, DrJitendra Singh in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/NK/JS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1540979) Visitor Counter : 565
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu