      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Outside defecations causing chronic infections
      Posted On: 07 AUG 2018 4:53PM by PIB Delhi


    As per National Annual Rural Sanitation Survey (NARSS) in 2017 done by World Bank, 77% of the household were found to have access to the toilets during the survey period.


    The administrative data available on Swachh Bharat Mission Gramin portal, the sanitation coverage is 89.4% as on date.


    Diarrhea among the children is caused by poor child care practices such as poor hygiene practices among care givers including poor hand washing practices, non-availability clean drinking water and other infections etc.


    The details of the number of Diarrhoea affected children admitted and treated in various hospitals is not maintained centrally.


    As per UNICEF data*, 102,813 under-five children died due to diarrhea in 2016.


    In order to control childhood diarrhea and generate awareness on water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) practices in the community, an Intensified Diarrhoea Control Fortnight (IDCF) is being implemented in the country since 2014 under National Health Mission. The ultimate aim of IDCF is ‘zero child deaths due to childhood diarrhoea’. The key activities during IDCF are as follows:


     1. Home visits by ASHA workers to every household that have under-five children. During the visit, they will

             1. distribute ORS sachet
             2. counsel on seeking care in case of diarrhoea so that Zinc can be provided by the ASHA
             3. provide message of continued feeding during diarrhea
             4. demonstrate and counsel on preparation of ORS through mothers group meetings
     2. Establish ‘ORS- Zinc corners’ - at medical colleges, district hospitals, block health facilities and other treatment sites of government. Similarly, in partnership with IAP these corners will be established in every clinic of paediatric treatment facilities.
     3. Hand washing demonstrations and practices in schools.
     4. Intensive awareness generation through TV, radio, miking, banners, posters at strategic locations.
     5. Multi-sectoral involvement for better impact such as rallies, competitions at schools, state and district level launch by leaders, involvement of IAP, involvement of PRIs through meetings in presence of Block Medical Officer, mother meetings and ORS demonstrations at Anganwadi Centres.

    *UNICEF data available in web link: https://data.unicef.org/topic/child-health/diarrhoeal-disease/ , accession date : 3.08.2018


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Smt Anupriya Patel stated this in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1541930) Visitor Counter : 300
    
    
    
    
    

5.