      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Central Team led by Shri Kiren Rijiju reviews flood situation in Nagaland
      Posted On: 05 AUG 2018 6:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju, accompanied by team of officers from National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), Ministry of Road Transport & Highways and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), visited flood/landslides affected areas of Dimapur and Kohima districts today and reviewed the search, rescue and relief measures taken by the State Government and other Central Government agencies with the Nagaland Chief Minister Shri Neiphiu Rio, Home Secretary, Director General of Police and other senior officers of the State administration.


    After reaching Dimapur, State Government officials briefed about the prevailing disaster situation in the State and thereupon Shri Rijiju, along with Chief Minister of Nagaland and officers from Central Government and State Government undertook aerial survey of flood and landslides affected areas of Dimapur and Kohima. After aerial survey, review meeting was held at Dimapur.


    During the meeting Shri Rijiju expressed his satisfaction on the arrangements made by the State administration in managing the unprecedented situation due to recent floods and landslides incidents in the State and in providing basic amenities, including food, water and medical service etc. in the rescue and relief camps. He assured the State Government that after receiving the memoranda, the Inter-Minister Central Team will visit the State within ten to fifteen days. He also assured the State Government that the second installment of SDRF will be released very soon.


    The Chief Minister of Nagaland thanked the Central Government for prompt response and deploying Indian Air Force helicopters as well as NDRF teams for rescue and relief operation and assisting the administration in relief distribution.


    Briefing the media Shri Rijiju expressed concern over the damage caused to the crop and other infrastructure, especially roads, in the State. Shri Rijiju also said that the Centre is very much concerned about the flood situation in the Nagaland and he assured that the Central Government will continue to provide all possible assistance to the State Government to cope with the current situation.


    During the current monsoon season, various parts of Nagaland have been affected by heavy rains/rain oriented calamities of varying degrees. Two teams of NDRF, consisting of 70 rescuers with essential rescue equipment, are already deployed in Nagaland to assist the State administration in the relief and rescue operation as well as distribution of essential relief material and to provide medical support to affected people at the time of emergency. Two IAF helicopters have also been deployed in Nagaland for assisting State administration in lifting and dropping of essential commodities.


    On arrival at Guwahati airport, Shri Rijiju was briefed by Principal Secretary, Revenue & Disaster Management, State Government of Assam about the current flood situation in the State and appreciated the role played by National Disaster Response Force for search & rescue operation as well as assisting State administration in distribution of relief material. On this account, Shri Rijiju assured that Central Government will provide all necessary assistance to deal with current flood situation. He also asked the State Government to submit the Memoranda at the earliest for release of necessary financial assistance.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK/KGS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1541668) Visitor Counter : 325