      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Identification of Beneficiaries Without Aadhaar
      Posted On: 02 AUG 2018 3:04PM by PIB Delhi


    As per section 7 of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016, any individual who is desirous of availing any subsidy, benefit or service for which the expenditure is incurred from the Consolidated Fund of India, shall require to furnish proof of possession of Aadhaar number or undergo Aadhaar based authentication. In case the individual does not have Aadhaar, he/she shall make an application for enrolment and the individual shall be offered alternate and viable means of identification for delivery of the subsidy, benefit or service.


    The notifications issued under section 7 of the Aadhaar Act, 2016 by the Ministry also provide mechanism to handle such cases where Aadhaar number is not assigned to an individual and instruct implementing agencies to deliver benefits on the basis of alternate identity documents.


    Cabinet Secretariat (DBT Mission) Govt. of India had issued a circular dated 19.12.2017 regarding “Use of Aadhaar in Benefit Schemes of Government – Exception Handling, which inter-alia, stipulated mechanism in cases where Aadhaar authentication fails.


    Till the time Aadhaar is assigned to the individual, subsidies, benefits or services under the schemes notified under Section 7 of Aadhaar Act, 2016 shall be given to such individuals subject to the production of the following documents:


     1. Bank Passbook of applicant in his or her name or jointly held with his or her parent or guardian, and which contains the photograph of the applicant;

     2. if he has enrolled, his Aadhaar Enrolment ID slip; or
     3. a copy of his request made for Aadhaar enrolment

    Identity proofs as under ––


     1. Voter identity card issued by the Election Commission of India; or

     2. Permanent Account Number (PAN) Card issued by the Income Tax Department; or
     3. Passport; or
     4. Driving licence issued by the Licensing Authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (59 of 1988); or
     5. Certificate of identity having photo of such member issued by a Gazetted Officer or a Tehsildar on an official letter head; or
     6. Any other document specified by the State Government

    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Vijay Sampla in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E-2/02-08-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541274) Visitor Counter : 674
    
    
    
    
    

6.