      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      There are 219 EMRs currently functional in the country
      Posted On: 02 AUG 2018 5:30PM by PIB Delhi


    In the context of providing quality middle and high school education to Scheduled Tribes students, Ministry of Tribal Affairs approves establishment of Eklavya Model Residential Schools (EMRS) in the States/UTs through release of funds under “Grants under Article 275(1) of the Constitution of India”. The State Governments / Union Territory Administrations are solely responsible for the management & effective functioning of EMRSs. State Governments/UT Administrations may opt for any feasible / suitable mode of management whether by autonomous education societies; public-private partnership with reputed educational institutions; in arrangement with the State Department of Education or any other mode found suitable. The tasks of school admissions, appointment of teachers, appointment of staff, personnel matters and day-to-day running of the schools is handled entirely by the society chosen by the State Government/UT Administration and in the manner deemed most suitable.


    Education being an essential and effective tool for personal growth and for reaping the benefits of socio-economic development interventions, Government has adopted multi-pronged strategy to improve the quality of education in EMRSs including insisting on availability of teachers, smart classes, providing computer labs, updating science laboratory, provision for extra classes for Mathematics, Science and English, coaching etc. besides extra-curricular activities.


    The progress of implementation of scheme is reviewed from time to time by Ministry of Tribal Affairs through receipt of progress reports / review meetings with State Governments / Societies running the EMRSs, regional consultations etc. The Project Appraisal Committee headed by Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs, which appraises and approves Annual Plans under “Grants under Article 275 (1) of the Constitution of India”, also comprehensively reviews functioning of the EMRSs with the State representatives. Due to constant review / follow up on implementation of the scheme, number of functional EMRSs has increased from 137 in June, 2016 to 219 in August, 2018.


    In the academic year 2017-18, there was nearly 90% pass percentage of which 53% have secured 1 st division in 10 th Board and similarly 81% pass percentage in 12 th Board of which 61% have secured 1 st Division in EMRS across the country. Further, 146 students have cleared NEET, 253 students have cleared JEE Main Exams, 8 have cleared CLAT. Apart from education, ST students also excel in co-curricular activities and they have participated in various sports competition such as National Karate Championship, State Level Badminton Championship, National Volleyball Championship and EMRS, Nagrakata in West Bengal even bagged the Best Marching Contingent in the State level Republic Day Parade 2018.


    This information was given by the Union Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Shri. Jaswantsinh Bhabhor in Rajya Sabha today .


    *****


    NB/RN


    

    
    (Release ID: 1541336) Visitor Counter : 278