      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Naxal Activities
      Posted On: 07 AUG 2018 3:14PM by PIB Delhi


    The security forces have achieved considerable success in operations against Left Wing Extremists which is reflected in a significant improvement in the situation both in terms of reduction of violence and its geographical spread. The number of violent incidents has come down to 908 in 2017 from a high of 2258 in 2009. The geographical spread of violence has also shrunk considerably.


    90 districts in 11 States are currently covered by the Security Related Expenditure Scheme. Changes in areas of operation are resorted to from time to time by the Left Wing Extremists as part of their tactics. These are mostly undertaken to deflect pressure on armed cadres in their core areas. Over the past few years, there have been some effort by the CPI(Maoist) to expand their activities to the Kerala-Karnataka-Tamil Nadu tri-junction and Madhya Pradesh-Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh tri-junction with limited success. Districts which have been particularly affected are Wayanad, Palakkad and Malappuram, all in Kerala on the Kerala-Karnataka-Tamil Nadu tri-junction and Balaghat, Mandala in Madhya Pradesh, Gondia in Maharashtra and Rajnandgaon in Chhattisgarh on the Madhya Pradesh-Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh tri-junction.


    The Government has a holistic approach towards combating LWE wherein it supplements the efforts of the State Governments over a wide range of measures. A National Policy and Action Plan has been put in place that envisages a multi-pronged strategy involving security related measures, developmental interventions and ensuring rights & entitlements of local communities etc. Development initiatives include focused schemes for development of roads, installation of mobile towers, skill development, improving network of banks and post offices, health and education facilities, particularly in the most affected districts. These measures have contributed towards weaning away the people from Maoist influence and increased support for the Government.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir in a written reply to question in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/ PK/SS/AK/3400


    

    
    (Release ID: 1541906) Visitor Counter : 681
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Malayalam