      Ministry of Tourism

      ‘Adventure Tourism’ as a ‘Niche Tourism’ product to promote India as a 365 days’ destination: Tourism Minister
      Posted On: 06 AUG 2018 5:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Tourism has recognised ‘Adventure Tourism’ as a ‘Niche Tourism’ product to promote India as a 365 days’ destination and attract tourists with specific interest. A Task Force on Adventure Tourism has been set up in October 2016 to act as a forum for resolving issues related to development and promotion of Adventure Tourism in the country. It has also been decided to promote 2018 as the ‘Year of Indian Adventure’. Apart from the above, Adventure Tourism is regularly highlighted for promotion as part of the Incredible India Campaign in the print, electronic, online and outdoor media in India and abroad as well as at the various travel trade exhibitions overseas.


    Development and promotion of tourism is primarily the responsibility of the State Governments/UTs Administration. However, Ministry of Tourism provides Central Financial Assistance to State Governments/UT Administrations for development of tourism infrastructure which also include Adventure Tourism destinations in the country including Himalayan and Bundelkhand regions under the Swadesh Darshan scheme for Integrated Development of Tourism circuits.


    The Ministry of Tourism along with the Adventure Tour Operators Association of India (ATOAI) has launched the “Indian Adventure Tourism Guidelines (Version 2.0) – 2018” on 'Safety and Quality Norms for Adventure Tourism in India'. The guidelines list the basic minimum standards for adventure tourism and cover the land, air and water-based activities. All the State Governments/UT Administrations have been advised to adopt and implement these Guidelines in order to minimize the risk associated with such activities and provide a system of search and rescue for tourism activities.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (I/C) for Tourism Shri. K. J. Alphons, in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/JP/PS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1541766) Visitor Counter : 455