      NITI Aayog

      International Conference on Sustainable Growth through Material Recycling inaugurated by Road Transport & Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari
      Posted On: 06 AUG 2018 12:46PM by PIB Delhi


    NITI Aayog’s International Conference on “Sustainable Growth through Material Recycling: Policy Prescriptions” was inaugurated by the Union Minister of Road Transport, Highways & Ganga Rejuvenation, Shri. Nitin Gadkari at Pravasi Bharatiya Kendra in the capital today. Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog Shri. Rajiv Kumar, CEO, NITI Aayog Amitabh Kant and renowned experts from all over the world in material recycling took part in the deliberations at the conference. The day long conference brings together a host of experts for identifying policy prescriptions for the development and growth of material recycling in India towards creating more jobs, reduce dependence on exports, protect the environment and take steps towards adopting circular economy concepts.


    In his inaugural speech, Union Minister Shri Nitin Gadkari emphasised that citizen participation is the key towards a successful recycling movement. “Recycling will increase growth, create wealth, and generate employment”, said the Minister. Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog, Dr. Rajiv Kumar in his keynote speech highlighted the benefits of recycling and reuse on environment, economy and the social sector. He emphasized the short, mid and long term targets so that material recycling can reduce our reliance on finite resources, virtually eliminate our dependence on landfills and minimise the impact on our environment for the sustainable development of the Indian state and the wellbeing of citizens. CEO, NITI Aayog, Amitabh Kant brought to the fore India’s ambition to grow sustainably in double digits. He underlined the Government’s commitment to the importance of recycling & said that it will benefit all major sectors of the Indian economy.


    The day-long conference has 5 technical sessions on “Circular Economy in Material Recycling”, “Infrastructural Issues in Recycling Industry”, “Standardization and certification in Recycling Industry”, “Environmental Benefits of Material Recycling”, “Financial and Taxation issues in Recycling Industry”, “Financial and Taxation issues in Recycling Industry” respectively, followed by a Valedictory Session to be chaired by Dr. V K Saraswat, Member, NITI Aayog. It is expected that the deliberations at the conference will provide inputs for the policy formulation on various aspects related to material recycling.


    *****


    AKT/RC/SBP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541699) Visitor Counter : 1189
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali , Tamil