      Ministry of Culture

      Dr. Mahesh Sharma Inaugurates 64th Foundation Day Celebrations of Lalit Kala Akademi in New Delhi, today
      Posted On: 06 AUG 2018 7:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Academy of Art, Lalit Kala Akademi(LKA), established in 1954 by the then Education Minister MaulanaAbulKalam Azad, celebrated its 64th Foundation Day, today the 6th August, 2018. The event was inaugurated by Minister of State for Culture(I/c), Dr. Mahesh Sharma. The LKA Chairman UttamPacharne, eminent artist Padmabhushan Ram V. Sutar and the founder of Sanskar Bharti, Padmashree Baba Yogendra were present at the event.


    Inaugurating the event, Culture Minister Dr. Mahesh Sharma said, “I congratulate the Lalit Kala Akademi on completing 64 years of serving art and culture of India. Establishing an art institution is a big thing but serving art for 64 years consistently with same energy, dedication and enthusiasm is a task bigger than it and I feel that the Akademi has been true to its founding beliefs and objectives. Currently, around 65% of the Indian population falls under the age-group of 35-40 years and I feel very happy when I see the younger generation taking interest in arts. I am glad that the LKA is promoting art to the youths by organising various camps and competitions.” He also gave a glimpse of the ‘Cultural Mapping’ campaign by the Ministry of Culture.


    The Chairman of Lalit Kala Akademi and eminent sculptor UttamPacharne appreciated the efforts of media persons who used to try to understand artists’ lives and write about them and on art events. Expressing happiness on the 64th Anniversary of LKA, Uttamji said, “An artist is person who prefers living a carefree life but at the same time it demands dedication, austerity and penance.” Shri Pacharne congratulated Akademi staff and art lovers on the occasion.


    Culture Minister Dr. Mahesh Sharma released the logo of the 12th Triennale India which is scheduled to be organised by the Akademi in December 2018.


    The event also witnessed the launch of a book on eminent artist Ganesh Pyne - “A Painter of Eloquent Silence” written by Pranav Ranjan Ray .


    Earlier in the day a demonstration of clay modelling named AAO..MITTI ME KHELE...was organised by the Akademi at Dr. Rajendra Prasad SarvodayaVidyalaya situated at the President Estate. According the Chairman LKA, the purpose of this workshop was to inculcate creativity in the children. Gallerists, artists and art lovers in a great number attended the grand ceremony.


    NB/PS *********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541834) Visitor Counter : 404
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu