      Vice President's Secretariat

      Farmers laud the efforts of Vice President to make agriculture sustainable & profitable
      
      Greet the Vice President for completion of one year in office;
      
      Forty children from tribal areas of Odisha also call on him;
      Posted On: 05 AUG 2018 5:47PM by PIB Delhi


    Several farmers from rural Delhi and Haryana met the Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu and thanked him for his efforts to make agriculture sustainable and profitable through convening the National Consultation Meetings across the country. The farmers came to the residence of Vice President of India, here today, and greeted him on the occasion of one year of his election as the Vice President.


    The farmers also thanked him for taking keen interest in issues related farmers. They expressed their happiness at the consistent support the Vice President has been giving to improve farmers’ lives. Focusing government’s attention on these concerns and seeking practical solutions, the Vice President’s pro-active actions were appreciated by all of them. They were enthused at way in which the son of a farmer has been making the institution of the Vice President more vibrant and responsive to people’s concerns. They requested him to continue his efforts to bring different stakeholders and experts together in an effort to meaningfully connect the research being conducted in labs with the farmers’ problems.


    Earlier in the day, forty young children from the tribal areas of Orissa met the Vice President and greeted him and sought his blessings. Four of these students, Dutee Chand, Purnima Hembram, Jauna Murmu and Rutuparna Panda, belonging to the Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology and Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences, established by eminent educationist and social activist, Prof. Achyuta Samanta, have been selected to participate in the Asian Games, 2018. The Vice President congratulated the students on their selection and hoped that they would be able to come out with flying colours in the Games and bring laurels to the country. In his message on the occasion, the Vice President highlighted the crucial importance of sports in national development. Sports, he said, helps us to be physically fit, enhance our personality, equanimity as well as foster friendship and social cohesion. He urged the government, educational institutions and the private sector to promote sports and nurture sporting talent. He complimented Prof Samanta for his visionary perspective and untiring efforts to provide the much needed fillip to sports as a part of the curriculum in his educational institutions.


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541666) Visitor Counter : 593
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil