      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog to host Investors’ Conference for the Holistic Development of Islands
      Posted On: 01 AUG 2018 3:14PM by PIB Delhi


    The Conference will attract investments for the development of eco-tourism on PPP basis in Andaman & Nicobar, and Lakshadweep Islands.


    NITI Aayog will host an Investors’ Conference on August 10, 2018 at Pravasi Bharatiya Kendra for the Holistic Development of Islands. The Conference will be inaugurated by Shri. Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog. It will attract investment for the sustainable development of eco-tourism projects in Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshadweep islands.


    The 11 anchor tourism projects are proposed to be implemented with private sector participation under suitable risk-sharing model and through open-competitive bidding. NITI Aayog, along with the respective UT Administration is organizing an Investors’ Conference on 10 th August, 2018, with stakeholders.


    About the Holistic Development of Islands & Investors’ Conference


    Sustainable development of islands and overall maritime development has been accorded high priority by the Government. Island Development Agency (IDA) an apex body, under the chairmanship of Hon’ble Home Minister, was constituted in June 2017, while NITI Aayog has been mandated to steer the Holistic Development of Islands program, along with the respective UT administration/ State Governments. Under the said program in the first phase 10 Islands in Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshadweep have been taken up for holistic development.


    The IDA has reviewed 11 anchor tourism projects (6 in Andaman & Nicobar and 5 in Lakshadweep) and several other infrastructure projects, inter-alia, Ro-Ro ferry services, desalination plants, digital connectivity, green energy, for implementation in the first phase for holistic development of these islands. For enhanced connectivity, airport at Diglipur shall be made operational for civilian aircrafts by December 2018, while Agatti airport is being expanded and in-principle clearance has been accorded for greenfield airport at Minicoy.


    The said anchor tourism projects have been identified on Government owned land in Smith, Aves, Long, Neil & Little Andaman Islands of Andaman & Nicobar, and in Kadmat, Suheli & Minicoy islands of Lakshadweep. Out of these 11 projects, 7 (4 in Andaman & Nicobar and 3 in Lakshadweep) are in “Ready to Launch” stage. Detailed land survey & demarcation of project sites, carrying capacity assessment of the project islands, CRZ application and pre-feasibility study have been undertaken.


    ***


    AKT/RKC/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1541004) Visitor Counter : 924
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali