      Ministry of Power

      Nationwide ‘State Energy Efficiency Preparedness Index’ released; Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, and Rajasthan emerge as ‘Front Runner’ states
      
      Energy Conversation Guidelines for energy intensive industries also released

      Posted On: 01 AUG 2018 8:53PM by PIB Delhi

    As part of its commitment to create awareness about energy efficiency as a resource and also to develop an action plan for energy conservation initiatives, Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) and Alliance for an Energy Efficient Economy (AEEE), today released the ‘State Energy Efficiency Preparedness Index’, which assesses state policies and programmes aimed at improving energy efficiency across various sectors. The nationwide Index, which is a joint effort of the NITI Aayog and BEE, was launched by Mr. A.K. Bhalla, Secretary, Ministry of Power; Dr Ajay Mathur, DG, TERIin the presence of senior officials from the Ministry and BEE.


    The dignitaries also released a set of Energy Conversation Guidelines for energy intensive industries that are covered under the Government’s Perform Achieve and Trade (PAT) scheme. Developed by the BEE, these will serve as a standard reference document for energy intensive industries and help them achieve high operational efficiency of energy consuming utilities thereby improving their energy performance.


    In his inaugural address of the event, Secretary, Ministry of Power, Shri A.K. Bhalla, said, “Efficient use of energy is the fastest, cheapest and cleanest way to meet India’s rising energy demand and power the nation’s growth. The State Energy Efficiency Preparedness Index will help in implementing national energy efficiency initiatives in states and meet both State as well as national goals on energy security, energy access and climate change.”


    The State Energy Efficiency Preparedness Index has 63 indicators across Building, Industry, Municipality, Transport, Agriculture and DISCOM with 4 cross-cutting indicators. States are categorised based on their efforts and achievements towards energy efficiency implementation, as ‘Front Runner’, ‘Achiever’, ‘Contender’ and ‘Aspirant’. The ‘Front Runner’ states in the inaugural edition of the Index are: Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, and Rajasthan based on available data.


    The Index examines states’ policies and regulations, financing mechanisms, institutional capacity, adoption of energy efficiency measures and energy savings achieved. The required data was collected from the concerned state departments such as DISCOMs, Urban Development Departments, etc., with the help of State Designated Agencies (SDAs) nominated by the BEE. Apart from the data furnished by SDAs, the AEEE also collected information from various central government sources such as: Central Electricity Authority (CEA) General Review; Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) annual report on the performance of State Road Transport Undertakings (SRTU); BEE programme implementation reports; Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA), Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE); and Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL).


    While most states have implemented national programmes designed by BEE and EESL, the ‘Front Runner’ and ‘Achiever’ states have several individual initiatives as well. The list can be download from: http://www.aeee.in/state-ee-index/


    Energy conservation guidelines for energy intensive industries


    Bureau under the aegis of Ministry of Power is implementing many initiatives for energy efficiency in the energy intensive industries. Perform Achieve and Trade (PAT) scheme is a flagship scheme of Government of India to improve energy efficiency of large energy consuming industries. As a part of Indo-Japan Energy Dialogue, Energy Conservation Centre of Japan (ECCJ) and Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE)have developed Energy Conservation Guidelines for energy intensive industries covering both large as well as MSMEs.


    These guidelines will enable the industries to establish a systematic mechanism to improve the energy efficiency for major energy consuming utilities. These guidelines would serve a ready reference of standard and target benchmarked energy performance values for major energy consuming equipment which will improve the overall energy performance of the industry.


    The document is also available for public comments and peer review .


    *****


    JN/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541186) Visitor Counter : 1294