      Ministry of Rural Development

      Grievance redressal under MGNREGS
      Posted On: 02 AUG 2018 5:06PM by PIB Delhi


    The person-days generated under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) has increased from 166.21crore in 2014-15 to 234.28 crore in 2017-18. MGNREGA is a demand driven programme where the demand for work itself is influenced by various factors such as rain-fall pattern, availability of alternative and remunerative employment opportunities outside MGNREGA and prevailing unskilled wage rates. This information was provided by the Minister of State for Rural Development, Shri Ram Kripal Yadav today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    The Ministry along with the States/UTs has been making concerted efforts for improving the timely payment of wages. States/ UTs have been advised to generate pay orders in time. This has resulted in considerable improvement in the status of timely generation of pay order and leading to improvement in actual time taken to credit wages in the workers account.


    A Committee under the chairpersonship of former Additional Secretary, Ministry of Rural Development was constituted to study among other things the appropriate index for revising MGNREGA wages. The Committee recommended using Consumer Price Index-Rural instead of the existing CPI-AL for revising MGNREGA Wages every year. The Committee also recommended use of annual average instead of the existing practice of using December month index only.


    The Ministry, under MGNREGA receives complaints of irregularities, non-availability of work etc., since the responsibility of implementation of MGNREGA is vested with the State Governments/UTs, all complaints received in the Ministry are forwarded to the concerned State Governments/UTs for taking appropriate action including investigation, as per law. Detailed instructions by way of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for complaint redressal have also been issued to all States/UTs. 20 States and 1 UT have formulated Grievance Redressal Rules for dealing with complaints. Steps have been taken to strengthen social audit units and appointment of Ombudsmen in the States. State specific reviews of States are also undertaken from time to time. Officers of the Ministry and National Level Monitors also visit various districts to oversee the performance of MGNREGA.


    *****


    APS/SNC/AS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1541318) Visitor Counter : 309