      Ministry of Defence

      Indigenous Alternatives
      Posted On: 01 AUG 2018 4:40PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Defence (MoD) has introduced “Innovations for Defence Excellence” (iDEX) initiative which was launched by Hon’ble PM in April 2018. iDEX is aimed at creating an ecosystem which fosters innovation and encourages technology development in Defence by engaging R&D institutes, academia, industries, Startups and even individual innovators. iDEX shall function under the aegis of Defence Innovation Organisation (DIO) (formed as a ‘Not For Profit’ Company Under Section 8 of Companies Act,2013), as its executive arm.


    The DIO has under its wings an Advisory Committee with members from Service HQs, DPSUs, NITIAayog along with representatives from the Department of Science and Technology and Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion. Secretary (Defence Production) is the designated Chairman of the Advisory Committee. The main functions of DIO are:

      * Receive periodic reports from iDEX team on the projects.
      * Provide high level policy guidance.

    In addition, to facilitate the participation of Indian Industry, separate procedure for ‘Make-II’ sub-category of Capital Acquisition under DPP 2016, has been notified wherein a number of industry friendly provisions such as relaxation of eligibility criterion, minimal documentation, provision for considering proposals suggested suo moto by industry / individual etc., have been introduced.


    Ministry of Defence has also set up the ‘Technology Development Fund (TDF)’ which aims at funding the development of defence and dual use technologies that are currently not available with the Indian defence industry, or have not been developed so far. The funding is to public and private sector industry especially micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) that may work in collaboration with the academia or research institutions to carry out innovation, research and development. TDF also aims at encouraging participation of public / private industries through provision of grants, so as to create an eco–system for enhancing cutting edge technology capability for defence applications.


    This information was given by RakshaRajyaMantriDr.SubhashBhamrein a written reply to Shri UdayPratapSinghinLokSabha today.


    NAo/Nampi/Rajib/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541026) Visitor Counter : 482
    
    
    
    
    

*