      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi led government as compared to previous governments has taken several important steps for improving living standards of farmers and upliftment of Agriculture sector: Union Agriculture Minister
      
      Recent announcement of a remunerative price based essentially on the recommendation of NCF is a very important step to ensure economic viability of farming: Dr. Swaminathan

      Posted On: 06 AUG 2018 7:13PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi led government as compared to the previous governments has taken several important steps for the improvement of living standards of farmers and the upliftment of agriculture sector. This was stated by the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shri Radha Mohan Singh. Shri Singh has on several occasions said that questions have been raised about Modi Government’s inaction on the National Commission on Farmers (NCF) report but the truth is that based on this report presented in the year 2006, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi led government, compared to the previous governments, has taken several important steps for improving living standards of farmers and upliftment of Agriculture sector. Dr. Swaminathan, while acknowledging this in his article in an English daily said “Although the NCF report was submitted in 2006, very little action was taken until the present government headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi took office. Fortunately over the last four years, several significant decisions have been taken to improve the status and income of farmers.”


    The Union Agriculture Minister said to help farmers get fair value of their produce and enhance their income, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi led government fulfilled its promise by recently announcing a hike in the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for Kharif 2018. Praising the decision of the government, Dr. Swaminathan said “The recent announcement of a remunerative price based essentially on the recommendation of NCF is a very important step to ensure the economic viability of farming. To underline, government has ensured in its notification that from Kharif 2018 onwards MSP of the notified crops would be minimum of 150% of the cost of production; it ranges from 150-200% for coarse cereals.”


    ****


    APS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541825) Visitor Counter : 834
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali