      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Funds for prevention of pollution in rivers, lakes and ground water
      Posted On: 06 AUG 2018 5:48PM by PIB Delhi


    “Pollution abatement of rivers and lakes is a continuous and ongoing process. It is the responsibility of the State Governments/ concerned local bodies to set up facilities for collection, transportation and treatment of sewage for abatement of pollution of rivers & lakes. This Ministry has been supplementing the efforts of the State Governments in abatement of pollution in rivers under the scheme of National River Conservation Plan (NRCP) and conservation & management of lakes & wetlands under a separate scheme of National Plan for Conservation of Aquatic Eco-systems (NPCA), on a cost sharing basis between the Central and State Governments.


    NRCP {excluding Ganga and its tributaries, which are handled by Ministry of Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation (MoWR,RD&GR) from 01/08/2014 onwards} has so far covered polluted stretches of 32 rivers in 76 towns spread over 14 States in the country at a sanctioned cost of Rs. 4581.91 crore and Central share of Rs. 2258.72 crore has been released to the State Governments for implementation of various pollution abatement schemes. Sewage treatment capacity of 2472.43 mld (million litres per day) has been created so far under the NRCP. During the last three years and current year, Central share of Rs.351.87 crore has been released to various State Governments, for pollution abatement of rivers under NRCP. No funds have been released to Jharkhand during the last three years and current year under NRCP.


    State Governments, apart from their own budgetary allocation, are also accessing financial assistance for creation of sewerage infrastructure, including Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs), in various cities/towns under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and Smart Cities Mission of Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs as well as Namami Gange programme of Ministry of Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation (MoWR,RD&GR). During the last three years and current year, Central funds of Rs.3696.49 crore has been released to various State Governments/State Programme Management Groups/other executing agencies of State Governments by National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) of MoWR,RD&GR under the Namami Gange programme, which includes Rs.82.08 crores to Jharkhand.


    NPCA has so far covered 148 identified wetlands and lakes in 24 States & 1 Union Territory and Central share of Rs. 893.69 crore has been released so far to the State Governments. During the last three years and current year, Central share of Rs.158.70 crore has been released to various State Governments. No funds have been released to Jharkhand during the last three years and current year under NPCA.


    The MoWR,RD&GR is also implementing the scheme of Repair, Renovation and Restoration (RRR) of water bodies, including ponds and tanks, which aims at improving catchment areas of tanks commands, increase in storage capacity, ground water recharge, improvement in agriculture and increased availability of drinking water.


    Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) under MoWR,RD&GR is implementing the ‘Ground Water Management & Regulation’ scheme, under which studies on monitoring, analyzing and mapping of ground water quality and other preventive steps are taken up throughout the country, including Jharkhand. Under this programme, an amount of Rs.526.64 crore has been incurred during the last three years and current year.


    Funds for implementation of pollution abatement schemes under NRCP & NPCA are released by this Ministry in a phased manner to the concerned States based on progress of work and on receipt of Utilization Certificates as well as physical and financial progress reports from the States. The reports on physical progress of works as well as Utilization Certificates are examined and unspent balances are taken into account before releasing the next instalment of funds. In addition, regular monitoring and review of progress of implementation of schemes by Central and State Government officers, including site visits, is carried out ”.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Mahesh Sharma in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ***


    HK/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1541781) Visitor Counter : 624