      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Special Provision for Treatment of BPL/AAY Patients in Hospitals
      Posted On: 07 AUG 2018 4:57PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Health & Family Welfare is implementing Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojna (RSBY). Under this scheme, Health Insurance Coverage of Rs. 30,000/- per family per annum is provided to BPL and 11 defined categories of unorganized workers, on the approved packages and package rates in the empanelled hospitals (both public and private).


    The Government has approved the launch of Ayushman Bharat- National Health Protection Mission (AB-NHPM) during the year 2018-19 which will cover over 10 crore poor and vulnerable families (approx. 50 crore beneficiaries) providing coverage upto Rs. 5 lakh per family per year for secondary and tertiary hospitalization. The beneficiary families under the AB-NHPM are identified based on SECC deprivation criteria for rural area and 11 defined occupational categories for urban areas.


    Also, the Government of India has enacted Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 for registration and regulation of all clinical establishments (both Government and Private) in the country. In accordance with the Clinical Establishments (Central Government) Rules, 2012 under the said Act, the clinical establishments in the States / Union Territories where the said Act is applicable are inter-alia required to display the rates charged for each type of services provided and facilities available, at a conspicuous place and charge the rates for each type of procedure and services within the range of rates determined from time to time in consultation with the State Governments. The National Council for Clinical Establishments has approved a standard list of medical procedures and a standard template for costing of medical procedures and shared the same with the States and Union Territories for appropriate action by them. The clinical establishments are also required to follow standard Treatment Guidelines issued by the Central Government or State Government. The Act is currently applicable in eleven States and all Union Territories except Delhi. The implementation and enforcement of the said Act falls within the remit of the States/Union territories.


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Smt Anupriya Patel stated this in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541935) Visitor Counter : 480