      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Consumer Grievance Redressal System
      Posted On: 07 AUG 2018 4:20PM by PIB Delhi


    Under the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, a three tier quasi-judicial mechanism has been established at the district,State and National levels to provide for simple, inexpensive and speedy redressal of consumer disputes.


    In addition to the legislative measures, the Department has launched an online portal www.consumerhelpline.gov.in, which provides a platform to the consumers to register their complaints.


    The Department has also set up a National Consumer Helpline (NCH) with a toll free number 1800-11-4000 and short code 14404 to handle the consumer grievances. The NCH has partnered with more than 450 companies under its convergence programme. Complaints concerning these companies are transferred to them directly online for redressal. Sector specific complaints are also forwarded online to the regulators/ Government Departments concerned.


    Under the Department of Consumer Affairs, the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) BIS is the National Standard Body of India for the harmonious development of the activities of standardization, marking and quality certification of goods. It has a well-established complaint redressal system to redress the grievances received from various consumers of BIS certified products as well as services. Initially, the complainant-end investigation is carried out to establish the genuineness and the nature of the complaint. Samples if available are also drawn for testing. This is followed by investigation at the licensee-end for examination of records of the lot/batch of the complained materialand the overall assessment of the licensee’s performance. Based on the above, the licensee is advised to arrange for redressal by way of replacement/repair depending upon the product under complaint. Actions are taken against the licensees includes Stop Marking and cancellation of license.


    This was stated by Sh C.R.Chaudhary , MoS, Ministry of Food,Consumer affairs and Public distribution in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/PC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541914) Visitor Counter : 887