      Ministry of Defence

      Budget for DRDO
      Posted On: 06 AUG 2018 4:02PM by PIB Delhi


    The total Budget of Department of Defence Research & Development (R&D) for the Financial Year 2018-19 is Rs. 17861.19 crore with a manpower of approximately 24224 (including 7354 scientists).


    A total of 13 research projects in Technology Development (TD) and Science & Technology (S&T) category have been taken up in the year 2018-19 in the broad areas of hybrid power system, advanced materials, CBW Defence technologies, laser diode technology, technologies for insensitive munition etc. and since these are in design phase, outcome of research projects will be seen in the subsequent years.


    The following projects have been completed by DRDO during the last three years which finds merit for indigenous production through various partner agencies: 46m inflatable radome, medium size integrated aerostat surveillance system (NAKSHATRA), heavy drop system – 16T, enhanced range rocket (PINAKA Mk-II), sub- munition warheads for PINAKA, 250 kg pre-fragmented bomb, air bursting grenades for individual weapons, penetration-cum-blast (PCB) and thermo-baric (TB) ammunition for 120 mm Arjun tank, multi calibre individual weapon system (MCIWS), minefieldmarking equipment Mk-II, CBRNe remotely operated platforms (CBRNeP), bar mine layer, mountain foot bridge, water mist system validation for fire protection in naval ships, electro-optical fire control system for naval ships, commander’s non-panoramic TI sight for AFVs (T-90, T-72 & BMP-II), medium power radar (MPR) for IAF, anti-torpedo decoy system (MAAREECH), high speed heavy weight ship launched torpedo (VARUNASTRA), multi-influence ground mine (MIGM) etc.


    To streamline working of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to expedite various projects, DRDO has been reviewed/audited by a number of independent committees in recent past (since 2007) as listed below:


      * Rama Rao Committee (RRC) – most of the suggestions have been implemented.


      * In addition, Ministry of Defence (MoD) has set up various committees viz. Ravindra Gupta Task Force (RGTF) and Naresh Chandra Task Force (NCTF) on National Security – action has been taken accordingly.


      * Performance audit of DRDO labs is done on case-to-case basis by audit authorities.


    This information was given by Rajya Mantri Smt Nirmala Sitharaman in a written reply to Dr. Vinay P. Sahasrabuddhe in Rajya Sabha today.


    NAo/Nampi/Rajib/HS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1541723) Visitor Counter : 853
    
    
    
    
    

*