      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Shri Nitin Gadkari Launches Bidder Information Management System and Bhoomi Rashi - PFMS Linkage Portals
      
      Announces Institution of Annual Awards for Excellence in National Highways Projects
      
      Expresses Confidence about Faster Execution, Lower Costs And Higher Quality of Highways Projects

      Posted On: 06 AUG 2018 6:16PM by PIB Delhi

    The Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping, Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Nitin Gadkari launched Bidder Information Management System (BIMS) and Bhoomi Rashi and PFMS linkage - two IT initiatives of the Road Transport & Highways Ministry that are aimed at expediting pre construction processes relating to bidding and land acquisition respectively. The Minister also announced institution of Annual Awards for Excellence in National Highways Projects from this year onwards.


    BIMS is aimed at streamlining the process of pre-qualification of bidders for EPC Mode of contracts for National Highway works with enhanced transparency and objectivity. The portal will work as a data base of information about bidders, covering basic details, civil works experience, cash accruals and network, annual turnover etc. The pre-qualification of bidders can be assessed from data already stored in the portal, so that technical evaluation can be carried out much faster. BIMS will be used by all the project implementation agencies of the Ministry for maintenance of technical information of civil works of contractors/ concessionaires, and for online technical evaluation of civil works bids. The bidders would be responsible for ensuring that their latest details are available on the BIMS portal. These details will be used by bidders to apply for any RFP for civil works on EPC mode that has been floated by the Ministry and its implementation agencies on the Central Public Procurement Portal (CPPP). The BIMS portal will be operated in conjunction with the CPPP portal for invitation of bids for civil works for EPC mode. It is estimated that BIMS portal will significantly reduce the procurement time for projects through an objective and transparent online evaluation system thereby leading to accelerated project implementation.


    Bhoomi Rashi, the portal developed by MoRTH and NIC, comprises the entire revenue data of the country, right down to 6.4 lakh villages. The entire process flow, from submission of draft notification by the State Government to its approval by the. Minister of State for RT&H and publication in e-Gazette, is online. The portal, created for expediting the process of publication of notifications for LA, is now being fully utilized for issuing the notifications, and more than 900 notifications have been issued using the portal so far. Bhoomi Rashi portal has been instrumental in reducing the time taken for approval and publication of notifications pertaining to land acquisition


    Integration of Public Financial Management System (PFMS) with Bhoomi Rashi is one of the key functionalities to facilitate payment related to compensation for land acquisition to all the beneficiaries directly through the Bhoomi Rashi system. PFMS is a web-based online software application developed and implemented by the Office of Controller General of Accounts (CGA). to facilitate sound public financial management system for Government of India (GoI) It provides various stakeholders with a real time, reliable and meaningful management information system and an effective decision support system, as part of the Digital India initiative of GoI.


    With integration of Bhoomi Rashi with PFMS, payment of Compensation by the Ministry to the beneficiaries will be just-in-time, and without any parking of funds. The testing of this integration was done through a pilot project in Jaipur RO of MoRTH for and the system is being now rolled out to all other regional offices of MoRTH and NHIDCL.


    Speaking at an event in New Delhi today Shri Gadkari expressed confidence that the above initiatives of the Ministry will help expedite the work of award and construction of highways projects significantly. He said that thanks to the Bhumi Rashi portal 900 notifications for land acquisition have been issued so far in the current year, as against the 1000 issued during the whole of last year. He said that the focus of his Ministry is to reduce construction costs while enhancing quality, and for this many initiatives have been taken towards transformation and optimization of pre-construction, construction and maintenance processes .


    Shri Gadkari also announced the institution of Annual Awards for Excellence in National Highways Projects from this year onwards, for recognizing concessionaires and contractors who are performing exceptionally. The Annual Road Awards to be presented every year starting 2018, are designed across five categories as follows:

     1. Excellence in Construction Management acknowledges efficient use of resources along with finest quality standards and smooth execution of all milestones of the project.
     2. Excellence in Operation & Maintenance recognises projects with swift and smooth execution of maintenance works, inspections and unparalleled quality in riding experience.
     3. Best Toll Plaza focuses on automation and efficient management of traffic and services at the plaza.
     4. Safe Highway acknowledges commendable work done to reduce road casualties and establish preventive safety measures and emergency response services.
     5. Innovation in Design or Construction Technology focuses on significant achievements in devising or adapting a new construction technology or structural and geometric design.

    The best performers would be selected based on multiple rounds of rigorous assessment. Detailed, category-specific and quantifiable evaluation frameworks have been developed for this assessment by Quality Council of India engaged by the Ministry to design the complete process. The companies would nominate themselves through an online portal by uploading the project information and documents specific to the award category. In the first round, the validity and propriety of the submitted data would be verified and evaluated followed by the second round, which involves an on-site inspection of the shortlisted applicants. The finalists would present to an expert jury panel consisting of industry experts and academicians in the final round. The winners would be announced on the Good Governance Day on 25 th December, 2018.


    The Minister also facilitated officials of NIC, Transport Ministry and Office of Controller General of Accounts who were associated with designing and developing the above portals. Shri Mansukh l Mandavia, MoS Road Transport & Highways and Chemicals and Fertilizers, and senior officials of the Ministry, NIC were also present on the occasion.


    *****


    NP/MS/MS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1541792) Visitor Counter : 1481
    
    
    
    
    

5.