      Ministry of Home Affairs

      MP and Chairman of Bangladesh Tariqat Federation meets MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju
      Posted On: 06 AUG 2018 4:27PM by PIB Delhi


    The Member of Parliament and Chairman, the Bangladesh Tariqat Federation, Mr Al Haj Syed Nazibul Bashar Maizvandary, met the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju here today.


    During the meeting, both sides discussed various issues of bilateral interest in social, political, cultural & economic domains and security related matters. Other issues such as connectivity to North Eastern states via Bay of Bengal and trade prospects were also deliberated upon during the meeting.


    Emphasizing the importance of Bangladesh for India, Shri Rijiju said that peaceful & prosperous Bangladesh is of high importance for the prosperity of India and Indian Government continues to make efforts in this direction. He added that the prosperity of North Eastern states of India is linked with the prosperity of Bangladesh, because these states share common economic, social and cultural linkage with the neighbouring country.


    Shri Kiren Rijiju recalled his visit to Bangladesh as a member of an All Party Delegation in 2010 and said that he had travelled to the bordering Indian states along Bangladesh. The Government is committed to provide security & stability at these bordering areas, specially in view of the upcoming Bangladesh elections, he added.


    Speaking on Rohingya issue, raised by visiting Bangladeshi MP, Shri Rijiju said that the Government is fully aware of the heavy burden imposed on Bangladesh as a result of the exodus of lakhs of displaced persons form the Rakhine State of Myanmar and is fully supportive of the efforts being made to resolve the crisis. The Government has extended assistance to the Mynamar Government and will continue efforts to persuade Myanmar Government to provide safety & security to the Rohingyas, he added. On the NRC issue in Assam, Shri Kiren Rijiju informed that it is a process undertaken under the supervision and direction of Supreme Court of India.


    Both sides emphasised that it is important to work together for prosperity and to have an Action Plan for countering terrorism-related activities across border.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541743) Visitor Counter : 367