      Ministry of Railways

      Dwarf containers in Railways
      Posted On: 01 AUG 2018 5:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Indian Railways transport nearly one billion tonnes of goods every year, which is considerably a huge volume. The freight traffic handled by Indian Railways has increased more than 15 fold from 73.02 million tonnes in 1950-51 to 1106.15 million tonnes in 2016-17. However, capacity bottlenecks have resulted in non-realization of the maximum potential of Railways, as well as deterioration in punctuality and transit times of railway traffic.


    Double stack dwarf container (DSDC) has been introduced as a new delivery model to increase loadability and attract new traffic under wire. The first double stack dwarf container was run by a private container train operator from Reliance Rail Terminal, Kanalus (PRTK) on 08.07.2018 which reached Kribhco Infrastructure Limited, Pali (KIIP) on 09.07.2018.


    The Dwarf container has maximum laden weight of 30500 Kg. It is 662 MM short but 162 mm wider than regular containers. An additional tonnage of 1300 Metric Tonne has been carried by only one rake of Double Stack Dwarf container from Reliance Rail Terminal, Kanalus (PRTK) to Kribhco Infrastructure Limited, Pali (KIIP) with 20 to 24% hike in revenue. If regular additional traffic of Dwarf container is received the Railway revenue will surely boost.


    Some of the steps taken by Railways to attract and increase Railway traffic are as follows:


    i. Liberalised Automatic Freight Rebate scheme for traffic loaded in empty flow direction, Long Term Tariff Contracts (LTTC) with key freight customers, Station to Station rates (STS), withdrawal of Dual freight policy for Iron Ore, Discount on loading of bagged consignment in open and flat wagons, Rationalisation of Coal Tariff, Rationalisation of Merry-Go-Round (MGR) system, reduction of minimum distance for charge from 125 km to 100 km, Distance increased for mini rake from 400 km to 600 km etc.


    ii. A number of measures for enhancing ease of doing business have also been taken such as Registration of Demand for wagons electronically, Electronic Transmission of Railway Receipt (eT-RR), Multiple RRs for single container train, Customer friendly rationalization of weighment policy etc.


    iii. To increase rail traffic, Indian Railways have introduced various schemes like Liberalized Wagon Investment Scheme, Special Freight Train Operators Scheme (SFTO), Automobile Freight Train Operator Scheme (AFTO), development of Private Freight Terminals (PFT) and Opening of parcel business in container traffic etc.


    iv. Use of extensive computerization in freight operation to improve monitoring and to improve utilization of assets, Deployment of higher capacity locomotives and higher capacity wagons, Improvement in maintenance practices of wagons and locomotives resulting in increased availability of rolling stock for traffic, Improvement in track and signaling to carry the higher volume of traffic, Training staff and officers to adopt the new technology and management practices.


    v. Two Dedicated Freight Corridors (Western & Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridors) have been taken up to create adequate capacity, which is essential requirement to cater the traffic demand and improve quality of service.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Railways, Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SVS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541054) Visitor Counter : 569