      Ministry of Railways

      Cleanliness and Maintenance of Train Coaches
      Posted On: 01 AUG 2018 5:33PM by PIB Delhi


    Every endeavour is made to keep the coaches in properly maintained and clean condition. However, a few complaints are received and all efforts are made by the Railways to address the complaints.


    Some of the major initiatives taken by Indian Railways towards improvement of cleanliness and maintenance of coaches are as follows:-


    
    (i) Cleaning of coaches of trains at both ends, including mechanized cleaning.


    
    (ii) On Board Housekeeping Service (OBHS) has been provided in more than 1000 pairs of trains including Rajdhani, Shatabdi and other important long distance Mail/Express trains for cleaning of coach toilets, doorways, aisles and passenger compartments during the run of the trains.


    
    (iii) In ‘Clean My Coach’ scheme, for any cleaning requirement in the coach in trains having OBHS service, passenger can send a message through mobile (SMS) on a specified mobile number. Alternatively, passenger can also use an android app or webpage for logging the request.


    
    (iv) ‘Clean My Coach’ service is now being upgraded to ‘Coach Mitra’ facility which is a single window interface to register coach related requirements of passengers such as cleaning, disinfection, linen, train lighting, air conditioning and watering of coaches. ‘Coach Mitra’ facility has been introduced in more than 900 pairs of trains.


    
    (v) Clean Train Station (CTS) scheme has also been prescribed for limited mechanized cleaning attention to identified trains, including cleaning of toilets during their scheduled stoppages enroute at nominated stations.


    
    (vi) Regular maintenance and upkeep of all passenger coaches is carried out as per norms during laid down maintenance schedules at the Coaching depots and Workshops to ensure that they remain in good condition. It is also being ensured that all the safety and amenity fittings including electric fixtures/components in the coaches are in good fettle.


    
    (vii) Watering of all coaches is ensured at both ends and at nominated stations enroute.
    (viii) Provision for dustbins is also being made in sleeper class coaches of trains in addition to AC Coaches.


    
    (ix) Some special measures like running of model rake trains (like Mahamana Express), upgradation of identified Rajdhani / Shatabdi trains to Swarn Standard, running of Hamsafar, Tejas, Antyodaya trains etc. have also been taken to improve travelling experience.


    
    (x) A third party survey for assessment of cleanliness of 210 important trains is presently being carried out.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Railways, Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SVS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541056) Visitor Counter : 355