      Ministry of Education

      Various measures have been taken to improve knowledge of engineering professionals
      Posted On: 02 AUG 2018 5:33PM by PIB Delhi


    With a view to improve the standards of technical knowhow and knowledge of engineering professionals who are graduating from various colleges to enable them to compete at the global level, the following package of measures have been approved by the AICTE:-


    (i). Perspective Plan for Technical Education; (ii). Introduction of Induction programme for engineering students; (iii). Revision of curriculum; (iv). Mandatory internships; (v). Industry readiness by imparting technical and soft skills; (vi). Promoting innovation/start-ups; (vii). Exam reforms; (viii). Training of teachers; (ix). Mandatory accreditation of all the programmes through the National Board of Accreditation before 2022.


    In addition to it, the following steps have also been taken by the Government to enhance the quality of higher education in the Country:


    (i) Study Webs of Active Learning for Young Aspiring Minds (SWAYAM) to develop and make available ‘Massive Online Open Courses (MOOCs)’ to learners throughout the country. Establishment of Research Parks in Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs).


    (ii) Prime Minister Kaushal Vikas Yojna by Technical Institutions (PMKVY-TI) is being implemented through (AICTE) approved colleges during off-college hours to impart unemployed youth, the Engineering Skills and find placement in suitable private sector jobs.


    (iii) Impacting Research Innovation and Technology (IMPRINT) to provide solutions to the most relevant engineering challenges and translating knowledge into viable technology.


    (iv) Uchhatar Avishkar Yojana(UAY) to promote innovation of a higher order that impacts the needs of the Industry and thereby improving the competitive edge of Indian manufacturing.


    (v) Global Initiative for Academics Network (GIAN) to bring together foreign and Indian faculties from the world’s leading academic institutions to teach an academic course that provided the credit to participating institutions.


    (vi) The Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) have organized Graduate Employability workshops based on course curriculum. Further, day long soft skills’ workshops for pre-final and final year students are being conducted for enhancing their technical knowhow.


    (vii) Swayam Prabha is an initiative to provide 32 high quality educational channels through DTH (Direct to Home) across the length and breadth of the country on 24x7 basis.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Rajya Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/YP/AK/RS-1816

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541346) Visitor Counter : 295