      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Scheme of Assistance for Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) Abuse
      Posted On: 07 AUG 2018 5:22PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment implements Central Sector Scheme of ‘Assistance for Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) Abuse’ for identification, counseling, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts through voluntary and other eligible organizations. Under this Scheme, financial assistance is provided to NGOs/Voluntary organizations and other eligible agencies for setting-up/running Integrated Rehabilitation Centre for Addicts (IRCAs).At present the Ministry is supporting 74 IRCAs in Maharashtra and Rs.10.10 crores grant in aid has been released to them during 2017-18.


    As per the norms of the scheme following organizations/institutions shall be eligible for assistance under the Scheme of Assistance for Prevention of Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) Abuse :

     1. A Society registered under the Societies’ Registration Act, 1860 (XXI of 1860) or any relevant Act of the State Governments/ Union Territory Administrations or under any State law relating to the registration of Literary, Scientific and Charitable societies, or
     2. Registered Societies formed by the State Governments.
     3. District Hospitals subject to condition that they maintain separate accounts for de-addiction.
     4. Railway Hospitals near major Railway Stations subject to condition that they maintain separate accounts for de-addiction.
     5. A Public Trust registered under any law for the time being in force, or
     6. A Company established under Section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956; or
     7. Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs), Urban Local Bodies (ULBs), organizations/institutions fully funded or managed by State/ Central Government or a local body; or
     8. Universities, Schools of Social Work, other reputed educational institutions, NYKS, and such other well established organizations/ institutions which may be approved by the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment.

    The proposals of above eligible organizations are forwarded by the State Governments. However, the proposals of NGOs for release of grant in aid are considered in the Ministry only after it is inspected and recommended by the State Government.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Vijay Sampla in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E-3/07-08-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541948) Visitor Counter : 789
    
    
    
    
    

8.