      Ministry of Rural Development

      99% of wage payments electronically credited into worker’s account through Direct Benefit Transfer system to bring more transparency & minimize leakages in MGNREGS
      Posted On: 02 AUG 2018 5:09PM by PIB Delhi


    The details of the expenditure incurred on wages under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) as reported by States/UTs in Management Information System (MIS) during the last three years and current year as on 30.07.2018 is given below:


    The Government has taken steps under MGNREGA from time to time. These include:

     1. Capacity building of functionaries on planning, training of State/ District/ Block level Technical Resource team is taken up under SAKSHAM training programme.
     2. Training of Barefoot Technicians, capacity building of MGNREGA functionaries such as State Technical Resource Team / District Technical Resource Team / Block Technical Resource Team on Mission Water Conservation works, training on Geo-MGNREGA, training to Finance officers of States on preparation of fund proposals etc.

    Complaints of irregularities/ misappropriation of funds in implementation of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) in States/UTs are received in the Ministry from time to time. Since the responsibility of implementation of MGNREGS is vested with the State Governments/UTs, all complaints received in the Ministry and forwarded to the concerned State Governments/UTs for taking appropriate action including investigation, as per law. With a view to bringing in more transparency into the system and to minimize leakages, Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) system in wage payment has been adopted. The Ministry has introduced Electronic Fund Management System (e-FMS) under which 99% (FY 2018-19 as on 30.07.2018) of wage payments are electronically credited into the worker’s account through DBT system. The Government has started National Electronic Fund Management System (Ne-FMS) in 24 States and 1 UT for direct payment of wages into workers’ accounts.


    This information was provided by the Minister of State for Rural Development, Shri Ram Kripal Yadav today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    APS/SNC/AS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1541320) Visitor Counter : 491
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi
    
    
    

2.