      Ministry of Tourism

      ‘Paryatan Parv’ to be organized nationwide from 16th to 27th September, 2018
      
      Tourism Ministry holds a ‘Preparatory Meeting’ with States/UTs on
      Paryatan Parv 2018
      Posted On: 03 AUG 2018 7:12PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Tourism, Government of India in collaboration with other Central Ministries, State Governments and Stakeholders is organizing a “Paryatan Parv” across the country from the 16th to 27th September 2018 . The Ministry under the chairpersonship of Smt. Rashmi Verma, Secretary, Ministry of Tourism convened a ‘Preparatory Meeting’ with representatives from Central Ministries, States/UTs and other stakeholders to plan and formulate the Paryatan Parv in New Delhi today. The Parv is being organized with the objective of drawing focus on the benefits of tourism, showcasing the cultural diversity of the country and reinforcing the principle of “Tourism for All”.


    The Secretary while addressing the meeting, informed that the Paryatan Parv will have three main components as like last year, viz. Dekho Apna Desh, Tourism for All and Tourism & Governance . While stressing that this year also Paryatan Parv shall focus on domestic tourists especially to sensitize youth, the Secretary said that India has a huge variety of destinations many of which are yet to be promoted. The secretary therefore has asked the states to focus on prime tourist destinations to focus and promote such locations through this Paryatan Parv. Smt. Verma also added that the Tourism sector contributes in a big way to the country’s economy with generation of employment to youth, women and also for the rural livelihood. Therefore, the programmes should have a festive look and encourage maximum possible participation of the people, she added.


    The Paryatan Parv will start with the India Tourism Mart 2018 (16 th – 18 th September 2018), which will further ensure wide participation from outside the country. The Paryatan Parv shall conclude with the World Tourism Day celebrations on 27 th September 2018. Partners in the events include the State Governments who will organize cultural and other tourism related events, workshops and seminars at the identified sites as well at other destinations and locations in their States. The States will also provide their broad activities plan for the Parv to the Ministry of Tourism by 30 th August.


    *****


    NB/JP/Tourism/03-08-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541601) Visitor Counter : 1066