      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Violations of Environmental Regulations
      Posted On: 03 AUG 2018 6:41PM by PIB Delhi


    Pointing out that according to an information received from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), there are 441 industries that are not complying the environmental norms, Minister of State for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Mahesh Sharma has said that CPCB has issued show-cause notices to 274 industries and closure directions to 140 non-complying units.


    In a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha here today, Dr. Sharma stated that in view of the increase in air pollution in certain cities, Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change has taken several steps, which inter alia, include issuance of Notification of industry specific emission and effluent standards under the Environment (Protection) Rules; issuance of revised emission/effluent norms for key sectors such as Thermal Power Plants; monitoring of compliance of notified emission/ discharge norms, surprise inspection of highly polluting large and medium units; and online monitoring of effluent and emission from 17 categories of industries for continuous check on pollution levels.


    The Minister said that the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) has formulated National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) for abatement of air pollution in the country. He added that the NCAP is intended to strengthen the ongoing government initiatives targeted towards prevention, control and mitigation of air pollution. He averred that it lays down a comprehensive framework for management of air quality in the country by augmentation of existing air quality monitoring network and devising air quality management plans for non-attainment cities based on detailed source apportionment studies for each city.


    Dr. Sharma pointed out that with a purpose to involve local citizens in combating air pollution, MoEF&CC had launched Harit Diwali in September, 2017 to address the issue of air pollution after Diwali. He emphasized that the air quality after Diwali in 2017 was better than 2016. “Further, to sensitize people of Delhi, a Clean Air Campaign was launched during 10 th February, 2018 to 23 rd February, 2018, which was received well by stakeholders”, the Minister said.


    ***


    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541591) Visitor Counter : 728