      Ministry of Textiles

      Special Package to Boost Export of Textiles
      Posted On: 02 AUG 2018 1:14PM by PIB Delhi


    India has the potential to become one stop sourcing destination for brands and retailers from ASEAN. There are opportunities for textile manufacturers from ASEAN to invest here and cater to domestic market as well as exports because of competitive advantages available in India including availability of raw material, trained man-power and presence of the entire textile value chain. Further, 100% FDI is allowed in the textile sector under automatic route.


    To increase exports of textile and apparel, Government has announced a Special Package for garments and made-ups sectors. The package offers labour law reforms, additional incentives under Amended Technology Upgradation Fund Scheme (ATUFS), enhanced duty drawback coverage and relaxation of Section 80JJAA of Income Tax Act. Further, the rates under Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS) have been enhanced from 2% to 4% for apparel and made-ups from 1 st November 2017.


    Products such as fibre, yarn and fabric in the textile value chain are being strengthened and made competitive through various schemes like Powertex for fabric segment, ATUFS for all segments except spinning and Scheme for Integrated Textile Parks (SITP) for all segments. Government is also providing interest rate subvention for pre and post shipment credit for the textile sector and gives assistance to exporters under Market Access Initiative (MAI) Scheme.


    Further, following steps are being taken by the Government for promoting the export of Handloom and Handicrafts:


     1. Assistance for marketing study, branding, participation in Fairs and Exhibitions, Buyer-Seller Meets in India and abroad etc. through Marketing and other Schemes.


     2. setting up of 8 mega clusters in the country for increasing manufacturing and exports.


     3. providing skill upgradation training to artisans and carpet weavers.


     4. refunding excise and customs duties for importing inputs through Duty Drawback channel.


     5. Providing assistance for manufacturing new and Innovative designs as per need.


     6. Providing modern and improved tools to improve the production technique of artisans.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Textiles, Ajay Tamta, in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    MM/ SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1541247) Visitor Counter : 843
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali
    
    
    

6.