      Ministry of Home Affairs

      MHA Advisory against use of National Flag made of plastic
      
      Calls for strict compliance of ‘Flag Code of India, 2002’ and ‘The Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971’

      Posted On: 13 AUG 2018 5:30PM by PIB Delhi

    Ahead of the Independence Day, the Ministry of Home Affairs has issued an Advisory to the Chief Secretaries/Administrators of all State Governments/UT Administrations, Secretaries of all Ministries / Departments of Govt. of India to ensure strict compliance of the provisions contained in the 'Flag Code of India, 2002' and 'The Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971'. The Advisory reiterates that the National Flag represents the hopes and aspirations of the people of our country and hence should occupy a position of honour. There is universal affection and respect for, and loyalty to, the National Flag. Yet, a perceptible lack of awareness is often noticed amongst people as well as organizations/agencies of the Government in regard to laws, practices and conventions that apply to display of the National Flag. The Advisory directs that mass awareness programmes be carried out in this regard and also give it wide publicity through advertisements in the electronic and print media.


    Further, it has been brought to notice of the MHA that on the occasions of important national, cultural and sports events, the National Flags made of plastic are also being used in place of National Flags made of paper. Since, plastic flags are not easily biodegradable like paper flags, these do not get decomposed for a long time and ensuring appropriate disposal of National Flags made of plastic commensurate with dignity of the flag, is a practical problem. The Advisory asks that on the occasions of important national, cultural and sports events, Flags made of paper only are used by public in terms of the provisions of the 'Flag Code of India, 2002' and such paper Flags are not discarded or thrown on the ground after the event. Such Flags are to be disposed of, in private, consistent with the dignity of the Flag. It is requested to give wide publicity, for not using the National Flag made of plastic, in the electronic and print media.


    A copy each of 'The Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971' and 'Flag Code of India, 2002' which governs display of National Flag, are available on MHA's website ( www.mha.nic.in )at https://mha.gov.in/sites/default/files/nationalFlagEmblemAnthemEng_06082018_0.pdf


    ****


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542889) Visitor Counter : 1241
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali , Tamil