      Department of Space

      Launching of state of art satellites
      Posted On: 09 AUG 2018 3:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has planned to launch more number of state-of-the-art satellites to further enhance operational applications and cater to the needs of emerging applications.


    The details of the state of the art satellites approved for launch till 2019-20 are:

         1. Third generation Cartosat series satellite for very high resolution mapping
         2. Second generation stereo imaging satellite for Digital Elevation Model
         3. Geostationary Imaging Satellite (GISAT) for Earth observation from Geostationary Orbit
         4. Third generation Ocean imaging satellite for ocean colour, sea surface temperature mapping and ocean surface wind vector mapping
         5. Third generation ResourceSat series of satellite with improved spatial resolution and swath
         6. C-band microwave imaging satellite for all weather and day & night imaging
         7. Constellation of high resolution imaging satellites for frequent revisit
         8. Nanosatellite for Aerosol monitoring
         9. Satellite for monitoring chlorophyll fluorescence and radiation environment

    The areas requiring enhancement of operational applications, include monitoring of natural resources, crop acreage estimation & production forecasting, monitoring of surface water spread, potential fishing zone forecasting, near-real time monitoring of disasters, high resolution digital elevation model of the country, infrastructure planning & monitoring, and so on.


    This information was provided by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542206) Visitor Counter : 1127
    
    
    
    
    

9.