      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Health Programmes/Schemes
      Posted On: 10 AUG 2018 6:41PM by PIB Delhi


    Health being a State subject, the Central Government supplements the efforts of the State Governments in delivery of health services through various schemes of primary, secondary and tertiary care. Names of such Central Sector and Centrally Sponsored Schemes of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare are at Annexure. Details of Schemes of States/UTs are not available.


    A nnexure


    List of Central Sector and Centrally Sponsored Schemes


    Central Sector Schemes

     1. Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana
     2. National AIDS and STD Control Programme
     3. Family Welfare Schemes
     4. Establishment and strengthening of NCDC Branches and Health Initiatives, Inter Sectoral co-ordination for preparation and control of Zoonotic Diseases and other neglected tropical diseases, Surveillance of Viral Hepatitis, Anti Microbial Resistance
     5. National Pharmacovigilance Programme
     6. Development of Nursing Services
     7. Health Sector Disaster Preparedness and Response and Human Resources Development for Emergency Medical Services
     8. National Organ Transplant Programme
     9. Impacting Research Innovation and Technology (IMPRINT) Scheme.
    10. Swachhta Action Plan (SAP)

    Centrally Sponsored Schemes :

     1. National Health Mission (NHM)
     1. National Rural Health Mission (NRHM):
     1. RCH Flexible Pool including Routine Immunization Programme, Pulse Polio Immunization Programme, National Iodine Deficiency Disorders Control Programme etc.
     2. Health Systems Strengthening under NRHM
     3. Flexible Pool for Communicable Diseases
     4. Flexible Pool for Non-Communicable Diseases, Injury and Trauma
     5. Infrastructure Maintenance
     6. Forward linkages to NRHM
     7. Strengthening of State Drug Regulatory System
     8. Pilot Schemes(Sports medicine, Deafness, Leptospirosis Control, Control of Human Rabies, Medical Rehabilitation, Oral Health, Fluorosis)
     9. Human Resources for Health
    10. Prime Minister’s Development Plan for Jammu & Kashmir
    11. Strengthening National Porgramme Management of the NRHM

     1. National Urban Health Mission


     1. Tertiary care Programmes:

     1. National Mental Health Programme
     2. Capacity Building for Trauma Centres
     3. National Programme for prevention and control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardio-vascular Diseases and Stroke
     4. National Programme for Health Care for the Elderly
     5. National Programme for Control of Blindness
     6. Telemedicine
     7. Tobacco Control Programme and Drug De-addiction Programme
     1. Human Resources for Health and Medical Education
     1. Upgradation /Strengthening of Nursing Services (ANM/GNM)
     2. Strengthening /Upgradation of Pharmacy School/College
     3. District Hospital – Upgradation of State Government Medical Colleges(PG seats)
     4. Strengthening Government Medical Colleges(UG seats) and Central Government Health Institutions
     5. Establishing New Medical Colleges(upgrading District Hospitals)
     6. Setting up of State Institutions of Para-medical Sciences in States and Setting up of College of Para-medical Education.
     1. Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana

    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Smt Anupriya Patel stated this in a written reply in the Lok Sabha here today.


    ***


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542736) Visitor Counter : 1229
    
    
    
    
    

1.