      Ministry of Rural Development

      Representatives of ’Citizens of Justice’ present a report on incident in Khunti, Jharkhand to the Union Minister of Rural Development, Panchayati Raj and Mines, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar
      Posted On: 10 AUG 2018 7:21PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of Rural Development, Panchayati Raj and Mines, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar met with the Fact Finding Team representing the ‘Citizens for Justice’ who presented a report on the Rape incident in Khunti, Jharkhand. The team had visited the Maoist infested district of Khunti in Jharkhand to make an on the spot inquiry into the incidents of abduction and rape of five women in broad daylight on 19 th June, 2018. The team had visited the district in two phases on 26 th and 27 th June and again on 20 th to 22 nd June 2018. Besides making aspot enquiry the Team Members made an in depth study of the legal and socio-economic aspects of the issues involved.


    The Team has made the following suggestions to initiate developmental programmes and simultaneously gear up the law and order machinery, so that the anti-national and divisive forces do not exploit the lack of education of the poor people who are predominantly tribal ethnically.

     1. Spread of free education up to the Higher Secondary level has to be taken up on priority level to enlighten the villagers on their rights and duties.
     2. Volunteer Organizations delinked from any religion as such but totally dedicated in the field of mass education may be encouraged to build and manage schools in the area with full financial backing by the Government.
     3. So far as medical amenities are concerned, besides working Government Hospitals, reputed Volunteer Organizations may also be encouraged for mobile hospital, vaccination and supply of nutrition food.
     4. Timely monitoring through periodic survey and holding of seminars to encourage participative management among villagers has to be undertaken.
     5. Proper communications by building roads connecting the villages has to be undertaken by the Government. Construction of rural roads can be given to the Panchayats.
     6. Rural policing can be done by allowing volunteers for guarding the villagers accompanying regular Police constables.
     7. Job opportunities directly connected with forest products and its various commercial use can be encouraged by financing for Panchayat level Industries.
     8. Poultry farming, promotion of dairy farming, fisheries and cooperative farming and marketing, sericulture and weaving can be encouraged among educated villagers which will go a long way in empowerment of the rural population.
     9. While giving priority to the economic development of the rural population strict implementation of law and prevention of anti-national activities can also be geared up.
    10. The Jharkhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2017 has to be strictly implemented by the District Administration.

    The Union Minister of Rural Development, Panchayati Raj and Mines Shri Narendra Singh Tomar was briefed about the Fact Finding Report by Shri Ashok Sahu of ‘’Citizens of Justice‘’and the Union Minister assured him that suitable action will be taken based on the findings and suggestions provided to him.


    *****


    APS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542761) Visitor Counter : 306
    
    
    
    
    

10.