      Ministry of Railways

      Mechanised Cleaning System in Railways
      Posted On: 09 AUG 2018 3:16PM by PIB Delhi


    One of the initiatives taken to maintain cleanliness standard at station premises is introduction of mechanized cleaning at major stations over Indian Railways. The mechanized cleaning system is used for comprehensive cleaning of all platforms, circulating area, foot over bridges, retiring rooms, waiting rooms etc. in the stations premises where conducive surface like tiles/kota stone is available.


    The station cleaning activities are carried out through mechanized means by using high pressure water jets, mechanised floor scrubber, flippers, Battery Operated Push /Ride on Scrubber, High Pressure Jet, Wet & Dry vacuum cleaner etc. along with the requisite manpower. The activity is outsourced to professional agencies to maintain high standard of cleanliness on the Railway station and its premises.


    In order to have effective waste disposal system, concrete washable aprons on platform tracks with jet cleaning arrangements are provided at important stations where long distance trains stop in the morning hours, to facilitate cleaning of night soil by washing into side drains and its subsequent discharge away from stations.


    Regular inspections are conducted by various officials at the Railway stations to monitor cleanliness and also to identify weak areas to take remedial measures. Cleanliness Drives are launched from time to time particularly during rush seasons to have wider monitoring. Use of CCTVs has been extended for monitoring of cleanliness activities at major stations. Under ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’ special emphasis is given on clean and Hygienic toilets, public awareness and periodic drives.


    Enforcement of Indian Railways (Penalties for activities affecting cleanliness at railway premises) Rules, 2012 has been intensified. Third party audit and ranking of stations on cleanliness is also carried out annually in order to give status check feedback and install healthy competition. This is done at 407 major A1 & A category stations.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Railways, Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SVS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542192) Visitor Counter : 487
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali