      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Schemes for North-Eastern region
      Posted On: 09 AUG 2018 3:45PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) has made the following schemes for the development of North-Eastern region during the last three years:-


     1. North East Special Infrastructure Development Scheme (NESIDS)


    The Government has approved a scheme named North East Special Infrastructure Development Scheme (NESIDS) for development of North-Eastern region to be implemented by the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER). It is a 100% Central Sector Scheme to be implemented till March 2020. A sum of Rs.1600 crore has been allocated for funding physical infrastructure relating to connectivity, power, water supply enhancing tourism and social Infrastructure relating to education and health sectors in North Eastern States. The projects related to the above mentioned sectors proposed by the State Governments in North East are being considered, in consultation with the respective line Ministries. Till date, 6 (six) projects costing Rs.272.31 crore have been recommended for sanction for North Eastern States under this scheme.

     1. Schemes of North Eastern Council (NEC) and North East Road Sector Development Scheme (NERSDS)

    The Government has also approved schemes of North Eastern Council (NEC) and North East Road Sector Development Scheme (NERSDS) at a total cost of Rs.4500 crore for 3 years i.e. 2017-18 to 2019-20. Under NERSDS, 3 (three) projects have been taken up and 1 (one) has been completed while 2 (two) are ongoing.


     1. North East Venture Fund (NEVF)


    North Eastern Development Finance Corporation Ltd. (NEDFi) under the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) has set up the North East Venture Fund (NEVF) for North East Region. The capital commitment to the fund is Rs.100.00 crore with an initial contribution of Rs.75.00 crore consisting of Rs.45.00 crore from Ministry of DoNER and Rs.30.00 crore from NEDFi. The balance fund of Rs.25.00 crore has been committed by Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) in-principle. The proposals are considered by the NEVF. For investment decisions, an Independent Investment Committee is formed, comprising of experts from the field of venture capital financing, banking, technocrats and representatives of investors, which regularly monitor the implementation of the projects. So far, the NEVF has approved eight proposals for start ups in various sectors ranging from health to media with an investment commitment of Rs.1092.5 lakh.


     1. Science & Technology Interventions in the North East Region (STINER)


    STINER aims to bring relevant technologies developed by the academic, scientific and research institutions to the artisans and farmers especially women. The Ministry has sanctioned funds to disseminate some identified technologies developed by IITs such as Feed block machine; Eri-Cocoon opener; Hank to bobbin winding machine; Chaff Cutter; Dryer; Potter’s wheel; Puffed Rice making machine and Fish cage structure.


    This information was provided by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh in written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    BB/PK/NK/KGS/ 2564

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542207) Visitor Counter : 742
    
    
    
    
    

1.