      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Plantable & Eco-Friendly Rakhis from Tribes India
      Posted On: 10 AUG 2018 6:06PM by PIB Delhi


    Eco-friendly Rakhis are being sold by TRIFED, an autonomous organisation under Ministry of Tribal Affairs. The product has been made available on banner of Tribes India at all its retail outlets and e-commerce portals including tribesindia.com, Amazon, Snapdeal, PayTM and Flipkart. Besides, ethnic clothing meant for Rakshabandhan are also on sale at the specially created ‘Rakhi Counters’ at all outlets and e-commerce portals.


    “Let us tie this bond of responsibility and care towards our environment too by indulging in eco- friendly plantable rachis”, is the theme of Trifed for festival of Rakhi this year. Each product has been handcrafted from cloth and seed paper with a perfect blend of traditional workmanship and modern aesthetics. Seed Paper is handcrafted by Sahariya Tribal women of Orchha in the state of Madhya Pradesh and contains seeds of Tulsi, Marigold etc.


    Plantable Rakhi Kits are also on sale comprising of 1 plantable pencil (lupin flower), 1 plantable letter (tomato) and round paper boxes for Roli and Chawal.


    TRIFED is using the occasion of Rakhi to send a strong message of eco-friendliness and encouraging proximity to nature by promoting plantation of trees and flowers with the help of seed paper prepared by tribal women.


    Rakhis from other tribal communities have also been sourced this year enhancing the skills of our artisans empowering them to develop new products. This year rakhis have also been made by tribal women of Kinnaura tribe from Manali in Himachal Pradesh who have been making and supplying Himachal Tribal jewellery to Tribes India. They have modified style of jewellery into rakhis.


    Indira Swayam Sahayata Samuh based in Neemuch, Madhya Pradesh, has a long history with Trifed & Tribes India. Ever since the early days both the organizations have been in a symbiotic relationship of give and take. The organization has Bhil tribal women working on bead work jewellery. They have also developed Rakhis which are being sold on various plaftforms of TRIFED.


    Using this festive opportunity for livelihood generation to empower the Tribal communities working in craft sector by developing festive wear clothing and other decorative items used in these times of celebrations in the households is an effort made by Trifed this year.


    *****


    NB/RN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542687) Visitor Counter : 995