      Ministry of Finance

      To enhance their skills and keep pace with the changes in the World Global Environment, the Department of Expenditure takes the lead role in the capacity building of Financial Advisers
      Posted On: 10 AUG 2018 6:48PM by PIB Delhi


    In an increasingly complex and uncertain global environment, many countries in both the developed and developing world are making important and impressive achievements in strengthening the Public Financial Management and Governance. Having felt the need to keep pace with the changes in the global economic environment and the need for enhanced skill sets for the Financial Advisers (FAs) and other Middle Management Officers handling finance work in the Central Ministries/Departments, the Department of Expenditure under the Ministry of Finance is taking the lead role in the capacity building of these officers. A 12-days customised Training Programme having both domestic and foreign component has been developed to expose the officers in the latest trends on the Public Finance Management. The domestic component will be held in the National Institute of Financial Management (NIFM), Faridabad and the foreign component will be held at Sanford School of Public Policy, Duke University.


    The Financial Adviser in the Ministry/Department plays a crucial role in successful planning and implementation of various schemes and projects and is tasked with specific responsibilities of ensuring fiscal prudence and sound financial management within the overall policy and regulatory framework of the Government. Capacity building and enhancement of the skill set of the officers is sine non qua for good governance. The training will be conducted in two batches while the training of the First Batch is already underway from 6 th August 2018, the training of the Second Batch will begin from 27 th August 2018. The structure of the training has been designed in such a manner that between the domestic component and foreign component, there will be days where the officers will attend office to ensure that there is a harmonious alignment of work and training needs.


    20 Financial Advisers out of total 32 Financial Advisers have been nominated for the aforesaid Training Programme - 8 in the First Batch and 12 in the Second Batch. Besides it, proper arrangements of link charges have been made, ensuring that work of the officer in training is looked after by another so that overall work is not affected at all.


    ****


    DSM/KA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542739) Visitor Counter : 262