      Ministry of Railways

      Ministry of Railways Signs Record of Discussion for India Japan Cooperation in Rail Safety
      Posted On: 14 AUG 2018 3:43PM by PIB Delhi


    Record of Discussion (ROD) for the project on Capacity Development on Rail Safety was signed between Ministry of Railways and Japan International Cooperation Agency today by Shri S. K. Mishra, Principal Executive Director, Railway Board and Mr. Katsuo Matsumoto, Chief Representative, Japan International Cooperation Agency in the presence of officials of Railway Board, Department of Economic Affairs and Japan International Cooperation. The ROD is formalization of the agreement reached between Ministry of Railways, India with Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT), Japan through an Memorandum of Cooperation (MOC) signed on 17 th February, 2017 to work jointly and cooperate on improving railway safety on Indian Railways. The ROD sets out the activities to be undertaken under the programme with a clear focus on maintenance of track (welding, rail inspection, track circuit etc) and rolling stock.


    A great deal of meticulous work was put in by both sides to finalize the programme. ToR Missions from Japan comprising representatives of Japan’s MLIT, Railway Technical Research Institute, East Japan Railway Company (JR East), West Japan Railway Company (JR West) and Indian Railway Freight (IR Freight) visited India thrice between August and November, 2017 for this purpose. It was agreed that Northern Railway and Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL) shall be the recipients under the cooperation programme. The Japanese team would work closely with DFCCIL and Northern Railway’s safety, civil engineering and rolling stock teams. Thereafter, 60 technical personnel from India would receive first-hand training in Japan. DFCCIL has been included in the safety project so that the company can use the know-how right from the inception of its operation which is targeted in current year and next.


    The programme will continue for two years and is expected to yield tangible benefits in the areas of safety management and upgradation of technical skills of Indian Railways front line maintenance staff.


    *****


    SVS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542966) Visitor Counter : 325
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali