      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      “PARIVESH” – an environmental single window hub for Environment, Forest, Wildlife and CRZ clearances launched
      Posted On: 10 AUG 2018 4:14PM by PIB Delhi


    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, launched PARIVESH ( P ro- A ctive and R esponsive facilitation by I nteractive, V irtuous and E nvironmental S ingle-window H ub) on the occasion of World Biofuel Day, here today. PARIVESH is a Single-Window Integrated Environmental Management System, developed in pursuance of the spirit of ‘Digital India’ initiated by the Prime Minister and capturing the essence of Minimum Government and Maximum Governance.


    In a series of tweets, Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan highlighted that PARIVESH automates the entire process of submitting the application and tracking the status of such proposals at each stage of processing. Dr. Vardhan emphasised that with the launch of PARIVESH, the vision of the Prime Minister for E-Governance and enhancing Ease of Doing Responsible Business is being translated into action by MoEF&CC. He said that with PARIVESH, MoEFCC has become more of a facilitator, than a regulator. The Minister said that “PARIVESH” is a workflow based application, based on the concept of web architecture. He pointed out that it has been rolled out for online submission, monitoring and management of proposals submitted by Project Proponents to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MOEFCC), as well as to the State Level Environmental Impact Assessment Authorities (SEIAA), to seek various types of clearances (e.g. Environment, Forest, Wildlife and Coastal Regulation Zone Clearances) from Central, State and district-level authorities. He said that the system has been designed, developed and hosted by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, with technical support from National Informatics Centre, (NIC), New Delhi.


    The Minister said that the main highlights of PARIVESH include - single registration and single sign-in for all types of clearances (i.e. Environment, Forest, Wildlife and CRZ), unique-ID for all types of clearances required for a particular project and a single Window interface for the proponent to submit applications for getting all types of clearances (i.e. Environment, Forests, Wildlife and CRZ clearances). Highlighting that PARIVESH offers a framework to generate economic growth and strengthens Sustainable Development through EGovernance, he also stated that with automatic highlighting of non-compliance by the system, PARIVESH helps in improving the overall performance and efficiency of the whole appraisal process.


    The Minister highlighted that PARIVESH also helps the processing authorities, as it has a Single Window System for Central, State and District level clearances, auto-generation of agenda (based on first come, first served principle), minutes of the meetings and online generation of approval letters , resulting in ease and uniformity in processing of clearance applications, o nline submission and monitoring of compliance reports including geo-tagged images of the site by regulatory body / inspecting officers even through the Mobile App for enhanced compliance monitoring. He added that the facility of Geographic Information System (GIS) interface for the Appraisal Committee will help them in analyzing the proposal efficiently, automatic alerts (via SMS and emails) at important stages to the concerned officers, committee members and higher authorities to check the delays, if any. “PARIVESH enables project proponents, citizens to view, track and interact with scrutiny officers, generates online clearance letters, online mailers and alerts to state functionaries in case of delays beyond stipulated time for processing of applications ”, Dr. Harsh Vardhan said.


    “Parivesh” can be accessed at - https://parivesh.nic.in . For wider campaign of this facility, 10 lakh SMSes and e-mails were sent through NIC, My Gov and CII.


    ***


    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542607) Visitor Counter : 1665
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi