      Ministry of Railways

      Improvement of safety features and passengers amenities in train coaches
      Posted On: 10 AUG 2018 3:43PM by PIB Delhi


    It is a continual endeavour of Indian Railways (IR) to improve safety features and passenger amenities in train coaches. Some of the measures undertaken recently in this regard are:

     1. New premium services and coaches: Various premium services like Humsafar, Tejas, Antyodaya, UDAY, Mahamana, Gatimaan and coaches like Deen Dayalu and Anubhuti, which have improved passenger amenities, have been introduced in service.

     1. Project Swarn: IR has launched Project Swarn with the objective of significantly improving the passenger experience in premium train services. In total, 14 Rajdhani and 15 Shatabdi trains will be covered. Work in 12 Rajdhani and 14 Shatabdi trains has already been completed.


     1. Project Utkrisht: Two rakes of Shan-e-Bhopal Express (Train No.12155/12156) have been upgraded at division level. Upgradation of 140 rakes in divisions on lines of Shan-e-Bhopal Express has been taken up from 2018-19 onwards under Project Utkrisht.


     1. Proliferation of Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches: IR has decided to proliferate Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB coaches), which are technologically superior and have better riding, aesthetics and safety features. The manufacture of coaches of LHB coaches over the last 3 years has been increased. It has been decided that the Production Units of IR would be manufacturing only LHB coaches from the year 2018-19 onwards.


     1. Fire retardancy in coaches: It is a continual endeavour of IR to improve fire retardancy in coaches by providing fire retardant furnishing materials in coaches. A parameter called Heat Release Rate has been added in the material specification of all major interior furnishing materials as per latest European norms, in order to improve fire safety in coaches.


     1. Safety in newly manufactured coaches: Instructions have been issued to Production Units for provision of following in all newly manufactured coaches:


     1. Fire detection and suppression system in all newly manufactured Power Cars and Pantry Cars.

     1. Fire and Smoke detection system in all newly manufactured Air-Conditioned (AC) coaches.

     1. Fire extinguishers in all newly manufactured non-AC coaches (in addition to AC coaches).


     1. Provision of Double Acting doors in all newly manufactured AC coaches.


     1. Safety in existing coaches: Steps have been taken to improve safety features in existing coaches also. In this direction, safety features like fire & smoke detection system, fire detection and suppression system and fire extinguishers in non-AC coaches and Double Acting doors in AC coaches will be provided on identified class of coaches in a progressive manner.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Railways, Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    SVS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542588) Visitor Counter : 469
    
    
    
    
    

1.