      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister visits the flood affected areas of Kerala
      
      Shri Rajnath Singh assures all possible assistance to the State Government to cope with the situation

      Posted On: 12 AUG 2018 8:11PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh, accompanied by Shri K.J. Alphons, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Tourism, Director General, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Shri Sanjay Kumar and senior officers from the Ministry of Home Affairs, visited the flood/landslide affected areas of Kerala today.


    Shri Rajnath Singh also carried out aerial survey of the affected areas of Adimali, Aluva and ParavurTaluk as well as the Cheruthoni-Idukki dam and immediate areas downstream and reviewed the search, rescue and relief measures taken by the State Government and other Central Government agencies with the Chief Minister Shri Pinarayi Vijayan, Ministers of the State Government, Chief Secretary, Director General of Police and other senior officers of the Central Agencies and State administration.


    The Ministers also visited relief camp and met the affected people living in the relief camps. Based on aerial survey, field visit and interaction with the affected people, Shri Rajnath Singh expressed his satisfaction on the arrangements made by the State administration in managing the unprecedented floods/landslides in the State and in providing basic amenities, including food, water and medical service etc. in the rescue and relief camps.


    The Chief Minister thanked the Central Government for deploying 14 teams of NDRF and adequate resources of Defence Forces for search, rescue and assisting the administration in relief distribution. Union Home Minister assured State Government to provide additional teams of NDRF and other assets of Air Force, Navy, Army and Coast Guard, if any need is felt by the State Government.


    Shri Rajnath Singh announced that the Central Government has already released an assistance of Rs 80.25 crore as Second Installment of Central share under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). With a view to assist State Government, the Union Home Minister also announced release of Rs 100 crore in advance from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF).


    He also informed that based on the Memorandum received from the State Government, an Inter-Ministerial Centre Team (IMCT) has already been deputed and is currently visiting the affected areas in the State for assessment of losses and the Government of India will consider providing additional relief from NDRF as per norms on priority.


    Briefing the media Shri Rajnath Singh expressed concern over the loss of human lives and damage caused to the crop. He assured that the Central Government will continue to provide all possible assistance to the State Government to cope with the flood situation.


    During the current South-West monsoon season, various parts of the State of Kerala have been affected by heavy rains/rain oriented calamities of varying degrees. 14 teams of NDRF consisting of 404 rescuers and 31 boats are already deployed in the worst affected districts viz. Thrissur, Ernakkulam, Kozhikode, Idukki, Wayanad and Alapuzha to assist the State administration in the relief and rescue operation as well as distribution of essential relief material and to provide medical support to affected people at the time of emergency.


    In addition to adequate number of column of Army, Navy and Coast Guard, helicopters of Indian Air Force, Navy & Coast Guard are also deployed in the State for assisting State administration in lifting and dropping of essential commodities.


    ***


    BB/NK/PK/KGS/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542824) Visitor Counter : 317
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu