      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog launches “Pitch to MOVE”
      
      Mobility Pitch competition for budding startups in the mobility field
      
      Winners to be felicitated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister during MOVE: TheGlobal Mobility Summit 2018
      Posted On: 14 AUG 2018 2:21PM by PIB Delhi


    NITI Aayog has launched “Pitch to MOVE” - a mobility pitch competition that aims to provide budding entrepreneurs of India a unique opportunity to pitch their business ideas to a distinguished jury. Startups working in the various fields of mobility can pitch their ideas to industry leaders and Venture Capitalists for raising investments. Winners of the event will be felicitated by Hon’ble PM during the Global Mobility Summit.


    "Pitch to MOVE aims to identify and incentivise the startups, which will help the Government realize its vision of Shared, Connected, Intermodal and Environment Friendly Mobility for India. The objective is to harness the latest disruption for generating employment and growth in our country. We look forward to working together with these startups", said Dr. Rajiv Kumar, Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog.


    The importance of mobility as the potential driver of innovation, job creation, economic growth and social change for the 21 st century is highlighted time and again. With rapidly evolving technologies and business models for delivering mobility services, our goal of cleaner and more efficient mobility systems will be achieved with the help of the dynamic entrepreneurial class of India.


    Commenting on the launch, Mr. Amitabh Kant, CEO NITI Aayog noted that “Pitch to MOVE” provides a golden opportunity for early and late startups to push their ideas to reality.


    About “Pitch to MOVE”


    “Pitch to MOVE” is organised by NITI Aayog in collaboration with Invest India and Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) as a part of a series of engaging featured events in the run up to the main event. The Summit is scheduled to be held on 7 th and 8 th Sep 2018 at Vigyan Bhawan, in New Delhi and is being inaugurated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India.


    The competition aims to identify and reward the start-ups offering innovative solutions for shared, connected, and environment friendly mobility. The Startups can be from the domain of Public Mobility, Electric Vehicles, Shared Transport, Last Mile Connectivity, Passenger Transportation, Battery Technology, Automotive IoT, Freight & Logistics, Powertrain/Drivetrain, Experiential, Travel, Mobility Infrastructure and Automotive Electronics etc. The Mobility Pitch Competition is open to primarily startups from various parts of India who are interested in showcasing their business ideas to jury members.


    The event is planned in two rounds


    Round 1: Call for Applications

      * From 12 th August 2018 to 23 rd August 2018
      * Interested participants to fill out a detailed application about their startup on the website ( http://mobilitypitch.movesummit.in/ ). The applications will be screened by experts from the industry and selected candidates will be called for the next round.

    Round 2: The Final Pitch

      * On 4 th September 2018 in New Delhi
      * The participants selected in Round 1 will be called to pitch in front of a Jury in New Delhi. Participants will be judged on various parameters and finally 3 startups will be chosen as winners.

    The winners of the mobility pitch will receive support from the VCs and additionally have the opportunity to be felicitated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister on the 8 th September 2018 during the Valedictory session of MOVE Summit.


    For last date of submissions for the event is 23 rd August, 2018 and for more details visit http://mobilitypitch.movesummit.in


    *****


    AKT/RKC/SBP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1542958) Visitor Counter : 2758
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi
    
    
    

*