      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog will host Investors’ Conference to attract investments for the development of eco-tourism on PPP basis in Andaman & Nicobar, and Lakshadweep Islands.
      Posted On: 09 AUG 2018 2:52PM by PIB Delhi


    NITI Aayog will host an Investors’ Conference on August 10, 2018 at Pravasi Bharatiya Kendra for the Holistic Development of Islands. The Conference will be inaugurated by Shri. Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog. It will attract investment for the sustainable development of eco-tourism projects in Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshadweep islands.


    The 11 anchor tourism projects are proposed to be implemented with private sector participation under suitable risk-sharing model and through open-competitive bidding. NITI Aayog, along with the respective UT Administration is organizing an Investors’ Conference on 10 th August, 2018, with stakeholders.


    Sustainable development of islands and overall maritime development has been accorded high priority by the Government. Island Development Agency (IDA) an apex body, under the chairmanship of Hon’ble Home Minister, was constituted in June 2017, while NITI Aayog has been mandated to steer the Holistic Development of Islands program, along with the respective UT administration/ State Governments. Under the said program in the first phase 10 Islands in Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshadweep have been taken up for holistic development.


    The said anchor tourism projects have been identified on Government owned land in Smith, Aves, Long, Neil & Little Andaman Islands of Andaman & Nicobar, and in Kadmat, Suheli & Minicoy islands of Lakshadweep. Out of these 11 projects, 7 (4 in Andaman & Nicobar and 3 in Lakshadweep) are in “Ready to Launch” stage. Detailed land survey & demarcation of project sites, carrying capacity assessment of the project islands, CRZ application and pre-feasibility study have been undertaken.


    ***


    AKT/RKC/SBP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1542186) Visitor Counter : 451
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali