      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister to visit the flood affected areas of Kerala tomorrow
      
      14 NDRF teams deployed; seven rescued, 398 others and 12 livestock evacuated

      Posted On: 11 AUG 2018 6:48PM by PIB Delhi

    In view of recent heavy rainfall and landslides incidents in Kerala, the Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh, accompanied by Shri K.J. Alphons, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Tourism and senior officer from the Ministry of Home Affairs will visit flood/landslides affected areas tomorrow. He will carry out Aerial survey of the flood and landslides affected areas and review the search, rescue and relief measures taken by the State Government and other Central Government agencies with the Chief Minister, Ministers of the State Government, Chief Secretary and other senior officers of the Central Agencies and State administration.


    During the current South-West monsoon season, various parts of the State of Kerala reported to have been affected by heavy rains/rain oriented calamities of varying degrees. 14 teams of NDRF consisting of 404 rescuers and 31 boats are already deployed in various parts of flood hit districts viz. Thrissur, Ernakulam, Alappuzha, Wayand, Kozhikode and Idukki to assist the State administration in the relief and rescue operation as well as distribution of essential relief material and to provide medical support to affected people at the time of emergency. So far, NDRF teams have rescued seven people and evacuated 398 others and 12 livestock.


    In view of possible inundation, NDRF teams are kept on standby in vulnerable locations and keeping close vigil over the development of situation. Additional teams are also kept as standby at nearest NDRF battalion, Arrakonnam and shall be mobilised, if required. Director General, NDRF is supervising the ongoing rescue operations.


    Besides the NDRF, adequate columns of Army, Navy and Coast Guard, Helicopters of Indian Air Force, Navy & Coast Guard are deployed in the State for assisting State administration in lifting and dropping of essential commodities.


    ***


    BB/NK/PK/KGS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1542799) Visitor Counter : 651