      Ministry of Finance

      DRI busted Foreign Currency Smuggling Racket involving Foreign Nationals; Foreign Currencies worth Rs. 6.14 crore seized.
      Posted On: 08 AUG 2018 5:34PM by PIB Delhi


    Acting upon a specific input, the officers of Delhi Zonal Unit of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Department of Revenue, Government of India has intercepted seven foreign nationals at the Departure Hall of T-3, IGI Airport, New Delhi and seized a huge amount of foreign currency from them. The recovery of foreign currency was made from their Checked-in Baggage of these foreign nationals, who were going to board a Flight to Hong Kong on intervening night of 5 th and 6 th August, 2018. The Indian accomplice of this Smuggling Syndicate was also tracked down and intercepted.


    The seized foreign currency was found in the luggage tightly wrapped in towels in a manner to escape detection by the agencies at the Airport. All the currencies were in the denomination of USD 100. A total of around USD 8.90 Lacs was sized having market value approx. INR 6.14 Crore.


    The Investigation so far has revealed that this syndicate involves foreign nationals and Indian nationals stationed at Hong Kong and India. The mastermind of the syndicate is sitting in the Hong Kong, who arranged carriers and sent them to India with gold bars through concealment. In India, a person used to collect the gold and give foreign currency in return which used to be smuggled-out of India back to Hong Kong. It was further revealed in the investigations that the syndicate never repeat the carriers to avoid attention of the Customs in India. In past also, DRI, has nabbed several foreign nationals involved in the smuggling of various contraband items like gold, foreign currency and Arms etc.


    All the eight persons were placed under arrest. Further investigation in this case is under progress.


    ****


    DSM/KA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1542107) Visitor Counter : 735
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali