      Vice President's Secretariat

      Let us all work for more stable, inclusive development of India: Vice President
      
      Woman empowerment is important and we should provide every opportunity to women
      
      Protect Nature and Culture together for better future;
      
      Participates in Sawan Teez Festival celebrations
      Posted On: 11 AUG 2018 7:24PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu said that let us all work for more stable, inclusive development of India. He was addressing the gathering at the Sawan Teez Festival celebrations organized by the Delhi Study Group, here today. The Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Statistics & Programme Implementation, Shri Vijay Goel, the President, Delhi Study Group, Shri Vijay Jolly and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President said that share and care is the core philosophy of India and every person must contribute in preserving and protecting the best aspects of traditions and cultures. We have to protect nature along with culture for better future, he added.


    The Vice President said that festivals like Teez teach us to live with the nature. He further said that Living and Loving the nature and protecting our culture are key aspects of our philosophy. We must harmoniously live with nature for a better future, he added.


    The Vice President said that the extraordinary occasion of Teez must be celebrated by recognizing the achievements of our daughters and sisters. He further said that the society should not lay burden of the stereotypes on them and allow them to progress at par with others. Woman empowerment is important and we should provide every opportunity to women for their betterment, he added.


    The Vice President called on the parents of girl children to help them revitalize their talent and support them in their endeavors. Save the daughter, teach the daughter, enable the daughter to be able and enriched, this is the significance of this great festival, he added.


    The Vice President said that India has a great tradition and culture that gives highest place for women and women power is worshiped and respected in India. Expressing concern over the incidents of violence against women, he said that inhuman acts against women are like betrayal against our own traditions and customs. It appears as if we were distracted by our own excellent traditions, he added.


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1542801) Visitor Counter : 575
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu