      Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA)

      Cabinet approves release of pulses procured from farmers under Price Support Scheme to States with Central Subsidy of Rs. 15 per Kg for utilization under Welfare Schemes
      Posted On: 09 AUG 2018 5:03PM by PIB Delhi


    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has approved the release of pulses to States/UTs at discounted rate to be utilized for various Welfare Schemes from the stock of pulses procured under Price Support Schemes (PSS).


    Impact:


    The decision will enable the States/UTs to use pulses in various Welfare Schemes like PDS, Mid-Day Meal Scheme etc. besides making available the warehouses, which may be required in coming Kharif season for storage of commodities procured under Price Support Scheme.


    Details:


    Under this approved Scheme, the States/UT Governments are offered to lift 34.88 lakh MT of Tur, Chana, Masoor, Moong and Urad at discount of Rs.15 per Kg over the prevailing wholesale market price of the sourcing state on First come first serve basis. The State/UTs Governments utilize these pulses in their various Welfare Schemes/Programmes like Mid-Day Meal, Public Distribution System, Integrated Child Development Programmes (ICDP) etc. This will be one-time dispensation for a period of 12 months or complete disposal of 34.88 lakh MT of pulses stock whichever is earlier. Government will spend Rs. 5,237 crore for implementation of this Scheme.


    Background:


    Country has witnessed all time high production of pulses during the last 2 years. Government of India under Price Support Scheme has made record procurement of pulses during Kharif 2017 and Rabi 2018 marketing season. A record procurement of 45.43 lakh MT of pulses has been done under Price Support Scheme. In the coming Kharif season the production of pulses is expected to be good. This coupled with increase in Minimum Support Price will require additional procurement under Price Support Scheme.


    ****


    AKT/SH


    

    
    (Release ID: 1542259) Visitor Counter : 1401
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil