      Ministry of Defence

      Flag In of Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan Car Cum Bike Rally
      Posted On: 23 AUG 2018 4:42PM by PIB Delhi


    A Car cum Bike Rally was organised by Headquarters Western Air Command, IAF from New Delhi to Thoise from 10-23 Aug 18. The rally was flagged off by Air Marshal NJS Dhillon AVSM, Senior Air Staff Officer, Western Air Command New Delhi on 10 Aug 18.The objective of the rally was to promote the Prime Minister’s noble mission of ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’ amongst tourists and locals enroute.


    The team consisting of 12 air warriors was led by Air Vice Marshal AK Singh AVSM VSM, Senior Officer in-charge Administration, Western Air Command. During the span of 15 days, the team travelled from Delhi to Thoise and arrived at New Delhi on 23 Aug 18, a distance of approx 3200 Kms were covered during the journey. The rally had traversed through Ambala, Manali, Jispa and Leh enroute to its final destination at Thoise and back to Delhi via Drass, Kargil, Srinagar, Udhampur and Ambala. Due to unprecedented rainfall and inclement weather condition on Manali-Leh axis, the team had faced great challenges enroute but that did not deter their spirit.


    During their journey, the team carried out ‘Swachhta’ Campaigns at Kullu, Manali, Leh, Thoise, Khardungla and Rohtang in order to make the general public aware of the importance of cleanliness. The team also interacted with local populace and tourists, distributed dustbins, pamphlets and installed banners at prominent tourist places. “ At places we helped out tourists whose vehicle had broken down and made sure that the message of Swachh Bharat was imbibed in them ” said Air Vice Marshal AK Singh, the team leader.


    The rally was “flagged in” at Western Air Command, New Delhi, by Air Marshal C Hari Kumar, PVSM AVSM VM VSM ADC, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Head Quarter Western Air Command on 23 Aug 18. Air Marshal C Hari Kumar said “ I am extremely pleased that the team was able to achieve their objectives and come back safe and sound. It is the constant endeavour of Indian Air Force to promote a spirit of adventure amongst all and imbibe the initiative of the government at grass root level” .


    ARG/BBS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543703) Visitor Counter : 511
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali