      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      We are extending all support for the flood relief measures in Kerala: J P Nadda
      Posted On: 19 AUG 2018 4:54PM by PIB Delhi


    “Under the guidance of the Prime Minister, the Health Ministry is extending all support for the flood relief measures in Kerala. We are monitoring the flood situation in Kerala on a regular basis. Secretary (Health) is in Regular communication with the State health functionaries and monitoring the situation daily through the disease surveillance network”. This was stated by Shri J P Nadda, Union Minister of Health & Family Welfare. He further stated that he has spoken to Smt. K K Shailaja, Health Minister, Kerala and is personally monitoring the situation.


    To meet with this situation, 3757 medical relief camps have been set up. As requested by the State Government, 90 types of medicines, in the requested quantity are being sent to the State. The first tranche of medicines shall reach tomorrow. The Health Ministry is also coordinating with other States which have committed to providing medicines so as to augment supplies.


    Health advisories on infectious disease prevention and control, safe drinking water, hygiene measures, vector control, etc., have been prepared and shared with the State Government. While no outbreak of communicable disease has been reported, health experts opine that once the flood water starts receding, the environment would be conducive for epidemic prone diseases. The State has been given instructions to switch to daily surveillance and monitoring for epidemic prone diseases for detecting early warning signs of an outbreak.


    In consultation with the State Government, Government of India will deploy teams for rapid health assessment and for taking appropriate public health measures to prevent and control outbreak of epidemic prone diseases. Considering the additional burden of disease in the aftermath of the floods, quick response medical teams will also be sent to Kerala to provide emergency medical care. Support under National Health Mission will be provided to make the damaged primary health care infrastructure functional.


    ******


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543350) Visitor Counter : 536
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil