      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Dr. Satya Pal Singh chairs a meeting to Discuss Augmentation of flows at Shukartal Ghat in Muzaffarnagar District
      Posted On: 16 AUG 2018 5:10PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Dr. Satya Pal Singh instructed the officials of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand irrigation departments to submit proposals for augmentation of flows at Shukartal ghat in Muzaffarnagar district located along River Saloni, a tributary of River Ganga while chairing a meeting on the issue today.


    The flow in River Saloni has decreased over the years creating problems for local inhabitants and devotees who come to perform rituals on the ghat. River Saloni used to receive water from River Ganga through Banganga via Paschim Bhana Nala. However, both


    Paschim Bhana Nala and Ban Ganga River were plugged due to construction of an embankment at the former’s mouth and embankment constructed to protect areas adjoining the latter from flooding during monsoon period.


    During the meeting, the representatives and officials of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand gave their views on augmenting the water flows at the ghat. Some of the suggestions which were given include construction of controlled structure at Ban Ganga River and Paschim Bhana Nala, release of water from Upper Ganga Canal at Dhanuli escape and increasing carrying capacity of River Saloni by dredging etc.


    A pre-feasibility study report by inter-departmental team had favoured the option of construction of gated control structure at Paschim Bhana Nala at an estimated cost of Rs. 33.86 crore.


    Dr Satya Pal Singh instructed the officials to submit the Detailed Project Reports in this regard so that appropriate and timely action may be taken to reduce the inconvenience being caused to the people.


    Sh. Satpal Maharaj, Minister for Irrigation, Government of Uttarakhand, Sh. Bhartendra Singh, Member of Parliament (Bijnor), Sh. U.P. Singh, Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation, Sh. Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, Director General, National Mission for Clean Ganga and officials from Central Water Commission, CGWB, WAPCOS, UP Irrigation Department, Uttarakhand Irrigation Department were also present in the meeting.


    *****


    NP/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543192) Visitor Counter : 392