      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Centre releases Rs.600 crore assistance to flood-affected Kerala
      
      NCMC reviews relief operations in Kerala

      Posted On: 21 AUG 2018 6:49PM by PIB Delhi

    Central assistance of Rs.500 crore, as announced by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, and Rs.100 crore, announced by the Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh, for flood affected Kerala has been released to the Government of Kerala today.


    The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) met for the sixth time in a row today to review the rescue & relief operations in the state. Cabinet Secretary Shri PK Sinha, chaired the meeting. The Chief Secretary of Kerala participated in the meeting via video conference and informed that the situation is now improving by and large though there are some isolated pockets still with water. Water levels are receding fast.


    The Department of Food & Public Distribution has made additional allocation of 89,540 MT of rice as per State Government’s request.


    The Department of Consumer Affairs, in addition to 100 MT of pulses supplied earlier, is sending additional quantities of green gram and Tur dal.


    Public Sector Oil Marketing Companies have contributed Rs.25 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund in Kerala. The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has opened special points in the flood affected areas of the state for LPG distribution. Permission has also been granted, in coordination with the State Government, for non-certified vehicles to carry LPG cylinders. The Ministry has also made available 3.2 lakh LPG cylinders and 2.2 lakh regulators.


    Railways have so far supplied 24 lakh litres of drinking water in addition to 2.7 lakh water bottles. Another 14 lakh litres water is currently available at Ernakulam. Railways has also made arrangements for supply of bed sheets and blankets. Trains on all sections have resumed. It is also transporting relief materials from various states to Kerala free of cost.


    An Action Plan has been prepared for restoration of power supply in all the affected areas. 94% of telecom towers have been made functional. Power supply to telephone exchanges is being restored on priority.


    The Health Ministry will supply 3 crore Chlorine tablets in addition to one crore tablets supplied earlier. 30 tonnes of bleaching powder and 1.76 lakh sanitary pads have also been sent. Additional quantities will also be sent in the next few days. No major outbreak of disease has been reported so far.


    As per the State Government’s requirement, essential spices, salt, tea and coffee are also being supplied by the Ministry of Food Processing Industries.


    The Finance Ministry has decided to waive off Customs Duty & IGST on the relief materials being imported to aid the people in the flood-affected areas in Kerala.


    As the rescue operations wind down, State Administration has started de-requisitioning the teams of Defence Forces and NDRF.


    The NCMC meeting was attended by Secretaries of Central Ministries including Health, Telecom, Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Power, Petroleum and Natural Gas, Commerce and Textiles and Senior Officers of Defence Forces, MHA and National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA).


    *****


    BB/NK/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1543559) Visitor Counter : 1121
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam