      Ministry of Shipping

      The Shipping Fraternity Comes Together for Kerala
      
      Relief Material from Different Parts of the Country Being Brought to Cochin Port Via Coastal Movement
      
      Cochin Port Earmarks Two Berths for Vessels Bringing Relief Material

      Posted On: 21 AUG 2018 6:08PM by PIB Delhi

    In the calamity hit state of Kerala, the Ministry of Shipping has taken the initiative to reach relief material from various parts of the country to Cochin Port through coastal shipping. The Cochin Port Trust has earmarked two berths at Mattancherry and Ernakulam wharfs for priority berthing of vessels bringing flood relief material to Kerala. Two warehouses have been especially earmarked for storage of relief materials and medicines.


    The relief material from the major ports at Tuticorin (V.O. Chidambaranar Port), Cochin, New Mangalore, Chennai and Kamaraj, is being aggregated at VOC Port in Tuticorin before being sent to Cochin Port via coastal shipping.


    Naval Ship INS Deepak from Mumbai has brought in about 800 tonnes of fresh water and 18 tonnes of provisions to Cochin . Fresh water is being discharged to two barges for supply to the affected areas. INS Deepak will make another call at Cochin Port with relief material tomorrow. A coastal crude oil vessel Swarna Godavari from Mumbai with 50000 MT Crude oil by BPCL has been received at Cochin Port to meet the fuel requirement in the state . Earlier, five containers of relief material comprising clothes, eatables, and other basic requirements were received at Cochin Port.


    Various port stakeholders have joined hands to provide help in the relief operations in the state. Trade bodies have offered special coastal shipping services between Cochin and ports at Hazira, Mundra, Kattupalli, Tuticorin, Pipavav, Kandla for carrying relief material from different parts of the country.


    A relief camp for a group of affected people has been set up by Cochin Port at Sir Robert Bristow Memorial School, Willingdon Island & KV Port Trust School. About 50 people from different areas near Cochin have been accommodated in the camp. Doctors from Port Trust hospital are providing medical services. Volunteer teams comprising staff and family members of Cochin Port, Customs and CISF and medical team are assisting in the camp and extending necessary support.


    The Union Minister for Shipping, Road Transport & Highways and Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Nitin Gadkari hails the role of shipping fraternity in reaching out to the people in time of the calamity.


    The employees from Cochin Port trust have decided to contribute their one day’s salary amounting to Rs. 31 lakh and an equal amount from Cochin Port Trust fund to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.


    ****


    NP/MS/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543550) Visitor Counter : 538
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Tamil , Malayalam