      Vice President's Secretariat

      Research & innovation in agriculture must reach farmers: Vice President
      
      Zero Budget Natural Farming has potential to enhance income or profit margins for farmers;
      
      Addresses farmers of Zero Budget Natural Farming in Andhra Pradesh

      Posted On: 23 AUG 2018 2:47PM by PIB Delhi

      The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that research and innovation in the field of agriculture must reach farmers. He has urged scientists and researchers to collaborate with farmers to make agriculture more affordable and viable.


      Empowering farmer and strengthening agriculture would help in developing rural India, said the Vice President while interacting with farmers who are implementing the successful concept of Zero Budget Natural Farming at S.N. Palem village of Krishna District, Andhra Pradesh today.


      The Vice President said that the farming technique tested across Andhra Pradesh can be a model for sustainable agriculture as it reduces the heavy input cost on agriculture and help boost productivity. The Zero Budget Natural Farming has the potential to enhance the income or profit margins for farmers who are often under distress owing to debt, he added.


      The Vice President visited the farm fields and enquired about the practice of Zero budget natural way of farming at S.N. Palem village of Krishna District, Andhra Pradesh. During his interaction with the farmers, he said that farming is just not a profession and added that it is a process of loving and living with nature and protecting it by means of agriculture.


      The Vice President said that government has taken the initiative of doubling the farmer’s income and taking steps to ensure that it happens. Crop Insurance, providing Minimum Support Price and provide loans to farmers to invest in allied activities like poultry, diary, food processing are some of them. He called on both farmers, officials and scientists to make united efforts to facilitate farmers understand new technologies and reduce input cost of agriculture.


      He has also shared his initiative on Making Agriculture sustainable and viable and explained them about the National Consultations being held at various places across the country.


      ***


      AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543678) Visitor Counter : 742
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Tamil