      Vice President's Secretariat

      Create urban amenities in rural areas & adopt eco friendly approach: VP tells budding Architects
      
      Addresses 3rd Convocation of School of Planning and Architecture

      Posted On: 23 AUG 2018 3:52PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venakaiah Naidu has advised the Students of Planning and Architecture to create urban amenities in rural areas by providing facilities for people living in rural areas at an affordable cost. He asked authorities, Architects & Civil Engineers to adopt eco friendly approach while designing infrastructure with a perfect blend of modernity and tradition. He was addressing the 3rd Convocation of the School of Planning and Architecture, Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh today. The Governor of Andhra Pradesh & Telangana, Shri E.S.L. Narasimhan, the Minister for Social Welfare and Empowerment, Andhra Pradesh, Shri Nakka Ananda Babu and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President highlighted on the need to amalgamate tradition and technology to improve the built environment and said that one must work towards sustainable development and ensure that rural areas are not turned into concrete jungles.


    The Vice President appreciated the SPA Vijayawada for maintaining standards at par with premier institutes like IITs and NITs and said that it is important that the institution sets its new benchmarks, high standards and create its own brand.


    The Vice President said that the role of Architects and Planners in 21st century is not limited to merely designing and giving shape to human settlements and buildings. He called on architects (Engineers) to be innovative and creative to meet the requirements of a fast-changing world in which digital technologies are playing a pivotal role in shaping every aspect of life.


    The Vice President advised students not to remain complacent and always aim at achieving excellence. You should become trendsetters in your field and become partners in India’s growth story, he added.


    Saying that leading scientific universities of the world not just focus on teaching, but also make efforts to become the nerve centres of innovation and incubation, the Vice President asked the institute to take steps to reach and touch the lives of masses. He also urged all students, faculty and the graduates to strive towards research and innovation.


    Following is the text of Vice President's address :


    " I am delighted to address and share my thoughts with all of you on the occasion of the Third Convocation of the School of Planning and Architecture, Vijayawada, an institute of national Importance under the Ministry of Human Resource Development of the Government of India.


    I congratulate all the graduates who have crossed an important milestone in their career and are awaiting a bright career.


    This convocation is special as it coincides with the 10th anniversary of the opening of the School of Planning and Architecture Vijayawada. In the last 10 years, SPAV has walked a long and commendable path. In 2008, it started from the temporary buildings in Acharya Nagarjuna University.


    As it expanded its horizon and started offering three PG programmes and doctoral programmes, it moved to hired premises in Nidamanuru. Now, it stands on its own and is offering five PG programmes, two Bachelors programmes and also doctoral programmes. I congratulate the leadership of SPAV for the rapid strides made by the institution.


    I would like to congratulate all the graduands at the Bachelors and Masters level and their parents for achieving this important milestone in their careers. I also express my appreciation to the faculty, the Director and the administration. I would like the the faculty and staff of the School to keep up the high standards of education and research and continue to produce batches of finest professionals needed for our country in the field of Architecture and Planning.


    SPA Vijayawada is in the same league as the second generation of IITs and NITs. It is important that the institution sets its new benchmarks, high standards and create its own brand.


    Vijayawada is now a seat of exciting transformation as the new capital of the Andhra Pradesh. Thus, SPA Vijayawada gets to witness and participate in the development of the new capital, both geographically and intellectually. It is indeed a great opportunity for students of SPA Vijayawada to observe, study and contribute suitably to the development process.


    I am happy to learn that the students and staff of SPA Vijayawada have documented the heritage town of Amaravati last year and that research is in progress to make available credible data of the heritage town in the vicinity of which the new capital is shaping up. I am also delighted to know that SPAV is closely networked with the key research and educational institutes of this region and is offering its research, consultancy and advocacy services to the Government of Andhra Pradesh in setting up the new capital of Amaravati.


    Dear sisters and brothers, the role of educational institutes of excellence, which shape young minds of our country in the disciplines of Architecture and Planning, is of immense value and significance. This is because the role of Architects and Planners in 21st century is not limited to merely designing and giving shape to human settlements and buildings, they have to be innovative and creative to meet the requirements of a fast-changing world in which digital technologies are playing a pivotal role in shaping every aspect of life.


    Today, the watchwords for everybody are environmental protection and sustainability. This is particularly important for professionals involved in designing new buildings. The need of the hour is to promote eco-friendly green buildings which use less water and optimise energy and take full advantage of digital technology to build ‘smart buildings’ with automated operations.


    To address the phenomenon of rapid urbanisation and moderate the effects of migration to urban areas, one must evolve ways to augment the infrastructure and facilities available in the rural and peri-urban areas. In the process of doing so, there is a need to amalgamate tradition and technology to improve the built environment and also work towards sustainable development. It is important to create amenities in rural areas that are on par with urban centres. At the same time, it should be ensured that rural areas are not turned into concrete jungles and there should be a perfect blend of modernity and tradition. It is also important for architects and city planners to uphold our culture and protect nature for a better future.


    I am sure that your learning in this institution must have inculcated the right qualities in you to be dynamic and responsible professionals.


    Dear students, India is the fastest growing economy and all set to become the third largest economy in the world in the next 15-20 years. Plenty of opportunities await you as you step out to pursue your dreams and achieve your goals. You should never remain complacent and always aim at achieving excellence. You should become trendsetters in your field and become partners in India’s growth story.


    As you all are aware, techniques of designing of buildings and planning of cities have evolved over the years and play a major role in creating healthy and prosperous societies. The leading scientific universities of the world are not just focussed on teaching, but are intent on becoming the nerve centres of innovation and incubation of appropriate technology that can reach and touch the lives of masses. In the same way, I urge all students, faculty and the graduands to strive towards research and innovation that can make our cities happier and safer, and our buildings greener and affordable.


    I congratulate the graduates once again and request them to whole heartedly and sincerely contribute towards their profession and designing efficient, happier and safer human settlements.


    Jai Hind!"


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1543685) Visitor Counter : 658
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil