      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Union Minister Dr. Jitendra Singh pays homage to former Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee
      
      Dr. Jitendra Singh recalls contribution of Shri Vajpayee for the development of North Eastern Region; says Shri Vajpayee conceptualised a separate Ministry for Development of NER

      Posted On: 20 AUG 2018 3:23PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh paid floral tributes to former Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee during a homage meeting at the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region here today. Shri Vajpayee passed away on the 16 th of this month. Addressing the gathering, Dr. Jitendra recalled Shri Vajpayee’s contribution to the development of North Eastern Region. Secretary of M/oDoNER, Shri Naveen Verma and Secretary of North Eastern Council (NEC), Shri Ram Muivah, senior officials of the Ministry and other staff members were present.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh said that Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee was perhaps the first Prime Minister who realised the significance of the North Eastern region and took several initiatives for the progress of the region. He said that Shri Vajpayee conceived of a separate Ministry for this purpose and initially set up a department for the development of NER. Dr. Jitendra Singh said under the prime ministership of Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee, a non-lapsable pool of funds for the North Eastern Region was set up, Sikkim included as a member of North Eastern Council, mobile phone connectivity launched in the region and also Prime Minister’s Gram Sarak Yojna expanded to benefit the NER.


    The Union Minister said the present government under the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi gave further momentum to development of NER and the road, rail and air-connectivity has expanded in the region. He said, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has undertaken nearly 30 visits to the region and the present rapid development of the NER, is the best homage to Shri Atal Behari Vajpayee.


    On the occasion, Secretary M/o DoNER, Shri Naveen Verma recalled several initiatives taken by Shri Atal Behari Vajpayee for the progress of NER. He said, Shri Vajpayee had underlined that there will never be any dearth of funds for taking the NE region forward.


    ***


    BB/NK/PK/KGS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1543395) Visitor Counter : 459