      Ministry of Railways

      Ministry of Railways extends all possible help to people of Kerala to combat floods
      
      Indian Railways has restored all affected tracks, normal Rail traffic is being restored from today

      Posted On: 21 AUG 2018 4:54PM by PIB Delhi

      Due to unprecedented intense rain during south west monsoon during the last one week, and consequent opening of about 36 dams in state of Kerala, 3 Divisions of Southern Railway were severely affected with heavy flash floods, land slips, boulder falling on track etc from 16.08.2018 as detailed below:-


      a) In Thiruvananthapuram Division , Water level rose above danger level across 11 bridges, track got submerged at 3 locations, embankment washed away at 3 locations, Earth slips occurred at 7 locations over various sections.


      b) In Palakkad Division , Water level rose above danger level across 10 bridges and track got submerged at one location.


      c) In Madurai Division , earth slip and falling of boulders occurred at 6 locations.


      d) Railway team worked with dedication round the clock to clear the hurdles in the flood hit sections and all sections in the main route of Kerala were opened 20 th August 2018 as below:


      Ø Thiruvananthapuram(TVC) to Nagarcoil(NCJ) section was suspended from 0700 hrs of 15.8.2018 and was given fit from 09.30 hrs of 16.8.2018.


      Ø Ernakulam(ERS) – Kottayam(KTYM) suspended from 1600 hrs of 16.8.18, and given fit from 20 hrs of 19.08.2018.


      Ø Ernakulam(ERS) – Shoranur(SRR) suspended from 1200 hrs of 16.8.18, and was given fit from 2315 hrs of 19.08.2018.


      Ø Palakkad(PGT) – Shoranur(SRR) suspended from 1600hrs of 16.8.18 and was given fit at 0815hrs of 18.08.2018.


      Ø Shoranur(SRR) – Kozhikkode(CLT) suspended from 1600hrs of 16.8.18 and was given fit at 0845 hrs of 19.8.18.


      Ø Kollam(QLN) –Punalur(PUU) section was given fit on 20.08.2018.


      Ø Punalur(PUU)-Senkottai(SCT) and Thrissur(TCR)- Gururvayur(GUV) branch lines with heavy damages and falling of large amounts of boulders are also being attended on war foot basis, likely to be ready within two three days.


      e) A total number of 9 track machines were deployed round the clock to repair the tracks.


      f) 7 special trains carrying boulders, sand and ballast were sent for the restoration of affected track and embankment portions.


      g) HQ and Divisional team of about 30 Officers, 45 Supervisors and about 450 Railway Staff worked round the clock braving rain and water at adverse conditions with dedication and sincerity to restore the tracks on priority to give connectivity to state of Kerala at this critical time.


      h) Almost All the train services except for few for want of pairing rakes are restored from today.


      Specials Trains to help stranded Passengers in Kerala :


      Ø 61 Passenger specials were run in Thiruvanathapuram and Palakkad Divisions to connect stranded passengers. In particular, Thiruvananthapuram- Ernakulam section was connected by passenger Special Trains via Alleppey, which was not affected during the flood period every 3 hrs, helping all for the movement of people, rescue and relief team. This was appreciated by press and media widely.


      Ø 13 Express specials were run from Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram, via Madurai from 17.08.2018 to 20.08.2018. Out of the above,


      Ø 4 Trains from Ernakulam to Chennai Egmore,


      Ø 3 Trains from Ernakulam to Santragachi,


      Ø 1 Train between Thiruvananthapuram and Howrah,


      Ø 1Train between Thiruvananthapuram and Silchar ,


      Ø 1 Train from Thiruvananthapuram to Gorakhpur,


      Ø 1 Train between Kochuveli and Bhubaneswar,


      Ø 2 Trains from Chennai Egmore to Ernakulam were run.


      Ø Among these, 3 specials were run from Ernakulam and Thiruvananthpuram to Santragachi based on the request from State Government of West Bengal .


      Ø 1 special train from Kochuveli, Thiruvananthapuram to Bhubaneswar was run today on the request of State Government of Odisha .


      Three Water rake Specials to Kerala:


      Ø Southern Railway dispatched first water special with 7 BRN wagons carrying 2.8 lakh litres of water from Erode Jn Station to Kayankulam on 18.08.2018.


      Ø Second water special from Erode with 10 BRN wagons carrying 3.2 lakh litre of water also reached Tiruvalla on 20.08.2018.


      Ø Third water tank special with 29 tank wagons carrying 14.5 lakh litre of water which was dispatched from Pune on 18.8.2018 has reached Ernakulam on 20.08.2018.


      Ø Railways are running more water specials to meet the request of State Govt.


      Three lakh Rail Neer Bottles from IRCTC Plants in Southern Railway:


      Ø Railway arranged 2 lakh numbers of one litre bottle of Rail Neer water to Flood Ravaged Kerala through Thiruvananthapuram Division.


      Ø Another one lakh bottles are getting ready to be delivered.


      Ø Railway Officials at Headquarters and Divisional Levels are coordinating with state Government officials of Kerala for the movement of the water bottles to required destination.


      Deployment of Professional Swimmers:


      Ø 10 employees who are Professional Swimmers of Thiruvananthapuram Division of Southern Railway were deputed to help in relief/rescue operations in connection with the flood affected areas in the district of Pattanamthitta for a period of 5 days, which was very much appreciated.


      Contributions to Kerala CM’s Relief Fund:


      Ø Rs.65 lakh was contributed by the Officers and staff of Trivandrum Division to Chief Minister of Kerala Relief Fund to assist flood victims. Divisional Railway manger Trivandrum handed over the cheque to Honorable Chief Minister of Kerala on 20.08.2018.


      Free transportation of Rice Train Special from Chhattisgarh:


      Ø One rake containing 2500 tons of Rice dispatched from Raipur to Kazhakutam by Chhattisgarh Government to support flood victims of KeralaRailways didn't charge any freight for this consignment. The rake is on run to the destination and is being closely monitored.


      Free Transport of Relief Materials to Kerala:


      Ø Railway is arranging free transport of flood relief materials till 31 st August, 2018 to Stations in Kerala.


      Ø Apart from government agencies, reputed organizations approved by DRMs were permitted to load the materials free of cost, to Stations within Kerala..


      Ø Help desks are opened in 11 major Parcel offices across Southern Railway. viz., .Chennai Central Chennai Egmore .Madurai Tiruchchirappalli.Salem Tirunelveli. Villupuram, Karur.Tirupur.Erode and Coimbatore stations.


      Blankets & Bed sheets being given to needy:


      Ø 3000 bedsheets and 300 blankets are already handed over to the relief authorities by Thiruvananthapuram Division.


      Ø 4000 bed sheets and 700 blankets are also being arranged from six division’s to Sr DCM Trivandrum to be handed over to Relief Authorities.


      South Western Railway VPU with support materials:


      Ø One VPU loaded with flood relief materials containing Rice, Dal, Sooji, Atta, oils, sugar, clothes, medicines, bleaching powder , etc., sent by SWR from Yashvantpur to Palakkad Division by Train No.16515 for distribution in Kerala.


      Water Purifiers, and other materials:


      Ø 150 Water purifiers sent by Train No.12626 has reached Piravam Road of Kerala today for distribution.


      Ø Food packages, medicines, sanitary napkins, biscuits, soaps, etc., received at Parcel Help Desks are being dispatched to Kerala at regular intervals on priority.


      Southern Railway(SR) Medical Aid through St.John’s Ambulance Brigade Service:


      Ø SR Opened First-aid Booths at major railway stations viz., Tiruvalla, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Chengannur.


      Ø 8 Lakhs worth of medical relief materials mobilized are being taken to Chengannur for distribution.


      Southern Railway’s helping hand in all possible ways:


      Ø Special control cells were opened in Trivandrum and Palakkad control Office which were coordinated by officers / Commercial inspectors


      Ø Help desks, Enquiry Counters, Ticket refund Counters were opened at Trivandrum Central, Ernakulam Jn, Alleppey, Nagercoil, Thrissur, Mangalore Central, Kannur, Kozhikkode, Palakkad, Shoranur stations to help passengers.


      Ø Press and media bulletins were released frequently to update public on trains services and relief/restoration works.


      Shelter Arrangements free of cost:


      Ø Paid AC waiting halls were opened to all passengers free of cost in both the divisions.


      Ø Stranded passengers were accommodated in Panchayat community Centre Schools at Shoranur.


      Ø At Chengannur, the pilgrimage Centre at the Railway premises has been converted into relief camp. More than 200 people have taken shelter there. Food packets and drinking water is being arranged by State Government officials.


      Ø At different stations and locations station staff are actively helping the NDRF officials in rescuing the people who are stranded and taken shelter at Railway Stations Specially in Chalakkudi and Kottayam section of Trivandrum division and Shoranur station of Palakkad division.


      Food Arrangements free of cost:


      Ø At all major stations, Trivandrum and Palakkad the catering establishments are operated round the clock and food supplied to the needy on payment basis.


      Ø Arrangements were made to supply food packets through NGO for stranded passengers in Aluva–Wadakkanchery section of Trivandrum and Shoranur in Palakkad division.


      Ø Food packets were distributed to staff working in the section Shoranur – Calicut section.


      Ø 12000 Food packets were arranged at Chalakkudi and Aluva during 16 th to 18 th August 2018.


      Ø The staff of divisional office collected relief materials worth Rs 4 lakh which was also handed over to the district administration.


      Rescue efforts of SR along with NDRF/State Govt:


      Ø At Chalakkudi station which was marooned in floods, many rescue attempts were spearheaded by the Railway staff in coordination with the NDRF authorities and finally all 50 persons including Railway staff were rescued.


      Ø Nearly 1000 locals were rescued by tower car operated in the traffic near Ernakulam on 17th and 18th August. A pregnant lady was rescued by boat from Chovvara station and airlifted to Thrissur, which was widely appreciated.


      ***


      SVS/RDB/ENS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1543533) Visitor Counter : 1443
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali