      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Secretary Information & Broadcasting Releases “Yojana – Special Issue on Employment and Self Employment”
      Posted On: 24 AUG 2018 6:47PM by PIB Delhi


    Secretary Information & Broadcasting Shri Amit Khare released Yojana - Special Issue on Employment and Self Employment here today. The theme for the special Issue on “ Employment and Self Employment” was selected based on the recent reports as well as observations by economists, that employment related data did not accurately reflect the status of employment and employment generation in our country.


    The articles in the issue have been authored by Secretaries to the Government of India, experts from professional organisations like FICCI and the Think Tank Niti Aayog, presenting a holistic view about various dimensions of the theme.


    Various aspects of the theme ranging from need for credible employment data to advantages of payroll reporting, creating livelihood opportunities in urban and rural areas to MSMEs as new engines of employment; entrepreneurship as a key to employment generation to dimensions of the Indian labour market, have all been comprehensively analyzed in the issue. Success stories relating to various programmes like Mudra have also been featured in the issue.


    Director General, Publications Division, Ministry of I&B Smt Sadhana Rout and other senior officials of the Ministry were also present during the event.


    About Yojana :


    Yojana is a widely circulated theme based journal brought out by Publications Division, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting. Published in 13 languages, the journal has a combined circulation of about 2 lakhs and readership of over 8 lakhs. The journal provides a forum for discussion on subjects relating to planning and development and other socio-economic issues of the country and also seeks to provide feedback to the policy makers. It is valued by scholars and students and analysts as well as common readers for in-depth analysis on various topics. The journal during last one year has focused on contemporary issues like Demonetisation, GST, Social Security, Banking Reforms, Union Budget 2018-19, India on the Move, MSMEs and Consumer Awareness. Eminent authors, with expertise in their respective fields, have been contributing to the journal. This includes Secretaries to the Government of India.


    ***


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543876) Visitor Counter : 845