      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Film Actor Akshay Kumar Becomes Brand Ambassador for Road Safety Campaigns
      
      Shri Nitin Gadkari Launches Three Video Films for Public Awareness

      Posted On: 14 AUG 2018 5:48PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping, Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Nitin Gadkari today launched three short films for generating public awareness towards road safety. Film actor Shri Akshay Kumar has featured in these films, which are directed by Shri R.Balki. In a function attended by MoS Shri Mansukh L Mandavia in New Delhi, Shri Gadkari announced the appointment of Shri Akshay Kumar as Road Safety Brand Ambassador.


    Appreciating Akshay Kumar’s concern for social activism, the Minister recalled his recent movies ‘Padman’and ‘Toilet : Ek Prem Katha’ which have gone a long way in passing the government’s message of cleanliness and hygiene. Shri Gadkari called upon people to adopt good practices in road safety to build a better society free of accidents.


    Shri Akshay Kumar shared his experiences of producing the short films. He said, he feels proud to join the government’s efforts to make Indian roads safe, and is participating in road safety campaign for the betterment of the society.


    MoS Shri Mandavia enumerated the large number of deaths in the country due to road accidents. He said, over 65 per cent of the deaths on roads were of the people in employable age, which seriously impacts their families. He said, reducing accidents means increasing prosperity in the country.


    Secretary in the Road Transport and Highways Ministry Shri Y S Malik welcomed the spirit of Akshay Kumar in accepting the government’s offer to join as its Brand Ambassador, and hoped that the short films produced by the ministry with the actor will be etched in public memory and inspire people to follow road safety rules.


    ***


    NP/MS/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543002) Visitor Counter : 1130
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali