      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      Centre reviews Swachh Bharat Mission progress in Jammu and Kashmir
      State commits overall ODF by next month

      Posted On: 22 AUG 2018 9:51AM by PIB Delhi

    Secretary of Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation Mr Parameswaran Iyer reviewed the progress of Jammu and Kashmir on Swachh Bharat Mission Grameen (SBM-G) at Srinagar yesterday. Following a review with Dy Commissioners of all districts, the State committed to the central team that whole of Jammu and Kashmir will be declared ODF next month. Chief Secretary of the State Mr BVR Subrahmanyam and other senior officials joined the review. The State is preparing to achieve the milestone a full year ahead of the national target of 2nd October 2019 for a Swachh Bharat.


    Mr Iyer emphasised on the quality aspects of the Sanitation programme and the need to engage with the community.


    Earlier in the day, the Secretary called on the Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, Mr NN Vohra, and discussed the State's progress in Sanitation and related issues. The Secretary assured the state of complete support of the Government of India in the next phase of ODF including sustainability and Solid and Liquid Waste Management. He was accompanied by the Director General (Special Projects) Shri Akshay Rout.


    Mr Iyer also visited the aspirational district, Kupwara, near the border and reviewed various parameters including the sanitation progress in villages and interacted with villagers. He also visited a major Water Supply plant in Srinagar.


    Jammu and Kashmir has shown a phenomenal improvement in its rural sanitation coverage since the launch of the SBM(G). From 22% in October 2014, the rural sanitation coverage in the State today stands at over 98% and the State is close to declaring itself Open Defecation Free. The progress has been even more remarkable in recent months. Nationally, the sanitation coverage has increased from 39% in 2014 to over 90% today, with over 4.2 lakh villages, 429 districts, and 19 States/UTs already declared ODF.


    AR/SNC/SD


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543612) Visitor Counter : 1134
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi