      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Two New Facilities for ESIC Beneficiaries Launched
      Posted On: 23 AUG 2018 5:42PM by PIB Delhi


      In order to empower Insured Persons and their beneficiaries and create awareness among other Stakeholders, ESIC has come up with two new user friendly initiatives. The initiatives include the facility of ‘ IVR (Interactive Voice Response)/Help Desk' for ESIC Toll Free No. - 1800 - 11 - 2526 and production of seven Audio-Visual clips on ESI Benefits.


      ESIC has started recently a landmark facility with 'Launching of IVR / Help Desk' for ESIC Toll Free No. - 1800 - 11 - 2526 . Apart from on the spot redressal of callers' queries, this facility also receives the complaints / grievances simultaneously. Complaints requiring longer period are given unique ticket number and forwarded to PG Portal of ESIC for early redressal. The callers are satisfied and happy to experience interactive response from 'Help Desk' for the first time. On an average, more than 1000 calls are received daily and are attended to the utmost satisfaction of the callers.


      To educate and spread awareness about ESI Benefits among the Stakeholders, mainly the workforce, ESIC has produced seven Audio-Visuals using info graphics and simple language. These Audio-Visuals are already available on You Tube (ESIC HQ You Tube Channel) and the response is very encouraging.


      The Audio-Visual clips have been produced for ‘UMANG’ platform of Govt. of India which will host the ESIC Mobile App ‘Chinta Se Mukti’ . The App will be launched very shortly. The Audio-Visual clips are also being produced in English and all other major regional languages for the benefit of ESIC Insured Persons spread across the country.


      The Clips will help all the Stakeholders, Insured Persons and their family members, employers and employees of ESIC to understand the various benefits being provided under ESI Scheme.


      Union Minister of State for Labour & Employment Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar has expressed hope that the launch of user friendly initiatives by ESIC will certainly empower the work force of the country.


      ****


      JN/SKP/JK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1543717) Visitor Counter : 713
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil