      NITI Aayog

      MoveHack, NITI Aayog’s global mobility hackathon, receives strong interest
      Posted On: 20 AUG 2018 3:11PM by PIB Delhi


    More than 7,500 registrations from 20+ countries, top 30 teams to be mentored by the likes of Nandan Nilekani and Deep Kalra


    MoveHack 2018, NITI Aayog’s global mobility hackathon with total prize money of more than INR 2 crores, has received strong interest from across the globe. The hackathon, which was launched on 1 st August 2018, has so far received more than 7,500 registrations for the 10 themes.


    MoveHack aims to bring about innovative, dynamic and scalable solutions to problems pertaining to mobility and transportation. The hackathon has a two-pronged campaign approach: (a) ‘ Just Code It ’: aimed at solutions through innovations in technology/product/software and data analysis, and (b) ‘ Just Solve It’ : innovative business ideas or sustainable solutions to transform mobility infrastructure through technology.


    In addition to the attractive prize money, what sets this hackathon apart is that it provides a unique opportunity for end-to-end integration of solutions in Smart Cities, States and Central Ministries through commercial implementation. Problem themes include multimodal commuter mobility in cities, multimodal freight handling and transportation, road safety, future of mobility etc.


    The reception to the hackathon since its launch has been phenomenal, with top minds from across the world tackling the challenges to build a n entirely connected world for tomorrow:

     1. Globally, more than 7,500 individuals and more than 3,000 teams have registered for the hackathon across the 10 themes of ‘ Just Code It’ and ‘Just Solve It ’.
     2. For ‘Just Code It’ , Road Safety, Multimodal Commuter Mobility in Cities and Artificial Intelligence for Indian Transport Infrastructure have been the most popular themes, while Technology for Pune Smart City Mobility Challenges and Solutions for the Electric Revolution have received maximum interest in ‘Just Solve it’.
     3. Millenials have dominated the registrations received so far, with most interest seen from age group 18 – 25.
     4. Among the global participants, USA, UK, Israel and Singapore have been leading the registration charts.

    The top submissions for MoveHack will get an opportunity to sharpen their solutions at an exclusive and curated 2 days mentoring workshop and will get the opportunity to learn from the experiences of the thought leaders of the best performing smart cities globally. The Jury for the finals, to be held in New Delhi, will comprise of the top policy makers, VCs and business leaders focused on mobility solutions for India. Mentors and Jury for the hackathon include Mr. Nandan Nilekani (Co-Founder and Chairman of Infosys), Mr. Deep Kalra (Founder & CEO, MakeMyTrip.com), Ms. Debjani Ghosh (President, NASSCOM), Dr. Dennis Ong (Distinguished Architect and Head of Architecture & Systems Engineering at Verizon), Mr. Mohandas Pai (former CFO and Board Member at Infosys), Mr. CP Gurnani (CEO and MD of Tech Mahindra) and Ms. Nivruti Rai (Country Head, Intel India).


    Move Hack is open to individuals of all nationalities, making it a truly global hackathon. The winners will be announced during the Move Summit 2018, which is also organized by NITI Aayog on 7 th and 8 th Sep 2018 in New Delhi.


    For Registrations, last date of submissions and other information about MoveHack, please visit https://www.movehack.gov.in . With deadlines approaching, interested a pplicants are encouraged to apply early. Registrants get $200 worth of Microsoft Cloud credits and have access to more than 100 mentors on MoveHack’s dedicated Slack channel to answer any queries and clarifications.


    ***


    AKT/KP/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543386) Visitor Counter : 1123
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi
    
    
    

4.