      Ministry of Tourism

      President inaugurates “International Buddhist Conclave 2018”
      Posted On: 23 AUG 2018 4:00PM by PIB Delhi


      The President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the “ International Buddhist Conclave (IBC), 2018” here today. The Minister of State (Independent charge), Shri K.J. Alphons presided over the inaugural function. The 4 days long Conclave has been organized by the Ministry of Tourism in collaboration with the State Governments of Maharashtra, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh from 23 rd – 26 th August, 2018 at New Delhi and Ajanta (Maharashtra), followed by site visits to Rajgir, Nalanda and Bodhgaya (Bihar) and Sarnath (Uttar Pradesh). The President also launched the Ministry of Tourism website on important Buddhist sites - indiathelandofbuddha.in and a new film showcasing the Buddhist sites in the country on the occasion. From 24 th – 26 th August, 2018, delegates would be taken for site visits to Aurangabad, Rajgir, Nalanda, Bodhgaya and Sarnath.


      The Ministerial level delegation from Bangladesh, Indonesia, Myanmar and Sri Lanka are participating in the conclave. The delegates from the following 29 countries are participating in the International Buddhist Conclave: - Australia, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brazil, Cambodia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Lao PDR, Malaysia, Mangolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Norway, Russia, Singapore, South Korea, Slovak Republic, Spain, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand, UK, USA and Vietnam.


      Delivering inaugural address, the President said that the voyage of Buddhism from India to Asia and the transcontinental links that were created carried more than just spiritualism. They carried a rich cargo of knowledge and learning. They carried arts and crafts. They carried meditation techniques and even martial arts. Eventually, the many roads that the monks and nuns - those men and women of faith - carved out became among the earliest trade routes. In that sense, Buddhism was the basis for an early form of globalisation – and of inter-connectedness in our continent. It is these principles and values that must continue to guide us.


      The President said that tourism is a multi-stakeholder enterprise. The private sector and civil society have substantial roles. And in terms of providing a safe and secure visitor experience, state and municipal administrations play a critical part. The business potential of tourism is immense. Across our world, this industry is a big job creator, especially for local households and local communities. In its essence, tourism, like Buddhism, is about people and empowering them to realise their potential.


      In his address, Shri K.J. Alphons said that India has a rich ancient Buddhist Heritage with several important sites associated with the life of Lord Buddha. The Indian Buddhist Heritage is of great interest to the followers of Buddhism the world over. The aim of the Conclave is to showcase and project the Buddhist Heritage in India and boost tourism to the Buddhist sites in the country and cultivate friendly ties with countries and communities interested in Buddhism.


      He said that the Conclave features presentations by the Ministry of Tourism and State Governments, Panel discussion between scholars and monks and B2B meetings between the foreign and Indian tour operators. The Ministry has also organized an ‘ Investors’ Summit’ during the Conclave to attract investments in developing world class infrastructure at Buddhist sites.


      The Ambassador of Japan to India, Mr. Kenji Hiramatsu in his address said that the Japan has very long cultural relations with India and Tourism is the important component in Indo-Japan relations. The cultural relations between India and Japan are still continuing. Japan is promoting sightseeing tours of Buddhist sites in Japan to promote Buddhism.


      Smt. Rashmi Verma, Secretary, M/o Tourism in her welcome address said that Buddhism binds the culture of India, with that of countries in the region like Bhutan, China, Cambodia, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Myanmar, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Vietnam. About 500 million Buddhist worldwide, represent 7% of the World's population, making Buddhist, the fourth largest community in the World. We are also proud to have Japan as the Partner country of this conclave and happy to note a strong participation from Japan led by the Ambassador of Japan in India.


      She further said that Ministry of Tourism has identified 17 sites in 12 clusters in the country for development under Iconic Tourist Sites Development Project, pursuant to Budget Announcements of 2018-19. The Ministry shall be developing the above sites in a holistic manner with focus on issues concerning connectivity to the destination, better facilities/experience for the tourists at the site, skill development, involvement of local community, promotion & branding and by bringing in private investment. Two prominent Buddhist sites namely Mahabodhi Temple (Bihar) & Ajanta (Maharashtra) feature among the Iconic Sites identified by the Ministry.


      The Ministry of Tourism, Government of India, has been organizing the International Buddhist Conclave biennially. The earlier International Buddhist Conclaves were organized in New Delhi and Bodhgaya (February 2004), Nalanda and Bodhgaya (February 2010), Varanasi and Bodhgaya (September 2012), Bodhgaya and Varanasi (September 2014) and in Sarnath/Varanasi and Bodhgaya (October 2016).


      IBC-2018 has a religious / spiritual dimension, an academic theme and a diplomatic and business component. Ministry of Tourism has invited senior leaders of various Buddhist sects, scholars, public leaders, journalists and international and domestic tour operators to increase footfalls to the Buddhist circuit in the country from other parts of the world, and participants from countries having significant Buddhist population including the ASEAN region and Japan. The Indian Missions abroad have identified eminent Buddhist scholars / monks / opinion makers for International Buddhist Conclave 2018. The India Tourism Offices overseas have also identified tour operators/media etc. for the Conclave.


      Presently, it is estimated that there are nearly 500 million Buddhists all over the World and majority of them live in East Asia, South East Asia and Far East countries. However, a very small percentage of them visit the Buddhist sites in India each year. So the potential of encouraging more tourists to visit the Buddhist destinations where Lord Buddha lived and preached is immense. The “ASEAN” was the Guest of Honor during IBC, 2016 and Japan is the ‘Partner Country for IBC-2018.


      The most precious gift that the Ancient India has given to the World is, the Buddha and his Path, which is, the Eight-fold Path, in Pali language, Aṭṭhangiko Maggo. Therefore, ‘Buddha Path’ on one hand refers to the extraordinary Teachings of the Buddha which is also called the Middle Path which when practiced brings purity of mind and leads to Peace, Happiness and Harmony within and also in the Society as well. The Buddha Path provides quality of life based on Values as moral principles, or other ideas that guide our choices; Right beliefs, connection to nature and place with spirituality; Way of Life, daily practices, good habits and inspiring traditional skills for mental growth, thereby, making it the Living Heritage.


      On the other hand, the ‘Buddha Path’ also refers to the Eight Great Places of Buddhist Heritage, (referred in Pali as Aṭṭhamahāṭhānāni). These Eight Places are connected with the important events of the life of the Buddha from the time of his Birth, Enlightenment, Teaching Dhamma to suffering humanity, till he passed away, Mahāparinirvāna, at the age of 80 years. After Buddha attained Nirvana these places came to be associated with the Path of Buddhism. This Buddha Path is the Living Heritage that still continues to inspire millions of people to walk and find out Peace, Happiness, Harmony and Solace. We Indians very much value this extraordinary legacy of the Buddha and take pride in it. Therefore, with a view to synthesize both the meanings of the ‘Buddha Path’ together, thereby, work for the promotion of both the intangible and the tangible Buddhist Heritage, the Ministry of Tourism, Government of India has decided to organize 6 th International Buddhist Conclave on the theme, “Buddha Path – The Living Heritage”.


      *****


      NB/SK/jk/Tourism/23.08.2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543687) Visitor Counter : 1101
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Bengali