      Ministry of Railways

      Beware of unscrupulous private persons attempting to cheat several aspiring candidates fraudulently
      
      The process of recruitment in Indian Railways is by rule and merit
      
      Indian Railways has not nominated any agent, coaching centers, intermediary or any other persons/institutes for recruitment
      Posted On: 24 AUG 2018 9:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Indian Railways is conducting recruitment for various posts. This includes about 64 thousand posts of Assistant Loco Pilots and various categories of technicians (i.e. Group’C’ posts) and about 63 thousand posts of Level-1 like Track Maintainers, Assistant Pointsmen etc., (erstwhile Group-D).


    This recruitment is being conducted through Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs). Indian Railways is also conducting recruitment for 8619 constables and 1120 sub-inspectors in Railway Protection Force (RPF). Recruitment for this is being done by Director General of RPF.


    For Group’C’ posts, about 47 lakh candidates have applied. For Level-1 posts about 1.89 crore candidates have applied. For constables and sub-inspectors in RPF about 58 lakh and 14 lakh candidates have applied, respectively.


    It was noticed that certain unscrupulous private persons were attempting to cheat several aspiring candidates by fraudulently claiming that there is a quota of Hon’ble Minister of Railways through which they can get selected on paying bribe. It was learnt that about Rs.93 lakh was collected by a group of private persons from candidates in Maharashtra especially in Vasai. Accordingly, Railways lodged FIR bearing No.210/2018 with Mumbai Police at Mata Ramabai Ambedkar Marg (MRA) Police Station under sections 419, 420 and 34 of IPC. Mumbai Police has promptly arrested two accused for the offence and further investigations are on.


    It may be noted that recruitment for all of these posts is being conducted in most fair and transparent manner as per rules. The recruitment is based on Computer Based Tests (CBTs). These tests are being taken in secured environment in selected centres spread all over India. The centres have features like CCTV, secured internet connection etc. There is no way of getting selected by any illegal means.


    Railways have time and again warned the candidates not to fall prey to fraudulent promises by any imposter, tout, broker etc. through notices in national and regional news papers.


    It is once again re-iterated by Indian Railways that the process of recruitment is by rule and merit. Railways has not nominated any agent, coaching centers, intermediary or any other persons/institutes for recruitment, and therefore, any such persons/institutes found to be giving such false promises must be reported to the nearest Police Station and/or Indian Railways. Complaint to Indian Railways can be made to the following:


    Telephone No: (i) 080-23330378, (ii) 080-23334147


    Email ID: enquiry.rrbsbc@gmail.com


    Address: Railway Recruitment Board


    18, Millers Road,


    Bengaluru- 560046


    . ***


    RDB/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543909) Visitor Counter : 256