      Ministry of Defence

      ENC is ‘Combat Ready, Professional, Happy & Well Knit Command’ – Vice Adm Karambir Singh
      Posted On: 15 AUG 2018 8:56PM by PIB Delhi


    On the occasion of 72nd Independence Day, a Ceremonial Parade was held at the Eastern Naval Command today, 15 August 2018. Vice Admiral Karambir Singh PVSM, AVSM, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command took the salute and inspected a 50 men Armed Guard. He reviewed the platoons of naval personnel drawn from various ships and establishments and Defence Security Corps indoors at the Command Gymnasium owing to inclement weather. Vice Admiral MS Pawar, Chief of Staff, ENC, was the Conducting Officer of the Parade which was attended by all Flag Officers, Commanding Officers of various ships and establishments at Visakhapatnam and a number of service personnel, their families and veterans. The parade concluded with singing of the National Anthem by all present.
    
    The Commander-in-Chief conveyed good wishes and greetings to all personnel on parade and to their families on the occasion of the 72nd Independence Day. He complemented the men on Parade for their immaculate turn-out and outstanding drill. Speaking on the occasion, Vice Admiral Karambhir Singh reiterated the need to remember the sacrifices of our martyrs who fought for our freedom and those who laid down their lives in service of the motherland. He also emphasized that as primary custodians of maritime security, we need to do our utmost in providing a favorable maritime environment for the country’s economic growth prosperity and well being. He reminded everyone present that with the changing security dynamics and the Government’s Act East Policy, the proverbial Centre of Gravity in the maritime domain had shifted towards the eastern seaboard. It is therefore the responsibility of everyone in ENC to be prepared to face challenges from traditional to non-traditional asymmetric threats.
    
    Vice Admiral Karambhir Singh highlighted ENC’s increasing engagement with friendly foreign navies towards strengthening our capabilities and interoperability. He also commended all personnel manning and supporting the ships for smooth transition to Mission Based Deployments aimed at maximizing time at sea with well defined outcomes in our areas of interest. Underscoring the need to ensure that the ships, submarines and aircraft remained combat ready at all times, he emphasised professional excellence by the personnel manning the platforms with rigorous on-job training and adherence to laid down Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). He called upon all personnel of ENC to pull together and make a happy team honouring the core values of Naval Service – Duty, Honour & Courage and contribute to nation building. He emphasised the importance of nurturing the time tested Divisional System.
    
    In a parallel event at the “Victory at Sea” War Memorial on the Beach Road Vice Admiral SR Sarma, AVSM, VSM Director General Naval Projects, Visakhapatnam placed a floral wreath and paid tributes to Martyrs who made the supreme sacrifice in defence of the Nation. A two minute silence was observed as a mark of respect to the Martyrs.
    
    
    CGR/73-18
    

    
    (Release ID: 1543129) Visitor Counter : 519