      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Youth need equal opportunity to join politics to shape "New India": Dr Jitender Singh
      
      Youth parliament organised at Basholi, Kathua

      Posted On: 25 AUG 2018 6:32PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of State for Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Space and Atomic Energy Dr. Jitender singh today said that Government is committed to strength the democratic procedures and institutions by ensuring equality of opportunity to all. He emphasised that the democratic systems and party politics needed to be freed from nepotism and dynastic politics to ensure that common man especially youth could play a part in nation building. He said this at Youth Parliament organised at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Basohli in Kathua , J&K. The MLA Bani, Shri Jewan Lal Lalhal was also present on the occasion.


    While addressing the youth, Dr. Singh said that politics was the soul and spirit of the democratic India and it was the need of the hour that committed and hardworking youth join politics. He further said that this would provide opportunity to the youth to shape the future of the country. While appreciating the patience and decorum maintained by the students participating in the youth Parliament he said that the Parliamentarians should take inspiration from the youth. He said that it was the repsonsibility of the politicians as well as the society as whole to maintain the standards set by the early Parliamentarians of the country who with their extraordinary commitment, acumen and spirit of service had drafted the Constitution and set the democratic traditions of the country.


    He urged the Parliametarians to come out of the feudal mind set and be approachable to the general public. He said that today in the country even a common man could dream of rising to the highest Political Office of the country, such was the power of democracy.


    This, he remarked, is the dawn of a 'New India' where citizens could dream of rising to any heights with their talent, competence and hard work. He said that this was the true spirit of democracy.


    The Youth Parlaiment organised at the Jawahar Navodaya Vidhyalaya (JNV) at Basohli, Kathua saw the participation of around 130 students from JNV Kargil, JNV Baramulla and Udhampur in three teams. It is a part of 22nd Youth Parliament competition being organised by Navodaya Vidhlaya Samiti ,Chandighar Region in coordination with Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs, Government of India, to deepen the understanding of democracy and Parliamentary procedures in the youth and public and urge them to be a part of the political processes.


    *****


    BB/NK/NJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543935) Visitor Counter : 469