      Ministry of Education

      Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 2.0
      
      
      Nearly 700 HEIs to participate in Gram Sabhas in more than 3500 villages across the country to finalize village development plans under flagship Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 2.0 on Independence Day tomorrow
      Posted On: 14 AUG 2018 8:12PM by PIB Delhi


    Higher Education Institutions of Human Resource Development Ministry under its flagship program – Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) 2.0 will participate in Gram Sabhas to be organised on the occasion of Independence Day tomorrow. 688 institutions are selected on a Challenge Mode (426 technical and 262 non- technical) which are reputed Higher Educational Institutes (both public and private) of the country, which have adopted 3555 villages for their development through UBA. IIT Delhi is also organizing 5 Gram Sabhas in its adopted village Panchayats.


    Background:


    Under Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) 2.0-a flagship program of MHRD, GOI 688 institutions are selected on a Challenge Mode (426 technical and 262 non- technical) which are reputed Higher Educational Institutes (both public and private) of the country, which have adopted total no. of 3555 villages for their development through UBA. Also, scope for providing Subject Expert Groups assistance and Regional Coordinating Institutes to handhold and guide the participating institutions have been strengthened. IIT Delhi has been designated to function as the National Coordinating Institute for this program.


    Large number of participating institutes have interacted with villagers, did village & household level surveys and prepared action plans. The challenges and issues have been identified through public participation. Now theses action plans have to be ratified by the Gram Sabhas to be organized on the occasion of Independence Day. IIT Delhi is also organizing 5 Gram Sabhas in its adopted village Panchayats.


    Work area to be discussed in Gram Sabha organized on 15 th Aug. 2018 in villages adopted by institutions under Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (Brief Report)

                                                                                                                                                                                                               
S. No.  Subject Group                                                                            No. of Institutes  No. of Villages  Type of work area (Problems)                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                      1. Drainage                                                              
1.      Sanitation and solid liquid Waste Management                                             47                 124               2. Animal Waste disposal                                                 
                                                                                                                                      3. Open Defecation and Toilet Design                                     
                                                                                                                                      4. Waste collection and Disposal                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                      1. Drinking Water.                                                       
2.      Water Resource Management                                                                80                 129               2. Ground water level is going down.                                     
                                                                                                                                      3. Village water bodies are not maintained.                              
                                                                                                                                      4. Polluted Water.                                                       
                                                                                                                                      5. Water Storage.                                                        
                                                                                                                                      6. Recharging Water resources.                                           
                                                                                                                                      7. Rain water harvesting.                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                      1. Undeveloped and connectivity of Roads.                                
3.      Rural Infrastructure                                                                     25                 73                2. Medical, School, Bank and Market Facilities not accessible.           
                                                                                                                                      3. Lack of Public transport.                                             
                                                                                                                                      4. Inadequate Housing Facilities.                                        
                                                                                                                                      5. Lack of Panchayat ghar, park and community center.                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                      1. Street lights.                                                        
4.      Rural Energy System                                                                      10                 23                2. No Electricity connections.                                           
                                                                                                                                      3. Awareness about alternate resources of Energy.                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                      1. Lack of Teachers                                                      
5.      Education                                                                                19                 46                2. Girl Education                                                        
                                                                                                                                      3. School Equipment’s and No library.                                    
                                                                                                                                      4. Unemployment.                                                         
                                                                                                                                      5. Higher dropouts                                                       
                                                                                                                                      6. Lack of Higher education options.                                     
                                                                                                                                      7. Adult Literacy.                                                       
                                                                                                                                      8. Computer Education.                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                      1. High use of fertilizers, pesticides and insecticides.                 
6.      Sustainable Agriculture                                                                  21                 61                2. Soil Salinity.                                                        
                                                                                                                                      3. Protection from Animals                                               
                                                                                                                                      4. Awareness about Soil health card.                                     
                                                                                                                                      5. Cultivation Problem.                                                  
                                                                                                                                      6. Lack of Irrigation.                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                      1. Medical facilities not accessible.                                    
7.      Health Care                                                                              29                 83                2. Lack of Primary health Centers.                                       
                                                                                                                                      3. Malnutrition                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                      1. Migration.                                                            
8.      Skill Development and livelihood                                                         23                 61                2. Self Help Groups are not in a good condition.                         
                                                                                                                                      3. Market place not accessible.                                          
                                                                                                                                      4. Skill Development Training.                                           
                                                                                                                                      5. Employment generation skills.                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                      1. Lack of Information about Government Schemes.                         
9.      Capacity Building, Strategy for convergence and implementation of various Govt. Schemes  34                 96                2. Lack of Awareness in general                                          
                                                                                                                                      3. Alcoholism                                                            
                                                                                                                                      4. Child Marriages                                                       
                                                                                                                                      5. Animal Husbandry like Veternity hospital and animal waste utilization.
                                                                                                                                                                                                               

    Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 2.0


    Vision


    Unnat Bharat Abhiyan is inspired by the vision of transformational change in rural development processes by leveraging knowledge institutions to help build the architecture of an Inclusive India.


    Mission


    The Mission of Unnat Bharat Abhiyan is to enable higher educational institutions to work with the people of rural India in identifying development challenges and evolving appropriate solutions for accelerating sustainable growth. It also aims to create a virtuous cycle between society and an inclusive academic system by providing knowledge and practices for emerging professions and to upgrade the capabilities of both the public and the private sectors in responding to the development needs of rural India.


    Goals

      * To build an understanding of the development agenda within institutes of Higher Education and an institutional capacity and training
        relevant to national needs, especially those of rural India.
      * To re-emphasize the need for field work, stake-holder interactions and design for societal objectives as the basis of higher education.
      * To stress on rigorous reporting and useful outputs as central to developing new professions.
      * To provide rural India and regional agencies with access to the professional resources of the institutes of higher education,
        especially those that have acquired academic excellence in the field of science, engineering and technology, and management.
      * To improve development outcomes as a consequence of this research. To develop new professions and new processes to sustain and absorb the outcomes of research.
      * To foster a new dialogue within the larger community on science, society and the environment and to develop a sense of dignity and
        collective destiny.

     1. Major Areas of Intervention


    In order to move towards the holistic development of the villages, there are two major domains, i.e. human development and material (economic) development, which need to be developed in an integrated way. The major components of these two domains are given below and also illustrated in Figure 1.


     1. Human development

      * Health
      * Education and culture
      * Values and perception development
      * Skills and entrepreneurship

     1. Material (economic) development

      * Organic agriculture and cow-based economy
      * Water management and conservation
      * Renewable energy sources
      * Artisans and rural industries
      * Development and harnessing of local natural resources
      * Basic amenities
      * E-support (IT - enabling)

    *****


    NB/AKJ/YP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543079) Visitor Counter : 1869
    
    
    
    
    

           
           
        4. 
           
        7. 
           
        5. 
           
        3. 
           
        8. 
           
        6. 
           
        3. 
           
        5. 
           
        5. 
           
*          
           
*          
*          
*