      Vice President's Secretariat

      Share and Care is the core philosophy of our nation: Vice President
      
      One never forget Mother, Motherland, Mother tongue and Guru;
      
      Releases Book 'Colonial Syndrome: The Videshi Mind Set in Modern India'
      Posted On: 24 AUG 2018 8:23PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that Share and Care is the core philosophy of our nation. He was addressing the gathering after releasing the Book 'Colonial Syndrome: The Videshi Mind Set in Modern India', written by Prof. Rama Krishna Rao, in Vishakhapattanam, Andhra Pradesh today.


    The Vice President said that the book highlights the distinct difference or disconnect between native Indian ethos and present state. It has clearly described and showcased how we as a country and a civilization moved away from our own ideas, values and culture and adopted a value system that is not ours, he added.


    The Vice President talked about the initiatives he has taken as the Chairman of Rajya Sabha, such as allowing members to speak in their mother tongue by providing simultaneous translation to Rajya Sabha members and advising ministers and members not to use the term "beg" while tabling the listed official papers in the House.


    The Vice President said that English language has now become the language of the world, especially in field of Science and Technology as it enjoys a distinct place in our education system. He further said that one cannot and should not let go of our mother tongue, dialects and regional languages. These languages carried the life and history of human civilization in their respective areas and essential steps are needed to bring in a language renaissance, he added.


    The Vice President said that our education system must focus on the lives of people living in rural India and research is needed to bring in a difference in peoples’ lives. He further said that Agriculture must be taught and encourage the young to take it up. Development of villages will be critical if we want to close the gap between the “haves and have not's” for a better human development, he added.


    Talking about Gandhiji’s views on achieving economic equality, the Vice President said that Gandhi ji proposed social reconstruction keeping village as the centre of activities and added the development of villages is crucial for nation’s progress.


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543906) Visitor Counter : 518