      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      TRIBES India Outlets to open at Ahmedabad, Udaipur and Kolkata airports
      Posted On: 24 AUG 2018 11:09AM by PIB Delhi


    The Airport Authority of India has allotted space at Ahmedabad, Udaipur and Kolkata airports for opening of Tribes India outlets. Besides, TRIFED has been offered spaces at International Airports at Dehradun, Varanasi, Pune, Goa, Coimbatore, Lucknow, Amritsar and Gangtok for setting up of Tribes India Outlets. Presence of Tribes India Outlets at these Airports will not only be a good opportunity to market tribal products but also would help promote “Tribes India” as a brand among target customers.


    TRIFED has established a network of 89 Outlets i.e. 42 own Sales outlets, 33 outlets on consignment sale and 14 franchisee outlets located across the country in comparison to 29 own outlets and 13 consignment outlets as on 30.07.2017.


    Tribal Artisan Mela (TAM):


    TAMs are organized by TRIFED with a view to identify new artisans and new products at the sourcing level in States/Districts/Villages for expanding the tribal producers base. During the month of July, 2018, 2 TAMs were organized at Udaipur (Rajasthan) and Keojhar (Odisha) where 120 artisans participated and exhibited their crafts 4 artisans have been enrolled during the month taking the total to 1027.


    Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India Limited (TRIFED) is a national-level apex organization functioning, since 1987, under the administrative control of Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Government of India, striving to promote the economic development of the Tribal communities of the country through marketing development and sustained upgradation of their skills and products. The approach involves capacity building, imparting need-based trainings, exploring marketing possibilities for products in national as well as international markets, brand building & creating opportunities for marketing on sustainable basis. In essence, TRIFED’s sole objective is to bring about a multi-dimensional transformation of the tribal society and a shift in the perception of their existing image.


    *****


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543803) Visitor Counter : 1416
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali , Tamil