      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Vice President to address the 48th Foundation Day function of BPR&D on 27th August
      Posted On: 24 AUG 2018 7:17PM by PIB Delhi


    Vice President of India, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu will be the Chief Guest during the 48 th Foundation Day Function of the Bureau of Police Research & Development (BPR&D) here on August 27, 2018. He will deliver the keynote address on “Augmenting Police Response Capacities amidst emerging challenges of New Age Warfare”.


    Union Minister of State (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju will be the Guest of Honour at the function. Function will be attended by the senior serving and retired officers of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), Central Police Organisations (CPOs), Academia, Members of the National Police Mission, senior Bureaucrats and BPR&D officers and staff.


    At present BPR&D consists of following five specialised division:-

     1. Research & Correctional Administration Division
     2. Training Division
     3. Modernisation Division
     4. National Police Mission
     5. Special Police Division

    Six training institutes across the country under the aegis of BPR&D have evolved as Centres of Excellence:-


     1. CDTI Ghaziabad- Counter Insurgency and Terrorism

     2. CDTI Jaipur- New age crimes
     3. CDTI Kolkata- Gender related crimes
     4. CDTI Chandigarh- Organized crimes
     5. CDTI Hyderabad- Cybercrimes and cyber forensics

    CAPT, Bhopal caters to the training of police officials as well as prosecution officers and Correctional Administration Officers.


    In the year 2017-18 BPR&D focussed on the capacity building and conducted 15 Anti-Terrorism Assistance (ATA) courses in foreign collaboration and 289 domestic courses for 6,400 officers in such fields as cybercrime and forensics, gender justice, soft skills, human trafficking and safety of children. A significant achievement of BPR&D is e-Ustad portal which provides knowledge at a click to the police personnel at cutting edge level.


    BPR&D recently organised 2nd Young SPs Conference, and the 1st exclusive Police Expo, wherein subjects of Predictive Policing, Artificial Intelligence; Crime Analytics; Big Data Analytics; Geospatial Technology; Cyber Crime and Cyber forensics; Surveillance and Tracking through UAVs and CCTV equipment, etc. were deliberated upon.


    Bureau’s another area of focus is Community Policing, where issues of tourism policing, people friendly police station, gender justice, witness protection, victim survey, etc. have been taken up. Recently Student Cadet Programme has been successfully launched.


    Being the apex coordinating body of all Indian police agencies, BPR&D is mandated to create an interface among Police Practitioners and Technology Developers, Academia, Technical Institutions, Laboratories, etc. BPR&D has taken up the initiative of confluence of stakeholders and ideas on future of Policing, apart from assessing the Modernisation Project and its impact on the Police and CAPFs.


    BPR&D is now emerging as the national think tank on Policing, evolving best standards and practices in augmenting the quality of Police Services in the country. It is also increasingly focusing on improving the quality of Correctional Services too.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1543897) Visitor Counter : 496
    
    
    
    
    

5.