      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Kiren Rijiju interacts with school children from Arunachal Pradesh
      Posted On: 23 AUG 2018 12:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju met a group of 10 students from Bomdila (Arunachal Pradesh), here today. The students are on an Excursion tour, being organized by 2 nd Arunachal Scouts, from 20 th August-2 nd September, 2018. In Delhi, the students have visited India Gate and will also see various historical placed such as President’s House, Qutub Minar, Humayun Tomb and Lal Quila, among others. The students will also travel to Dehradun and Lucknow where they will visit Forest Research Institute (FRI), Indian Military Academy (IMA) and other places.


    During his address to the students, Shri Kiren Rijiju said that they should share the experience of their visit to National Capital and other historical places with their fellow students and families, when they return to their state after the conclusion of this tour. The Minister added that the students should take advantage of this opportunity and educate themselves by increasing their knowledge about these places.


    Shri Rijiju said that the students should participate in the extra-curricular activities which will be helpful to them in having varied experiences. He also emphasised that the students should focus on understanding and acquiring knowledge while studying a particular subject. He added that these days the students have access to study material due to reach of internet, TV and newspapers, the advantage of which was not available earlier. He encouraged them to be well-equipped with knowledge and confidence to excel in this competitive world.


    The Minister appreciated the Arunachal Scouts for organising this tour, which will not only educate these students, but will also help in boosting their confidence. He further said that our forces are not only working towards maintaining peace and security in the country, but also contributing to the society by giving exposure to the students from far flung areas by organising tours of this nature.


    
    Shri Kiren Rijiju wished the students happiness and success for their future.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1543657) Visitor Counter : 308
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi