      Ministry of Tourism

      M/O Tourism Sanctions Projects of Rs. 164.95 Crore for Development of Heritage Circuit in Punjab and North East Circuit in Tripura
      Posted On: 27 AUG 2018 6:34PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Tourism has sanctioned two new projects under Heritage and North East Circuits of Swadesh Dashan Scheme for Rs. 164.95 Crores in Punjab and Tripura .


    Under Heritage Circuit in the state of Punjab , the project covers sites of Anandpur Sahib – Fatehgarh Sahib – Chamkaur Sahib – Ferozpur – Amritsar – Khatkar Kalan – Kalanour – Patiala at the cost of Rs. 99.95 crores. The project includes development of Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar for Rs. 8 Crores, development of Tourist Infrastructure and Heritage Path at Anandpur Sahib for Rs. 28.99 crores,development of Tourist Infrastructure at Fatehgarh Sahib covering sites of Samadhi of Shahid Uddham Singhji, Jajah Haveli of Divan Todar Mal, Mir Miran Tomb, Sadna Kasai Tomb etc. for Rs. 19.20 crores, Development of Chamkaur Sahib for Rs . 13.99 crores, Development of Hussainiwala Border in Ferozepur for Rs. 8.00 Crores, Development of Khatkar Kalan, Kalanaour and Patiala for Rs. 17 Crores. The facilities being developed include Virtual Reality Shows (Jallianwala and Hussainiwala Border), beautification and landscaping, interpretation centres, façade development, wayside amenities, parking, CCTV and Wi-Fi facilities, Cafeterias, Open Air Theatre, drinking water facility etc.


    Under North East Circuit in Tripura , the sites of Surma Cherra- Unakoti- Jampui Hills- Gunabati-Bhunaneshwari- Matabari- Neermahal- Boxanagar- Chotta khola- Pilak- Avangchaarra are covered with total project cost of Rs. 65 Crores. The project envisaged infrastructural development of the sites with special emphasis on developing an Interpretation Centre, Tourist Visitor Centres, Cafeteria, Last Mile Connectivity, Illumination of sites and monuments, Wayside Amenities, Floating Jetties, Camping Grounds, Parking Facilities, Adventure Activities, Ghat Development at above sites.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism/27.08.2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544069) Visitor Counter : 438