      Ministry of Defence

      Rehabilitation and Community Outreach Measures Announced by Chief of the Naval Staff
      Posted On: 29 AUG 2018 3:56PM by PIB Delhi


    Admiral Sunil Lanba, PVSM, AVSM, ADC, Chairman Chiefs Of Staff Committee (COSC) and Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS) visited Muttinakam village in VarapuzhaPanchayat of Ernakulam district today to review relief and rehabilitation work in this locality which was ravaged during the recent Kerala floods. The CNS was accompanied by Vice Admiral AK Chawla, AVSM, NM, VSM, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command (SNC), MrsReenaLanba, President, Navy Wives Welfare Association (NWWA) and MrsSapanaChawla, President NWWA(Southern Region). AdmLanba also interacted with Adv VD Satheesan, MLA of Paravur, Shri S Sharma, MLA of Vypin, Shri Mohammed Safirullah, District Collector Ernakulam and members of Muttinakam village at VarapuzhaPanchayat..Relief materials worth about Rs 25 Lakhs, from NWWA were handed over to the Local Self government officials by President NWWA.


    While addressing the gathering CNS emphasised that all naval personnel including himself were connected with Kerala by an umbilical cord with the “Janamabhumi” as all personnel are trained under the SNC based at Kochi prior to becoming fullfledged naval personnel, and reiterated that he had been closely monitoring the situation over these past several days and that the Navy had deployed its personnel and assets from across the Navy during the crisis and that the focus now is on relief activities.


    CNS further said that Indian Navy has selectedtwo localities based on inputs received from the local administration and visits by naval officials wherein Rehabilitation initiatives were proposed to be undertaken to restore the area. The shortlisted localities where Navy intended to carry out reconstruction works wereMuttinakam in VarapuzhaPanchayat and CheriyaKadamakudi in KadamakudiPanchayat.


    The activities in Muttinakam

     1. Reconstruction of a completely damaged house on the river bank.
     2. Complete renovation of the Sub primary health centre (PHC)and Anganwadialong with furniture, equipment, play equipment and other essential equipment.

    The activities in Cheriya Kadamakudi

     1. Reconstruction of 03 houses
     2. Renewal of roof of 05 other houses
     3. Construction of an Anganwadi
     4. fitment of a 10 tonnes per day Reverse Osmosis (RO) plant to meet the drinking water requirements of the people in the region (which has already been completed and operational for the general public since 28 Aug 18)

    Rehabilitation kits (800 for Muttinakam and 500 for Cheriyakadmakkudi) containing essential commodities such as clothing, cleaning gear and utensils etc. were distributed on the occasion. Additionally, some other requirementsincluding the construction of a bridge connectingPizhala island to CheriyaKadamakudihamlet would also be considered and the feasibility explored.


    CNS has directed SNC to coordinate the rehabilitation activities on behalf of the Navy. CNS would also be meeting the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Kerala on 30 Aug 18to discuss any further support required from the Navy to overcome the situation. CNS would also be handing over a cheque of Rs8.9 Crore to CM Disaster Relief Fund as a voluntary contribution fromthe salaries of navalpersonnel.


    *****


    Koc/82/Aug18

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544309) Visitor Counter : 254
    
    
    
    
    

4.