      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Shri Dharmendra Pradhan inaugurates the Mancheswar Campus of National Skill Training Institute (NSTI) Bhubaneswar
      Posted On: 31 AUG 2018 1:32PM by PIB Delhi


    First-ever National Skill Training Institute(NSTI)’s Mancheswar Campus, Bhubaneswar was inaugurated by Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas and Minister of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, on Thursday (30.8.18), in the presence of Shri Giriraj Singh, Union Minister of State (Independent Charge), Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and Shri Jual Oram, Union Minister of Tribal Affairs.


    Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship had announced the launch of the National Skill Training Institute (NSTI) in Barang, Bhubaneswar on July 16, 2018. Pending construction of permanent campus, NSTI Bhubaneswar has hired 20000 sq. ft. space in Dharmapada Building of National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC) at Mancheswar Bhubaneswar.


    The institute shall be equipped with state-of-the-art facility to impart skill development courses to the trainers and assessors along with training of candidates in new age courses catering to the needs of the industry, designed keeping in mind the youth of the institutes’ catchment areas. National Skill Training Institutes (NSTI) which will function under Directorate General of Training (DGT), will include following training activities like:

      * Trainers Training (Long term/Short term)
      * Refresher Training (Long term/Short term)
      * Re-skilling/ Up skilling courses
      * Certificate courses and Common Facility Centre (CFS)

    The inauguration was followed by the commencement of Systems, Applications and Products (SAP) Master Trainers Programme in which instructors from other NSTIs of India participated. The aim is to create future ready workforce through providing access to the knowledge of innovative enterprise IT solutions.


    SAP India and the Directorate General of Training (DGT), Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, Government of India signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for Skill Development on Enterprise Software and Data Sciences on 16th July during the foundation laying ceremony of the National Skill Training Institute in presence of the Hon’ble Minister. The joint program between Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship and SAP is planned on following broad pillars:

     1. Training on enterprise software: SAP will train a pool of trainers at NSTI Bhubaneswar on Business One enterprise software. After the master training, NSTI Bhubaneswar trainers will run these programs autonomously for youth. This will provide exposure on Enterprise software to youth and help in enhancing their employability. SAP Business One is an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) software that allows small and medium sized enterprises to manage their entire business – from accounting and financials, purchasing, inventory, sales and customer relationships, and project management, to operations and human resources.
     2. Training on Data Sciences: SAP will conduct a special training on Data Sciences for the participants/faculty at NSTI.

    The courses proposed to be introduced from October 2018 are:

     1. SAP software training
     2. IOT Technician (Smart City)
     3. IOT Technician (Smart Healthcare)
     4. IOT Technician (Smart Agriculture)

    Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas and Minister of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship said , “Revitalizing the existing training infrastructure and developing new institutions in unserved and underserved areas, with focus that these institutions continue to provide relevant and employable skills to our youth, has been one of the main driving forces in our Skill Development efforts. Setting up of this NSTI in Bhubaneswar, is yet another step to empower the youth of the State and make them job ready. This would also help us address the issue of migration,”.


    Shri Pradhan also inaugurated the Bhubaneswar office of National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) which will support the recently introduced nation-wide counselling campaign of Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship. The campaign will be implemented by the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendras (PMKK) at the field level. Each PMKK will have counsellors who will introduce the youth to the skill ecosystem and counsel them on their path to growth basis their education, interest and aptitude.


    Earlier in the day, Shri Pradhan addressed the National Scheduled Caste Scheduled Tribe(SC- ST) Hub Regional Conclave in Bhubaneswar. In his address, he talked about the importance of MSMEs in the economy and spelled out various efforts taken by this Government to ensure growth of MSMEs in the country. He also said that the Government is committed to the welfare of the disadvantaged. He stressed on the need to create local employment opportunities in Odisha and cited the case of a Divyang girl Ms. Gauri Gouda of Hinjilikatu in Ganjam district who was trained in Odisha but had to go to Tamil Nadu for employment. He said that Odisha's development and creation of job opportunities for youth is not a political issue, but a collective responsibility and appealed to the State Government to set politics aside and augment efforts being taken by the Central Govt. to create employment opportunities for the youth of Odisha.


    **


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544626) Visitor Counter : 720
    
    
    
    
    

4.