      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      MoU signed for skill development of Arogyamitras under the PMJAY
      Posted On: 27 AUG 2018 7:11PM by PIB Delhi


    A Memorandum of Understanding(MoU) was signed between the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) and National Health Agency (NHA) here today, to provide capacity building for Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana(PMJAY) to ensure effective rollout and continued quality implementation. The MoU was signed by Dr Indu Bhushan, CEO, NHA and Sh Manish Kumar, MD & CEO, NSDC, in the presence of Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of skill Development and entrepreneurship & Petroleum and Natural Gas, Shri J.P.Nadda, Minister of Health and family Welfare, Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey, MoS(H&FW) and Smt Anupriya Patel, MoS (F&HW).


    As per the MoU, NSDC will ensure quality training of Arogyamitra through its network of Skill Development Centres functioning under PMKVY and Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendras(PMKK). All the currently recruited/ deputed Pradhan Arogyamitras will be certified by health care sector skill council, the body notified as non-statutory body for health sector under the aegis of NSDC.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan said that PMJAY will be an unprecedented scheme, which will take care of over 50 crore people and Its success will help in development of the nation. For this purpose, there will be proper monitoring, strict time-lines and use of modern technology and techniques for the scheme. The role of Arogyamitras will be of utmost importance, as they will be the interface between the beneficiaries and the system. The Skills of the Arogyamitra will have to be honed in terms of behaviour, knowledge and presentation. The skill development ministry thus has an important role in the success of the PMJAY.


      Shri J.P.Nadda said that PMJAY is an ambitious programme, for which large ground work is being undertaken. He said that the programme will provide financial protection to 10.74 crore poor, deprived families who will get a benefit cover of Rs 5 lakh per family. Arogyamitras will be important link in providing quality care.


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544080) Visitor Counter : 975
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Tamil