      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister chairs first review meeting of Department of Official Language
      Posted On: 31 AUG 2018 6:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh chaired first review meeting of the Department of Official Language of MHA here today to discuss the functioning and issues related to implementation of Hindi language in official work.


    The Union Home Minister was appraised, through a presentation, about the achievements of the department in promoting and maximum use of Hindi language in day to day official work and among the general public. The Minster was informed that the department has developed a computer software called “Kanthasth” for translating the all kinds of official files from English to Hindi and vice versa to make the translation work simpler and quicker. The Minister suggested to update the software to make it capable of translating even from human voices. Secretary official Language, Shri Sailesh called for making the software user friendly and for public use also.


    The Official language department has uploaded a dictionary of more than 15000 scientific and technical words on their website for technical usage. The Minister was informed about the Lila Mobile App for making the learning of Hindi language easier, which was launched on the occasion of Hindi Diwas last year.


    An E-learning platform called the “Pravah” also being developed by the department for use in 16 Indian languages including English. It will be launched on Hindi Diwas on 14 th September, 2018. Anybody can learn Hindi through his mother tongue with the help of this E-learning platform.


    The Department has also started a virtual video conferencing for teaching Hindi in all the Indian language.


    Minister of State (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju, Secretary Official Language(OL) Shri Sailesh and Senior officers of the Office of RGI and Home Ministry were present in the meeting


    *****


    BB/NK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1544681) Visitor Counter : 533