      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      A number of relief measures undertaken by Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas to assist Kerala in wake of recent heavy floods
      Posted On: 31 AUG 2018 5:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has taken following steps to assist State of Kerala in wake of recent heavy floods:


     1. Public Sector Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) made a CSR contribution of Rs. 25 Crore for Kerala relief operations.


     1. OMCs have been instructed to organize special camps for LPG customers for supply of documents on priority basis who lost their documents. Further, OMCs will make arrangement for providing cylinders in lieu of lost cylinders during flood- (i) For BPL families, the OMCs will charge nominal Rs. 200/- per cylinder, and (ii) For APL families, OMCs will charge manufacturing cost of

        Rs. 1200/- per cylinder.

     1. Ministry has allocated 12000 KL of non-subsidized Kerosene (lower than the market rate) to the State of Kerala on 20.08.2018.


     1. Ministry has allocated one month quota of PDS kerosene in advanceto the State from 3 rd quarter of 2018-19 (October-December 2018) i.e. 4636 KL.


     1. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC) has pressed into service three helicopters to airlift relief materials (Medicines, foodstuff, dry provisions, bed sheets and other relief materials) for the flood-hit people of Kerala. Four ONGC doctors have also been flown in to provide medical support. The helicopters were also used in tandem with other disaster management groups for the rescue operations.


     1. Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL), Kochi Refinery has dispatched 30,000 free LPG hot plates for distribution among the flood victims of Kerala through District Magistrates.


     1. Permission to temporarily use non-certified vehicles to transport LPG cylinders has been granted and advisories issued for providing additional points for collection of LPG cylinders.


     1. OMCs deployed all the resources at their command and worked day/ night to restore the retail outlets, aviation facilities, LPG and kerosene distribution network affected by floods and to ensure adequate availability of petroleum products.


    …………..


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544658) Visitor Counter : 472
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam
    
    
    

1. 
   
1.