      Ministry of Science & Technology

      MoU signed between Department of Biotechnology and International Energy Agency on Enhancing Innovation for the Clean Energy Transition
      Posted On: 30 AUG 2018 2:35PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Ministry of Science and Technology, and the International Energy Agency (IEA) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Enhancing Innovation for Clean Energy Transition today. The MoU was signed in the presence of Dr. Harsh Vardhan Minister, for Science & Technology and Earth Sciences, Environment, Forest and Climate Change , by Secretary DBT, Dr. Renu Swarup and Executive Director of IEA, Dr. Fatih Birol .


    The MoU seeks to deepen co-operation in support of clean energy innovations to accelerate the research, development, and demonstration (RD&D) of clean energy technologies in India and will help support the generation of data for policymaking and improve knowledge of good policy practices for innovation in India and around the world.


    The Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan welcomed this initiative, and said this will ensure cooperation on sharing of data regarding energy and its analysis. Complementing ED IEA, as an authority on international energy affairs he reiterated India’s commitment of meeting its obligations under Paris Accord and expressed cinfidence that we will meet target even before time. He recalled his attendance in three Mission Innovation Ministerial programmes where India’s role in clean energy development was appreciated by the international community.” He said India leads the Innovation Challenges and houses the International Energy Incubator.


    Dr. Fatih Birol Executive Director IEA thanked the minister for his keen interest in clean energy development and observed that India is the innovation lead in clean energy development. He recalled the leading role played by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for establishing Mission Innovation Programme. He said IEA recognizes that India is on the central stage of global energy.


    Dr. Renu Swarup Secretary DBT informed that India is probably the only country, which has established a separate mission innovation secretariat. She assured that MST will seriously take forward the programmes identified under the present MoU.


    The MoU will ensure cooperation for sharing of energy policies on RD&D and sharing of best practices on data collection and analysis. This MoU also has a provision for activities such as training and capacity building and accelerating energy innovation by identifying sources of finance. This agreement will be coordinated for the Ministry of Sceince & Technology by the Mission Innovation India Unit set up by DBT and for IEA by its International Partnership and Initiatives Unit (IPI) and is initially valid for three years.


    *****


    PP/GK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544491) Visitor Counter : 618
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil