      Ministry of Mines

      Ministry of Mines
      
      Invites Science and Technology Project Proposals

      Posted On: 29 AUG 2018 5:22PM by PIB Delhi

    Projects are invited from Academic Institutions, Universities, National Institutes and R&D Institution recognized by the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, Government of India, for upto 3 years duration in the following thrust areas which have direct bearing on mineral sector, applied and sustainable aspect of mining and industrial applications:


    2. THRUST AREAS OF RESEARCH IN MINES


    The broad thrust areas for supporting Research in Mining are given below:


    i) Prospecting/exploration for strategic rare and rare earth minerals.


    ii) Development of new technology for mineral exploration and mining on land and deep sea to locate and exploit new mineral resources.


    iii) Research in mining methods. This includes rock mechanics, mine designing, mining equipment, energy conservation, environmental protection and mine safety.


    iv) Improve efficiency in process, operations, recovery of by-products and reduction in specification and consumption norms.


    v) Research in metallurgy and mineral beneficiation techniques to utilize lower grade and finer size ores.


    vi) Extraction of value added products from mine waste, plant tailings etc.


    vii) Development of new alloys and metal related products, etc.


    viii) Evolve low capital and energy saving processing systems.


    ix) Production of materials of high purity.


    x) Cooperative research among organizations associated with the mineral sector.


    3. Scientific and Technical Merit and relevance to Industry


    All organization should follow the instructions given below before submitting the project proposals to the Ministry:-


    a) the proposal should be relevant to the overall mandate of mining, exploration, minerals, metals value addition, waste and environmental impact of mining and metallurgical processing


    (b) industry inputs and participation


    c) Originality in terms of concept, method, innovation, or in application;


    d) development of new methods, synthesis of advanced materials,


    e) process improvements and innovation,


    f) design of apparatus and other research tools,


    g) process development for waste/secondary/low grade materials recovery,


    -2-


    h) zero waste mining, large data analysis and simulation modeling etc.


    i) nature of study as experimental, modeling/simulation and both


    j) There must be a clear enunciation of objectives and deliverable in the proposal


    k) detailing of research methodology, design of experiments, chosen methods of analysis appropriate and valid.


    l) intended/potential application area has to be made clear in the proposal, industry relevance, industry participation if appropriate


    m) potential scalability to pilot plant and later on plant levels


    n) what are the techno economic benefits (at least rough estimates).


    Science & Technology (S&T) projects are funded through grant-in-aid by the Ministry of Mines through the process of project evaluation by Project Evaluation and Review Committee (PERC) and recommended projects are approved by the Standing Scientific Advisory Group (SSAG) constituted by the Ministry.


    The details of terms and conditions and the prescribed proforma are available at the website www.mines.gov.in under “Science & Technology”-> GUIDELINES FOR SUPPORT TO MINING RESEARCH or can be downloaded from the link: http://mines.gov.in/writereaddata/UploadFile/GUIDELINES%20FOR%20SUPPORT%20TO%20MINING%20RESEARCH.pdf


    Project proposals can be submitted to the Section Officer (Metal-IV section), Room No. 115A, F-Wing, ShastriBhawan, New Delhi-110001 (in the prescribed proforma) by 7th September 2018 (5 copies) alongwith soft copy of the project proposal in MS word format(not more than 3 MB) to the E-mail: vikas.raj@nic.in . Those projects, which are shortlisted shall be directed to present their proposal either in Delhi or any other city. The timelines are as under :

                                                                 
Details                            Date                          
                                                                 
                                                                 
                                                                 
Last date of receipt of proposals  7 th September 2018           
                                                                 
                                                                 
                                                                 
Scrutiny of proposals              By 17 th September 2018       
                                                                 
                                                                 
                                                                 
Conduct of PERC Meeting            By last week of September 2018
                                                                 
                                                                 
                                                                 
Conduct of SSAG Meeting            By 3 rd week of October 2018  
                                                                 
                                                                 

    The Grants-in-aid will be governed by Government of India terms and conditions as amended from time to time. The head of the institute may please ensure that no utilization certificate under any project under the S&T Programme Scheme of Ministry of Mines being implemented by their institute is pending for more than one year, for consideration of their project proposals.


    <><><><><>


    APS/SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544354) Visitor Counter : 551
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil