      NITI Aayog

      With ‘Mobility Week’, NITI Aayog kickstarts the action on MOVE: India’s First Global Mobility Summit 2018
      Posted On: 30 AUG 2018 5:02PM by PIB Delhi


    NITI Aayog Vice Chairman Dr.Rajiv Kumar, and Chief Executive Officer Shri. Amitabh Kant, today unveiled a series of events to take place in the‘ Mobility Week’ from 31 August to 6 September 2018 , in the run up to MOVE: The Global Mobility Summit 2018on 7 and 8 September 2018 at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. The Summit will be inaugurated by Hon’ble Prime Minister of India.


    Events during the week will see diverse groups - start-ups, academicians, corporations, policy analysts, NGOs and the government, as well as the civil society,engage in conversations on the mobility landscape, future possibilities and preparedness of the countrytowards meeting the opportunities and challenges.The programs will address disruptive changes in the mobility space. Fireside chats, academic conferences, policy roundtables, thematic workshops, and more, will help coalesce ideas, refine opinions and set the right contextsfor more meaningful dialogues to take place at The Global Mobility Summit 2018.


    “By partnering with organizations working in the mobility space across the country and the globe, we’ll be better prepared to formulate India’s go forward strategy on mobility, and leapfrog in to the frontlines of mobility space. The Summit will also enable India to learn from development in other countries”, said Dr. Kumar.


    Kickstarting the activities, Shri Amitabh Kant said, “Events like the ‘Global Mobility Hackathon’ and ‘Pitch to MOVE’, will showcase the tremendous potential of India’s young generation and how the country is ready to harness it to move towards a sustainable future that is shared, connected, and emission free.”


    About ‘Mobility Week’


    ‘Mobility Week’ will see 17 events in 7 days—from 31 August to 6 September 2018. These events will facilitate interactions with various stakeholders across the mobility domain.


    Participants include global and Indian leaders from across the mobility sector such as OEMs, battery manufacturers, charging infrastructure providers, technology solution providers, representatives from the Indian government as well as foreign governments, various inter-governmental organizations, academia, andpolicy think tanks.


    Ministry Interactions:


    Among the highlights will be, a workshop organized by Ministry of Road Transport & Highways (MoRTH) to deliberate on facets of public transport, shared mobility and last mile connectivity and a Seminar by Indian Railways, in partnership with NITI Aayog, on ‘E-Mobility in Indian Railways’ to bring project developers and other stakeholders on a common platform for making Indian Railways more efficient, greener and a preferred mode of transport.


    Student and Entrepreneurs


    To engage the science & technology community in the country, IIT Delhi on September 1 is hostingworkshop on EVs(Electric Vehicles). The technical conference will be followed by an interactive session aimed at increasing student interaction with industry leaders like Mr. SumitSawhey of Renault India Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Tarun Mehta of Ather Energy.


    Competitive events like, ‘Move Hack’ and ‘Pitch to Move’ for which the response in terms of registrations from the student community has been stupendous, will focus on encouraging disruptive ideas for transforming mobility, and ensuring these innovative ideas are implemented.


    The winners of these events, along with winning exciting prizes, will be felicitated during the MOVE summit on 7 and 8 September, 2018.


    Public Transportation:


    Last mile connectivity and the role of non-motorized transport, especially cycling will be critical in the deployment of integrated mobility solutions in future. As a run-up to the summit, to promote cycling and raise awareness about its role in mobility, NITI Aayog is organizing a cycle rally on September 2 to be flagged off by the Hon’ble Home Minister Shri. Rajnath Singh. Vice Chairman & CEO of NITI Aayog will participate.


    About MOVE: Global Mobility Summit


    Steeply falling technology costs and business–model innovations are driving the world’s transition to renewable energy and electric vehicles. Against this backdrop, NITI Aayog, in collaboration with various ministries and industry partners, is organizing ‘MOVE: Global Mobility Summit’ in New Delhi on 7th and 8th September, 2018. The Summit will constitute three designated components – The Conclave, Digital Exhibition, and Featured Events. It will help drive the government’s goals for vehicle electrification, renewable energy integration and job growth and also speed up India’s transition to a clean energy economy.


    The Summit, which is the first of its kind, with over 1,200 participants expected from across the world including leaders from the government, industry, research organizations, academia, think tanks and civil society. They will come together and engage with key stakeholders within the rapidly transforming global mobility landscape and to evolve a public interest framework. The issues will be discussed based on 5 thematic papers during the parallel sessions. State specific will also be discussed, to evolve a shared, connected, zero emission and inclusive mobility agenda for the future.


    *******


    AKT/KP/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544528) Visitor Counter : 897
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi