      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      NMCG Approves Projects Worth Nearly 150 Crore Rupees for Cleaning the River And Its Banks
      
      Intach to Document Cultural Heritage along River Ganga

      Posted On: 29 AUG 2018 11:47AM by PIB Delhi

    In its 5 th Executive Committee meeting held in New Delhi yesterday, the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) approved projects worth nearly Rs 150 crores in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal under the Namami Gange programme. These projects include I&D works where small rivers, rivulets and drains are intercepted before they empty into the main river, and are diverted to Sewage Treatment Plants (STP), so that the water that finally drains into the main river is clean and totally devoid of any pollutants. The projects also include STPs and development of Ghats. The state wise details of the projects are as follows:


    Uttarakhand


    An Interception and Diversion (I&D) projects was approved for Rispana & Bindal Rivers in Dehradun at an estimated cost of Rs 60 crores. The wastewater from these rivers ultimately meets Ganga between Haridwar and Rishikesh through river Song. Once executed, this project will tap 117 naalas/drains now carrying untreated wastewater. It is proposed to build a Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) with 1 Million Litre Per day (MLD) capacity to treat some of this wastewater while 28 MLD will be treated at the existing STPs.


    Uttar Pradesh


    The development of Ghats in Mirzapur was approved at an estimated cost of Rs.27.41 crore under the Clean Ganga Fund . The project includes the renovation, extension and widening of the Ghats as well as provision of amenities, landscaping and embankment construction. Further, the project also includes refurbishment of Ram Gaya crematorium and construction of two new crematoriums.


    Bihar


    The Committee approved a 3.5 MLD capacity Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) and its ancillary works, along with Interception and Diversion (I&D) of sewer lines in Sonepur in Bihar at an estimated cost of Rs.30.92 crore. The Project includes the cost of operations and maintenance (O&M) for 15 years. Once completed, the STP will treat all the 5 drains of the city including RN Tagore School Drain, Ward 3-4 boundary, Grave yard ward 18, Meena Bazaar which are presently carrying untreated sewage into the river Mahe which discharges into river Gandak and finally into the Ganga.


    The Committee also approved the river front development project in Sonepur at an estimated cost of Rs.22.92 Crore. This includes construction of a connecting promenade, embankment protection, provision of amenities as well as landscaping along the ghats. In addition, 8 ghats are under construction under the Namami Gange programme at an estimated cost of 20 crores.


    West Bengal


    The Eexcutive Committee also gave go-ahead to the upgradation/renovation of Ghats and Crematoria at Katwa, Kalna, Agradwip and Dainhat in West Bengal. These projects will be taken up under Clean Ganga Fund . The combined cost of these projects is Rs. 8.58 crores and includes embankment protection, provision of basic amenities at the Ghats, landscaping, electrical and allied works, renovation of existing structures etc at the various ghats.


    Documentation of Cultural Heritage along River Ganga


    The Eexcutive Committee also accorded approval to a proposal to document the cultural heritage of River Ganga from Gaumukh to Gangasagar through INTACH. The proposal seeks to develop an appreciation of the river as a cultural stream embedded in the soul of India, by documenting its associated cultural narrative, including features like an annual calendar of events and rituals. This would cover archaeological heritage, intangible cultural heritage and environmental heritage.


    NMCG is fully committed to cleaning and sustaining the cleanliness of the river Ganga. The Mission is making all out efforts to achieve this task and meet the timelines of the Namami Gange programme.


    *****


    NP/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1544205) Visitor Counter : 1056
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali