      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Rajnath Singh distributes scholarship cheques to children of martyred CAPFs personnel
      
      Scholarship aims to provide financial assistance to children for their studies

      Posted On: 27 AUG 2018 2:49PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh distributed scholarship cheques at a function here today to 19 school going children of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) and Assam Rifles (AR) personnel who sacrificed their lives in the service of the nation. This year funds were digitally transferred to 265 children beneficiaries by the sponsors, Sarojini Damodaran Foundation (SDF). The SDF’s contribution aims at honouring the brave soldiers and securing the future of their children. The Foundation not only provides scholarship to these students, but also helps them with guidance and mentorship.


    This scholarship scheme to help the children of martyred CAPFs personnel was started in the year 2016 by the SDF. The students from class I-class IV are given a scholarship of Rs 6,000 per year, class V-VII are given Rs 9,000 and from class VIII-XII students are given Rs 12,000 per year as scholarship amount. The foundation runs two schemes namely: Vidya Rakshak and Vidya Dhan. Under Vidya Rakshak scheme, the students are given assistance till class twelfth. Under Vidya Dhan scheme, the students are provided assistance for higher studies. Till date, the Foundation has helped more than 1,500 students.


    In his address, the Union Home Minister complimented Shri S.D. Shibulal, Managing Trustee, Sarojini Damodaran Foundation (SDF) for undertaking this responsibility. He said that the Foundation is performing this noble task of supporting the children of martyred CAPF personnel. He said that such tasks also help them in fulfilling their social responsibilities. The Home Minister wished the children a bright future and every success in their efforts. He said that this is a gesture of respect for the CAPF personnel who have made supreme sacrifice for the safety and honour of nation.


    Senior Officers of MHA & CAPFs, Smt. Kumari Shibulal, Patron, SDF and family members of CAPF personnel also attended the function.


    *****


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544026) Visitor Counter : 425
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Malayalam