      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Karnataka CM Shri H D Kumaraswamy meets MoS Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 30 AUG 2018 2:55PM by PIB Delhi


    The Chief Minister of Karnataka, Shri H D Kumaraswamy met the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh, here today. The two dignitaries discussed prevailing flood situation in Karnataka and other issues.


    During the meeting, the Chief Minister Shri Kumaraswamy requested the MoS (DoPT) Dr Jitendra Singh to repatriate some Karnataka cadre officers, posted on deputation in Central Government, back to Karnataka. He also discussed administrative issues related to the placement of Civil Services Officers in the state. The Minister assured him that he would discuss the issue with the Ministry officials and do whatever is possible under DoPT rules.


    The Chief Minister also expressed happiness at the fact that the hostel for students from North East has been built in Bengaluru and is ready for inauguration soon. The MoS Dr Jitendra Singh had laid the Foundation Stone of the Hostel for Northeast Girl students in Bengaluru in June, 2016. The hostel, which is the first of its kind in Bangalore University, has a capacity to accommodate more than 250 students. The hostel has been funded by the North Eastern Council (NEC), Shillong, the purpose of which is to support the students from North East who are pursuing their studies in that region. The Minister informed that 75% of the seats in the hostel are proposed to be reserved for North East students, while the remaining 25% seats are proposed to be earmarked for students from other parts of country. The composition of students from North-east and other parts of the country will help in better integration, he added. Considering the fact that Bangalore University attracts students from Northeast in huge numbers, many of whom find it difficult to afford accommodation, Dr Jitendra Singh said, it will be helpful for them, specially girl students.


    The Chief Minister also briefed Dr Jitendra Singh about the prevailing flood situation in the state of Karnataka. The flood situation is now under control and relief measures are continuing, the Chief Minister informed.


    During the meeting, both discussed other issues of importance related to Department of Space, the headquarters of which is located in Bengaluru in Karnataka.


    *******


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544494) Visitor Counter : 315
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi