      UPSC

      Combined Medical Services Examination, 2018
      Posted On: 29 AUG 2018 3:44PM by PIB Delhi


    On the basis of the result of the written part of the Combined Medical Services Examination, 2018 held by the U.P.S.C. on 22.07.2018 the candidates with the under mentioned Roll Numbers have qualified for Interview/Personality Test.


    The candidature of these candidates is PROVISIONAL subject to their being found eligible in all respects. The candidates would be required to produce the original certificates in support of their claims relating to age, educational qualifications, community, physical disability (where applicable) etc. at the time of the Personality Test. They are, therefore, advised to keep their certificates ready and check before hand the requirement of certificates in accordance with the important instructions available on the website of the Commission before appearing for the Personality Test.


    In accordance with the Rules of Examination, all these candidates are required to fill up the Detailed Application Form (D.A.F.), which will be made available on the Commission’s Website i.e. http;//www.upsc.gov.in ; from 13.09.2018 to 27.09.2018 till 06:00 PM . Important instructions regarding filling up of the DAF and submitting the same ONLINE to the Commission will also be made available on the website. The candidates who have been declared successful have to first get themselves registered on the relevant page of the Commission’s website before filling up the ONLINE DAF and submit the same ONLINE alongwith uploading of the scanned copies of relevant certificates/documents in support of their eligibility, claim for reservation etc. The qualified candidates are further advised to refer to the Rules of the Combined Medical Services Examination, 2018 published in the e-gazette of India, dated 02.05.2018.


    The instruction for filling up the DAF and Rules of the Combined Medical Services Examination, 2018 , must be read carefully with regard to the certificates that will be produced at the time of Interview. The candidates will be solely responsible for not producing sufficient proof in support of his/her age, date of birth, educational qualification, caste (SC/ST/OBC) and physical disability certificate (in the case of PwD candidates). In case any of the written qualified candidate fails to bring any or all the required original documents in support of his/her candidature for the Combined Medical Services Examination, 2018 , he/she will not be allowed to present himself/herself before the PT Board and no TA will be allowed.


    Schedule of the Interview of candidates, who have qualified for the Personality Test, will be uploaded on the Commission’s website in due course of time. The exact date of interview will, however, be intimated to the candidates through e-Summon Letter. The candidates are requested to visit the Commission’s website ( http://www.upsc.gov.in ) for updates in this regard.


    No request for change in the date and time of Personality Test intimated to the candidates will ordinarily be entertained under any circumstances.


    The mark-sheet of candidates, who have not qualified, will be uploaded on the Commission's website after the publication of final result (after conducting Personality Test) and will remain available on the website for a period of 30 days.


    The candidates can access the marks-sheets after keying in their Roll Numbers and date of birth. The printed/hard copies of the marks-sheet would, however, be issued by UPSC to candidates based on specific request accompanied by a self-addressed stamped envelope. Candidates desirous of obtaining printed/hard copies of the marks sheets should make the request within thirty days of the display of the marks on the Commission's website, beyond which such requests would not be entertained.


    Union Public Service Commission has a Facilitation Counter at its campus. Candidates may obtain any information/clarification regarding their examination/result on working days between 10.00 A.M. to 5.00 P.M in person or over telephone Nos. (011)-23385271/23381125/23098543 from this counter.

                                                          
MOBILE PHONES ARE BANNED IN THE CAMPUS OF UPSC EXAM. HALLS
                                                          
                                                          

    Click here for full list


    *****


    BB/NK/PK/SS/sk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544306) Visitor Counter : 599
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil