      Vice President's Secretariat

      We must integrate Art and Culture into our education system: Vice President
      
      Environmental peace is a prerequisite for the development of the nation;
      
      Private sector should propagate India’s culture, heritage and various art forms;
      
      Gives away Legends of India Awards
      Posted On: 31 AUG 2018 8:11PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that we must integrate Art and Culture into our education system. He was addressing the gathering after giving away Lifetime Achievement Awards to Painter and Sculptor, Shri Satish Gujral, renowned Violinist, Shri T.N. Krishnan and Theatre personality, Shri Ratan Thiyam, organized by the Legends of India, here today.


    The Vice President said that culture plays an important role in improving the quality of our lives. He further said that it has a direct impact on every facet of our life - from education to tourism. The Sanskrit word for culture in ‘Sanskriti’ signifying a special creation and a transformative experience, he added.


    The Vice President said that refinement, sublimation and the ability to see ‘extraordinariness’ in ‘ordinariness’ is at the root of art. We need to preserve this ability that brings a creative and artistic touch to our lives through music, dance, theater, sculpture and other arts, he added.


    The Vice President said that the younger generation should be made aware of the importance of creative art forms and must be made sensitive to what is aesthetically good. We should at the same time focus on nurturing talent and providing enough opportunities for our youth to learn music, dance, sculpture, painting and other fine arts, he added.


    The Vice President said that while the governments at the Centre and in various States have been promoting culture and different art forms, he urged the private sector to contribute its might in propagating India’s culture, heritage and various art forms.


    The Vice President said that Share and Care is the core philosophy of our nation. Environmental peace is a prerequisite for the development of the nation and we should Love and Live with Nature, he added.


    Following is the text of Vice President’s address :


    “ I am extremely pleased to be amongst some of the leading lights of Indian Music, Theater and Visual Arts.


    The legendary artists we are honouring today - theater personality, Shri Ratan Thiyam, renowned violinist Shri T N Krishnan and painter and sculptor, Shri Satish Gujral have carved out a niche for themselves in their respective art forms and brought global recognition to India.


    They have excelled in their respective fields and have become the shining stars in the firmament of Indian culture.


    Very few countries in the world can match India’s diversity in culture and various art forms.


    There have been a large number of creative artists over the last two millennia who have greatly enriched India’s cultural capital.


    To that illustrious lineage belong the three iconic personages we are honoring today.


    In the present era of fast-paced lifestyles and hectic schedules, the best way to rejuvenate one’s mind and soul is through attending a concert, a play, an exhibition or any artistic performance. Irrespective of whether a person is connoisseur or a commoner, good music, dance or a play elevates our lives to a different level.


    Culture plays an important role in improving the quality of our lives.


    It has a direct impact on every facet of our life - from education to tourism.


    The Sanskrit word for culture in ‘Sanskriti’ signifying ‘a special creation’ and a ‘transformative experience’.


    Refinement, sublimation and the ability to see ‘extraordinariness’ in ‘ordinariness’ is at the root of all art forms.


    We need to preserve this ability that brings a creative and artistic touch to our lives through music, dance, theater, sculpture and other arts.


    We must integrate art into our education system, effectively and seamlessly.


    Unless our great art forms are recognised and made popular, particularly among the younger generation, they will become relics of the past and remain as mere showpieces. The younger generation should be made aware of the importance of creative art forms and must be made sensitive to what is aesthetically good.


    It goes without saying that various art forms like Music, Theater and Visual arts transcend all barriers of language, religion, geographies and hierarchies. They speak and convey the message in the universal language that is understood by one and all.


    Art unites hearts.


    Art makes us more humane.


    Art is the articulation of a civilization’s value system.


    While the governments at the Centre and in various States have been promoting culture and different art forms, I urge the private sector to contribute its might in propagating India’s culture, heritage and various art forms.


    I was told that Pt. Birju Maharaj, Zohra Sehgal, Habib Tanvir, Sitara Devi, Girija Devi, Paritosh Sen, Yamini Krishnamurthy to mention a few were among the recipients of ’Legends of India Lifetime Achievement Awards’.


    These Lifetime Achievement Awards are tokens of appreciation for artists who have dedicated their lives in pursuit of fine arts, enthralled listeners, enraptured viewers and enchanted art lovers.


    It should be remembered that an award presentation or felicitation to a person is meant to inspire and motivate others to achieve excellence.


    We should at the same time focus on nurturing talent and providing enough opportunities for our youth to learn music, dance, sculpture, painting and other fine arts.


    We should create greater awareness about India’s contribution to world culture and the uniqueness and the richness of Indian artistic expression from time immemorial.


    We need to nurture culture, refine it and propagate it. Art should pervade national consciousness.


    Environmental peace is a prerequisite for the development of the nation.


    Share and Care is the core philosophy of our nation.


    We should Love and Live with Nature.


    On the auspicious occasion of Lifetime Achievement Awards Ceremony, 2018, it is a matter of pride that Sri Dipayan Mazumdar as an individual has done yeomen service in not only promoting our cultural heritage but also helped and encouraged many young talents to find a true meaning in pursuing music, art and theater. I understand that ‘Legends of India’ is also working on a unique project for the skill development of trained musicians.


    There are many corporate organisations who have been working towards the promotion of art and culture but Sri Dipayan Mazumdar is a rare example of an individual who has been rendering such a meritorious service for almost two decades.


    I once again convey my hearty congratulations to the awardees — Shri Ratan Thiyam, the Doyen of “Theatre of Roots” movement, Padma Bhushan Shri T.N.Krishnan the Master Violinist and Padma Vibhushan Shri. Satish Gujra l, the man with many faces – Painter and sculptor par excellence, muralist, architect, graphic and interior designer.


    As the ancient Indian sages have said, “Saraswathi Shrutimahathi Maheeyathaam” (Let the glory of Goddess Saraswathi, the Goddess of learning and fine arts, spread far and wide).


    Let great exponents of art continue to spread the message of harmony, beauty and peace.


    JAI HIND!”


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544704) Visitor Counter : 655