      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Shri J P Nadda reviews the flood relief measuresin Kerala
      
      We are sending the neededmedicines and other supplies to the State: J P Nadda

      Posted On: 30 AUG 2018 6:44PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri J P Nadda, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare reviewed the flood relief measures with senior officials of the Ministry,today.


    Senior officials of the Health Ministry briefed the Union Minister that Government is closely monitoring the disease surveillance data for potential outbreak of epidemic prone diseases. A rising trend is indicated in cases of Leptospirosis, acute diarrhoeal disease and Dengue and they are coordinating with state to monitor the cases.


    As of date, Union Government has supplied 73 MT of essential emergency drugs; 1000 inj Adrenaline vials; 2.25 crore Chlorine tablets (one tablet for chlorinating 20 L of water); 80 MT of Bleaching powder, and 4 lakh units of Sanitary Napkins to state besides 1000 litres of Cyphenothrin 5%, 500 kg of Diflubenzuron 25% and 250 litres of Malathion (Tech).


    As per the additional request received from State,58 items of essential drugs/ consumables weighing about 120 MT, and 40 Ultra Low Volume (ULV) Fogging Machines are also being sent to the state.


    NIMHANS, Bengaluru has already deployed a 40-member psycho-social teams (Psychiatrist, Psychologists and Psycho-social worker), one team for each of the 14 districts for rapid psycho-social assessment and community based psycho-social care.


    As per the request received from the state today, Government of India is sending 30 specialist doctors, 20 General Duty Medical Officers and 40 Malayalam speaking nurses and these teams are reaching Kerala tomorrow. Also, 12 public health teams, each comprising of 1 public health specialist, 1 microbiologist and 1 entomologist are being deployed to assist the State health department in various public health measures.


    The Minister also spoke to Smt. K KShailaja, Health Minister, Kerala and assured her of the continued support of the Health Ministry in the ongoing flood relief measures.


    ******


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544570) Visitor Counter : 260