      Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises

      Charging Stations for e-Vehicles Inaugurated in Udyog Bhawan
      Posted On: 28 AUG 2018 5:48PM by PIB Delhi


    Anant G. Geeteinaugurating e-charging stations in UdyogBhawan


    Union Minister of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises,Anant G. Geete inaugurated two charging stations, one for fast charging (DC) and the other for slow charging (AC), in UdyogBhawan, New Delhi today.This is part of theSwachhtaPakhwadacelebrations of the Department of Heavy Industry.Eight charging stations have been installed in the premises of UdyogBhawan for facilitating charging of e-vehicles. Of the eight charging stations, two fast charging stations have been installed by BHEL and six slow charging stations have been installed by Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL).


    AC charger consists of 3 outlets, charging 3 cars at the same time with the charging time from 6-8 hours. DC charger consists of single outlet, charging one car at a time with the charging time of 1.5 hours.


    As a part of Swachh Bharat Mission and to continue with the Government of India’s sustained effort to promote electric mobility in the country, the Department of Heavy Industry has allocated 455 electric buses to selected cities and special category states, through Expression of Interest (EoI) recently.Further, the Department has also approved funding of 130 electric buses to Ahmedabad, Himachal Pradesh and Navi Mumbai.


    The project for 25 charging stations in Bangalore is being funded by the Governmentof India under the Public Fast Charging Infrastructure Network for Electric Vehicles.Government has also fundedSolar Based Charging Infrastructure for EVs byBHEL.The DC 001 fast chargers have been supplied and commissioned by BHEL and the Company is also in advanced stages of offering indigenously developed end-to-end e-mobility solutions.


    Proposal of setting-up 200 charging stations and putting up of Solar Based Charging Infrastructure for EVs by Rajasthan Electronics & Instruments Ltd. (REIL) is also funded by the Department of Heavy Industry. REIL has already installed 3 solar hybrid chargers in Jaipur. The other locations where EV charging stations have been installed are:

      * 18 AC chargers installed at Metro Station, Dwarka, Sector 10, Delhi under DMRC.
      * 2 DC chargers installed at Shram Shakti Bhawan, Delhi.
      * 15 AC chargers installed at various sites under Jaipur Metro Railway Corporation (JMRC).
      * Installation of 9 EV chargers (4 DC & 5 AC) & 2 EV chargers (1 DC & 1 AC) at various sites of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL), Delhi is under process.

    Some technology projects including finalization of specifications and draft standards of xEVs by ARAI, Pune, Development of Charging Infrastructure Management System By IIT, Madras, Design & Development of AC-DC Combined Public Charging Stations by ARAI, Development of Indigenous Chargers (AC/DC/Solar) by AMU are alsobeing supported by the Department.


    Recognizing the immediate need for reduction in pollution levels and for making cities cleaner and environment friendly, the Government is working on FAME-II Scheme having focus on mass & shared public transportation based on electric powertrain. The necessity for development of charging infrastructure for smooth roll out of electric mobility in the country is being addressed in the Phase-II of FAME Scheme. To reduce dependenceon fossil fuel and for encouraging cleaner environment, the Department has notified FAME India Scheme in the year 2015 under National Electric Mobility Mission Plan of the Government. The Phase-1 of this scheme is being implemented through four focus areas namely Demand Creation, Pilot Projects, Charging Infrastructure and Technology Platform and R&D. Under Demand Creation component of the scheme, incentive is available to buyers of electric and hybrid vehicles (xEVs) in the form of an upfront reduced purchase price to enable wider adoption. Specific projects under Pilot Projects, R&D and Technology Development and Public Charging Infrastructure components are approved for extending grant under the different focus areas of the scheme.


    Secretary Department of Heavy Industry, chairmen of BHEL and EESLand senior officers of the Department were also present on this occasion.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1544163) Visitor Counter : 800
    
    
    
    
    

*