      Ministry of Culture

      BITM to Organise Online Interactive Events for Students to Celebrate World Environment Day
      Posted On: 02 JUN 2020 6:09PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 02 June, 2020


    Birla Industrial & Technological Museum (BITM) is going to celebrate the World Environment Day, this year on June 5, in an innovative way. In the wake of lockdown due to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, the institution is going to organise a bouquet of Online Interactive Events for students. A drawing completion will be held also. For classes IV to VI, the theme is- ‘You & Your Environment’. For classes VII to X, the theme is- ‘Plant Health & Us’. Scanned entries of A4 size may be submitted to bitmeducationsection@gmail.com within 4 pm on that date. Digital certificates will be given to all the participants.


    There will be a quiz competition, the theme being-‘Time for Nature’. Students of classes VII to XII may participate in the quiz competition. The platform is again www.bitm.gov.in from 3 pm to 4 pm. Digital certificates will be provided to all correct answers.


    The third event is Dear Trellis which will commemorate International Year of Plant Health 2020 through writing, sketching, taking photograph and recording plant messages dedicated to loved ones in the future. This particular event is open to all students. The messages may be posted at www.bitm.gov.in/deartrellis . Selected entries will be displayed at BITM’s virtual trello-board.


    These apart, there is an event of planting of saplings also. The BITM staff-members will be planting those saplings inside the BITM premises at 11 am.


    It is be noted that this year, the World Environment Day will be hosted at Columbia in partnership with Germany. The United Nations has chosen this year’s theme as ‘Biodiversity’, biodiversity involves 8 million plant and animal species, the ecosystems that house them and he genetic diversity among them.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1628687) Visitor Counter : 179