      Ministry of Railways

      ER ORGANISES TREE PLANTATION TO OBSERVE WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY
      Posted On: 05 JUN 2020 7:34PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 05 June, 2020


    Eastern Railway (ER) organised plantation of saplings at various places on the occasion of World Environment Day. Shri S. S. Ghelot, Additional General Manager, ER has took the initiative in plantation of tree as a token of ER’s care for conservation of environment.


    ER took a number of initiatives in 2019-20 for conservation of ecology. Aforestation, renovation and provision of water bodies, rain water harvesting, recycling of released sleepers for construction of roads, level crossing , station platforms etc, installation of plastic bottles crushing machines at station platforms , provision of LED luminaries, provision of solar power plants and Bio-toilets in coaches are some of the ER’s efforts towards Green Environment movement to reduce carbon foot print .


    Some of the Green Initiatives of ER during 2019-20 are as follows:


    i) Revival of trees affected by severe cyclone ‘Amphan’ :- Following the landfall of recent severe cyclone of ‘Amphan’, ER took “Save Fallen Trees” project to save trees affected by cyclone hit at railway areas. A number of trees affected in cyclone ‘Amphan’ were revived by this process.


    ii) ER planted a total of 1318739 numbers of saplings in 2019-20.


    iii) Eleven (11) numbers of mini forests were created in Asansol Division.


    iv) Three nurseries were created in Howrah Division.


    v) Mini gardens were developed at Pandabeshwar, Waria Gang Hut and ZRTC, Bhuli.


    vi) Vertical Gardens : Vertical garden was created in Howrah station premises last year to augment green touch. This year, a new garden ‘Bapu Udayan’ is created at Howrah station area. Vertical gardens with fountain were completed at Jasidih and Asansol station circulating areas.


    vii) Water Treatment Plant at Howrah:- The entire waste water generated at Howrah station is treated completely before releasing it to the river.


    viii) Rain water harvesting : Rain water harvesting system is developed at Sealdah. Water harvesting mechanism is also installed at Asansol Railway hospital, Waria Gang Hut, Panagarh, Andal Health Unit, Giridih station building, Liluah Workshop, Kanchrapara Workshop etc.


    ix) Installation of bottle crushing machines : Bottle crushing machines are installed at many stations and workshops and progressively installed at all major stations as an effective measures to eradicate plastic pollution at Railway premises. Passengers can utilise bottle crushing machines installed at Howrah, Bandel, Barddhaman, Rampurhat, Sealdah, Kolkata, Naihati, Asansol, Deoghar, Madhupur, Jasidih, Raniganj, Andal, Malda Town, Bhagalpur, New Farakka, Jamalpur, Sultanganj etc. as a step forward towards plastic pollution free environment.


    x) Using released sleepers for construction of road etc: Released PSC sleepers are utilized for construction of connecting road from LC Gate No 102 to LC Gate No. 103 at Panagarh. Approach road of a LC Gate at Suri, Platform surfaces at Sirsa, Nunthar, Dhanpathdih stations, pathway to Asansol nursery etc to recycle the released sleepers towards conservation of environment.


    xi) Provision of LED luminaries :- All of 572 electrified stations of ER are now embodied with completely fitted with LED luminaries.


    xi) Provision of Solar Power Plant : 3 million Watt solar power plant was commissioned on the rooftop of Howrah station. This is the biggest solar plant on rooftop of any station bringing expected saving of Rs.1.9 crore annually. Renewable energy sources were also commissioned at Sealdah, Hirapur Yard, Liluah Workshop and other places over ER.


    xii) Provision of Bio-toilets : All coaches of Eastern Railway are provided with bio-toilets.


    With these continuous endeavours, ER achieved many Green Certification in 2019-20. Howrah station is accredited with ISO Certification 14001:2015 in June 2019, Sealdah station received ISO Certificate 14001:2015 on August 2019. Malda, New Farraka, Bhagalpur, Sultanganj, Jamalpur, Asansol, Raniganj, Andal, Durgapur, Madhupur, Jasidih, Baidyanath Dham, Basukinath & Deoghar stations are also accredited with ISO 14001:2015. Besides, Kancharapara Workshop was accredited with “Silver Rated Green Co Certification” in September, 2019.


    It is pertinent to mention that, Liluah Workshop of ER is already having ‘Gold rated Co certification’ and Jamalpur Workshop ‘Green Co certification’.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1629691) Visitor Counter : 3