      Ministry of Railways

      SER RUNS 1475 TRIPS OF PARCEL EXPRESS TRAINS FOR SUPPLYING ESSENTIAL COMMODITIES
      Posted On: 08 JUN 2020 5:59PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 08 June, 2020


    Indian Railways, aptly called the 'LIFELINE OF THE NATION' is poised to combat the Coronavirus pandemic by adopting various measures including movement of Time Tabled Parcel Express Trains for uninterrupted supply of essential commodities to every nook and corner of the country. As a part of commitment to the nation, South Eastern Railway (SER), has already geared up its entire network to run Time Tabled Parcel Express Trains towards different destinations of the country. SER, during this national crisis, has already run 1475 trips of such trains carrying essential commodities like food items, groceries, medicines, medical equipment including PPE masks, sanitisers coveralls, gloves, fish, fruits, cotton goods, gunny bags, vegetables, onion, ginger, garlic etc. to different parts of the country from April 2 to June 6, 2020. SER during the above period, has already carried 22,122 tonnes of parcel traffic containing 8,42,299 packages to different places in the country. These Time Tabled Parcel Express Trains are running between Shalimar-Ranchi, Howrah-KSR Bengaluru, Shalimar-Mumbai CSMT, Tatanagar-Itwari, Howrah-Secunderabad and Shalimar-Porbander and will continue to run till June 15, 2020. These trains will also cater to the needs of the people residing around Kharagpur, Purulia, Balasore, Rourkela, Chakradharpur and other stations under SER’s jurisdiction in addition to the major cities en route.


    This challenging task is fructified due to the overwhelming responses from the dedicated workforce of frontline warriors of SER like, loco pilots, guards, gang-men, trackmen, cabin-men, control staff working at stations and divisional headquarters, comments CPRO’s office. SER has also started transporting parcel goods in nine pairs of Special Trains in the path of existing Mail/ Express Trains which were running from June 1, 2020 between Howrah-Secunderabad, Howrah-Mumbai, Howrah-Ahmedabad, Howrah-Yesvantpur, Shalimar-Patna, Howrah-Barbil, Howrah-Bhubaneswar, Tatanagar-Danapur and Ranchi-Patna. SER is committed to run more parcel and freight trains until the adverse situation in the country is over, informs the CPRO’s office.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1630245) Visitor Counter : 2