      Ministry of Railways

      MORE THAN 180 SHRAMIK SPECIALS TERMINATED IN SER JURISDICTION
      Posted On: 07 JUN 2020 5:03PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 07 June, 2020


    Indian Railways is running Shramik Special Trains since May 01, 2020 in co-ordination with State Governments to bring back stranded migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students, patients etc. from different places of the country to their respective home States. South Eastern Railway (SER) is also playing a major role to provide relief to the distressed migrant workers and other stranded passengers. The passengers of Shramik Special Trains are provided with food and drinking water in various strategic points in SER jurisdiction. On arrival, the passengers are received by the civil authorities with necessary arrangements as per hygiene protocols.


    Due to the initiative taken by the Ministry of Railways in co-ordination with respective State Governments, so far more than 180 Shramik Special Trains have terminated at different stations in SER jurisdiction, including Kharagpur, Adra, Ranchi and Chakradharpur Divisions with stranded migrant workers and other passengers. These trains arrived at Howrah, Hatia, Ranchi, Bokaro Steel City, Tatanagar, Kharagpur, Bankura, Purulia, Balasore, Hijli and Lohardaga stations in SER’s jurisdiction from different parts of the country like Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Kerala. This apart, three Shramik Special Trains with stranded migrant workers and others have originated from SER’s jurisdiction so far. One Shramik Special left Hatia Station for Jaipur and another two left Shalimar for Bikaner and Udhampur.


    Nine Shramik Special Trains were received by SER on Saturday, June 6, 2020 for various destinations of West Bengal. SER is committed to take care of the basic needs of the migrant workers and other passengers of Shramik Special Trains. The movements of the Shramik Special Trains are monitored at the apex level round the clock.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1630058) Visitor Counter : 2