      Ministry of Railways

      194 SHRAMIK SPECIALS TERMINATE AT ER STATIONS TO FACILITATE RETURN OF MIGRANT WORKERS
      Posted On: 07 JUN 2020 7:39PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 07 June, 2020


    Railways started running Shramik Special trains in different routes since May 1, 2020, to facilitate home return of the migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other passengers stranded at different places across the country due to the nationwide lockdown. Railways in co-ordination with the State Governments took all initiatives for smooth operation of the all Shramik Special trains so that the migrants can return their home comfortably.


    Shramik Specials also arrived at Eastern Railway (ER) stations in good numbers carrying the migrant workers. ER is taking every care for helping the migrants arrive at different stations.


    With the assistance of IRCTC, food and water were served by ER to on-board passengers of Shramik Special trains at nominated stations in its jurisdiction (viz Asansol, Barddhaman, Malda Town, Bhagalpur, Bolpur, Dankuni, Rampurhat).


    Till 4:00 pm today, as many as 194 Shramik Special trains terminated at ER stations. Among these, four Shramik Special trains terminated at Dankuni station, six at Berhampore Court station, 22 at Howrah station, one at Bandel station, three at Krishnanagar Jn. station, 44 at Malda Town station, two at Durgapur station, one at Barddhaman station, one at Kolkata station, 59 at Bhagalpur station, 15 at Banka station, one at Munger station and 35 at Jasidih station.


    Moreover, seven Shramik Special trains originated from ER stations for different destinations viz Howrah to Agartala, Kolkata to Patna, Bandel to Muzaffarpur, Howrah to Jaunpur, Kolkata to Siwan, Kolkata to Lucknow and Kolkata to Agra.


    Everywhere standard health protocols such as maintenance of social distancing, sanitization, thermal screening etc were followed scrupulously informed ER officials.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1630089) Visitor Counter : 4