      Ministry of Railways

      SER MANUFACTURES 1,15,081 FACE MASKS & 9,001 LITRES OF HAND SANITISER TO COMBAT COVID-19 PANDEMIC
      Posted On: 10 JUN 2020 5:57PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 10 June, 2020


    In view of increasing COVID-19 pandemic, South Eastern Railway (SER) has come forward to produce reusable Face Masks and Hand Sanitiser in its four divisions viz. Kharagpur, Adra, Ranchi and Chakradharpur, as well as at its Kharagpur Workshop. The masks and sanitiser are prepared under the strict supervision and guidance ofMedical Department of SER.


    All the divisional units of SER and Kharagapur Workshop have taken major initiatives to produce 1,15,081 reusable face masks and 9,001 litres of hand sanitiser so far.


    To provide extensive support to its employees, SER has distributed reusable face masks and hand sanitiser amongst the frontline staff like loco pilots, guards and concerned staff engaged in running of freight, parcel and special trains for ensuring their protection from the pandemic. It has also been planned to distribute mask and hand sanitiser to all the employees of SER.


    This apart, masks and sanitiser are also sent to the health units and hospitals spread over SER jurisdiction. At present, wearing face masks and use of hand sanitiser have become mandatory across the country. The masks are largely made using cotton clothes with straps for adjustment and can be reused after proper washing. Hand sanitiser is generally used to minimise infectious agents from the hands. In-house production of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Kits are going on at Kharagpur Workshop and Kharagpur Divisional Unit of SER for supporting the Doctors, Nurses and other Healthcare personnel for treating the COVID-19 infected persons.


    SER’s in-house production will not only ensure timely supply of the masks, sanitiser and PPEs to the frontline staff and Healthcare personnel, it will also result in substantial cost savings.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1630692) Visitor Counter : 32