      Ministry of Railways

      SER PROVIDES 4.42 LAKH FREE MEALS TO HELPLESS & NEEDY PEOPLE DURING THE LOCKDOWN PERIOD
      Posted On: 09 JUN 2020 5:02PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 09 June, 2020


    In the view of nationwide lockdown due to the outspread of COVID-19 pandemic, South Eastern Railway (SER) has supported feeding the poor, needy and destitute people free of cost to cope up with the crisis situation. SER, till now has distributed 4,42,105 free and hygienic meals to the helpless and poor people nearby and outside the railway areas at its Headquarters & all over four Divisions viz. Kharagpur, Adra, Chakradharpur and Ranchi.


    Out of 4,42,105 meals, 92,880 meals were served by Indian Railway Catering & Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) utilising its Base Kitchen Infrastructure located in the SER stations with the help of Commercial Department. The rest 3,49,225 free meals were arranged for distribution by Security & other departments of SER. Various associations like South Eastern Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation (SERWWO), SER Bharat Scouts & Guides, St. John Ambulance Brigade, Civil Defence etc. also joined hands in this mass food distribution drive.


    Foods were also distributed through the field units of SER over its jurisdiction and employees are also distributing foods at their personal level or jointly to the needy and poor people. Apart from cooked meals, SER employees are also distributing dry ration packets containing rice, pulses, potatoes, onions, edible oil, spices, biscuits etc.


    This distribution drive took place adopting adequate safety measures including social distancing and imparting best practices in this situation.


    These apart, Shramik Special Trains also arrived in SER’s jurisdiction starting from May 1, 2020. IRCTC and Departmental Railway Catering were involved in providing food packets/meals with drinking water to the migrant workers who were transported by Shramik Special Trains to their home towns from various parts of the country. The arrangement of food distribution among the migrant workers was organised jointly by Departmental Railway Catering, IRCTC and Charitable Organisations.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1630465) Visitor Counter : 3