      Ministry of Railways

      SER PROVIDES 4.50 LAKH FREE MEALS TO HELPLESS & NEEDY PEOPLE IN THE WAKE OF COVID-19
      Posted On: 15 JUN 2020 9:09PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 15 June, 2020


    In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, South Eastern Railway (SER) has come forward to help the poor, needy and destitute people by distributing free meals during this crisis situation. SER, till now has distributed 4,50,891 free and hygienic meals to the helpless, poor and needy people nearby and outside railway areas at its Headquarters & all over four Divisions like Kharagpur, Adra, Chakradharpur and Ranchi.


    Out of 4,50,891 meals, 92,880 meals were served and distributed by Indian Railway Catering & Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) utilising its Base Kitchen Infrastructure located in SER stations with the help of Commercial Department. The rest 3,58,011 free meals were arranged for distribution by Security & other departments of SER. Various associations viz. South Eastern Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation (SERWWO), SER Bharat Scouts & Guides, St. John Ambulance Brigade, Civil Defence etc. also joined hands in this mass food distribution activities.


    Food was distributed through the field units of SER over its jurisdiction and employees also distributed food at their personal level or jointly to the needy and poor people. Apart from cooked meals, SER employees also distributed dry ration packets containing rice, pulses, potatoes, onions, edible oil, spices, biscuits etc. This distribution amongst the poor and needy people was done adopting adequate safety measures including social distancing and imparting best practices in this situation.


    These apart, Shramik Special Trains arrived in SER’s jurisdiction staring from May 1. IRCTC and Departmental Railway Catering were involved in providing food packets/meals with drinking water to the migrant workers who have been transported by Shramik Special Trains to their home towns from various parts of the country. The arrangement of food distribution among the migrant workers were organised jointly by Departmental Railway Catering, IRCTC and other Charitable Organisations.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1631786) Visitor Counter : 25