      Ministry of Railways

      SER PRODUCES 3752 PPE KITS TO COMBAT WITH COVID-19 PANDEMIC
      Posted On: 13 JUN 2020 5:15PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 13 June, 2020


    As a part of combating with the rapid spread of COVID-19, South Eastern Railway (SER) is continuously manufacturing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Kits for supporting of railway doctors, paramedical staff, nurses, other healthcare personnel and other frontline employees. These PPE Kits are produced mainly at Kharagpur Division and Kharagpur Workshop of SER. The PPE Kits include Face Cover, Eye Shield, NS-95 Mask, Coverall Gown with Hood, Shoe Cover, Gloves etc.


    Kharagpur Division has produced 2102 PPE Kits while Kharagpur Workshop has produced1650 PPE Kits so far. SER, in total, till now produced 3752 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Kits. The entire production process is undertaken according to the approved Quality Assurance Plan. The Design and materials are certified from DRDE, Gwalior. The material used is non-woven polypropylene barrier fabric which is impermeable to blood and bodily fluids. Not only the stitching is to be seamless, it also requires a special tape and taping machine to cover the stitching with tape. After stitching, the PPE Kits are sealed in plastic bags with markings of size, serial number and date of production.


    Before starting work, the workplace is cleaned and sanitized. The workmen are screened for any symptoms of COVID-19 and are allowed to start work after hand washing. They have to maintain social distancing in workplace and are also counseled to use hand sanitizer at frequent intervals. The workmen involved in production of PPE Kits are kept in separate workplace to avoid cross contamination.


    SER has put its all-out efforts to produce high quality PPE Kits which are equivalent to the best available PPE Kit. Railway technicians have also been motivated to make these PPE Kits to deal with this crisis.


    This apart, huge In-house production of face masks and hand sanitiser are done at all Divisions and Kharagpur Workshop of SER for railway doctors, paramedical staff, nurses, other healthcare personnel, frontline employees, railway-men and their family members to contain the spread of pandemic Coronavirus.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1631381) Visitor Counter : 22