      Ministry of Railways

      SER UNDERTAKES TRACK MAINTENANCE & GEARS UP SAFETY MEASURES IN THE WAKE OF MONSOON
      Posted On: 12 JUN 2020 6:00PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 12 June, 2020


    

    Monitoring of track is a continuous activity and one of the most important parts of train operations. Railway engineers with a team are engaged in track maintenance and are working round the clock to keep safe, secured and well-maintained railway track.


    The track-men and section engineers are constantly monitoring track maintenance works wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing for smooth running of South Eastern Railway (SER)’s parcel, freight and Special Trains considering the need of the time and greater interest. The vast network of SER has been divided into various maintenance sections for thorough check up and inspections. Security services are on patrol with the Safety Inspectors on constant vigil.


    Railway tracks are inspected on regular intervals to see that every section is fit for train operation. Adequate steps are also taken to detect any crack or other changes in the track in view of keeping the lifeline of the country connected all the time.


    SAFETY PRECAUTIONS DURING THE ONSET OF MONSOON:


    To improve the safety of running trains including disruption-free services and also to minimise the effects of heavy rainfall, SER has planned the following precautionary measures before the o­nset of the monsoon:


    Ø Close watch and monitoring of the bridges, tracks, yards and signaling systems.


    Ø Silt, vegetation and other obstructions cleared from catch water and side drains to prevent water logging on track


    Ø Meetings conducted with the State Govt. officials


    Ø Patrolling at vulnerable locations by deputing Patrol and Watch Man


    Ø Sectional Gang men will patrol tracks whenever there is heavy rain


    Ø Arrangements made to stock sufficient quantities of monsoon reserve materials like boulders, sand, cinder, quarry dust, ballast etc.


    Ø Keeping constant touch with the Meteorological Department.


    SER advised the concerned officials related to safety to be on full alert regarding any accident caused by monsoon rain and flood situation near the railway track for the safety of passengers and smooth train operations.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1631170) Visitor Counter : 3