      Ministry of Railways

      SER GEARS UP INTENSIVE CLEANLINESS & SANITISATION DRIVE TO CONTAIN THE SPREAD OF CORONAVIRUS
      Posted On: 16 JUN 2020 5:42PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 16 June, 2020


    In view of the rapid spread of COVID-19 in the country, South Eastern Railway (SER) has undertaken massive cleanliness and sanitisation drive in its offices, trains, station-premises to curb the spread of this deadly virus. Multiple precautionary measures have been taken by SER to support its workforce with disinfected infrastructures and clean environment and this is a continuous process. Daily cleaning, sanitisation and disinfection of all offices, stations, depots, colonies, control offices etc. are undertaken. This intensive cleanliness and sanitisation drive is monitored at the apex level. The employees who are engaged in this mission are advised to maintain social distancing. Thermal screening of these staff is carried on daily and they are also counseled to adopt health safety measures. Mass awareness programmes are also done for spreading the messages of the Covid-19 Guidelines. Posters have been put up at various stations and railway premises to make people aware of the means to contain the spread of this deadly virus.


    The frontline warriors like Loco Pilots, Guards, Station Managers, Yard Masters, Controllers, Traffic Inspectors etc of SER are working round the clock for maintaining uninterrupted supply of essential commodities to different parts of the country. It is a very essential & commendable service to the nation when the country is under crisis. The Frontline Staff have been provided with face masks, sanitisers, soaps and gloves to safeguard themselves from the deadly pandemic. Doctors, nurses and other healthcare personnel have also been provided with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) produced in-house. The employees and other stakeholders without face covers are not allowed to enter railway offices or premises. Railway areas and Public Interfaces are also under regular sanitisation programme to ensure disinfection and attaining hygiene and health. Besides, SER has been bolstering its preparedness to meet any future challenge in every sector within the ambit.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1631924) Visitor Counter : 17