      Ministry of Steel

      DSP Organises Web Interaction with Local MSEs of Durgapur
      Posted On: 18 JUN 2020 5:16PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 18 June, 2020

    Taking forward SAIL's commitment to the Prime Minister’s vision of building an ATMA-NIRBHAR-BHARAT, an interactive online video conference meeting on the topic, “AN INTERACTION WITH LMSEs – A STEP FORWARD, TOWARDS AATMA-NIRBHAR-BHARAT” was organized by SAIL, Durgapur Steel Plant (DSP) today. The online session was presided over by Shri AV Kamlakar, CEO, ISP with addl. charge of CEO, DSP & ASP amidst presence of EDs from DSP, ISP & ASP, Dy. Director I/c DIC, Govt. of WB, Asst. Director, MSME DI, Govt. of India and other business leaders representing various local MSEs from Durgapur. The programme started with the keynote address by ED(MM), DSP, Shri Nilanjan Roy, followed by views and ideas expressed by other dignitaries. Thereafter, a presentation was made by the Materials Management Department of DSP detailing the concept of Atma-Nirbhar Bharat, brief layout about the current relationship of DSP with LMSEs and further chalking out plans for the future scenario. It was followed by a round of healthy discussion among the participants. During the discussions, many ideas and future possibilities were suggested with a view of exploring each and every suggestion in detail for future course of action aimed at building an Atma-nirbhar Bharat.


    The programme ended with Shri Kamlakar expressing sincere efforts of DSP & ASP towards promoting the MSE sector including placing orders on them for various supplies & requirements of SAIL particularly DSP & ASP. He further spoke of the opportunities provided by DSP towards helping MSEs to develop products to meet specific requirements of DSP and highlighted upon the need to work in a way so that people’s needs and local industries are adequately taken care of. For this the country needs to go back to the basics and look at building an economy based on local skills and naturally available resources, were the ending words uttered by Shri Kamlakar.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1632342) Visitor Counter : 4