      Ministry of Railways

      SER CONTINUES ELECTRICAL ASSET MAINTENANCE WORKS DURING LOCKDOWN
      Posted On: 19 JUN 2020 4:25PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 19 June, 2020


    The Railway Electrification has been increased in commensurate with the increase of freight and passenger trains. The railway electrification provides the advantage of faster and pollution free rail travel to all parts of India. The prime work of Electrical Department in railways is to look after the Planning, Operation and Maintenance of all electrical assets which include Electrical Locomotives and Tractions. Maintenance of Traction Sub-station for uninterrupted power supply, maintenance of all lifts and escalators, air-conditioning equipment, maintenance of all electrical gadgets, fittings and fixtures, maintenance of pump houses etc. were taken care of during the nationwide lockdown in the wake of COVID-19. Several Electrical Maintenance Depots are spread over the South Eastern Railway (SER) to undertake maintenance of power installations.


    During the unprecedented lockdown, the Electrical Department of SER undertook the work of Periodical Overhauling of 208 Track KM of Over Head Equipments (OHE), Intermediate Overhauling of 315 Track KM of Over Head Equipments (OHE), Annual Overhauling of 427 Track KM of Overhead Equipment (OHE), Periodical Overhauling of Annual Tensioning Device of 413 numbers and maintenance of Traction Sub-stations at 81 places over SER. The electrical engineers also inspected 527 Electrical Locomotives stabled at different places over SER. Besides, 9 New Electrical Locomotives were commissioned during the lockdown.


    In the field of General Maintenance, 14 escalators, 40 lifts were properly maintained and kept functional. Other maintenance works included 243 numbers of transformers, 818 numbers of Air Conditioning Machines, Overhauling of 78 Water Coolers and the like. This apart, the maintenance of devices and precautionary measures relating to electrical safety was taken care of. Emphasis was also been given to neutralize electrical accidents. Safety tools and equipment were looked into and maintained properly during the nationwide lockdown. SER gave due importance to maintain equipment like Solar Power Panels, energy saver LED light and signage spreading over SER jurisdiction.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1632607) Visitor Counter : 30