      Ministry of Railways

      SER UNDERTAKES MASSIVE SAFETY RELATED ASSET MAINTENANCE WORKS DURING LOCKDOWNS
      Posted On: 17 JUN 2020 5:12PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 17 th June, 2020


    South Eastern Railway has taken major steps for safety related Asset Maintenance Works during lockdowns. In train movement, maintenance work of rail tracks, minor and major railway bridges, level crossing overhauling, renewal of sleepers, painting of rails in corrosion areas, greasing of joints, raising of lines, renewal of crossings, road safety works etc. are the most important part of the infrastructure providing a guided path for the wheels to move and carry the huge moving loads. The rail routes of South Eastern Railway have high density of freight and passenger trains. A large number of Mail/Express, Passenger and Goods trains are running over them daily. Monitoring and assets maintenance is a continuous activity.


    During lockdowns in the wake of COVID-19, South Eastern Railway has taken fullest diligence in the assets maintenance works in every areas of its jurisdiction. Sectional Engineers have attended 1578 numbers of points and crossings while 767 curves have been thoroughly inspected by railway Engineers. Maintenance of Railway Bridges has been taken special care of considering on-going monsoon season. Maintenance work of as many as 58 major bridges have been done.


    The other works viz level crossing gates overhauling, renewal of rails, raising of platforms, road safety works, Foot Over Bridge Girdering, renovations of station toilets etc. have been done during lockdowns. Section Engineers and staff of track maintenance are working round the clock to keep safe, secured and well-maintained railway track. These lengthy and massive railway assets maintenance works are supervised and maintained by those track-men and Section Engineers who have excellent practical knowledge and vast experience in track maintenance works.


    In the wake of COVID-19 pandemic resulting lockdowns, South Eastern Railway has been running a number of Parcel Express Trains for uninterrupted supply of essential commodities and pharmaceuticals to reach out to the people across the country. In this situation, Engineers, Section Engineers and Trackmen of South Eastern Railway have been engaged in maintenance works wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing for smooth running of SER’s numerous Parcel Express trains, Special trains and for readiness to run more trains.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1632104) Visitor Counter : 25