      Ministry of Railways

      SER OVERHAULS LOCOMOTIVES, COACHES, WAGONS IN LOCKDOWN PRODUCES PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT TO FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19
      Posted On: 23 JUN 2020 6:00PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 23 June, 2020


    The safe and smooth running of both passenger and goods trains entirely depend upon the proper maintenance of locomotives, various types of passenger coaches and wagons.


    During the lockdown period on the wake of outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic in the country, South Eastern Railway (SER) took a major initiative in asset maintenance works in the mechanical field, like maintenance of locos, passenger coaches, wagons under periodical overhauling (POH), intermediate overhauling in between the POH as and when necessary at all depots and workshops. All type of coaches of passenger trains were given special attention in order to avoid the possibility of any untoward incidents due to breakage of springs, loose types on the wheels and other failure of mechanical equipment. Day to day repairs and maintenance were carried out in Carriage & Wagon Depots during the lockdown. Special care was taken to examine axle boxes of wagons and coaches. During the lockdown, 15377 wagons were repaired in the sick line and 2119 goods rakes were examined. Periodical overhauling was done in 34 coaches and 119 wagons. 199 Shramik Special trains were mechanically examined. This apart, intermediate overhauling was done over 119 coaches while 76 Trolleys and 24 wheel sets were taken in maintenance activities.


    In the wake of the spread of Covid-19, the Mechanical Department of SER produced a huge number of face masks, PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) Kits and hand sanitiser. As many as 1,14,281 reusable face masks, face shields and 8,676 litres of hand sanitiser were produced for protection of frontline staff. In addition, 3752 PPE Kits were produced to support doctors, nurses, para-medical staff and other healthcare personnel on duty. This particular railway also modified 338 passenger coaches into isolation/quarantine coaches for treating the Coronavirus affected people. SER also did asset maintenance works in its all fields with great care and diligence by maintaining social distancing and observing health protocols.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1633694) Visitor Counter : 106