      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      RURAL WOMEN ENTREPRENURS OF COOCHBEHAR GENERATING LIVELIHOOD AND INCOME BY DUCK REARING
      Posted On: 26 JUN 2020 4:32PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 26 th June, 2020


    There is an age old dictum which says ‘if there is a will there is a way’. This aphorism truly fits for an organization which started its journey in 2001 with a mission to improve the socio-economic conditions of the rural communities through application of modern technologies and to achieve the goal of helping the marginalized and vulnerable people by creating sustainable livelihood opportunities to eliminate poverty.


    After almost twenty years of its inception the organization Satmile Satish Club O Pathagar (SSCOP) seems to have succeeded in achieving its objectives if not fully but obviously to some extent. It was working in the agriculture sector for more than a decade, now it has started to encourage the rearing the ducks in terms of both eggs and meat.


    Amal Roy, Secretary SSCOP realized that agriculture standalone will not impact the small and marginal farmers in terms of enhancing incomes so he introduced the allied sector comprising of Fisheries, Poultry and Duck rearing which not only brings more incomes to rural households but also act as a source of nutritional food.


    Khaki Campbell & White Pekin Ducks – Integrated Fish and Duck Farming


    Hence SSCOP started promoting the duck rearing business in an anticipation to bring a huge impact in the livelihood and incomes of rural families. This idea came after an intense survey in the locality where it was found that the rural households traditionally rear ducks for egg purpose, but not for meat. But SSCOP started to promote the duck rearing in terms of both eggs and meat. This was done after realizing the fact that the operational cost of rearing the Khaki Campbell Ducks are too high (being the cost of quality feed is very expensive) which would not be possible for the rural stakeholders to bear. More over this variety of duck lays eggs after 6 months which do not give the desired return to the rural entrepreneurs especially women and first time entrepreneurs. Hence a new variety of duck was introduced called White Pekin Duck which grows very fast as it grows to almost 3.5 to 4 Kgs within a span of 2.5 to 3 months and this duck can be used for Meat. Now it is yielding good profit to the hatchery owners.


    Realizing that getting the chicks from South India was increasing the costs of chicks immensely and also the supply chain was not in their control SSCOP also started an indigenous Incubator so as to produce chicks by themselves lessening the dependency on external source. The Incubators of various sizes and numbers are raising the young chicks (Both Poultry and Ducks) and as of now SSCOP has sold 18 such units all across Bengal. SSCOP is also partnering with branded fodder producers of the country for poultry feed so as to create a single stop facility for all the poultry and duck requirements.


    Incubator and Eggs


    According to Tapan Chowdhury, Senior Advisor to the organization, this SSCOP Model is unique as it allows the end beneficiaries who are the rural women mostly and first time entrepreneurs to initially pay very little for getting the chicks and rearing them and through the production and sales of eggs to which SSCOP buys from them at a cost which is more than the market price. This is a buy back arrangement which SSCOP has created so as to promote and support the rural entrepreneurs but also keeping in mind the need of eggs for the incubators to get chicks. A certain percentage is also sold in the Coochbehar City customers where SSCOP during COVID 19 time have initiated a Home Delivery of vegetables, eggs, fish and meat under Satmile Fresh Vegetables banner.


    SSCOP’s latest introduction is the Thailand Black Hole bird as it starts laying eggs from the third month itself. It’s just a recent introduction and they hope it would be appreciated by their stakeholders soon.


    They are trying to pursue their vision of providing long term solutions to poverty, hunger and nutrition.


    SDG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1634522) Visitor Counter : 43