      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB and MAKAUT jointly organize webinar on Role of Indian Information Service in official media management
      Posted On: 30 JUN 2020 5:56PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 30 June, 2020


    
    
    
    
    PIB, Regional Headquarters Kolkata, today held a webinar on “Role of Indian Information Service in Official Media Management and in dissemination of Government programmes, policies, and achievements with the focus on increased outreach and utilization of digital media. The webinar, jointly organized with Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology, West Bengal (MAKAUT) with active participation of various technical management departments, faculty members and students of the University, was inaugurated by Professor Saikat Maitra, Vice Chancellor MAKAUT and Miss Jane Namchu, Additional Director General, Press Information Bureau, and Regional Outreach Bureau.


    
    
    Prof. Saikat Maitra said that the officers of Indian Information Services play vital role in disseminating information on various Government policies and schemes to create awareness among the masses along with collecting feedback and sending it to the Government. Role of media management by the PIB is very challenging as our country is very diverse in nature.


    
    
    Miss Jane Namchu spoke in detail about how various media wings of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting such as PIB, All India Radia, Doordarshan and Regional Outreach Bureau (ROB) play their role in disseminating information effectively. She stated that during Covid-19, we have concentrated on digital platform such as Twitter, Facebook and YouTube to reach out to the people in West Bengal. We have been using it extensively and preferring to disseminate information in local language so that our goal to reach people at large could be achieved. Along with doing publicity for Government of India, we as an organ of the Government work on grass root level through ROB to reach the people in the far flung areas. We have largest number of youths in the world and most of them are on digital platform so with the penetrating of mobile phones and cheap data connecting will youth through social media is very useful, Miss Namchu added.


    
    
    Shri Ajay Mhamia, Joint Director, PIB and Shri Sandipan Das Gupta, Field Publicity Officer, ROB spoke in detail about the functioning of various media wings of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and said that the IIS officers play a two-way role of providing grass-root feedback to the administration while disseminating information on Government policies and schemes to the masses.


    
    
    Professor Indranil Mukherjee, Director, School of Management Science, MAKAUT, shared his views on social media management and said that social media has huge impact on the people so using social media for disseminating information of Government policies and scheme will have very positive and effective in this pressing time of Covid-19. He also mentioned that use of digital media will also create sense of belonging among the students.


    
    
    The webinar concluded with an interactive session in which participating along with a large number of University students asked and briefed on various queries on the communication in the days of pandemic and general spread of misleading news.


    
    
    Professor Sibamay Dasgupta, Director, School of Engineering Science, MAKAUT, coordinated the webinar and Professor Indranil Mukherjee, Director, School of Management Science, MAKAUT presented vote of thanks.


    
    
    
    
    MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1635378) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali