      Ministry of Railways

      SER CONDUCTS MASSIVE CLEANLINESS & SANITISATION DRIVE TO CURB THE SPREAD OF CORONAVIRUS
      Posted On: 30 JUN 2020 6:00PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 30 June, 2020


    Cleanliness and sanitisation in South Eastern Railway (SER) is a multidisciplinary responsibility and vests with various departments of the Railway. Keeping in view the tough challenges posed by COVID-19, SER has undertaken a massive cleanliness & sanitisation drive in Railway Offices, trains, station premises and other railway establishments to prevent the spread of Coronavirus Pandemic. Multiple precautionary measures were taken by SER authority to support its workforce with disinfected infrastructure and clean environment and this is a continuous process. Cleaning staff were engaged to spray disinfectant within the railway offices, premises of the stations particularly on the platforms and railway areas etc. Arrangements were also done to clean the coaches using disinfectant while sanitisation. Daily cleaning, sanitisation & disinfection of all the offices, stations, depots, colonies, control offices etc. were undertaken. This intensive cleanliness and sanitisation drive is monitored at the apex level. The employees who are engaged in this mission are advised to maintain social distancing. The thermal screening of these staff is carried out daily and they are also counseled to adopt health safety measures. Mass awareness programmes were also undertaken for inculcating the Covid-19 guidelines. Posters are put up at the stations and railway premises to alert the railway-men and other rail users to contain the spread of Covid-19.


    The frontline warriors like Loco Pilots, Guards, Station Managers, Yard Masters, Controllers, Traffic Inspectors etc of SER are working round the clock for maintaining uninterrupted supply of essential commodities to different parts of the country through parcel express and special trains. It is a very essential & commendable service to the nation when the country is under crisis. The frontline workers were given face masks, sanitisers, soaps and gloves to safeguard them from the deadly pandemic. The doctors, nurses and other healthcare personnel were also provided with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) produced in-house. The employees and other stakeholders without face covers are not allowed to enter the railway offices or premises. Railway areas and public interfaces are also under a sanitisation programme to ensure disinfection leading to hygiene and health. Besides, SER bolstered its preparedness to meet any future challenge in every sector within its ambit.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1635381) Visitor Counter : 20