      PIB Headquarters

      IIMC to launch PG Diploma in Malayalam Journalism
      Posted On: 08 MAY 2017 3:41PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    The Indian Institute of Mass Communication, the country’s premier media training institute and communication think-tank, is all set to launch the first ever Post Graduate Diploma programme in Malayalam Journalism from its Southern Regional Campus at Kottayam, Kerala from 1st August, 2017.


    According to Director General, IIMC, Shri K.G. Suresh, “The introduction of the course is expected to give a boost to Malayalam journalism and aimed at providing skilled manpower to the burgeoning regional language media in the state” .


    Besides important journalistic aspects such as reporting, editing, media laws and ethics, the new course will have components of Malayalam language and history of Malayalam media. The all India entrance examination for the course will be held on 27th May, 2017. The last date for submission of online applications is 14th May, 2017. Students may apply through www.iimc.gov.in. Examination centres for Malayalam journalism will be in Kochi, while interviews for the shortlisted candidates will be held in Kottayam.


    Initially, 15 seats have been earmarked for Malayalam journalism which is currently operating from the campus of Mahatma Gandhi University.


    Reservation of seats would be available as per the Central Government’s policy. Currently, the Kottayam Campus runs a Diploma programme in English Journalism. IIMC presently has six campuses across the country and imparts Odia language journalism from its Dhenkanal Campus in Odisha. The Amravati Campus in Maharashtra will be offering a Marathi Journalism programme from the coming academic session.


    Apart from its own faculty, eminent academicians in media and Malayalam language and senior journalists will be imparting training to the Malayalam journalism students, Mr. Suresh said.


    The IIMC is an autonomous body under the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Government of India.


    For further details contact Special Officer Shri Ramakrishnan K (Mobile No. 09995822904).

    
    
    (Release ID: 1490613) Visitor Counter : 117
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam