      Ministry of Railways

      Derailment of Jabalpur - Hazrat Nizamuddin Mahakaushal Express near Mahoba in Uttar Pradesh
      Posted On: 30 MAR 2017 4:06PM by PIB Delhi

      
      In Uttar Pradesh, an incident of derailment of Train No.12189 Jabalpur – Hazrat Nizamuddin Mahakaushal Express took place between Mahoba and Kulpahar Stations on Manikpur – Jhansi Section of Jhansi Division over North Central Railway at 2:27 hrs. on 30.03.2017. Eight rearmost Coaches of the Train derailed.(Four- AC Coaches, Two- Ordinary Second Class General Coach, One- Sleeper Class, One - Passenger cum Luggage cum Guard (SLR) Coach.
      
      Immediately, local ambulances were called and few injured were given first aid and some injured passengers were rushed to District Hospital, Mahoba.
      
      As per available information, there is no fatality and 13 passengers were injured out of which One person sustained fracture and Twelve received simple injury.
      
      Standard passengers of affected coaches were cleared by 4 buses specially arranged from accident site towards Jhansi and also by the front portion of the affected train which departed from accident site at 6.48 hrs along with 10 coaches towards Jhansi.
      
      Accident Relief Medical Van (ARMV) reached the site along with doctor, paramedical staff & officers. General Manager, North Central Railway and Divisional Rail Manager, Jhansi alongwith senior officers rushed for site immediately and supervised relief and rescue operations.
      
      Helpline Numbers were set up at 17 stations including Nizamuddin, Agra, Gwalior, Jhansi, Orai and Banda, Jabalpur stations to provide assistance to the Public.
      
      Adequate free catering arrangements (food packets, biscuits, Subzi Poori, Water Bottle, Tea, Milk, etc) were made at the site and at Jhansi station for passengers. A few trains have been cancelled and diverted. War footing Efforts have been made to restore the traffic on this section at the earliest.
      
      Ministry of Railways has announced an enhanced ex-gratia of Rs. 50000 for grievously injured and Rs. 25000 for simply injured passengers.
      
      Inquiry by a 5 member Senior Administrative Grade (SAG) level officers of North Central Railway has been ordered to find out the cause of the accident.

      *****

      AKS/MKV/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486328) Visitor Counter : 75