      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Hornbill makes history with Gandhi
      
      First ever Gandhi exhibition at Kohima's Hornbill festival inaugurated by CM Neiphiu Rio

      Posted On: 01 DEC 2019 6:31PM by PIB Guwahati

    Chief Minister of Nagaland, Neiphiu Rio today inaugurated the Multi Media Exhibition commemorating the 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi at the Hornbill Festival in Kisama near Kohima, Nagaland. The 10-day event is being organised for the first time ever by Ministry of Information and Broadcasting at the Nagaland's annual Hornbill festival. The exhibition is being organised by the Bureau of Outreach & Communication, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting to present Gandhian values and principles both to the people and through the people in a contemporary idiom. The multimedia exhibition is being organised as a series of events across the country to take the message of the Father of the Nation to people in an interactive manner.


    The Chief Minister was accompanied by Shri Toshi Wangtung, Advisor IPR, SCERT, Village guard, Chief Secretary Temjen Toy, Additional Chief Secretary L Kire.


    The exhibition also features a pavillion of rare photographs of an eminent Gandhian of Nagaland, Late Shri Natwar Thakkar. The Chief Minister felicitated the family of Late Natwar Thakkar during the inaugural function.


    Late Shri Natwar Thakkar, Popularly Known as Nagaland’s Gandhi, made significant contributions towards the betterment of our society. He made Nagaland his home and founded the Nagaland Gandhi Ashram at Chuchuyimlang village in Mokokchung district of Nagaland in 1955 to propagate Gandhian philosophy and peace.
    He worked tirelessly for the poor and people affected with disability. His works include vocational training for social dropouts and physically handicapped, primary schools in villages, medical centers and libraries. He was awarded the Padma Shri in 1999.


    The exhibition will be showcased during the entire period of the Hornbill festival till 10 of December.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594430) Visitor Counter : 99