      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Food and food processing industries in North East India has potential to become a big part of economic growth: Shri Kiren Rijiju
      75% subsidy to entrepreneurs to set up food based industries in North Eastern states’: Shri Rameswar Teli
      Posted On: 06 DEC 2019 7:44PM by PIB Guwahati


    Shri Kiren Rijiju, Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs & Sports and Minister of State for Minority Affairs and Shri Rameswar Teli, Union Minister of State for Food Processing Industries attended the Chief Ministers’ Conclave of the ‘North East Food Show 2019’ as special guests, today at the Polo Grounds, Shillong. The conclave was chaired by Shri Conrad K. Sangma, Chief Minister of Meghalaya and was attended by the Chief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh Shri Prema Khandu, Chief Minister of Tripura Shri Biplab Kumar Deb and Minister for Tourism, Civil Aviation, Commerce & Industry of Sikkim Shri B. S. Pant.


    Addressing the participants/delegates of the ‘North East Food Show 2019’ and various government department officials at the conclave, Sh. Rijiju said, “Food is an identity of our culture and civilization. Food is identified with people, community and the nation. We have to showcase Northeast in a proper way by taking along the foods of this region. ” The Minister said that food and food processing industries in North East India has the potential to become a big part of economic growth and very few other regions has such potential. He also added that North East region is environmentally very economically viable as it has water surplus and fertile soil. The Minister also emphasized that farmers and entrepreneurs should go for quality production of specialized food products in North East India. The Minister complimented the Meghalaya Government for organizing the food show providing a platform and opportunity to the farmers, industrialists, entrepreneurs to showcase, interact and create market for their products. He also urged that in future all the eight states may come together to organize mega food shows.


    Sh. Rameswar Teli also appreciated the organizers for the ‘North East Food Show 2019’. The Minister said that the present Union Government has taken many initiatives to increase the food production, encourage the farmers and also to promote food processing industries. He highlighted that the Union Government has given special emphasis on setting up food processing industries in North east India. The Minister said that Union Government will provide 75 percent subsidy to entrepreneurs to set up food based industries in North East India. He mentioned that works are going on 42 Mega Food Parks in India and 6 of them are in North East India. He also mentioned that initiatives will be taken shortly to set up 2 more Mega Food parks in Meghalaya and Sikkim. He also added that the government is planning to set up an IIT like institute in Guwahati for food related research. The Minister also said that there is high demand for food products of North eastern states like Bhot Jalakiya (King Chili) and Black Rice and therefore there is huge business potential for the food industries in this region.


    Shri Prema Khandu, Sh. Biplab Kumar Deb and Sh. B. S. Pant also appreciated the Meghalaya Government for organizing the event and highlighted the initiatives taken by their respective governments for the promotion of food industries in their states.


    Shri Conrad Sangma concluded the conclave saying that this event is as structured beginning of a mission to promote and upscale the Food Economy and markets of the region. He also mentioned that this will be a regular calendar event for Meghalaya and next time it will be held on 26 th to 28 th November, 2020.


    The three day-long ‘North East Food Show 2019’ has been organized by the Government of Meghalaya and food innovation network ‘SIAL India Group’ with the support of other departments/organizations including Minister of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises, Meghalaya Institute of Entrepreneurs and Directorate of Food Processing. Various food innovations/processing groups, entrepreneurs of NE India have participated in the event showcasing and demonstrating their products, packages and innovations. The innovations/products included different varieties of rice, organic and herbal teas, spices, wine etc. along with packaging solutions for food products. The event has provided a platform for the entrepreneurs of NE India who have been working in the ‘Food Business’ sector, to promote their products and connect with national and international groups/markets in order to upscale their business.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595393) Visitor Counter : 213