      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Government stands for the “Politics of performance, Politics of Governance”: Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat
      Press Conference to mark 4 years of Union Government

      Posted On: 28 MAY 2018 6:30PM by PIB Guwahati

    The Union Minister of State for Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said that the Union Government under the dynamic leadership of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today is committed and believes in the politics of performance and politics of Governance and there is a paradigm shift in the area of good Governance.


    Addressing the media here in Guwahati on the occasion of the completion of the four years of the Union Government, the Union Minister dwelt upon in detail the achievement the country has made during the last 48 months of Union Government, highlighting the achievements and initiatives ranging from Mudra Yojana to Swachch Bharat to almost all sectors of development. He said that India today is the fourth largest economy in the world and India has made a quantum jump from 10 th position in 2014 to 4 th position in 2018.


    The Minister said that the Union Government is working passionately to make the lives of the common people better in every aspect and the Government has done at least 48 feats in the last 48 months which is a history in itself. Politics of performance, politics of Governance has been the prime focus of the Government which helped the all-round development of the country.


    The Minister also said that the main topic of discussion nowadays is ‘Vikas’ since this Government came into power. There is a paradigm shift in the discussion which is shifted from corruption to development. Highlighting the achievements he added that almost 10 crore bank accounts have been opened in the last four years which is a revolutionary change in the banking sector changing the lives of common and poor people. Almost 83,000 crore rupees has been deposited in these accounts by the people of this country. More than ever gas connections are provided and about 3.5 crore women in the country have got smoke-free lives during the last four years.


    .


    Pointing out to the achievements made by his own Ministry Shri Shekhawat said that the Government is totally committed for increasing doubly the farmers income by 2022 and a road map has already been prepared and is being implemented across the country. The Government is also working seriously for linking farmers of the country to e-NAM in order to provide and facilitate the farmers for sale of their products removing all types of middleman.


    He further added that the North Eastern States are given special focus for the improvement of agriculture as the region is endowed with vast potentialities in Agriculture sector and works in agriculture sector in any region is undergoing at the micro level.


    Present on the occasion was Shri Tapan Kumar Gogoi, Minister of State for Power(independent), Government of Assam.


    Prior to the press conference, the Union Minister Shri Shekhawat also interacted with the radio Jockeys from various FM radio stations of Guwahati and shared his views with them on four years of achievements.


    During his one day visit to Guwahati the Minister also reviewd the meeting on Agri-Horticulture organized by the Department of Agriculture, Government of Assam focusing on doubling farmer’s income and E-NAM. The meeting was attended by Shri Atul Bora, Minister of Agriculture, Government of Assam, Shri G.KaitoAye, Agriculture minister, Government of Nagaland and other dignitaries and officials from five participating states namely Assam, Sikkim, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh , Meghalaya.


    *****


    KSD/SKM/HD/BM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1535241) Visitor Counter : 15
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese