      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar Performs Bhumi Pujan of ESIC Nagar, Andheri (West), Mumbai
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2019 5:41PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employment performs Bhumi Pujan of ESIC Nagar, Andheri (West), Mumbai (Maharashtra) today.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Minister stated that the ESI Corporation is committed to work for the welfare of workers as well as for its employees. For providing better living conditions and healthy atmosphere for its employees, ESI Corporation is going to develop ESIC Nagar for them in D.N. Nagar, Andheri (W), Mumbai in plot area of 6.52 acres with an estimated project cost of Rs.121 crore. In first phase, about 228 staff quarters in multi-storied 03 towers along with 285 numbers of proposed car parking shall be constructed. The staff quarters and allied facilities shall be constructed in two phases.


    He also informed about recently launched “Atal Bimit Vyakti Kalyan Yojna” of ESIC. This scheme is a relief payable directly to the Bank Account of Insured Persons in case of unemployment and while they search for new engagement. He further informed about the decision to allow non-IPs to avail treatment at under utilized hospitals of ESIC after paying nominal charges.


    The other dignitaries to grace the occasion were Shri Gajanan Kirtikar, Member of Parliament, Mumabi (North-West), Shri Amit Satam, Member of Legislative Assembly, Andheri (West).


    Shri Gajanan Kirtikar, MP, Mumabi (North-West) in his speech also welcomed the Construction work of new staff quarters ESIC Nagar, Andheri (West), Mumbai and thanked to the union government for this.


    The Employees’ State Insurance Scheme was first implemented in one Centre at Nagpur in the State of Maharashtra on 11.7.1954 and in Mumbai on 03.10.1954, Thereafter, the Scheme was extended to different part of the State covering 22 Districts. Nearly 1.50 lakh factories and establishments have been brought under the purview of the ESI Act, 1948. A total No. of 42.00 lakh employees are covered under the Scheme and receiving various benefits under the ESI Scheme. Further a total No. of 1.73 crore family members of the Insured Persons are receiving various benefits under the ESI Scheme across the Maharashtra State.


    The Scheme is being administered through the Regional Office functioning from Lower Parel, Mumbai, with six Sub Regional Offices functioning from Marol, Thane, Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Nasik. There is a network of 74 Branch Offices spread throughout the State to provide cash benefits to the stakeholders.


    The Primary & Secondary care is provided through 854 Insurance Medical Practitioners (IMPs), 52 Dispensaries and 15 Hospitals, out of which 03 Hospitals are run directly by ESIC. Further, in order to give Super Speciality Treatment to the Insured workers, the ESIC has made tie- up arrangement with 251 Govt. and Private Hospitals spread across the Maharashtra State.


    The Employees’ State Insurance Act was promulgated in the year 1948 and ESI Scheme was launched on 24th February, 1952 at two industrial centres in the country, namely, Kanpur and Delhi. The ESI Act applies to any premises / precincts where 10 or more persons are employed. The employees drawing wages up to Rs. 21,000/- a month are entitled to health insurance cover and other benefits, under the ESI Act. The Act now applies to over 10.33 lakh factories and establishments across the country, benefiting about 3.43 crores family units of workers. As of now, the total beneficiary population of ESI Scheme stands over 13.32 crores. Ever since its inception in 1952, the ESI Corporation has, so far, set up 154 Hospitals 1500/148 ESI dispensaries/ISM Units, 815 Branch/Pay Offices, 64 Regional/Sub-Regional Offices.


    ***


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1568322) Visitor Counter : 348
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi