      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Two food processing units inaugurated at Gur Kirpa Mega Food Park, Ludhiana District in Punjab Governmnt has made Food Processing a major thrust area of ‘Make in India’: Harsimrat Kaur Badal Ludhiana,24 February 2020
      Posted On: 24 FEB 2020 4:00PM by PIB Chandigarh


    The Union Minister for Food Proessing,Smt.Harsimrat Kaur Badal said that the Government has made food processing a major thrust area of ‘Make in India while inaugurating two food processing units at Mega Food Park, Ludhiana today.She said that und er the v isionary guidance of Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, Ministry of Food Processing Industries is focusing on boosting the food processing industry so that agriculture sector grows exponentially and become a major contributor to doubling the farmer’s income and ‘Make In India’ initiative of the government.


    To give a major boost to the food processing sector by adding value and reducing food wastage at each stage of the supply chain with particular focus on perishables, Ministry of Food Processing Industries is implementing Creation/Expansion of Food Processing & Preservation Capacities (CEFPPC) Scheme in the country. CEFPPC Scheme aim at promotion of processing / preservation of agro food products and modernization /capacity enhancement of food processing units which will help in increasing the level of processing, value addition thereby reduction of wastage. The processing activities to be undertaken by the individual units will cover a wide range of post-harvest processes resulting in value addition and/or enhancing shelf life with specialized facilities required for preservation of perishables. Under the Scheme, Government of India provides financial assistance upto Rs. 5.00 Crore per unit.


    In order to give an impetus to the growth of the Food Processing Sector in Punjab, two (2) food processing units namely M/s. Godrej Tyson Foods Ltd & M/s Iscon Balaji Foods Pvt. Ltd located in Gur Kirpa Mega Food Park were inaugurated today by Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Hon’ble Union Minister of Food Processing Industries at Village-Ladhowal, Ludhiana District, Punjab . Three other food processing units located in Gur Kirpa Mega Food Park are ongoing.


    The Gur Kirpa Mega Food Park and its food processing units will benefit the people of Ludhiana District and the people of nearby Districts of Jalandhar, Moga, Amritsar and Fatehgarh Sahib. These units ha ve been set up with a cost of Rs. 95.31 crore. The capacity being created by these units 7200 MT per Annum patato processing and 5700 MT per Annum for frozen ready to eat and cook food products.


    Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Hon’ble Minister, FPI has inaugurated these units today in the presence of Shri Rameswar Teli, Hon'ble MoS, FPI . Speaking on the occasion, Smt. Badal said that these units will leverage an investment of about Rs. 85 crore and will provide direct and indirect employment to about 950 persons.


    Hon’ble Minister for F ood Processing Industries said that the modern infrastructure for food processing created at units will benefit the farmers, growers, processors and consumers of Punjab and adjoining areas immensely and prove to be a big boost to the growth of the food processing sector in the State of Punjab.


    Smt. Badal also said that the present government is fully committed to providing an environment that is smooth, transparent and easy for investors wanting to start an enterprise in India and in a bid to make India a resilient food economy and the Food Factory of the World, the government has made Food Processing a major thrust area of ‘Make in India’.


    Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal thanked the State Government for the support extended by them in setting up these units.


    ************

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604177) Visitor Counter : 5