      Ministry of Education

      India's participation is to not only improve its rankings but also the learning outcomes and skills making the students as productive citizens of the country: Shri Sanjay Dhotre
      Posted On: 26 FEB 2020 6:10PM by PIB Chandigarh


    
    The Minister of State for Human Resource Development, Communications and Electronics & Information Technology Shri Sanjay Dhotre briefed media today in Chandigarh regarding the preparedness of India for the upcoming Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) 2021 after a review meeting. The Minister said India's participation is to not only improve its rankings but also the learning outcomes and skills making the students as productive citizens of the country. Shri Dhotre said that he is satisfied with the preparedness for the assessment and added that it is a good initiative and support of everyone is needed.
    The Minister of State said that we are targeting to improve our rank by 20 positions as compared to the last assessment. While answering the questions from the media, Shri Dhotre said the government is also focusing on teachers' training and upgradation to improve the standards of education.
    The Minister held meeting with officers from School Education Department, Chandigarh Administration, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti, lead principals/Teachers, SCERT officers regarding the preparedness for the PISA 2021 after visiting the schools in UT Chandigarh.
    PISA is a competency-based assessment which unlike content-based assessment, measures the extent to which students have acquired key competencies that are essential for full participation in modern societies. It is a triennial international survey (every three years) which aims to evaluate the education system worldwide by testing the skills and knowledge of 15-year-old students. The Students are assessed in reading, mathematics, science and collaborative problem-solving.
    Schools run by the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS), Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti (NVS) and schools in the Union Territory of Chandigarh will participate in the assessment.
    ***********
    PS/HR


    

    
    (Release ID: 1604484) Visitor Counter : 5