      Ministry of Defence

      Major General Joyce Gladys Roach takes over as ADG, MNS
      Posted On: 01 SEP 2019 10:51AM by PIB Delhi


    Major General Joyce Gladys Roach has assumed charge of the post of Additional Director General, Military Nursing Service (MNS).


    Prior to her appointment as ADG, MNS, Major General Roach was holding the post of Principal Matron, Army Hospital Research & Referral, the apex quaternary care hospital of the Armed Forces. She was promoted to the rank of Major General on June 1, 2019.


    Born in Pune but originally from Kadukutty Village, Thrissur district, Kerala, Major General Roach was commissioned into MNS on December 30, 1981. She is an alumnus of Command Hospital Air Force, Bangalore. She pursued midwifery training from Military Hospital Jabalpur, completed her Class I OT course from Armed Forces Medical College, Pune in 1988 and B. Sc. (N) from IGNOU in 2004.


    Major General Roach has an experience of more than 37 years during which she held many coveted appointments both in the field of clinical nursing as well as administration. She has served in various Armed Forces Hospitals including Counter Insurgency Areas in Northern Command and is acclaimed for her excellent Operation Theatre Manager skills.


    Major General Roach is the first and the only OT Matron to be posted in high altitude, 153 GH from April 1988 to March 1990. She has served as a Cardio Thoracic OT Matron for 15 years.


    As the Principal Matron of hospitals like INHS Sanjivani & CH (SC) Pune and Brig MNS of HQ Eastern Command, Major General Roach's forte was quality patient care and excellent nursing care practices. She has flair of adapting to emerging trends and addressing requirements for organisational goals. She accentuates the significance of quality in Nursing Education & Practice and yearns to contribute comprehensively in planning/training of Army College nursing students as well as the Paramedical personal of the Armed Forces.


    ***


    ABB/Nampi/DK/Savvy/MTJ/ada

    
    
    (Release ID: 1583770) Visitor Counter : 1062
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil