      President's Secretariat

      Recipients of Visitor’s Awards 2019 Announced by President’s Secretariat
      
      President Kovind to Confer the Awards at Rashtrapati Bhavan at a Date to be Announced Shortly

      Posted On: 09 SEP 2019 3:04PM by PIB Delhi

        Recipients of Visitor’s Awards 2019 have been announced today (September 09, 2019) by the President’s Secretariat. This year Visitor’s Awards will be presented for Research in - Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences; Physical Sciences; and Biological Sciences - and for Technology Development.


        The Visitor’s Award for Research in Humanities, Arts and Social Sciences will be presented to Prof. Sibnath Deb from the Department of Applied Psychology, Pondicherry University, for his research in the field of child protection, especially his focus on child abuse and neglect, student’s mental health and HIV/AIDS.


        The Visitor’s Award for Research in Physical Sciences will be presented to Prof. Sanjay Puri from the School of Physical Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, for his research in the field of nonequilibrium statistical physics and nonlinear dynamics.


        The Visitor’s Award for Research in Biological Sciences will be jointly presented to Prof. Asad Ullah Khan from the Inter-disciplinary Biotechnology Unit, Aligarh Muslim University, for identifying Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) problem in India: mechanism of spread and control of AMR; and to Dr Partima from the Special Centre for Nanoscience, Jawaharlal Nehru University, for her research on nanobiosensors and nanobiointeractions especially early stage cancer diagnosis using nanomaterials bases biosensing platform.


        The Visitor’s Award for Technology Development will be conferred on Dr Shaon Ray Chaudhuri from the Department of Microbiology, Tripura University, for her developing miarobial biofilm reactor for conversion of dairy wastewater into biofertilizer.


        The Visitor’s Awards 2019 will be presented by the President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, at a function to be organised in Rashtrapati Bhavan, at a date to be announced shortly.


        For selecting the awardees, online applications were invited from all Central Universities for each category. A Selection Committee headed by Shri Sanjay Kothari, Secretary to the President and comprising eminent persons and academicians, assisted by a Sub-Committee, made the selections.


        Visitor’s Awards had been instituted in 2014 to promote healthy competition amongst Central Universities and motivate them to adopt best practices from around the world in pursuit of excellence. Since then, the President annually confers Visitor’s Awards in various categories.


        ***


        VRRK/SH/SKS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584532) Visitor Counter : 2756
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali