      Ministry of Defence

      Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare, Ministry of Defence launches various initiatives for Ex-Servicemen Welfare
      Posted On: 06 SEP 2019 7:21PM by PIB Delhi


    Taking forward a number of initiatives, the Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare (ESW), Ministry of Defence (MoD) has conducted workshops today on Jal Shakti Abhiyan, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and has launched Interactive Voice Response System for Ex-Servicemen and Central Sainik Rest House.


    Details are as follows:


     1. Workshop on Jal Shakti Abhiyaan:


    The Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare, MoD on 06 Sep 2019 organised a one day workshop at the Central Sainik Rest House, Naraina to create awareness, review the progress and lay down the future roadmap in support of the Jal Shakti Abhiyaan.


    The workshop was chaired by the Smt Sanjeevani Kutty, Secretary, ESW. Also in attendance were Shri Pudi Hari Prasad, Joint Secretary, ESW. The teams from DGR, ECHS and KSB participated under the leadership of Maj Gen Sagoch, DGR, Col Sisodia, CO(ECHS) and Brig Mrigendra Kumar, SM, Secretary, KSB.


    Dr Suman Chahar, Sr Vice President of Sulabh International Social Service Organisation was invited as guest speaker and she explained the initiatives being taken at the national level in great detail. She also enumerated various guidelines which could be done at individual and organisational level.


    (ii) Workshop on Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan:


    The Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare, MoD on 06 Sep 2019 organised a one day workshop at the Central Sainik Rest House, Naraina to create awareness, review the progress and lay down the future roadmap in support of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan.


    The workshop was chaired by the Smt Sanjeevani Kutty, Secretary, ESW. Also in attendance were Shri Pudi Hari Prasad, Joint Secretary, ESW. The teams from DGR, ECHS and KSB participated under the leadership of Maj Gen Sagoch, DGR, Col Sisodia, CO(ECHS) and Brig Mrigendra Kumar, SM, Secretary, KSB.


    Col Sisodiya, CO ECHS and Col Vishal from DGR gave presentations regarding update with respect to activities done by their organisations. Awards were presented to the participating offices with ECHS getting the first place followed by KSB and DGR.


    


    (iii) Launch of Voice Response System for Ex-Servicemen:


    The setting up of the IVRS facility for benefit of the Ex-Servicemen was envisaged to enable maximum Ex-Servicmen to get in touch with the department and get their issues addressed. It was also one of the agenda of 100 day Plan of the current government.


    In an event chaired by the Smt Sanjeevani Kutty, Secretary, ESW with Shri Pudi Hari Prasad, Joint Secretary, ESW in attendance, inaugrated the 20 channel IVRS system for the KSB Helpline. The teams from DGR, ECHS and KSB participated under the leadership of Maj Gen Sagoch, DGR, Col Sisodia, CO(ECHS) and Brig Mrigendra Kumar, SM, Secretary, KSB.


    This system will augment the capability of existing helpline many fold and enable 24 x 7 capabilities. This will enable ESM with technical queries, easier excess to the operator asthe majority of queries on helpline were regarding the status of the helpline and will get resolved by the IVRS itself.


    (iv) Launch of renovated Central Sainik Rest House:


    Smt Sanjeevani Kutty, Secretary, ESW inaugrated the renovated Central Sainik Rest House, Naraina. The upgradation of facilities will enable better services to the Ex-Servicemen.


    The event was witnessed by Shri Pudi Hari Prasad, Joint Secretary, ESW. The teams from DGR, ECHS and KSB participated under the leadership of Maj Gen Sagoch, DGR, Col Sisodia, CO(ECHS) and Brig Mrigendra Kumar, SM, Secretary, KSB.


    **************


    ABB/Nampi/DK/Savvy/MTJ/ADA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584395) Visitor Counter : 495
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

1.