      Prime Minister's Office

      List of Commercial Documents signed by various Russian and Indian entities on the sidelines of the Prime Minister's visit to Vladivostok
      Posted On: 05 SEP 2019 7:59PM by PIB Delhi

     1. Memorandum of Understanding for the Manufacture and Assembly of Primary Trainer Aircraft, DAKSH between Yakovlev Design Bureau and Bharat Earth Movers Limited
     2. Memorandum of Understanding between Zarubezhneft and Sungroup Enterprises Pvt. Ltd.
     3. Memorandum of Understanding between Far Eastern Mining Company and the State Trading Corporation of India Ltd.
     4. Cooperation Agreement between Far Eastern Mining Company and SUN Gold Eurasia
     5. Memorandum of Understanding between Autonomous Non-Profit Organization ‘Agency for Strategic Initiatives’ and the Global Education and Leadership Foundation
     6. Memorandum of Understanding between the Skolkovo Foundation and the Global Education and Leadership Foundation
     7. Memorandum of Understanding between National Skill Development Corporation and Manav Rachna Vidyantariksha Pvt. Ltd. and JSC ROBBO
     8. Letter of Intent ‘Communicating Culture. Consolidating Relationships’ between Federal State Unitary Enterprise ‘Rossiya Segodbya, International Information Agency, founder of the Russian Media Outlet "Sputnik Information Agency” and Zee Media Corporation Limited’s entity WION
     9. Memorandum of Understanding between Invest India and Skolkovo Foundation

    10. Cooperation Agreement and Collaboration between RUS Education Pvt. Ltd. and Far East Federal University, and Far East Investment and Export Agency


    11. Cooperation Agreement between autonomous non-commercial organization Far East between Far East Investment and Export Agency and S A S Fininvest LLP


    12. Cooperation Agreement on the implementation of investment project between autonomous non-commercial organization Far East Investment and Export Agency and KGK Sudima Evergreen Pte Limited and the Government of Zabaikalsky Krai


    13. Agreement for the Establishment of the Mahatma Gandhi Centre among Far East Federal University and the Nand & Jeet Khemka Foundation and the Global Education & Leadership Foundation


    14. Cooperation Agreement between LLC RITE and Star Overseas Ltd.


    15. Memorandum of Understanding amongst National Skill Development Corporation and Magic Billion and LS-Ruspacific Co. Ltd.


    16. Memorandum of Understanding between Magadan Region Government and LLC SUN Eurasia;


    17. Memorandum of Understanding between National Mineral Development Corporation and Limited Liability Company Far East Mining Company


    18. Cooperation Agreement between NLC India Ltd. and Far East Mining Company


    19. Cooperation Memorandum of Understanding between Far East Mining Company and Steel Authority of India Limited-


    20. Cooperation Agreement between Far East Mining Company and MMTC Ltd.


    21. Cooperation Agreement between Limited Liability Company Far East Mining Company and Khanij Bidesh India Ltd.


    22. Cooperation Agreement between Far East Mining Company and Coal India Limited


    23. Cooperation Agreement between Russian Direct Investment Fund and UPL Limited on Joint investments in agriculture and crop protection market in Russian Federation


    24. Memorandum of Understanding on mutual business collaboration (Financial Cooperation initiative for development of the Russian Far East and State of Tamil Nadu, India) between Joint Stick Company "The Far East and Baikal Region Development Fund” and Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Fund Management Corporation


    25. Memorandum of Understanding between H-Energy Global Ltd and Joint Stock Company NOVATEK for cooperation in LNG sphere


    26. Memorandum of Understanding between Far East Federal University (Vladivostok, Russian Federation) and Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University (Gandhinagar , Gujarat, Republic of India)


    27. Agreement of Intent on the implementation of the investment project of LLC KGK DV in Primorsky Territory


    28. Agreement between Volzhsky Abrasive Works and Murugappan Group


    29. Cooperation Agreement between Limited Liability Company "RITE” and Rooman Technologies Pvt. Ltd.


    30. Memorandum of Understanding to explore the possibilities of developing renewable energy projects between State Development Corporation VEB.RF, Joint Stock Company Zarubezhneft, Havel Limited Liability Company, Indian Oil Corporation Limited and Sungroup Enterprises Private Limited


    31. International Memorandum of Understanding between Amity Universities & Institutions, India and Ministry of Investment Development of Zabaikalski Krai, Russia


    32. Memorandum of Understanding between Government of Chukotka autonomous Region (Anadyr, Russian Federation) and Amity University (New Delhi, Republic of India)


    33. Memorandum of Understanding between FEFU Technology Entrepreneurship Fund (Russky Technopark) and Amity University


    34. Agreement on operating in an Advanced Special Economic Zone between JSC Far East Development Corporation and Limited Liability Company Far Eastern Natural Resources Limited (100% subsidiary of the Tata Power Co. Ltd.)

     1. Agreement of Intent on implementation of project on the territory of the Republic of Buryatia between the Government of the Republic of Buryatia and Star Overseas Ltd.

    ***


    VRRK/SH/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584297) Visitor Counter : 755
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil
    
    
    

1.