      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      INCAA invites India to participate in Argentina’s Mar del Plata Film Festival and Ventana Sur 2019
      
      Argentina expresses keenness to explore co-production possibilities with India
      
      Ms. Lisa Macleod, Minister of Tourism, Culture and Sports, Ontario visits India Pavilion at TIFF 2019
      
      India Pavilion at TIFF promotes Indian Cinema in Overseas Market, encourages Foreign Collaborations, Co-Productions and International participation in IFFI 2019Goa
      Posted On: 07 SEP 2019 11:34AM by PIB Delhi


    As part of the outreach for the Golden Jubilee edition of International Film Festival of India (IFFI), the Indian Delegation at Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF) 2019 met with a number of Key Stakeholders from the international film-making industry and apprised them of the proposed festival architecture. The meetings were held in the India Pavilion set up by Ministry of Information & Broadcasting. Ms. Lisa Macleod, Minister of Tourism, Culture and Sports, Toronto, Ontario was amongst the prominent personalities to visit the India Pavilion. The Minister was apprised of the activities of IFFI 2019 & India celebrating its 50th anniversary.


    Exploration of India-Argentina Collaboration


    Earlier in the day, the Indian Delegation met Ms Viviana A. Dirolli, Executive Director, & Mr Diego Marambio Avaria, International Affairs Coordinator, INCAA (Instituto Nacional de Cine y Artes Audiovisuales) - the National Institute of Cinema and Audiovisual Arts, Argentina. The objective of the meeting was to seek out INCAA’s help to reach out to Argentina Government for IFFI 2019, potential of exchange between the countries and possibility of co-production treaty between India & Argentina. Indian Delegation apprised them about all the policy initiatives & framework of Indian Government, ease of shooting and launch of the Web portal – www.ffo.gov.in - for online application for shooting at a single point. Further they were notified of the preparations that were undertaken by the Government for the 50th anniversary of the IFFI.


    INCAA expressed that India should participate in the premiere film festival of Argentina - Mar del Plata International Film Festival 2019 and also in Ventana Sur 2019, which is attended by the entire Latin American community, with a possible Indian Delegation to Argentina to initiate dialogue on co-production between the two countries.


    Indian Delegation interacts with Film Festival Representatives and Delegations


    The Indian Delegation also met Ms Jana Wolff, Head- Marketing & Advertising, Berlin International Film Festival, and discussed possibilities of a more prominent presence for India at Berlinale 2020. During the course of the day, the Delegation interacted with Delegations and Film Festivals Representatives including Chinese Delegation to TIFF 2019; Polish Film Institution; Ontario Creates; Mulan International Film Festival; Ms Marie Adler, CEO/ President, Adler Productions; Mr Janis Kalejs, Producer, Films Angels Studios, among others.


    ***


    AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584411) Visitor Counter : 671
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi