      Prime Minister's Office

      PM to visit Mumbai and Aurangabad in Maharashtra on September 7, 2019
      
      Boost to Mumbai Metro, Major Expansion of Metro Routes
      
      PM to dedicate DMIC AURIC City to the Nation
      
      Posted On: 06 SEP 2019 5:36PM by PIB Delhi


    The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will visit Mumbai and Aurangabad in Maharashtra on September 7, 2019.


    Mumbai


    In Mumbai, the PM will lay foundation stone for three metro lines, which will together add more than 42 km to the metro network of the city. The three corridors are 9.2 km long Gaimukh to ShivajiChowk (Mira Road) Metro-10 corridor, 12.7 km long Wadala to ChhatrapatiShivajiMaharaj Terminus Metro-11 corridor and 20.7km long Kalyan to Taloja Metro-12 corridor.


    The PM will also lay foundation stonefor a state-of-the-art Metro Bhavan; the 32-storey centre will operate and control 14 metro lines measuring around 340 km.


    The PM will inaugurate Bandongri Metro Station, Kandivali East.


    He will also inaugurate a state-of-the-art metro coach, the first metro coach under Make in India.


    The PM will release a Brand Vision Document for Maha Mumbai Metro.


    Aurangabad


    In Aurangabad, the PM will address a state-level MahilaSakshamMelava or Empowered Women’s Meet of Self Help Groups, being organized by Maharashtra State Rural Livelihood Mission (UMED).


    PM will inaugurate AURIC Business and Administrative Building and Dedicate DMIC AURIC City to the Nation on 7th September, 2019 in Aurangabad. Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC) Project is the first Industrial Corridor project announced by Govt. of India. Once fully completed, the DMIC project will bring investment of approximately Rs. 1 lakh crore and will provide employment opportunities to nearly 10 lakh people. The project is branded as Aurangabad Industrial City or ‘AURIC City’


    ***


    VRRK/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1584359) Visitor Counter : 555
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil