      Ministry of Culture

      Union Minister of State for Culture & Tourism (IC) Shri Prahlad Singh Patel reviews the progress of ongoing conservation work & development of public amenities at the Red Fort
      Posted On: 08 SEP 2019 9:16PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Culture & Tourism (IC), Shri Prahlad Singh Patel visited the Red fort to review ongoing conservation work & development of public amenities at the Monument in Delhi today. He was accompanied by officers of Archaeological Survey of India and Ministry of Tourism.


    The Minister inspected the new booking counter near T5 parking at Delhi Gate, newly conserved Chhatta Bazaar, well area of Lahori Gate, ramparts, newly built museums and also took stock of the sanitation facilities like drinking water and public convenience at various locations in Red Fort.


    During the inspection, the minister suggested to start battery operated cars inside the Red Fort for the convenience of elderly people, women and children.


    Shri Prahlad Singh Patel added that it’s our responsibility to provide good public facilities at Red Fort. We are ensuring that world class amenities are provided at the Monument, the Minister explained. However, it is important that general public is sensitised to be responsible towards their culture and maintain the beauty of their heritage monuments, he added.


    The Minister showed his satisfaction towards the cleanliness, development work and conservation work done by Archaeological Survey of India.


    The Minister also visited Mumtaz Mahal, Khaas Mahal, Rang Mahal, Hammam and other places. Officials from ASI and Tourism Ministry briefed the minister about the works carried out since last 2 years and ongoing developmental and conservation works at Red Fort.


    In a massive exercise in over the last 1 year, Archaeological Survey of India has completely restored and revived the Red Fort. Three- hundred- and-seventy years after it was built to presage Delhi as the new Mughal capital, the historic Lal Qila is now glooming with its full glory. The sheer scale of Mughal imagination - entry through historic Lahori Gate, the majestic redsand stone walls, the glory of Chhatta Bazar and hidden artworks on the ceiling –has all been restored and preserved by ASI, for all to see now. Also, the timing for Red Fort has also been increased till 9pm for general public. The monument was the first to be LED illuminated along with others monuments Safdarjung Tomb, Qutub Minar, Humayun’s Tomb and Purana Qila recently.


    *******


    NB /OM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584502) Visitor Counter : 482
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi