      Ministry of Railways

      Railways Adjudged as the Best Ministry for Implementation of Swachhata Action Plan for 2018-19
      
      President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind Presented Swachhata Awards Today.
      
      The Best Swachh Iconic Place Award is given to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CST)
      Mumbai Under the Swachh Bharat Mission Initiative.
      
      Minister for Railways, Commerce and Industries Shri Piyush Goyal Urged all in the Railways to Make Cleanliness an Organisational Culture
      Posted On: 06 SEP 2019 5:41PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind presented an award to Indian Railways as the best ministry for implementation of Swachhata action plan for 2018-19. Chairman, Railway Board Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav received the award on behalf of the Indian Railways. The President of India also presented the best Swachh iconic Place award to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CST) Mumbai under the Swachh Bharat Mission initiative. The three best stations as per Cleanliness Ranking Survey for 2018 i.e. Jodhpur, Jaipur & Tirupati were also awarded.


    Indian Railways placed all the required resources for swachhata and they are yielding results. The Minister for Railways, Commerce and Industries Shri Piyush Goyal has perpetually been persuading all Railway officials to make cleanliness an organisational culture. Recently the Minister directed all Railway officials to observe a special 10 days cleanliness drive for trains and stations starting 2 nd September, 2019. These perpetual drives are also monitored by uploading of selected photographs on E-Drishti and the Minister’s dashboard.


    Such feedback from commuters’ is further used to promote cleanliness campaign of railways, which together is the biggest service provisioning public place in the country. Indian Railways had spent about 3000 Crore Rupees on cleanliness drives on its various properties during 2018-19.


    Shri Vinod Kumar Yadav, Chairman, Railway Board regularly conducts meetings with General Managers of Zonal Railways via video conferencing to discuss Swacchata subject also. Today after the awards ceremony Shri Yadav congratulated all the General Managers and DRMs for the recognition that they have brought to Indian Railways as the best Ministry in Swachh Mohatsav Awards. Shri Yadav also discussed with them measures to further improve cleanliness on the trains and stations.


    ***


    KSP/MKV/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584364) Visitor Counter : 1472
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi