      Ministry of Home Affairs

      MoS for Home Affairs, Shri G. Kishan Reddy felicitates Mount Satopanth conquerors of CISF
      Posted On: 11 SEP 2019 7:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri G. Kishan Reddy felicitated the 16 members expedition team of CISF who successfully summitted Mount Satopanth peak here today.


    In his address, Shri G. Kishan Reddy congratulated the team members and said that self-confidence and indomitable courage is extremely necessary for such expeditions. He admired the commendable efforts made by the women personnel of the team, who along-with their male counterparts faced the challenging situations and successfully conquered the Mount Satopanth peak


    Shri Rajesh Ranjan, DG, CISF also congratulated the expedition team and said that CISF is committed to “Fit India Movement” and “Women Empowerment” initiated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India. Achievement of the expedition team coincides with the “Fit India Pledge” and women empowerment. He also said that, the women personnel of the expedition team broke the stereotype and remained on equal footing at every stage with their male counterparts and spread strong message towards women empowerment.


    The 16 members mountaineering expedition team ( Including 03 women personnel) was flagged-off on 05 th August, 2019 by, Director General, CISF, Shri Rajesh Ranjan to hoist the National and CISF Flags atop Mt. Satopanth peak (7075m). The team was led by Shri Raghubir Lal, DIG. Three women personnel including Ms Ashoka Nandini, Asstt. Commandant were also part of the team.


    CISF as part of CAPFs team, in its maiden attempt, is going to undertake Mount Everest Expedition in March-April, 2020. In order to provide CISF team members pre-Mt Everest expedition experience, the expedition to Mount Satopanth was launched. Mt. Satopanth is 2 nd highest peak in western Himalayas of Gangotri Region, Garhwal in the state of Uttarakhand. It has all the features which are essential to gain technical knowledge & first-hand experience, courage & confidence to the mountaineers planning ascent to Mt. Everest.


    On 30 th September, 2019 at about 0845 hrs the CISF expedition team successfully summited Mount Satopanth peak. This was the maiden Mountaineering expedition by CISF and a new record has been created of being the first CAPF whose expedition team comprising of three (03) women personnel have achieved this feat. The main objective of this expedition was to spread the message of empowering women through mountaineering, to keep spirit of adventure alive in force and to inculcate the taste of adventure amongst officers, men and women personnel in the force.


    During the expedition, the team pushed their limit and achieved their goal by exposing themselves to the highest order of mental and physical challenges, which included exposures to low atmospheric pressure, thin air, sub-zero temperatures, incessant snow blizzards and many other harsh climatic conditions.


    Shri Rajesh Ranjan DG, CISF, Dr. Mangu Singh MD, DMRC, and other Senior Officers of CISF were present during the ceremony.


    ******


    VG/VM/HS/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584792) Visitor Counter : 588
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi