      Ministry of Home Affairs

      MoS for Home Affairs, Shri G Kishan Reddy to inaugurate Conference on “Criminal Activities and Radicalization in Jails: Vulnerability of Inmates and Jail Staff and their Protection” tomorrow
      Posted On: 11 SEP 2019 6:14PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri G. Kishan Reddy to inaugurate the National Conference on “Criminal Activities and Radicalization in Jails: Vulnerability of Inmates and Jail Staff and their Protection” here tomorrow on September 12, 2019. The two-day Conference is being organised by the Bureau of Police research and development (BPR&D).


    The Criminal activities and Radicalization in jails is a burning issue now-a days and protection of jail staff and vulnerability of inmates is the need of the hour. The conference will focus on the following issues:

     1. To understand various criminal activities at individual and gang level and considers safety measures for vulnerable inmates and jail staff.
     2. To understand various facets of radicalization in prison and suggest measures for counter radicalization.
     3. To analyse and formulate the security and protection standards for prison staff and
     4. To provide an interdisciplinary platform for correctional personnel to exchange and share their experience on prison reforms.

    This conference is being organised with a view to provide a platform for the prison personnel of all ranks at the national level to share their candid views on various operational as well as administrative issues not only with their counterparts but also with other experts of national repute in this field and also to identify best practises and standards in the working of correctional administration to meet new challenges in the present day’s context to bring out prison reforms in objective terms. This event would also promote research and development activities on the functioning of the correctional administration across the country and nudge to develop a scientific approach among the various correctional administrations in a professional manner. This 2-days’ Conference will have 4 working sessions along with panel discussions on the above selected themes.


    The Conference will be in the form of panel discussions with key note speakers who are experts in their domain areas. Conference will be attended by Police and Prison Officials, representative from University. Institutions, NGOs, Social Workers, Counsellors working in the field of Correctional Administration and Rehabilitation of Prisoners. Expected outcome of this Conference will bring together all prison issues and translate them in a good capacity building programme.


    Director General, National Investigation Agency, Shri Y. C. Modi will deliver the Valedictory address.


    *****


    VG/HS/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584755) Visitor Counter : 377
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

4.