      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Indian Cinema is so much more than Bollywood; different languages, styles and regional flavours add its richness: Mr. Cameron Bailey, Artistic Director, TIFF
      
      India Breakfast-Networking Session organized at TIFF
      
      India and Canada to take proactive measures to facilitate Co-Production
      
      India projected globally as the All in One Destination to make Films
      
      Posted On: 10 SEP 2019 11:30AM by PIB Delhi


    An India Breakfast Networking Session was hosted by I&B Ministry on the side-line of its participation at the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF) 2019. Ms Apoorva Srivastava, Consul General of India, Toronto; Mr Cameron Bailey, Artistic Director & Co-Head, TIFF and the Indian Delegation interacted with the participants at the Session.


    India Breakfast Networking Session


    The Indian Delegation apprised the participants about friendly policy initiatives and framework for filming in India and also on the process and procedure for obtaining clearance for shooting through single window mechanism at Film Facilitation Office. The Delegation explored collaboration and partnerships for the Golden Jubilee Edition of IFFI 2019 and invited the world to be a part of the Celebrations in Goa this November.


    Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Cameron Bailey said that there is a very strong bond between Indian Cinema and TIFF. He highlighted the range of Indian Cinema, stating that it is so much more than Bollywood. He talked about the richness of Indian cinema with different styles, languages and regional flavours which are reflected in the large scale musicals, animations, serious dramas, comedies and other genres of films produced in India. He also stated that there is no country in the world that makes films like India does.


    The Session witnessed a gathering of Prominent Festival Heads, representatives of International Film Associations, Film Agencies and Production Houses including Ms Karen Thorne-Stone, President & CEO, Ontario Creates; Ms Rima Das, Producer/ Director; Mr Roger Nair, CEO, Lionheart Production House; Mr Arvind Vijh, Director, Deloitte Canada’s India Services Group; Mr Craig Prater, President, Heartland Film Festival; Ms Hannah Fisher, Senior Programmer, Heartland Film Festival; Mr Thomas Rado, President & CEO, Gibraltar & Palme; Mr Hyejoo Kim, International Relations Team KOFIC (Korean Film Council). All the stakeholders evinced keen interest in doing business with India.


    Interaction with Officials and Delegates from Canada


    As part of policy outreach, the Indian Delegation also met with Canadian Government officials including Ms Karen Thorne-Stone, President & CEO, Ontario Creates; Ms Prem Gill, CEO, Creative BC; Ms Francesca Accinelli, Director, Promotion and Communication, Telefilm Canada; Ms Jocelyn Girard, Director, Film & Video Policy & Programs Cultural Industry, Canadian Heritage; Melissa Amer, Deputy Director, Canada Media Fund, Telefilm Canada.


    The Canadian Government was apprised of the recent initiatives undertaken by the Indian Government toward facilitating synergy between producers to foster co-productions. Measures such as institution of FFO, India to act as a single window facilitation and clearance mechanism for according permissions for domestic and international film-makers for filming in India as well as combined source of film related information in the country, leading to greater ‘ease of navigation’; policy changes to standardize the process of permissions across India; keenness of government to organize conferences/workshop for sensitizing India & International film-makers; creation of accredited list of Indian Producers and Indian Film Fund specially dedicated towards boosting co-productions; creation of an ecosystem of Nodal officers among different Indian States & Union Territories for faster processing of shooting permissions were highlighted.


    India - The All in One Destination to make Films


    International Film Festivals, Commissions & Government Bodies expressed their desire to participate with India and IFFI 2019, while also applauding the recent changes in Policy framework. This signifies the attractive growth opportunities the vibrant media and entertainment industry holds through which India is being positioned on the global stage as the ‘All in one destination to make films’.


    ***


    AP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1584619) Visitor Counter : 692
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi