      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri G. Kishan Reddy flags off of Cycle Rally organized and participated by various Paramilitary Forces in Porbandar
      
      500 Cyclists to Paddle with the message of Non-Violence, Swachchata and Say ‘No to Drugs’

      Posted On: 07 SEP 2019 12:06PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri G. Kishan Reddy presided over as Chief Guest at the flagging off of a cycle rally, jointly organized and participated by various CAPFs including BSF, CRPF, CISF, SSB, Assam Rifles, ITBP, NSG. This rally is being organized as part of celebrations to commemorate Mahatma Gandhi's 150 th anniversary year of birth, in Porbandar today. 500 cyclists would be paddling from Porbandar to New Delhi, with the theme - Non-Violence, Swachchata and Say ‘No to Drugs’.


    Talking about the philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi, Shri Reddy said that Gandhiji is a symbol of truth and non-violence for the whole world. His vision of an egalitarian, inclusive, sustainable and peaceful society are most relevant even today, as the world is facing problems like global terrorism, fanaticism, extremism, among others. The Father of the Nation taught the world how biggest of problems facing mankind may be resolved through his message of peace and non-violence, the Minister added.


    Shri Reddy said that the Government is celebrating Mahatma Gandhi's 150 th birth anniversary in a big way and, through various programmes, his vision and values would be taken amongst the people. He remembered Bapu’s message of ‘sanitation and cleanliness being more important than Independence’. In this context, the Minister highlighted Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi’s vision of ‘Swachch Bharat’ and his clarion call to the Nation to make India Plastic Free from 2 nd October, 2019. He also talked about the ‘Swachhata hi Sewa’ programme, to be launched from 11 th September, 2019, as a part of the celebrations.


    Shri Reddy praised the paramilitary forces for their indomitable spirit and dedication to the service of the Nation. “Our soldiers on the borders fight every day to protect and safeguard the sovereignty and integrity of our country. I want to assure all the people gathered here and the families of the Central Armed Police Forces that the entire country stands firmly with the jawans and honors the sufferings and sacrifices they are making”, he said.


    Talking about the cycle rally, Shri Reddy said that this effort would surely play a vital role in building a positive and harmonious image of the security forces in the public. It will also provide an opportunity to spread the message and thoughts of Mahatma Gandhi, including that of a ‘Clean India’, to the general public and pay tribute to national unity and integrity. It would encourage people to tread the path shown by Gandhiji and will help in building a better future of the Nation in the coming days, the Minister concluded.


    *****


    VG/VM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1584412) Visitor Counter : 487
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi