      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister Lauds the efforts of India’s Space Scientists.
      
      Encourages them to remain hopeful and continue working hard on India’s Space Programme
      Posted On: 07 SEP 2019 10:32AM by PIB Delhi


    Even as the Chandrayan 2 Mission lost its communication with the Control Centre at the ISRO headquarters, Prime Minister Narendra Modi who was witnessing the descent of the Chandrayan 2 along with the ISRO Scientists at Bengaluru said “India is proud of our scientists! They’ve given their best and have always made India proud. These are moments to be courageous, and courageous we will be!”


    In a personalized effort to boost the morale of the scientists, Prime Minister said “The country is with you, I am with you. The effort was worth it and so was the journey “


    “You are those people who work for Mother India’s victory and struggle for it and have a grit and determination to make her proud. “


    “I could feel and sense your despondency and emotions last night. I was amongst you when the communication from the Vehicle was lost. There are several unanswered questions but I am sure you would find the answers. I know there was hard work behind.”


    “We might have faced a small setback in our journey but this would not let down our zeal and enthusiasm to achieve our goals”


    Our resolve strengthens now.


    “The whole nation was awake last night in solidarity with our scientist sisters and brothers. We came very close to the surface of the moon and that effort is highly laudable. “


    “We are proud of our space programme and scientists, their hard work and determination has ensured a better life not only for our citizens but also other nations. It is their outcome of their innovative zeal that several people got better quality of life including better health care and education.”


    “India knows that there would be many more proud moments to rejoice.”


    “When it comes to space programme the best is yet to come.”


    “There are new frontiers to discover and new places to go. We will rise to the occasion and scale newer heights of success. “


    “To our scientists I want to say, India is with you. True to your nature, you ventured into a place where no one had never gone before.”


    “You have gone as close as you could. I can proudly say the effort was worth it and so was the journey


    Our team worked hard and travelled far, and those teachings will always remain with us”


    “The learning from today will get us a stronger and better tomorrow”


    “I thank the families of our space scientists. Their silent but valuable support remains a major strength in our effort.”


    “Sisters and brothers, resilience and tenacity are centre to India’s ethos. In our glorious history we may have faced moments that could have crushed us but we never gave up. This is the reason our civilization stands tall.”


    In our glorious history we may have faced moments that could have crushed us but we never gave up. This is the reason our civilization stands tall.”


    “We have made historical achievements. I know that ISRO also does not failures to let it down”


    “There will be a new dawn and a better tomorrow. Without worrying about results we go ahead and that is our history.”


    I have confidence in you. Your dreams are higher than mine. And I am fully confident on your hopes.


    I am meeting you to get inspiration from you. You are a sea of inspiration and a living evidence of inspiration


    I congratulate you all and wish you all the best in your endeavours.


    ***


    VRRK/SH/VK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584409) Visitor Counter : 759
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada