      Ministry of Defence

      Hopewel Elias Higher Secondary School Crowned Champions of U-17 Junior Boys Subroto Cup – 2019
      Posted On: 17 SEP 2019 7:35PM by PIB Delhi


    In the final of U-17 Junior Boys Subroto Cup International Football Tournament, Hopewel Elias Higher Secondary School, Meghalaya defeated Bangladesh Krida Shiksha Prothishtan (BKSP) by a score line of 1-0 at Dr. Ambedkar Stadium, New Delhi today. In the 32 nd minute, Sangti Janai hit a scorcher of a kick from outside the box and straight into the left top corner of the Bangladesh goal, thus scoring the only goal of the match. The team from Meghalaya will be taking home a sum of INR 4, 00,000 and BKSP, as the runners-up will be walking away with a prize money of INR 2, 50,000. The grand finale and closing ceremony was presided over by Chief Guest, Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa, PVSM AVSM YSM VM ADC, Chairman Chiefs of Staff Committee & Chief of Air Staff. The CAS is also Chairman, Subroto Mukerjee Sports Education Society (SMSES). Former Indian international footballer, Victor Amalraj was the Guest of Honour.


    During the presentation, Air Chief BS Dhanoa said, “It’s a momentous occasion for us to be here at the Grand Finale & Closing Ceremony of the Diamond Jubilee Edition of the Subroto Cup International Football Tournament 2019. We, the Indian Air Force strongly believe that sports as a critical factor to usher in human development and this needs no emphasis, as football is undoubtedly the world’s favourite sport and the love for it is similar amongst the air warriors. Therefore, hosting the 60 th edition was a matter of pride for us. The number of participating teams from India and abroad have seen a steady rise over the years and that speaks for the popularity of the tournament across the globe. I am happy that the Subroto Cup International Football Tournament this year has seen participation from 09 international teams. I take this opportunity to congratulate the winning teams and for the others my wishes are that they come back stronger next year to become victorious.”


    ***


    AB/BSK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585359) Visitor Counter : 306
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi