      Prime Minister's Office

      Need, not greed, has been India's guiding principle: says PM
      
      Pledges to more than double India’s renewable energy capacity target to 450 GW
      
      PM Modi addresses Climate Action Summit

      Posted On: 23 SEP 2019 11:55PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi addressed the Climate Action Summit's opening ceremony organized by the UN Secretary General on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly.


    Speaking on the occasion, the PM said that this was the first opportunity to address the United Nations, after having received the Champion of the Earth award last year. He said that to overcome a serious challenge like climate change, what we are doing at the moment is just not enough. He called for a global people’s movement to bring about behavioral change.


    He said that the respect for nature, the judicious use of resources, reducing our needs and living within our means have all been important aspects of both our traditions and present day efforts. He added that Need not Greed has been our guiding principle. And therefore India today has come not just to talk about the seriousness of this issue, but to present a practical approach and a roadmap. We believe that an ounce of practice is worth more than a ton of preaching.


    He pledged that the share of non fossil fuel will be increased, and by 2022 India’s renewable energy capacity would be increased to much beyond 175 GW, and later till 450 GW. He said that India plans to make the transport sector green through e mobility and considerably increase the proportion of the biofuel blend in petrol and diesel. He added that clean cooking gas has been provided to 150 million families in India.


    Shri Modi said that Jal Jeevan mission has been launched for water conservation, rainwater harvesting and for the development of water resources and approximately 50 billion dollars is going to be spent on this in the next few years.


    He said that on the International forum, almost 80 countries have joined our International Solar Alliance campaign. India and Sweden together with other partners are launching the Leadership group within the Industry transition track. This initiative will provide a platform for governments and the private sector with opportunities for cooperation in the area of Technology innovation. This will help to develop low carbon pathways for industry.


    He said that in order to make our infrastructure disaster resilient, India is launching a Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure and invited other Member states to join this coalition. He added that this year on the occasion of India’s Independence Day on 15th August, a people's movement to end the use of single use plastic was called for. He emphasized that the time for talking is over; the world needs to act now.


    ***


    VRRK/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1585979) Visitor Counter : 687
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Assamese , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada