      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Special Training Programme for Maldivian Civil Servants to be conducted from 16th-28th September
      Posted On: 15 SEP 2019 11:07AM by PIB Delhi


    The Special Training Program for Maldivian Civil Servants under the India-Maldives MoU on Training and Capacity Building Programme between the National Centre for Good Governance (NCGG) and the Maldives Civil Service Commission (CSC) will be conducted from September 16-28, 2019 at Mussoorie and Delihi. A 32 member Maldives delegation arrived at the NCGG, campus in Mussoorie.


    The inaugural session of the Special Training Program for Maldivian Civil Servants to be held on September 16, 2019 and would be chaired by Shri K. V. Eapen, Secretary DARPG, Ms. Fatimath Amira, Member Civil Services Commission and Shri V. Srinivas, Additional Secretary DARPG. This would be followed by sessions on Public Policy and Governance, Ethics and Accountability and Redressal of Public Grievances, Motivation, Innovation, Sustainable Development Goals, Promoting Tourism, Regional Cooperation in the Indian Ocean Region, India – Maldives Relations along with visits to Unique Identification Authority, Passport Sewa Kendra and Election Commission of India.


    Senior policy makers from Government of India including Shri K.V.Eapen, Secretary DARPG, Shri Sanjeev Chopra, Director LBSNAA, Shri V.Srinivas, Additional Secretary DARPG, Shri Akhilesh Mishra, Director General ICCR, Shri Padamvir Singh, former Director LBSNAA, Siraj Hussain, former Secretary Agriculture, would be addressing the participants in the 2 week training program. Dr. Aly Shameem, Chairman of the Civil Services Commission of Maldives would address the valedictory session on September 28, 2019.


    The Prime Minister of India in his visit to Maldives in June 2019, had emphasised India's 'Neighbourhood First' policy and assured India's full support to Maldives in realising its aspirations for broad based socio-economic development and strengthening of democratic and independent institutions. One of the MoUs signed during the visit was between the National Center for Good Governance, India and the Civil Services Commission of Maldives which envisaged capacity building activities for 1000 Civil Servants of Maldives at the National Centre for Good Governance over the next 5 years. Under the MOU, 10 training programmes will be conducted from September 2019 to December 2020. The first 3 training programs under the MOU would be held in 2019 (a) September 16-28, 2019 and November 18-30, 2019 for 60 officers of the middle management level (b) December 2-14, 2019 for 30 officers of top management level.


    India is the largest development partner for capacity building of Maldivian Civil Servants. A unique feature of the special training program is that 70 percent of the delegates are women officials. Dr. Jitendra Singh, Minister of State for Personnel, PG and Pensions conveyed his good wishes for successful conduct of the Special Training Program for Maldivian Civil Servants.


    ***********


    VG/NK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585110) Visitor Counter : 615
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi