      President's Secretariat

      President hosts President of Mongolia; Says India and Mongolia are not just 'Strategic Partners' but also 'Spiritual Neighbours' connected by our shared Buddhist Heritage
      Posted On: 21 SEP 2019 10:05AM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, received His Excellency Mr Khaltmaagiin Battulga, the President of Mongolia, at Rashtrapati Bhavan today (September 20, 2019). He also hosted a banquet in his honour.


    Welcoming President Battulga to India , the President said this is the first visit of a Mongolian President in the last ten years. He expressed confidence that this visit will be a milestone in India-Mongolia bilateral relationship.


    The President said that India greatly values its close and friendly relations with Mongolia. We are not just 'strategic partners' but also 'spiritual neighbours' connected by our shared Buddhist heritage. He was happy to note that bilateral relations between the countries are now expanding into economic cooperation in several areas of importance like infrastructure, space and digital connectivity. Both sides are also cooperating closely in the fields of cyber security, information technology, disaster management, mining and animal husbandry.


    The President appreciated Mongolia for its consistent support to India’s candidature for permanent membership of the UN Security Council. He also appreciated Mongolia’s decision to join the 'International Solar Alliance’. He said that this will strengthen our partnership in the renewable energy sector and help us combat Climate Change.


    Subsequently, in his banquet speech, President Kovind said that centuries-old people-to-people exchanges have been the bedrock of our ties. Buddhist monks and traders from India traveled to Mongolia with the message of peace, harmony and friendship. Similarly, over the ages, Mongolian scholars and pilgrims came to India in pursuit of Buddhist studies and spiritual blessings. This ageless tradition continues. India, today, is privileged to host around 800 Mongolian students engaged in Buddhist studies.


    The President said that India remains committed to working with the Government and people of Mongolia to further strengthen and expand our Strategic Partnership for the prosperity of our two peoples.


    ****


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585738) Visitor Counter : 786
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi