      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      All Areas Entrusted With Functions of Urban Planning Included in Swachh Survekshan - 2020
      
      Industrial Estate Townships like Noida, Greater Noida, Jamshedpur Or Bokaro Steel City, Port Area Development Authority, Sada to be Part of SS–2020
      
      Separate National Workshop for Urban Townships to be Organized Soon
      Posted On: 20 SEP 2019 7:17PM by PIB Delhi


    It has been decided to include all areas, which are notified Planning/ Special Area Development Authority/ Urban Development Authority or any such Authority under State/Central legislations, which is entrusted with the functions of urban planning, regulations and development function akin to Statutory Urban local Bodies for all purposes including sanitation, in Swachh Survekshan - 2020. Example for such bodies could be Industrial Estate Townships like Noida, Greater Noida, Jamshedpur or Bokaro Steel City, Port Area Development Authority, SADA for specific purpose etc. Only such Urban Development Authority will be included in the category where there is no statutory urban local body e.g. Amravati Development Authority. A separate category of such cities has been created for evaluation under Swachh Survekshan-2020.


    The parameters for evaluation of these townships which do not have statutory urban local body will remain the same as applicable to ULBs or Cantonment Boards with some modifications. A separate National Workshop for these Urban Townships will be organized in the second week of October to explain the methodology of Swachh Survekshan - 2020 for this category.


    The Government has directed all concerned authorities of such Townships to sensitize them about their coverage in Swachh Survekshan – 2020 and to appoint a Nodal Officer for each such Township for this purpose.


    Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs is implementing Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) Urban with the goal to make the country clean and open defecation free. To monitor the progress of this mission, Swachh Survekshan - an annual cleanliness survey was initiated in 2016 for evaluating 73 Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) and it has now been scaled up to all 4,378 ULBs and all Cantonment Boards oflndia. The Swachh Survekshan has proved to be an effective monitoring and governance tool in ascertaining the progress made by the cities towards cleanliness and citizen engagement.


    RJ/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585692) Visitor Counter : 571
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi