      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Multi-Product Road Show in Jakarta by APEDA
      
      BSM Organised In USA, Canada and Greece by APEDA

      Posted On: 17 SEP 2019 4:27PM by PIB Delhi

    The Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) organized a multi-product road show in association with the Embassy of India in Jakarta on 16 th September, 2019. A 40-member delegation of exporters of rice and sugar led by Chairman APEDA, Paban Kumar Borthakur visited Jakarta and held a meeting with Minister of Trade, Republic of Indonesia, Enggartiasto Lukita. B2B meeting of Indian exporters was organized in Jakarta by APEDA with Indonesian importers for these products. The Indian delegation also metwith Bulog Indonesia, Indonesia Logistics Bureau, a government owned company in Indonesia which deals with food distribution and price control.APEDA is organizing a road show in Medan, Indonesiaon 18 th September, 2019.


    Earlier this month APEDA also participated in the 84 th Thessaloniki International Fair (TIF)in Thessaloniki, Greece held from 7 th to 15 th September 2019. Agricultureand processed food products from India were displayed at the TIF. The event was inaugurated by the Prime Minister of Greece and Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, Hardeep Singh Puri on 7 th September 2019. Ambassador of India in Greece was also present at the inaugural function.


    A wide range of processed food products like ready to eat vegetables, curries and rice, mango pulp, organic products, herbs, snacks, sweets, tea and spices were displayed and promoted through sampling and tasting at the TIF. Productsfrom Jammu and Kashmir like walnuts, basmati rice, organic amaranth seeds, flax seeds and spices were also displayed and promoted by APEDA at the TIF.


    In order to promote products from India’sNorth Eastern States APEDA introduced Indian Kiwi Wine produced in Arunachal Pradesh for the first time in Greece. The kiwi wine received a good response from the Greeks.


    APEDA is also promoting export of basmati rice through sampling and tasting campaign of basmati rice biryani in vegetarian and non-vegetarianversions.


    Samples of Indian tea and spices were also displayed in the APEDA stall. A special provision was made for sampling and tasting of Indian masala tea along with snacks and sweets.


    Agriculture and Finance Minister of Greece visited the India pavilion and enjoyed Indian basmati rice biryani and kiwi wine. The GreeceMinistersappreciated the taste of the fruitykiwi wine having a unique flavor.


    APEDA got an overwhelming response especially for Indian organic products, basmati rice, kiwi wine, masala tea and Indian sweets andsnacks.


    APEDAandTPCI took a delegation of Indian Food and Beverage exporters to the USA and Canada from 19 th -23 rd August, 2019.


    A buyer-seller meet (BSM)was organized in the Indian Consulate on 20 th August, 2019 with the support of the Indian Embassy. Twenty-three exporters of agri products including processed food and tea met with potential importers from USA.


    A second BSMwas organized in Canada on 22 nd August, 2019 in the office of Indo-Canada Chamber of Commerce. Around 20 exporters of agri products and potential importers of Canada participated in the BSM.


    ***


    MM/ SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1585304) Visitor Counter : 785
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi