      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      118 new Community Radio Stations to be set-up
      Posted On: 13 SEP 2019 5:38PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar today announced that 118 new Community Radio Stations (CRS) are in the process of being set-up.


    #CommunityRadio is a great way to communicate with the public and to give opportunities to local artists. We are going to expand community radio to many other areas which will start in a few months: Union Minister @PrakashJavdekar pic.twitter.com/c8UuMM3T1r

    — PIB India (@PIB_India) September 13, 2019

    The approved list of applicants having been granted Letter of Intent for setting up CRS includes 16 from Left Wing Extremism (LWE) affected districts, 6 from most LWE affected districts, 25 from coastal districts, 17 from Aspirational Districts, 3 from North-East and 2 from Jammu and Kashmir. Applications from NGOs, Educational Institutions - both private and public, and Krishi Vigyan Kendras have been granted approvals. It is expected that these Community Radio Stations will become operational within the next six months.


    Community Radio Stations act as essential communication channels for enhancing last mile of outreach of government. Plans are underway to ensure expansion of the community radio network to each district of the country.


    Brief Background about Community Radio Stations


    Community Radios are small (low power) FM radio stations with a coverage area of around 10-15 Km radius, depending on the geography of the area. CRS play a significant role in dissemination of agriculture related information, government schemes for people’s welfare, weather forecast etc. CRS are expected to produce at least 50% of their programmes locally, as far as possible in local languages or dialects. More than two hundred sixty CRS across India, broadcasting in various languages including local dialects, give marginalised communities a platform to make their voice heard and an opportunity to express their views.


    ***


    AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585006) Visitor Counter : 1280
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Punjabi , Bengali