      Ministry of Jal Shakti

      International Workshop for National Water Museum
      Posted On: 18 SEP 2019 4:27PM by PIB Delhi


    To enhance awareness among general public at large, about dwindling water resources and need for conservation, and about sustainable and judicious use of water resources, DoWR,RD&GR, under Ministry of Jal Shakti, Government of India has taken an initiative to develop National Water Museum.


    DoWR, RD & GR, Ministry of Jal Shakti is organizingan International Workshop on 19 th – 20 th September 2019,at Central Water Commission Auditorium, New Library Building, R K Puram, New Delhi. Many eminent experts in the myriad fields which go into developing a Water Museumfrom India and abroad, such as senior Government and town planning Officials, academicians, practicing engineers and consultants, and representatives from various Departments under Ministry of Jal Shakti, are participating in the workshop.


    MrEribertoEulisse, Executive Director and Co-founder of Global Network of Water Museums, which is an umbrella organization for such initiatives around the World, Ms. Sara Ahmed, Lead Curator, Living Waters Museum, Ahmedabad, GuyBroucke, Section Chief and Programme Specialist, Natural Sciences, UNESCO, Mr. Shamsher Ali and Ms. SyedaTahminaFerdous, Action Aid, Bangladesh, Ms. Jutta Jain-Neubauer, an eminent name in the field of histories of water structures in terms of their typology; their eco-historical, socio-political and aesthetic siting; and their ingenious hydro-technical mastery, and many such eminent persons shall make presentations during the workshop.


    The proposed outcome from the Workshop is a blue-print for establishing the proposed National Water Museum under the aegis of DoWR, RD & GR, Ministry of Jal Shakti. During the Workshop, possible broad composition / content of the Museum including highlighting importance of water and its current state in different regions of the Country, possible solutions, traditional and modern water management practices and localized success storiesetc. are proposed to be discussed. Apart from presentations, half a day of group deliberations have been proposed in the workshop, with each group addressing a specific issue. The findings would then be presented by the group representatives at the workshop.


    The inaugural session on 19 th September, 2019 shall be presided over by Sh. U.P Singh, Secretary, DoWR, RD& GR. In the closing session, on 20 th September, 2019,Sh. Rattan LalKataria, Hon’ble Minister of State, Ministry of Jal Shakti has kindly consented to preside.


    This is one of the numerous initiatives taken by the Ministry of Jal Shakti towards bringing about changes in the behaviour of all stakeholders and general public at large for sustainable use of water, in a way which is entertaining and recreating.


    <><><><><>


    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585436) Visitor Counter : 1000
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi