      President's Secretariat

      President of India Addresses Indian Community and Friends of India in Slovenia on the Concluding Day of His Visit to the Country
      
      Yesterday Addressed the India-Slovenia Business Forum; Says Slovenian Smart Specialization Strategy and Indian Growth Make for a New-Age Partnership

      Posted On: 17 SEP 2019 6:07PM by PIB Delhi

    On the concluding day (September 17, 2019) of his visit to Slovenia, the President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, attended the Indian community and Friends of India reception in Ljubljana, hosted by Shri Param Jit Mann, Ambassador of India to Slovenia.


    Addressing the gathering, the President said that Indian community in Slovenia are the prism through which the Slovenian people see India. Their hard work, success and warmth for the local people have contributed to building a positive image of India in this country.


    The President urged the Indian community to visit India, and experience the transformative changes happening. He said that our globally connected, technologically savvy and enterprising youth are at the forefront of this change. We seek Indian Diaspora’s support and participation in creating a New India, an India where there is progress and prosperity for all.


    The President also appreciated Friends of India in Slovenia for their love for India and for Indian customs, beliefs and way of life. He said that the role that they have played in enhancing understanding between India and Slovenia is commendable. He also appreciated the efforts they have put in creating a network of cultural institutions, dance and Yoga schools, Ayurveda centers and Indian restaurants.


    Yesterday (September 16, 2019), the President addressed the India-Slovenia Business Forum in Ljubljana.


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that today, India is the fastest growing major economy in the world. Slovenian companies will find in India a transformed business climate, a good measure of which is India’s extraordinary jump of 65 places during the last five years on the World Bank Ease of Doing Business Index. The introduction of the path-breaking Goods and Services Tax has transformed India, a country of 1.3 billion people, into One Nation, One Tax, and One Market for the first time in its history.


    The President said that the infrastructure landscape in India is making rapid progress. Next generation projects, from high speed railways to country wide expressways, are being created apace. Digital connectivity is giving major thrust to e-commerce, e-services and fintech sectors. India’s Rupay payment card is making deeper headway in the international market. The international business community has given a vote of confidence to these changes by choosing India as the most preferred destination for Foreign Direct Investment. In 2018-19, we received FDI worth US$ 44.3 billion. Indian industry is also reaching out to the world, be it through trade, direct investments or joint collaborations. Both India and Slovenia have their economic strengths and can complement each other for mutual growth and prosperity, he said.


    The President said that Slovenia has strengths in high-technology, research, innovation, smart solutions and small-scale precision manufacturing. Slovenian Smart Specialization Strategy and Indian growth make for a new-age partnership. We would like Slovenia to collaborate with us in our flagship programmes - Make in India, Clean India, Start-up India and Digital India. We want to leverage Slovenian knowhow in the environmental sector. We are also keen to learn from Slovenia in the field of urban infrastructure and waste management.


    The President said that Indian strengths in the fields of IT, pharma, biotech, healthcare services, automobile, ayurveda, energy and infrastructure, can be harnessed by Slovenia for its growth. India can also be a partner in Slovenia’s development by providing skilled resource in technology intensive sectors.


    Yesterday, the President also met the President of the National assembly of Slovenia, Mr Dejan Židan. Later in the evening (September 17, 2019), the President will emplane for New Delhi after the successful completion of his state visit to –Iceland, Switzerland and Slovenia.


    Click here to see the President's speech at Indian Community Reception


    Click here to see the President's speech at Indian Slovenia Business summit


    ***


    VRRK/SH/SKS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585333) Visitor Counter : 570
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi