      Vice President's Secretariat

      There should be no imposition of any language, nor opposition to any language: Vice President
      
      Give importance to promoting mother tongue, while learning other languages VP tells students & teachers
      
      Advises the youth to travel widely within the country to know about India’s rich culture and heritage
      
      Reorient curriculum to make students curious, creative, caring, communicative, confident & capable: Vice President
      
      Interacts with students from Sharada Residential School, Manipal, Karnataka
      Posted On: 20 SEP 2019 12:20PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu today called upon people to learn as many languages as possible and asserted that there should not be imposition of any language, nor should there be opposition to any particular language.


    Interacting with students from Sharada Residential School, who had returned recently after visiting NASA and other places in the United States of America, Shri Naidu stressed that India was blessed with many languages and asked students and teachers to give importance to promoting mother tongue, while learning other languages.


    Describing travelling as a form of education and good learning experience, the Vice President advised the students to visit all the major tourist places within India to get acquainted with various facets of India’s culture, heritage, languages and cuisine and enhance their understanding of India’s unique cultural mosaic. “Before going out, look with in and enhance your knowledge,” he added.


    Referring to the call given by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi asking people to visit 15 tourist places in India by 2022 to give a boost to the domestic tourism, Shri Naidu advised them to visit historic, spiritual, scenic tourist places in India and explore the cultural heritage of India. “Such visits will enhance your knowledge and give you an insight into our past,” he said.


    Asking children to spend time in the lap of nature, the Vice President wanted them to take active part in protecting and preserving the nature and culture. He also called upon them to take a pledge to stop using single-use plastics from October 2 as suggested by the Prime Minister.


    The Vice President called for revamping the education system and said that it must make students to enjoy schooling. “Revamping the curriculum is needed to focus on aspects that make a child curious, creative, caring, communicative, confident and capable,” he added.


    The Vice President also suggested that the new education policy must focus more on Indian history and cover the contributions made by freedom fighters from different parts of the country. “There are many great stalwarts, who were in the forefront of the fight against the colonial rule. Our children must learn about them,” he said.


    Stressing the need to allocate 50 percent of schooling hours outside classrooms to enhance physical fitness of the students, Shri Naidu cautioned the students about the growing incidences of non-communicable diseases due to unhealthy lifestyle practices and food habits.


    Shri Naidu advised them to shun junk food and adopt healthy dietary habits as the Indian food was time tested and prescribed according to the seasons and regions.


    He advised school administrations to encourage students to take part in voluntary services such as NSS, NCC, Scouts and Guides as they instil the spirit of volunteerism and service in them.


    ********


    RR/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585642) Visitor Counter : 658
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi