      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh appreciates development of indigenous defence systems
      Posted On: 19 SEP 2019 6:55PM by PIB Delhi


          During his day-long visit to Bengaluru, Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh visited Centre for Airborne Systems, DRDO, where he was shown several indigenous products of various DRDO labs. The products included AEW&C, Radar Systems, EW Systems, UAV’s, Nirbhay Missile, Robotic vehicles, Indigenous Aircraft Engine, Small Turbofan Engine, Bio Medical Systems, Microwave transmitters for missiles, semiconductor components and several other products.


          Earlier in the day, Shri Rajnath Singh scripted history by becoming the first Raksha Mantri to fly the Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) ‘Tejas’. He undertook 30-minute sortie in the indigenously-built multi-role fighter aircraft with Air Vice Marshal Narmdeshwar Tiwari, at the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) Airport.


          Addressing the DRDO fraternity at Centre for Airborne Systems, Raksha Mantri said it was a very proud and memorable moment for him to fly the indigenously developed fighter aircraft. He appreciated the constant effort put forth by the scientists and technicians in the development of indigenous defence systems. Shri Rajnath Singh stated that continuing success of ASTRA missile, LCA Tejas and successful utilization of NETRA in Balakot has re-imposed the confidence of country in DRDO. He declared that with continuing efforts, country should aim at meeting the requirement of our Defense Services through indigenous efforts.


          Raksha Mantri complemented the Indian industries who are part of the manufacturing ecosystem of the country. He said indigenous content shall reach 75 per cent by 2030. He congratulated all the Scientists and personnel of DRDO on various successes and for excellent organization of exhibition of indigenous products.


          Dr G Satheesh Reddy, Secretary, Department of Defence R&D and Chairman, DRDO said Raksha Mantri flying LCA Tejas and his visit to the exhibition of DRDO is an immense boost to the DRDO Scientists & personnel and it will enthuse them to work towards indigenous efforts.


          Eminent dignitaries such as Chairman HAL, Director General (ECS), Director General (Aeronautics Systems), Director General (PC& SI), Director General (Med&Cos) financial advisers, DRDO Scientists, Service Officers from armed forces, HAL and other agencies were present on the occasion.


          ABB/Nampi/DK/Savvy/MTJ/ADA/Anand

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585609) Visitor Counter : 1134
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi