      Ministry of Tourism

      The second edition of tourism and hospitality buyer-seller meet the ‘India Tourism Mart 2019’ inaugurated in New Delhi today
      Posted On: 23 SEP 2019 9:40PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of Road ,Transport and Highways & Minister of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Shri Nitin Gadkari and the Union Minister of State for Culture and Tourism (Independent Charge), Shri Prahlad Singh Patel inaugurated the India Tourism Mart (ITM) 2019 in New Delhi today. The Ministry of Tourism and the Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism and Hospitality (FAITH) have jointly organized this Mart. Over 240 international delegates from 51 countries and 160 exhibitors from across the country are taking part in the second edition of ITM.


    Union Minister, Shri Nitin Gadkari said that great positive outcome can be expected from the well organized Mart and the type of stake holders who are participating. India has language, culture & food, which attracts new tourists. We are focusing on cleanliness and infrastructure which will also boost the tourism sector. He added that tourism sector has employment potential and this is the most important agenda for our government. He expressed faith that the Tourism Ministry will show great results given its commitment to promote tourism and travel in the country.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel said that collaboration of Ministry of Tourism and FAITH will increase the trust of tourists. India has diversity in its culture and I appeal to the delegates, they must visit our state stalls in the Mart. They will get to know about the beauty of our culture. He further said that Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is our brand ambassador and we have seen this in Howdy Modi event. He added that tourism is the best way to connect to the world and our efforts are in right directions.


    Earlier , addressing the media at a press meet in the morning today, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel said that the objective of the Mart is to provide a platform at the national level for the trade and hospitality service providers to interact and conduct business with their counterparts from overseas.


    The Union Tourism Minister further said that he is thankful to the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister for the recently announced GST rebates which will benefit the hospitality sector and will go a long way to promote tourism industry. He added that India is a very beautiful and vibrant country and there has been a definite change in the perception of international tourists due to which we have seen growth in international tourists. The Tourism Minister invited the participants to freely give their suggestions which will be taken up by the Ministry to help all the stakeholders in the tourism and travel industry.


    FAITH is the apex organization of important trade and hospitality associations of the country and will drive the event, with support of the Ministry of Tourism, with the objective of positioning the tourism destinations and products of the country in international source markets.


    This is the second edition of the Mart being organized on lines of major international travel marts held annually in countries across the world. The Mart will provide a platform at the national level for trade and hospitality service providers in the country to interact and conduct business with their counterparts from overseas.


    Buyer Delegates from important and potential source markets overseas have been invited to participate in the Mart and over 240 international delegates have confirmed their participation. These delegates are from 51 countries including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Philippines, Poland, Russia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Thailand, UK, USA and others.


    The profile of the international buyer delegates include tour operators and travel agents who are already selling India as a tourism destination amongst their clients as well as potential buyers who have shown interest in the country. The event will provide an opportunity for the buyer delegates to see for themselves the world class tourism facilities available in the country - the Airports, Hotels, tourist destinations and products, MICE facilities, etc., which will enable them to promote the same more effectively amongst potential consumers in their respective countries.


    The Mart has an Exhibition area with approximately 175 stalls, where seller delegates from across the country, including Tour Operators, Hoteliers and other stakeholders will conduct B2B meetings with the international buyer delegates and whereparticipating States & Union Territorieswill get the opportunity to showcase their unique tourism destinations and products.


    The State of Gujarat is the Partner State at ITM 2019 and other participating States are Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Daman & Diu, Goa, Haryana, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkhand, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.


    The B2B meetings and networking sessions between the buyer and seller delegates will be held on 24 th and 25 th September 2019. The Buyer Delegates will be taken on post-Mart Familiarisation Tours to different tourism destinations in the country. Various itineraries and programmes on diverse themes have been designed for this purpose.


    On this occasion Tourism Secretary Shri Yogendra Tripathi; DG Tourism Smt. Meenakshi Sharma ;Chairman FAITH Shri Nakul Anand; Chairman ITM 2019 Shri Subhash Goel and other senior officers of Ministry of tourism were present.


    *******


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585956) Visitor Counter : 383
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi