      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Central Government takes several key decisions to curb rise in prices of Onions
      Posted On: 24 SEP 2019 6:51PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Government has taken several key decisions to curb rise in prices of Onions today.Concerned over rise in prices of Onions, the central Governmentannounced the following key decisions:

     1. States have been requested to utilize a stockof 35,000 ton available with the Central Government for direct retailing to ease the pressure on prices. Communication in this regard was sentto the State Governments asking them to indicate their requirement from the Central Buffer. Till date, 5 States namely, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Tripura and Odisha have demanded Onions from this stock.

     1. NAFED which holds the Central Buffer on behalf of Union Government has been directed to distribute Onions in Delhi through stores of Safal, Mother dairy, NCCF and its own outletsat a fixed rate of not more than Rs. 24 per kilo.The Central Government also offered the Delhi Government, Onions from its Buffer stocks for direct retailing through its channels at similar rates. This would improve the total number of distribution centres across Delhi to about 700 outlets.


     1. The Kharif crop of Onion from Karnataka has already started arriving in the market and this will ease the pressure on supply from Maharashtra as well as prices in adjoining regions.


     1. There is sufficient stock of Onions in Maharashtra to meet the current demand. However, Supplies are seemingly being restrained to increase prices. Government is taking all measures to improve these supplies and from Central buffer to mitigate any such shortfall in availability and will also consider imposing stock limit if prices do not moderate on account of speculative behaviour of traders.


     1. MMTC has also been directed to float a tender for import of Onions to meet any short fall in availability.


     1. NAFED has also been directed to be in preparedness for meeting any contingencies during the ensuing festive season and move sufficient stock in advance to places of consumption and distribution to ensure that supply remains unhindered.


     1. The reported export below Minimum Export Price to Bangladesh& Sri Lanka will be immediately stopped and strict action will be initiated against those who are found to be violating this decision of the government.


    *****


    APS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586055) Visitor Counter : 554
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

1.