      Department of Space

      Under the leadership of Prime Minister, space technology has reached almost every house in the country: Dr. Jitendra Singh
      
      Union Minister of State for Space addresses National Conference on ‘System for Transforming India: Challenges and Opportunities' at Ahmedabad today

      Posted On: 26 SEP 2019 8:12PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State (I/C) for Development of North Eastern Region, MoS PMO, Personnel, Atomic Energy and Department of Space Dr. Jitendra Singh said that space technology has reached almost every house in five years under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. He said, “Our Prime Minister has a naturally scientific nature. He never fails to promote scientists and the example is Chandrayaan Mission. He was present to witness Chandrayaan's landing." The Minister was speaking during the inaugural session of National Conference on ‘System for Transforming India: Challenges and Opportunities’ at Space Application Centre, Ahmedabad today.


    Emphasizing the use of space technology for the common people, the Minister said that there are some examples of the use of space technology such as road transport, railway, unmanned railway crossing and geotagging of works under MNREGA. He said that three to four years ago, there were reports of accidents at unmanned railway crossings. But the use of space technology has shown a significant reduction in such accidents. He further said that it was difficult to get the Fund Utilization Certificate in the North East region. With the use of space technology, it became possible to get such stuck fund utilization certificate of worth Rs. 7000 crore.


    Praising ISRO and the Department of Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh said that ISRO has built a work culture through dedication and commitment that other scientific communities should follow. "I can say with pride that India will soon become a superpower and this journey will start with the Department of Space.", he said.


    ISRO Chairman Dr. K Sivan said, “Young generation should come forward to shape the future of the country.” He added that the system engineering defines the complex system. The purpose of system engineering is not limited to building a best & optimal system, but to build a system that is feasible and serve a purpose. “The system engineering reduces the risk involved in space missions”, he said.


    The two-day national conference was organized by the Indian Society of Systems for Science and Engineering (ISSE) and the Space Application Centre. During the inaugural ceremony, the Minister released the souvenir of the conference and conferred ISSE awards.


    ****


    DK/JK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586350) Visitor Counter : 570
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Gujarati