      President's Secretariat

      President of India Graces The Foundation Day Celebrations of CSIR, Says The True Test of Scientific Research Lies in Its ability to help our Society Accelerate Socio-Economic Development
      Posted On: 26 SEP 2019 6:59PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, graced the Foundation Day Celebrations of the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) in New Delhi today (September 26, 2019).


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that the true test of scientific research lies in its ability to help our society accelerate socio-economic development in various areas of human life such as health and hygiene, sanitation, education and agriculture. In the long run, this ability depends on the extent to which the culture of scientific research and innovation permeates our society, institutions and enterprises.


    The President said that science and technology is one of the key levers to achieve our national goals and to address the larger concerns confronting humanity today. We have set ourselves a goal of becoming a 5-trillion dollar economy by 2025. We are committed to achieving Sustainable Development Goals. We also wish to play our role in addressing global concerns such as climate change. To a great extent, our success in meeting these challenges would depend on our ability to find creative solutions based in scientific research.


    The President said that through innovation our entrepreneurs can become solution providers to many of our challenges. Their success will determine our economic future and our growth trajectory. Our academic and scientific institutions, industry and entrepreneurs must collaborate to ensure that scientific research can move from labs to our industry, agricultural fields, incubation centres and start-ups.


    The President said that the scientific community, academic institutions and industry are aware of the uncertainty and risks which are inherent to scientific research, innovation and entrepreneurship. He urged them to embrace that uncertainty and take that calculated risk. He said that there lies the possibility of developing truly transformative technologies and innovations that can help fulfil our goals as a nation, as humanity and as a planet.


    *****


    VRRK/SH/BM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586345) Visitor Counter : 644
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi