      Prime Minister's Office

      PM visits Chennai
      Making India a great nation, can happen only through the participation of 130 Crore Indians: PM Modi
      
      Posted On: 30 SEP 2019 10:58AM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Chennai to take part in the 56th Convocation of the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras. He addresses the media at Chennai International Airport.


    Speaking on the occasion, the PM said that this is my first visit to Chennai after the General Elections of 2019. I have come to attend the Diamond Jubilee Celebrations of IIT Madras, but I am highly indebted to all of you for coming in such large numbers to welcome me.


    When I spoke in Tamil to the Indian Community in America during my recent visit and told that Tamil is the oldest language in the World it was widely reported in all the media in the USA, he added.


    He said that during my visit to the USA, I realised that the World is looking up to India with great expectations and that the expectation is increasing by the day. Now it is our responsibility to not only make India a great nation but also to see to it that it meets the expectations of the World community.


    Shri Modi said that this cannot merely be done by the Union Government it can happen only through the 130 Crore Indians. It can happen only with effort of every Indian in every nook and corner of the country, either rich or poor, either rural or urban, young or old.


    He said that we have achieved many a success through Public Participation and in the same way we should rid the country of the Single Use Plastic. Some people by mistake are misinterpreting that I wanted India to be rid of Plastic, I did not say so, What I said was that I want the country should be rid of Single Use Plastic. This plastic can be used only once and it creates a lot of problems later.


    On 2 nd October, the 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi we shall take up a Padyatra, and shall spread the ideals of Gandhi through these padyatras, he added.


    He said, “I once again thank you for coming in such large numbers to welcome me”.


    He will also address the Singapore India Hackathon 2019 at the IIT-M Research Park and will visit the startups at the pavilion there. He will deliver the Convocation address at the institutes’s Students Activity Centre.


    ***


    VRRK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586640) Visitor Counter : 493
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam , Malayalam