      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NDMA discusses ‘Fire Safety in India’ on its 15th Formation Day
      Posted On: 27 SEP 2019 6:12PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri G. Kishan Reddy, inaugurated the 15 th Formation Day of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), in New Delhi today. The theme of this year's Formation Day was ‘Fire Safety’.


    During the day-long event, three technical sessions were held, which are as follows:


    The First session discussed Fire Risk in India and focused on emerging issues on Fire Safety Management in the country, like Train Fires, Electric Vehicles charging stations and Fires in Warehouses. It also held presentations on the issues pertaining to Forest Fires – factors and management of forest fires and their linkages with global warming and climate change. Various aspects of Industrial Fires were also discussed.


    The Second session held discussions on various measures that could be taken to prevent and mitigate fire related events. It saw presentations on how to reduce Fire risk, especially in the urban areas.


    The Third Session saw presentations on challenges related with Fire Fighting Institutions and on the aspects related to the need of modernization and technological upgradation of Fire Services in the country, vis-à-vis the rapid developmental growth.


    A number of National guidelines and reports prepared by NDMA for disaster risk reduction in the country were also released, which included the National Guidelines on Disability Inclusive Disaster Risk Reduction . India became the first country in the world to come out with National Guidelines on Disability Inclusive Disaster Risk Reduction. The Authority also released a series of videos on tips on how to survive a disaster with Indian Sign Language incorporated.


    Other publications issued are Home Owner’s Guide for Earthquake and Cyclone Safe Homes, National Landslide Risk Management Strategy, Temporary Shelters for Disaster Affected Houses, Pocket Book on Do’s and Don’ts, Study Report on Gaja Cyclone 2018, Heat Wave Threshold Estimation Study and Earthquake Disaster Risk Index.


    Addressing the valedictory session, Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, Dr. P. K. Mishra said, "Fire preparedness requires all relevant stakeholders - from the national right up to the local and community level - to come together." He further added that local administrations should collaborate with fire services and come up with solutions best-suited to their local contexts to reduce the response time and increase the efficiency of response.


    *****


    VG/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586484) Visitor Counter : 458
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi