      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Fit India Plog Run Captures the imagination of the Nation.
      
      Over two thousand Plog Runs to be organised across the country on 2nd October
      
      Shri Kiren Rijiju to flag off Fit India Plog Run at Indira Gandhi Stadium
      
      Posted On: 30 SEP 2019 4:21PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports (I/C) Shri Kiren Rijijuwill flag off Fit India Plog Run on the occasion of the 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The Plog run has brought together athletes, Bollywood actors,school chains, corporates, municipal corporations, industry bodies andindividuals.Speaking about the enthusiasm of all sections of the society to join in the initiative towards a fitter, cleanercountry, the Minister has said, "It is very encouraging to see the interest that the Fit India Plog Run has generated. Honourable PM's vision is set to be executedon the ground on October 2. However, the Plog Run is just the beginning of a movement that will become a part of the life of every Indian, and with support from all groups and institutions, I am confident this will turn into a big people's movement."


    Students of more than 1196 Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan Schools will be plogging across all states of India, students of 581 South Delhi Municipality Schools will clean up the Delhi’s southern part and members from 2500 Resident Welfare Associations will clean up Delhi-NCR. Corporate chains like Cult Fit, Sports Leagues like the Ultimate Table Tennis league, all top chambers of commerce, including FICCI, CII, Phd Chambers and Assocham are joining in to plog across the country. Noida Authority alone is having 100 plog runs within Noida on October 2, for a cleaner city. Nehru Yuva Kendras, NSS centers and government and private institutions across the country are also organising the Plog Run to ensure that fitness and cleanliness become a way of life for people.


    Speaking on the how the KVs are preparing for the event, Shri Santosh Kumar Mall, Commissioner, Kendriya Vidalaya Sangathan has said, "We have had a special parent teacher meet to explain the concept of plogging to parents. This has helped to motivate them to send their kids on October 2 for the Fit India Plog Run and many are enthused to join in themselves."


    Honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given a clarion call to the nation, asking every Indian citizen to combine fitness and cleanliness in their lives through Plogging in his Mann Ki Baat address broadcast on 29 th September,2019. In his address the PM said, “The sports ministry is organizing the Fit India Plog Run on the occasion of the 150th birth anniversary of Bapu. This initiative starts from October 2 and all of us must ensure that we all jog for 2 kilometers and also pick up waste along the way. By doing this, not only will we take care of our own health, but the health of Mother Earth too.”Lauding the concept of Plogging, PM spoke to Plogger Ripu Daman Behlvi in his Radio broadcast of Mann Ki Baat, who introduced the concept to his running group in Delhi 5 years back, and then took it around the country. Since September 5, he is plogging around the country and will complete his plog on October 2, 2019 in Mumbai. Ripu Daman will also join the Fit India Plog Run in Delhi.


    *****


    YB/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586703) Visitor Counter : 412
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi