      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Shri Nitin Gadkari Presides over Meeting to Discuss Setting up of Design and Product Development Centres for Khadi
      
      Design Houses Would Help Modernize Khadi Designs
      Top Designers Attend the Discussion
      Posted On: 25 SEP 2019 1:55PM by PIB Delhi


    The Khadi and Village Industries Corporation (KVIC) under the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises proposes to establish National Design and Product Development Centres in the country to facilitate Khadi institutions develop trendy designs as per market demand. Shri Nitin Gadkari, Minister for MSME and Road Transport & Highways presided over a brainstorming session in New Delhi today, to discuss the modalities and way forward in this regard. Secretary MSME Dr Arun Kumar Panda, Secretary Textiles Shri Ravi Capoor, Chairman KVIC Shri VK Saxena, reputed designers Ms RituBeri, Shri Rohit Bal, Shri JJ Valaya , Shri RaghavendraRathor and senior officials from the Ministries of MSME and Textiles, KVIC, National Institute of Design (NID), National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) attended the meeting.


    Speaking on the occasion Shri Gadkari said that in order to maximize the production and sale of khadi and make it a global brand, there is a need for to make its designs more trendy and modern, without compromising with tradition. He saidwe need to make khadi attractive for the youth of the country. The product designs should be aligned to customer choices and demand, and take into account the local and regional preferences and requirements like weather condition, local designs etc.


    The proposed design houses will facilitateKhadi institutions in developing products according to market demand. The primary role of a design house will be to identify the latest design trends, adopt them as per customer needs and undertake various testing and review activities for translating them into production. Design house will help Khadi to gain customers’ trust and lead to increase in production and employment generation.


    Shri Gadkari has asked the designers to send their ideas and suggestions in this regard to KVIC and Ministry of MSME for further discussions.


    KVIC’s proposal is to set up four design houses – one each in the eastern, western, northern, southern parts of the country, besides one in the north east. These could be on BOT mode or on Outsourcing basis. However, these issues, would be worked out in further meetings and discussions.


    ******


    NP/SP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586117) Visitor Counter : 484
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi