      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President Calls for steps to make India a global sports superpower by creating the necessary environment for sports to thrive;
      
      Asks Corporates, Philanthropists & Eminent Sports persons to support Govt. in building sports infrastructure;
      
      Revive sporting culture and nurture it right from school age: Vice President
      
      Sports, Yoga must become integral to people’s daily routine;
      
      Interacts with Boxers from Mary Kom’s Boxing Foundation

      Posted On: 30 SEP 2019 7:13PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has called upon the Corporate, philanthropists and eminent sports personalities in India to supplement the efforts of the government in building sports infrastructure, especially in the northeastern region. He said Government’s efforts to improve sports facilities must be supported by one and all.


    Interacting with about 20 young boxers from Mary Kom’s Regional Boxing Foundation in Imphal, Manipur, who are on a National Interactive Tour organized by the 15 Assam Rifles, in New Delhi today, Shri Naidu said that there was an urgent need to create the necessary environment for sports to thrive in the country to make India a global sports superpower.


    The Vice President lauded the government of India, for launching Khelo India campaign to identify, encourage and support sporting talent from all corners of the country by giving them top-notch infrastructure and training of the highest level.


    Shri Naidu asked champions like Mary Kom, P.V. Sindhu, Saina Nehwal, Dipa Karmakar, and others take lead and inspire the youth, especially the children to take up sports. “There is an urgent need to take this to the grass-root level and create a strong framework for all types of sports in the country and make India a great sporting nation,” he added.


    Stressing the need to revive the sporting culture and nurture it right from school age, the Vice President said that Games and Sports or Yoga or any physical activity must become integral to people’s daily routine.


    Pointing out that staying fit and staying healthy would have a bearing on the wellbeing of a person, family and the society at large, he said that: “A youthful nation such as ours with more than 65% of the population under the age of 30 must encourage the children, the youth and the elders to stay fit by doing any form of physical activity.”


    Referring to Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi’s call asking the youth to visit at least 15 tourist destinations within India by 2022 to give a boost to domestic tourism, Shri Naidu said such visits would enhance their understanding of the unique cultural mosaic of the country.


    Stating that traveling was an essential part of life and it teaches many things that could not be taught in the classroom, the Vice President asked youngsters, especially students to undertake ‘Bharat Dashan’to learn about various facets of India’s culture, heritage, languages, and cuisine.


    The Vice President showered special appreciation to Smt. Mary Kom and her Husband, Shri K. Onler Kom for establishing Regional Boxing Foundation to train children and youth from remote and far-flung areas of Manipur and other North-Eastern parts. He complimented the 15 Assam Rifles for organizing the National Interactive tour for these boxers.


    The spouse of the Vice President, Smt. Usha Naidu, representatives of 15 Assam Rifles and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    Following is the text of Vice President’s address :


    “I welcome all of you to Upa Rashtrapati Bhawan.


    I am indeed happy and delighted to meet our gen-next sports stars who have been receiving training under the guidance of Champion Boxer Smt. Mary Kom.


    I am glad to see boxers from remote and far-flung areas of Manipur and I compliment the Mary Kom Academy for encouraging the young talent.


    Mary Kom is a massive source of inspiration for boxers across the country and around the world. Her life, struggles, and success are inspirational. Her love for boxing, dedication and hard work knocked out all the hurdles that came her way.


    She is arguably the most successful boxer our nation has ever produced.


    Other than being the only woman in the world to win the boxing world championship six times, Mary Kom is also an Asian Games (2014) gold medalist, a Commonwealth Games (2018) gold medalist, and an Olympic bronze medalist.


    She is one of the best ambassadors for sports in India and abroad and now she is also a member of Parliament ( Rajya Sabha).


    I appreciate Mary Kom and her husband Mr. K. Onler for taking up the responsibility of promoting the boxing sport amongst underprivileged youth of Manipur and other parts of North East India by providing training. I am told that the Foundation has the state-of-the-art facilities for students and learners. I am sure like all of you, many more would benefit from the academy.


    I call upon corporates, philanthropists and eminent sports personalities in India to supplement the efforts of the government in building sports infrastructure, especially in the northeastern region. Government’s efforts to improve sports facilities must be supported by one and all.


    I am quite confident that Indian boxers will bring laurels to the country at the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo next year.


    Dear Youngsters,


    India, in the last few years has made steady progress in the field of sports and showcased its prowess at many global platforms.


    It is the time that we aim to make India a global sports superpower by creating necessary environment for sportsmanship to thrive. I appreciate and compliment the government of India, for launching Khelo India campaign a few years back to identify, encourage and support sporting talent from all corners of the country by giving them top-notch infrastructure and training of the highest level.


    Here I call upon champions like Mary Kom, PV Sindhu, Saina Nehwal, Dipa Karmakar, and others take lead and inspire the youth, especially the children to take up sports.


    There is an urgent need to take this to the grass-root level and create strong framework for all types of sports in the country and make India a great sporting nation.


    Sporting culture needs to be revived and nurtured right from school age.


    Games and Sports or Yoga or any physical activity should become integral to people’s daily routine. It not only keeps one healthy but also helps keeps the mind stress free and provide relaxation to the mind and body.


    Sports improve efficiency, inculcates team spirit, teaches the value of time and at the same time playing and watching a sport or a game could be a good great source of entertainment.


    As all of us are aware, a healthy mind lives in a healthy body and it helps in more than one way. Staying fit and staying healthy will have a bearing on the wellbeing of a person, family and the society at large.


    A youthful nation such as ours with more than 65% of the population under the age of 30 must encourage the children, the youth and the elders to stay fit by doing any form of physical activity.


    I am happy that Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s initiative “Fit India campaign” encourages people to stay fit and healthy.


    I was told that all you have been visiting several historic places and meeting people from different walks of life including sports personalities in the trip.


    Dear Friends,


    Traveling is an essential part of our life and it teaches many things that cannot be taught in the classroom. It gives a perspective on issues, situations, and things once you venture out. Traveling is a great learning experience.


    Delivering Independence Day speech from Red Fort, the Prime Minister Narendra Modi called upon people, especially the youth to visit at least 15 tourist destinations within India by 2022 to give a boost to domestic tourism. I second that call and encourage all to do the same.


    Youngsters, especially students of our country must undertake ‘Bharat Dashan’to learn about various facets of India’s culture, heritage, languages and cuisine and enhance their understanding of the unique cultural mosaic of the country. This understanding would help them devise ingenious and effective solutions to the challenges faced by the country today.


    I think we must explore India first, especially the northeastern region of India, that is home to a remarkable biodiversity.


    I take this opportunity to appreciate 15 Assam Rifles under the agies of Headquarter 9 Sector Assam Rifles and the Director-General for organizing this National Interactive tour for 20 boxers from Mary Kom Boxing Academy.


    Thank You!”


    ***


    RRK/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586760) Visitor Counter : 365
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi