      Prime Minister's Office

      PM delivers keynote address at Bloomberg Global Business Forum
      Posted On: 25 SEP 2019 8:03PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi delivered the keynote address at the Bloomberg Global Business Forum in New York today.


    Addressing the prestigious gathering, the Prime Minister said that he would use this opportunity to talk about the future direction of India’s growth story. The Prime Minister said that India’s growth story was built on four pillars, namely Democracy, Demography, Demand and Decisiveness.


    Prime Minister noted that the Indian economy has benefited from the climate of political stability in the country.


    Prime Minister also highlighted global recognition of the successful reforms introduced by the Government. In this regard he mentioned the ten rank jump in the Logistics Performance Index, the thirteen point jump in the Global Competitiveness Index, the twenty four rank rise in Global Innovation Index; along side the sixty five rank improvement in the Ease of Doing Business index calculated by the World Bank.


    Prime Minister also spoke of the Bloomberg National Brand Tracker 2018 survey that recently ranked India as the top performing Asian economy in attracting global investment. In 7 out of 10 indicators of this report i.e. political stability, currency stability, high quality products, anti-corruption, low cost of production, strategic location and respect for IPRs, India has been ranked at the top position.


    On the technology and innovation front, the Prime Minister invited the global business community to invest in India and stated that their technology and India’s talent can together change the world; their scale combined with India’s skill-set can accelerate global economic growth.


    Prime Minister’s Keynote was followed by an interactive session with the founder of Bloomberg Mr. Michael Bloomberg.


    .****


    VRRK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586210) Visitor Counter : 866
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam