      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Shri Ram Vilas Paswan holds review meeting on BIS laboratory activity
      Posted On: 24 SEP 2019 7:25PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Shri Ram Vilas Paswan held a review meeting on BIS laboratory activities today. Shri Paswan said that there should be ‘One Nation One Standard’ and there should be coordination between BIS and other labs and FSSAI to ensure this. Lauding the efforts of BIS, Shri Ram Vilas Paswan said that all departments such as BIS, FSSAI and other pertaining ministries must synergise and work in coordination to prevent overlapping of work. He stressed on the need to increase the monitoring process of standardized products and said it is the duty of all departments and respective ministries to ensure that standards are being followed by the products available in the market.


    Shri Paswan said that it is a matter of concern if Indian products which are conforming to Indian Standards are rejected by the importing countries and therefore our standards should be at par with global benchmark.The minister said thatour products should meet international standards and the testing facility should be matched as well.


    Shri Paswan has also sought a meeting on the quality of Delhi’s running tap water. It is expected to be convened in the coming days along with the Ministry of Urban Development, Jal Sakti and Delhi Government officials.


    During the meeting, the testing requirements of the industry and BIS in particular was deliberated upon. It was felt that the BIS lab facilities must be upgraded with latest technology to enhance the pace of quality testing and also making it industry friendly. Inputs from private players were taken into consideration to understand the requirements and demand for carrying high quality testing of products.


    The Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Shri RaosahebPatilDanve, Secretary, Department of Consumer Affairs, Shri Avinash Kumar Srivastava, Senior Economic Advisor Shri Rohit Kumar Parmarwho is holding the charge of Director General, Bureau of Indian Standards, and Deputy Director General, Laboratories, Shri Jayant Roy Chowdhury. The meeting was also attended by senior officials from Ministries of Consumer Affairs, Steel, Electronics and Information Technology, Commerce, Power, MSME, MOFPI, FSSAI etc. and including representatives from various laboratories such as NTH, NPL, ERDA and private laboratories.


    ****


    APS/AS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586076) Visitor Counter : 453
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi