      Department of Space

      UNNATI-- Unispace Nanosatellite Assembly & Training programme by ISRO inaugurated at Bangalore
      Posted On: 17 JAN 2019 5:19PM by PIB Bengaluru


    UNNATI- - Unispace Nanosatellite Assembly & Training programme by ISRO


    inaugurated at Bangalore


    Space Technology has been provided with more budgetary allocations during the last five years and


    now it is utilised in Infrastructure Developments like roads, Railway lines and most importantlyin disaster management said Union Minister of State for Atomic Energy and SpaceDevelopment of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances &Pensions, Dr. Jitendra Singh. He was addressing the gathering after inaugurating the UNNATI- (Unispace Nanosatellite Assembly & Training) programme organized by ISRO today.


    The Minister said that application of Science & Technology has become more in our day today activities. Space Technology in India has entered every household. Space security is the inthing and it will be on top priority in futurehe added.The Minister appreciated the efforts of ISRO in launching various satellites and its space programmes, particularly Chandrayan Mission.


    UNNATI a capacity building programme on Nanosatellite development is an initiative by ISRO to commemorate the 50 th anniversary of the first United Nations conference on the exploration and peaceful uses of outer space (UNISPACE 50). The programme provides opportunities to the participating developing countries to strengthen in assembling, integrating and testing of Nanosatellite. UNNATI programme is planned to be conducted for 3 years by U.R. Rao satellite centre of ISRO in 3 batches and will target to benefit officials of 45 countries. The first batch is starting from January 17 in which 30 delegates from 17 countries are participating.


    Dr. K. Sivan, Chairman, ISRO briefed about various activities undertaken by ISRO. Other Senior officers and diganitaries were also present.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560351) Visitor Counter : 447