      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      National Horticulture Fair-2019 in Bengaluru from January 23 to 25
      Posted On: 19 JAN 2019 7:50PM by PIB Bengaluru


    National Horticulture Fair-2019 in Bengaluru from


    January 23 to 25


    Bengaluru , January 19, 2019


    The Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR) , Bengaluru will organise a three day National Horticulture Fair from 23rd to 25th January, 2019, to showcase its crop varieties and advanced technologies used in cultivation .


    Dr. M.R. Dinesh, Director, IIHR briefing the press said that there is a need to double the income of farmers and make farming a profitable sector. And IIHR has come out with several cutting edge production technologies aiming at reducing the cost and increasing the income of farmers. IIHR was established to present a holistic view of horticulture , right from production and sowing of seed to cultivation, value addition and marketing. The institute conducts experiments in fine tuning the precision farming practices , organic horticulture and good agriclture practices to ensure both quantity and quality of horticulture products he added.


    Briefing about the Horticulture Fair the Director said that farmers from different States like Assam, Haryana, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir are expected to participate in the fair. Around 10,000 to 20,000 visitors are expected to visit the fair every day . Around 130 stalls will be set up in the fair for selling and showcasing horticulture-related products .The fair has live demonstration plots of high-value vegetable crops as well as flowers. The main focus will be on organic crop practices and disease-resistant crop types he added.


    
    The three day fair will also allow progressive farmers to demonstrate their own inventions and experiments. Farmers will be allowed to interact with experts and share their experiences. Focus will be on training the young farmers about latest farming technologies. Selected farmers will be felicitated in the fair for their notable contribution to the field of farming. A National Horticulture Directory with a huge database related to the field will be released in the fair. IIHR has made all the arrangements to bring farmers from different districts and taluks to the fair .


    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560624) Visitor Counter : 137