      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Tourism project worth 550 crore rupees in Konkan on the anvil: Minister Suresh Prabhu
      Posted On: 05 JAN 2019 8:08PM by PIB Mumbai


    Union Minister for Commerce and Industry and Civil Aviation Shri Suresh Prabhu has said that the main motive behind the Global Kokan Mahotsav should be the welfare of the common man of Konkan which includes farmers, fishermen, youth, women and people from backward classes. Keeping this in mind, initiatives were taken around 25 years back and more than 1 lakh people have been trained so that they can stand on their own feet, he said. He was speaking on the occasion of Global Kokan Festival, organized by Kokan Bhumi Pratishthan, in Mumbai today. The festival provides a global platform for natural beauty, tourism, industries, agriculture, horticulture, arts, culture and cuisine from Kokan. The Festival has created a history as it has been identified as the largest festival held in Mumbai with more than 4 lakh visitors every year.


    The Minister informed the gathering that under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, a new road has been constructed from Dabhad for the first time. Today there are two airports, one at Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, which will benefit the people of Konkan. Produce from Konkan has been given the exposure of international markets. HAPPUS mango in particular has received international recognition as a mango from Konkan.


    The Government is also planning to open a tourism project worth 550 crore rupees in Konkan, said the Minister. Marine product export development agency has also been formed for the welfare of fishermen, he added.


    Shri Prabhu elaborated on district development scheme by the Central Govt. In this scheme, two districts, namely Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri, have been shortlisted for holistic development and we are taking steps for creating more employment opportunities for the youth there, said the Minister.


    The Minister said that initiatives are being taken for development of Konkan Railways, through steps such as opening more stations, giving Wifi facilities. He expressed confidence that Konkan region will develop in the right way in the times to come.


    
    ***


    DJM/IJ/RS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1558776) Visitor Counter : 370