      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Regional Outreach Bureau Pune Launches Maha Swachhta Abhiyan
      Posted On: 10 JAN 2019 5:56PM by PIB Mumbai


    Regional Outreach Bureau, the regional headquarter for Bureau of Outreach Communication in the Maharashtra and Goa region launches Maha Swachhta Abhiyan, a unique and one of its kind campaign which aims to reach One crore citizens in spreading the message of Swachh Bharat. Maha Swachhta Abhiyan is being organised in collaboration with Department of Education, Government of Maharashtra.


    In the press conference held today, Shri Santosh Ajmera, Director (Addl charge) ROB elaborated on the key features of the programme. Maha Swachhta Abhiyan involves simultaneous participation of 2900 schools spread across twenty nine select urban centres in Maharashtra. Two hundred students from each school is expected to participate in the events related. On 11 th January there shall be a drawing competition on the theme of Swachh Bharat in all participating schools, the selected drawings shall be displayed at the National Level exhibition in Pune on a later date. On 12th January there shall be a group Swachhta drive by students in their respective school/ college areas, followed by a group Swachhta Pledge. The students shall then participate in Swachhta awareness rallies, taking the message of Swachhta Abhiyan to the wider public. Participation of five lakh students is anticipated in this mission. These students would then act as Swachhta Ambassadors reaching out to minimum twenty shopkeepers/ retail vendors each, encouraging them to take Swachhta pledge; in turn enabling 1 Crore citizen Participation in the Abhiyan.


    An event of this scale and participation is unprecedented in the State of Maharashtra. This event enables mass mobilization helping spread the message of Swachh Bharat Mission and generating a mass movement among st citizens, said Shri Ajmera.


    Shri Santhosh Ajmera later thanked Department of Education, Government of Maharashtra for the logistical amd managerial support that was extended.


    Shri Suresh Mali, Deputy director Department of Education, Government of Maharashtra also elaborated on the key facets of the programme. The press conference was also attended by Nodal officer of Mahaswchhata Abhiyan Shri DV Vinod kumar and Shri PanPatil Manager Song and Drama Division, Government of India.


    ROB Pune


    Regional Ourteach Bureau Pune has nearly 11 field units located across the state. ROB has recently been rechristened by merging the various media units of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Govt. of India viz. Directorate of Field Publicity, Directorate of Audio Visual Publicity and Song & Drama Division (S&DD). ROB is responsible for various outreach activities of Government of India and has to reach out to people with awareness campaigns for various plans, policies and flagship schemes of the Government in the entire Maharashtra and Goa region. ROB carries out outreach programmers and campaigns at the field levels and ensures the development communication reaches to the last mile.


    The ROB has been tasked by the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs, Government of India for the Swachh Bharat Information, Education and Communication activities across Maharashtra region. Nearly 116 Special Outreach programmes associated with Cultural activities are to be organised as a part of the IEC activities.


    As part of the campaign, the main focus has been on making citizen aware on the benefits of the clean living, promoting citizen participation and awareness towards having a cleaner city.


    Swachh Bharat Mission


    Swachh Bharat Mission is a nation-wide campaign in India for the period 2014 to 2019 that aims to clean up the streets, roads and infrastructure of India's cities, towns, and rural areas. The objectives of Swachh Bharat Mission include eliminating open defecation through the construction of household-owned and community-owned toilets and establishing an accountable mechanism of monitoring toilet use. The mission will also contribute to India reaching Sustainable Development Goal 6 (SDG 6), established by the UN in 2015. To accelerate the efforts to achieve universal sanitation coverage and to put focus on sanitation, the Prime Minister of India launched the Swachh Bharat Mission on 2nd October, 2014. It is India's largest cleanliness drive to date with three million government employees and students from all parts of India participating in 4,041 cities, towns, and rural areas. Hon’ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called the campaign ‘Satyagraha se Swachhagraha’ in reference to Gandhi's Champaran Satyagraha launched on 10 April 1917.


    The mission has two thrusts: Swachh Bharat Mission ("gramin" or 'rural'), which operates under the Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation; and Swachh Bharat Mission ('urban'), which operates under the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. Together, the aim is to achieve Swachh Bharat by 2019, as a fitting tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his 150th Birth Anniversary.


    The list of the Urban Centres for MahaSwachhta Abhiyan are as follows

                                         
                                         
                                         
                                         
SL No  Name of Town/City- Activity Center
                                         
                                         
                                         
1      Greater Mumbai (M. Corp.)         
                                         
                                         
                                         
2      Ahmednagar (M. Corp.)             
                                         
                                         
                                         
3      Amravati (M. Corp.)               
                                         
                                         
                                         
4      Bhiwandi (M. Corp.)               
                                         
                                         
                                         
5      Nagpur (M. Corp.)                 
                                         
                                         
                                         
6      Thane (M. Corp.)                  
                                         
                                         
                                         
7      Ambarnath (MCI)                   
                                         
                                         
                                         
8      Jalna ( MCI)                      
                                         
                                         
                                         
9      Aurangabad (M. Corp.)             
                                         
                                         
                                         
10     Dhule (M. Corp.)                  
                                         
                                         
                                         
11     Jalgaon (M. Corp.)                
                                         
                                         
                                         
12     Ichalkaranji (MCI)                
                                         
                                         
                                         
13     Sangli-Miraj Kupwad (M. Corp.)    
                                         
                                         
                                         
14     Kolhapur (M. Corp.)               
                                         
                                         
                                         
15     Parbhani (M CI)                   
                                         
                                         
                                         
16     Nanded Wanghala (M. Corp.)        
                                         
                                         
                                         
17     Vasai-Virar City (M. Corp.)       
                                         
                                         
                                         
18     Malegaon (M. Corp.)               
                                         
                                         
                                         
19     Nashik (M. Corp.)                 
                                         
                                         
                                         
20     Ulhasnagar (M. Corp.)             
                                         
                                         
                                         
21     Kalyan Domnivali (M. Corp.)       
                                         
                                         
                                         
22     Navi Mumbai (M. Corp.)            
                                         
                                         
                                         
23     Pune (M. Corp.)                   
                                         
                                         
                                         
24     Pimpri Chinchwad (M. Corp.)       
                                         
                                         
                                         
25     Mira Bhayandar (M. Corp.)         
                                         
                                         
                                         
26     Solapur (M. Corp.)                
                                         
                                         
                                         
27     Latur (M. Corp.)                  
                                         
                                         
                                         
28     Akola (M. Corp.)                  
                                         
                                         
                                         
29     Chandrapur (M CI)                 
                                         
                                         

    ***


    VK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559400) Visitor Counter : 705