      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Maiden Air Cargo Policy to be announced at Global Aviation Summit 2019: Shri Suresh Prabhu
      
      Air Cargo Policy will go a long way in providing Air Connectivity for Export of Perishable Goods: Shri Suresh Prabhu
      
      Agriculture Export Policy will boost agriculture and allied sectors: Commerce Minister
      
      Many countries have shown immense interest in investing in India’s logistics sector: Commerce Minister
      Posted On: 13 JAN 2019 7:27PM by PIB Mumbai


    The Union Minister for Commerce & Industry and Civil Aviation, Shri Suresh Prabhu has said that districts possessing potential for particular industries and items will be identified and they will be developed as clusters for the development of that sector. In the pilot project to be launched, six districts from five states will be developed. These would include Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri from Maharashtra. The Minister was addressing the valedictory session of the two-day CII Partnership Summit today, held in Mumbai on January 12 and 13, 2019.


    There is huge potential for agriculture exports; the Agriculture Export Policy approved by the Union Cabinet recently will give a boost not only to agriculture but also to horticulture, plantation, fisheries and dairy sectors. The policy will help fetch good price for agricultural produce, said the Minister.


    The Minister informed that the UAE and Saudi Arabia have evinced interest in investing in India’s agricultural sector. Both countries want to make India a base for ensuring their food security. Shri Prabhu said that investment is Indian logistics sector is expected from Saudi Arabia, UAE and 15 - 20 countries from other parts of the world. He said that Global Aviation Summit 2019, to be held in Mumbai on January 14 and 15, 2019, will announce the maiden Air Cargo Policy. He said it will promote air connectivity to export perishable agricultural goods.


    Shri Prabhu said it bodes well for the nation that states are competing with each other in attracting investment. He said that India is developing bilateral trilateral trade ties with many countries, especially in Africa. India is offering help to various African countries as per their specific strengths and requirements, said the Minister.


    More than 1000 delegates from around 46 countries, including politicians, leaders in various industries, multilateral agencies, UN organizations and businesses attended the Partnership Summit. “The response has been extremely good. The summit will ensure continued partnership, investment, and bilateral trade”, said the Minister.


    Minister for Industries and Mining, Government of Maharashtra, Shri Subhash Desai said that Maharashtra is working to complement the efforts of the Union Government and that India is a bright spot in an otherwise dark situation facing the global economy.


    First Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Mr. Stepan Kubiv said “Mumbai is Gateway to the world and is a transit base for many trading countries. The economy of Ukraine has prospered after economic liberalization and the country has made many strides in Ease of Doing Business.” Mr. Kubiv invited the delegates to invest in Ukraine’s aviation sector which has capability for the full aircraft manufacturing cycle. India and Ukraine are already working together in Kaiga plant; Ukraine is also the biggest supplier of sunflower oil to India. Ukraine, which is situated at the intersection of Europe and Asia, has great potential to be developed as a trading hub, stated Mr. Kubiv.


    

    The 25 th edition of CII Partnership Summit 2019, a global platform for dialogue, debate, deliberation and engagement among Indian and global leaders on economic policy and growth trends in India, was inaugurated by the Vice President of India, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu.


    Also read:

      * Reforms taken by the Government of India will continue, the mood of the people is in favour of growth and development: Vice President
      * 25TH edition of CII Partnership Summit in Mumbai
      * Vice President of India to inaugurate CII Partnership Summit in Mumbai: Commerce Minister

    ***


    DJM/MC/RDS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1559790) Visitor Counter : 892
    
    
    
    
    

  
  
*