      Prime Minister's Office

      Approval given to Solapur-Osmanabad rail line via Tuljapur: PM
      
      Reservation for economically weaker sections in General Category will strengthen philosophy of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas, says PM
      
      PM launches various development projects in Solapur
      Posted On: 09 JAN 2019 4:47PM by PIB Mumbai


    The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi launched several development projects and laid foundation stone for various projects, during his visit to Solapur today.


    Addressing the gathering, the PM expressed satisfaction that various initiatives have been taken to improve the supply of electricity, roads and water. He said that speedy progress is being made, whether it be in Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana or National Highways or Saubhagya Yojana. He complimented the state government for working in mission-mode towards the goal of universal electricity coverage.


    The Prime Minister announced that the government has given approval to the Solapur-Osmanabad rail line via Tuljapur . The line will be constructed at a cost of approximately Rs. 1000 crore. The PM said this will make it convenient for people from not only the region but from all over India to visit Tuljapur on pilgrimage.


    Referring to the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenth- Four Amendment) Bill, the PM said that by providing the benefit of reservation in jobs and education opportunities to economically weaker sections from general category, the Bill will strengthen the philosophy of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas.


    The PM said that whether it is the longest bridge, the longest tunnel or the largest expressway, they have all been constructed under the Government under his leadership. He said that this has been made possible due to the effective way in which the Government has been able to crack down on corruption.


    The PM dedicated to the nation the 58 km four-laned, Solapur - Tuljapur - Osmanabad section of NH-211 (New NH-52). The project is part of a larger project for four laning of 98.717 km Solapur - Yedashi section of NH-211, at a cost of Rs.972.50 crore. It will help improve the connectivity of Solapur with the important Marathwada region of Maharashtra and give a boost to the tourism and economy of the region . T he foundation for this project was laid by the PM in 2014. The section of the NH dedicated to the nation today has road safety features like two major and seventeen minor bridges, four vehicular and ten pedestrian underpasses, besides one 3.4 km bypass at Tuljapur that will help decongest the city. It also has four realignments, 33.2 km long service roads and 30 bus bays.


    The Prime Minister also laid the foundation Stone of 30,000 houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana . The PM said these will primarily benefit poor homeless people like rag pickers, rickshaw drivers, textile workers, beedi workers, etc. Very soon, the keys of the houses will be in their hands, the PM assured the beneficiaries.


    The total cost of the project is Rs. 1,811.33 crore, out of which total 750 crores will be provided by Central & State Government as assistance. The carpet area of each house will be 300 sqft. Ownership of house will be in the name of woman member of the house or jointly in the name of husband & wife . The construction of all 30,000 houses is targeted to be completed within four years. The houses will employ green technologies. On the occasion, the PM handed over cheques to two woman beneficiaries of the scheme.


    In keeping with his vision of Swachh Bharat, the Prime Minister also dedicated to the nation, an Underground Sewerage System and three Sewage Treatment Plants with a total capacity of 102.50 Million Litres per Day (MLD). This will increase the sewer coverage of the town and improve sanitation in the city. It will replace the existing system and also connect to the trunk sewers being implemented under AMRUT Mission. Solapur has been entrusted to implement core infrastructure elements, under the Smart Cities Mission of the Government of India. Improving sewage treatment and water supply have been given priority under the Mission, especially given the need to augment the sewage treatment capacity of the city, in accordance with its rising population. The underground sewerage system and three STPs (at Degaon, Kumthe and Pratapnagar) have been developed to address this need. The Degaon STP generates approx. 350 kWh Electricity generated through Anaerobic Digestion Process (Generation of Methane Gas), which is utilized to power pumping machinery in the same STP. The whole system is on Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA). The parameters of treated sewage are much above requirement of MPCB norms.


    T he Prime Minister also laid foundation stone of the Combined Project of Improvement in Water Supply and Sewerage System as part of Area Based Development in Solapur Smart City, Augmentation of Drinking Water Supply from Ujani Dam to Solapur City and Underground Sewerage System under AMRUT Mission . The sanctioned cost of the project is Rs. 244 Cr under Smart City Mission. This project is expected to bring significant improvement in service delivery and improve public health enabled by technology as a means to create smart outcomes for citizens. The Solapur ABD area water distribution system is unbalanced and needs revision in terms of capital works and better management of water supply and pressure in the system. The new system is being implemented, with an aim of increasing sewer coverage of the town and improving service level.


    Addressing the gathering, the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri Devendra Fadnavis thanked the Prime Minister for the Central Government’s support in the development of the state. Expressing his gratitude for taking up the issue of drought facing various districts in the state, the CM appealed to the Prime Minister to complete the process for release of central assistance for drought-affected districts of Maharashtra.


    The Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping and Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation , Shri Nitin Gadkari said that four bridge-cum-weirs will be constructed on Bhima and Sina rivers in the district, keeping in view the problem of water shortage. He said that almost all projects in the district are making good progress. Shri Gadkari said that irrigation work which has been pending for 15 years got started because of PM’s priority on the area, including Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana. He said that around 1,200 crore rupees has been sanctioned for Tembhu lift irrigation for Solapur, Sangli and Satara districts.


    Speaking on road construction, the Minister said that the construction of Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Palkhi route and Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi route, of around 3.75 thousand crore rupees will commence in February 2019. He said that under Bharatmala project 75 km ring road has been sanctioned and work begun. Citing various road projects where construction is happening at a brisk pace, the Minister said that under the guidance of the PM and under the leadership of Maharashtra CM, land acquisition work has been progressing well. He said that the picture of Solapur district is changing.


    Shri Gadkari added that there are 38 sugar factories in Solapur district, and 2 more are being built. Noting that issues of sugarcane farmers are serious, he said this is because of the global economy, because sugar from Brazil is sold at Rs. 19. He said that the PM took a historic decision that sugar will be sold at a minimum price of Rs. 29 and made a policy for subsidy to sugar exporters; he said this is one of the best decisions taken by the PM, for the welfare of farmers suffering due to drought.


    The Governor of Maharashtra, Ch. Vidyasagar Rao ; Guardian Minister of Solapur, Shri Vijay Deshmukh and ex-MLA, Solapur Shri Narsayya Adam were other dignitaries present.


    Also read:


      * 10% reservation bill for general category poor is a historic step and a reflection of Government’s commitment for the poor, says PM


      * Boost to road connectivity, housing for poor, water supply & sewerage system in Solapur, Maharashtra


      * PM to dedicate to the nation the Solapur - Tuljapur - Osmanabad section of NH-211 tomorrow


    ***


    DJM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1559247) Visitor Counter : 1515
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi
    
    
    

*