      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Single-handed Dilip is a champion in every sense of the word
      Posted On: 13 JAN 2019 8:47PM by PIB Mumbai


    Even as the Kerala express sprinted their way to glory in the 4 x 100m relay, Maharashtra’s Dilip Mahadu Gavit put his state team onto the podium by ensuring a bronze. All that single handedly, literally!


    Dilip hails from Nashik, northern Maharashtra district which has long tradition of producing glorious athletes. He is partially disabled with right hand limited only to elbow. But, yet he decided to field himself in general catagory competing with ordinary athletes, that too at the national champions. He took them hands on with a fine run and crossing the finish line with third spot in U-17 finals of 4 by 100 relay at the Mhalunge Balewadi sports complex at Pune in the Khelo India Youth Games.


    The baton exchange is the key in any relay race. That is where races are won and lost. He said, “It was very challenging for me to keep my balance intact while running and exchanging the baton. But, I overcame my handicap and took up the challenge. Of course it's a team run and my fellow runners' cooperation and understanding was decisive,” explains Dilip after his success.


    Dilip credits this extraordinary maiden success at the National level to his coach Vaijanath Kale. Kale too applauds Dilip’s commitment and courage. Dilip participated for the first time in an event of such a magnitude.


    Infact it was his maiden ran at a big Sports Complex. He is from a rural background having schooled at the Shahid Bhagat Singh School at Surgana Tehsil in Nashik district. He will be appearing to his tenth board exam in few months time from now.


    “I spotted his talent in one of the interschool events and had confidence in him that he would do wonders if given a go. He was ultra focused in training and his hard work was exemplary,” says coach Kale proudly.


    Dilip is from very poor family and there are five members. So athletics and expenses on that was more than luxury for them. It was again coach Kale who helped Dilip.


    Dilip’s teammates, Akshay Gowaedhan, Vrushal Belhekar and Tejas Shirse were all praises for their special team, particularly for their amazing teammate.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560466) Visitor Counter : 61