      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Regional Conference on “Deendayal Disabled Rehabilitation Scheme (DDRS)” to be held in Mumbai tomorrow
      Posted On: 16 JAN 2019 7:22PM by PIB Mumbai


    Regional Conference on “Deendayal Disabled Rehabilitation Scheme (DDRS)” on 17 th January, 2019 by the Department of Empowerment of persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.


    For the overall empowerment of persons with disabilities (Divyangajan), the Department of Empowerment of persons with disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment is organizing a regional seminar at Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai on 17 th January, 2019 on Deendayal Disabled Rehabilitation Scheme (DDRS). It will cover the western states namely Maharashtra, Gujarat, Goa, Madhya Pradesh and two Union Territories i.e., Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu. The stake holders i.e. the NGOs getting grant under DDRS, State Government Officials & District Government officials will be participating.


    The objectives of the Conference are to disseminate the provisions of the revised scheme and to sensitize various stake holders about it. This conference also provides a unique opportunity for interactions amongst all stakeholders. The conference would ensure exchange of cross-sectoral views on the aspects of the efficacy of the scheme as well as the scope of improvements in it.


    The DDR scheme has been revised for making it more impactful for rehabilitation of PwDs. The list of model projects which has been optimized includes, Pre-Schools, Early Intervention and Training; Special Schools for Persons with Intellectual Disabilities, Hearing and Speech Disabilities; Visual Disabilities; Project for Cerebral Palsied children; Rehabilitation of Leprosy cured persons; Half way home for psycho-Social Rehabilitation of Treated and controlled Mentally ill persons; Home based Rehabilitation and Home Management; Community based Rehabilitation Programme (CBR); Low vision centres and Human Resource Development.


    The keynote address in this seminar will be given by Dr. Prabodh Seth, looking after DDRS; he will be giving a detailed account of the scheme. The welcome address will be presented by Director, Shri Vikash Prasad. Shri Prasad will make a presentation highlighting the provisions of the revised scheme and how to implement the scheme effectively. An interactive question & answer session will also be a part of it, in which queries of the participants will be addressed. A few of the organizations who are receiving grant-in-aid under DDRS will share their view by way of making presentation.


    The conference would have a profound impact on the implementation of the DDR scheme for the welfare of the Divyangjan. It will sensitize NGOs about the major changes brought about in the revised scheme and would incentivize major stakeholders, viz, States and District level Officials and NGO in popularizing it further, thereby promoting the well-being of Divyanjan.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560231) Visitor Counter : 366