      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      AI and Big Data must be leveraged to improve the flying ecosystem: Civil Aviation Minister
      
      Under UDAN, water planes will also be included, thereby boosting affordability: Shri Suresh Prabhu
      
      Flying in India is more affordable than plying on an auto, on a per kilometre basis: MoS, Civil Aviation
      
      We want to go from auto rickshaws to air rickshaws: Shri Jayant Sinha
      
      Global Aviation Summit Inaugurated
      Posted On: 15 JAN 2019 4:41PM by PIB Mumbai


    The first-of-its-kind Global Aviation Summit was inaugurated by Union Minister for Civil Aviation and Commerce & Industry, Shri Suresh Prabhu in Mumbai today. Delegates from around 86 countries are attending the two-day Summit.


    Delivering the inaugural address, the Civil Aviation Minister Shri Suresh Prabhu said, “Flying is a very complex activity. Hence it is vital that all stakeholders come together and discuss matters together. Technology, resources and partnerships are needed to take India's aviation journey forward. This summit which brings all stakeholders together will go a long way in making this happen.” He further said, “Global Aviation Summit is being organized in this light. India is ready to hold the Global Aviation Summit on an annual or a biannual basis. Aviation summit this year is like a family union, next time it will be a reunion. The summit should be held regularly to discuss and resolve issues. Technologies like AI and Big Data are available now, which were not available to the Wright Brothers. We can and must leverage these technologies to improve the flying ecosystem”.


    Union Aviation Minister further said that, “Sustainability is important. We should ensure our flying practices are planet-friendly. It is our bounden responsibility to ensure that our skies remain blue for all times to come. A Drone Policy has been unveiled. We want drones to be manufactured in India. Similarly a roadmap for aircraft manufacturing in India will also be launched”. Shri Prabhu further said, “Under UDAN, water planes will also be included, boosting affordability. Maintenance and Repair Operations should happen in India in a big way. Efforts are being made to professionalize the entire aviation sector. There is zero tolerance for safety violations. We are coming up with National Logistics Policy. Many logistics hubs will be created in India”.


    Speaking on the occasion, Minister of State for Civil Aviation, Shri Jayant Sinha said “Flying in India is more affordable than plying on an auto, on a per kilometre basis. This business model has made flying affordable in India. We want to go from auto rickshaws to air rickshaws. This summit will be a landmark event for not just Indian aviation sector, but also for the global aviation sector.”


    He further said that the growth in Indian civil aviation sector during the last four years has been remarkable, without making any compromises on safety or security. India is going to be the world leader in aviation sector, as we are pioneers of affordable flying and we are proud of that and are very excited to share these initiatives with other stakeholders. Replying to a media query, Shri Sinha further said, “Our safety record, in aggregate, has been very good and has been improving year after year”.


    Chief Minister of Maharashtra Shri Devendra Fadnavis announced that the Navi Mumbai airport will be operational by 2020. He added that it has the capacity to add 1% to India's GDP. He added, “There has been an exponential growth in passengers due to UDAN scheme; with such initiatives, it is very much possible to achieve the goal of Flying for All. Global Aviation Summit 2019 will definitely facilitate this”.


    The Exhibition on Aviation Technology & Technology Showcase was also inaugurated on this occasion.


    The Vision 2040 document for Indian aviation sector and the Air Cargo Policy document were also released on the occasion.


    Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation, Shri R. N. Choubey said “Indian aviation sector has been growing at 20% growth continuously for four years. We are the aviation locomotive of the world. We wish to grow in an inclusive manner, taking everyone along. We will not allow anything, not even infrastructure, come in the way of the stupendous growth of the Indian aviation sector during the last four years. This growth will continue for at least next 20 years”.


    President of FICCI, Shri Sandip Somany said, “The aviation market in India is now worth 2 lakh crore rupees; the stupendous growth of air traffic has catapulted India into one of the top seven aviation markets of the world and India is expected to become the third largest aviation market by 2022.”


    Deputy Minister for Planning & Policy, Afghanistan, M. Qasem Wafayezada; President, GACA, Saudi Arabia, Abdulhakim Bin Al Tamimi; Deputy Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development, Georgia, Akaki Saghirashvilli; Ambassador of Japan to India, Kenji Hiramatsu and representatives from Kuwait, Laos, Myanmar, Nepal, Nigeria, Poland and Sri Lanka also spoke on the occasion.


    ***


    DJM/ST/MC/RDS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560158) Visitor Counter : 229
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi