      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Haryana, Maharashtra, Manipur pugilists open on winning note at Khelo India Youth Games
      Posted On: 13 JAN 2019 9:58PM by PIB Mumbai


    Boxers from Haryana, Maharashtra and Manipur launched their campaigns on a winning note on the first day of the Under-17 boxing event at the Khelo India Youth Games here on Sunday.


    In the boys’ light bantam (52kg) category, Haryana’s Harshit outpunched Deepak Kumar of Goa 5-0 while his statemate Sachin prevailed over Hikum Haji of Arunachal Pradesh by an identical score in the light fly (48kg) category.


    The Maharashtra team, studded with fighters from the Boys Sports Company enjoyed a successful day out, Naoba Singh, Bishwamitra Chongthham, Yaiphaba Meitei and Soibam Singh all winning their respective bouts.


    In the girls’ Under-17 category, Maharashtra’s Aarya Kulkarni beat Delhi’s Sakshi Choudhary 5-0 in the light bantam (52kg) and was joined in the next round by state mate Prajkta Shinde who beat Mudrika Gururani of Uttarakhand in the same category.


    Haryana girls also started on a winning note as Sheetal Rani advanced with a close 3-2 win over Komal of Punjab in the flyweight (50kg) category.


    At the first Khelo India Games, Haryana had topped the medal tally with 10 gold, six silver and 10 bronze medals. The state will be eying another such finish here with AIBA world youth champion Sakshi Chaudhary leading the way.


    Sakshi is likely to fight her first bout on Monday. The former junior world champion added the youth crown to her cabinet in Hungary last year.


    Along with her, Haryana have medal hopes from Raj Sahiba a prodigy from Bhiwani. Raj Sahiba who is a Khelo India and Nations Cup gold medallist (2018) is eager to repeat her performances in Pune. Among the boys, Khelo India gold medallist Ajay Kumar will be another top contender.


    Manipur, runners-up with two gold, two silver and two bronze medals at the first Sub-Junior Women National Boxing Championship last year, are banking on Tingmila Doungel. The prodigy from Mary Kom's Academy in Imphal, won gold at the International Selisian Women's Boxing Championships in Poland last year.


    Hosts Maharashtra are expecting podium finishes from the likes of Rohit Chavan, Devika Ghorpade, Poonam Kaithwas and Mitika Gunele.


    Devika started her campaign in the pinweight (46kg) class beating Manipur’s Oinam Pinky Chanu 5-0.


    Results: Girls U-17 Pin Weight (46kg): Priyanka Borah (Aam) bt Anjali Choudhary (Raj) 5-0; Sanjana (Del) bt Ragini Upadhyay (UP) 5-0; Devika Ghorpade (Mah) bt Oinam Pinky Chanu (Man) 5-0; Rinku (Har) bt Gora Yalung (Aru)


    Boys U-17 Light Fly (48kg): Sachin (Har) bt Hikum Haji (Aru) 5-0; Ravi Kashyap (UP) bt Puran Rai (Skm), Naoba Singh (Mah) bt Aditya Gaud (Mah) 4-0.


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1560470) Visitor Counter : 68