      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NSG CAN COUNTER ANY KIND OF ATTACK: SHRI RAJNATH SINGH
      Posted On: 10 APR 2018 6:35PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Union Home Minister, Shri Rajnath Singh today said that the National Security Guard (NSG) is a world class ‘zero error’ force and can counter any kind of attack in minimum response time. Shri Rajnath Singh today inaugurated the 28 Special Composite Group (SCG) Complex of NSG at Ibrahimpatnam near Hyderabad. Speaking on the occasion, the minister said that the NSG which is comprised of army and paramilitary forces has multi-dimensional responsibility of countering terrorist attacks/hijack attempts and also providing proximate security. He said that the NSG Hub has state of the art training facilities of global standards. The NSG also undertakes joint exercises with state police forces thereby helping in increasing their professional capabilities. He further said that with a view to decrease response time after the 26/11 Mumbai attacks, the government has set up National Security Hubs at Mumbai (NSG 26), Chennai (NSG 27), Hyderabad (NSG 28), Kolkata (NSG 29) and Gandhinagar (NSG 30).


    The Minister said that terrorism which has become universal is posing new challenges through social media too, and security forces need to strengthen their technical capabilities to counter these challenges. Shri Rajnath Singh congratulated the 16 members NSG team which would attempt to scale Mount Everest in 2019. He said NSG is better than best forces, and expressed confidence that the force would counter any challenge efficiently and effectively.


    Earlier, welcoming the gathering Shri Sudeep Lakhtakia, DG, NSG, said that the NSG hub at Hyderabad has the states of Chathisgarh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha under its purview.


    He said the NSG has conducted joint exercises with USA, and France as part of its capacity building efforts. The NSG has countered 115 terrorist have been awarded 3 Ashok Chakras, 3 Keerti Chakras, 3 Shourya Chakras, 109 Police medals, which stand as a testimony to the NSG’s competence. The NSG hub at Ibrahimpatnam is a green campus spread over sprawling 200 acres and constructed in an eco-friendly manner, he added.


    Shri E.S.L. Narasimhan, Governor of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, Shri Nayini Narasimha Reddy, Minister for Home Affairs, Government of Telangana and several senior police officials were present.


    A demonstration to showcase the capabilities of the NSG personnel in combat, attacks and other situations was also organised.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1528508) Visitor Counter : 46
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu