      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Indian Oil takes step to elevate customer convenience; initiates door-to-door delivery of diesel
      Posted On: 01 MAY 2020 11:57AM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 01 May, 2020


    To meet the fuel demands in the industrial, mining, rural and remote sectors, Indian Oil is rapidly expanding its fleet of mobile dispensers through its pan-India network of Retail Outlet dealers. To further strengthen the reach, the Corporation is also looking to tie-up with relevant start ups engaged in the business, and is shortly commencing process of their enrolment, said Indian Oil's Chief General Manager (Corporate Communications), Smt. Sadhana Khera Mittal.


    Smt. Mittal stated that this novel concept of reaching diesel to customers' premises through Start-ups has been conceived by the Union Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, in line with Government of India’s initiative to promote Start–Ups for engaging new entrepreneurs in innovative business solutions.


    Over the last two years, Indian Oil’s mobile dispensers have been catering to various segments of Diesel end- users. Through the mobile dispensing units, Indian Oil was the first to reach the areas affected by cyclone in Odisha in May 2019 and speedily restore the supply of petroleum products, she mentioned and added that at these mobile dispensing units, Indian Oil will also provide remote control and ease of payment through digital modes. Further to address the concerns of pilferage, the dispensing units have been automated, allowing only delivery of diesel to authorized customers, she added.


    Smt. Mittal said that being a leader in Motor Spirit (MS) and High Speed Diesel (HSD), Indian Oil currently enjoys 50% of the market share in the sale of petrol and diesel. The introduction of the door –to –door service shall be yet another step towards customer convenience, more so in today’s day and time, when there is restricted movement and limited access available to a large part of the populace. The door-to-door service as a pilot project was successfully launched in March 2018.


    MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1619893) Visitor Counter : 37