      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      INDIANOIL IS DELIVERING REFILLS ON PRIORITY BASIS TO THE HOUSEHOLDS UNDER PRADHAN MANTRI UJJWALA YOJANA
      Posted On: 02 MAY 2020 11:17PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 2 nd May, 2020


    IndianOil’s LPG distributors are making refill deliveries on priority to LPG customers from BPL households under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), for whom the Government of India has extended the facility of three LPG refills free of cost during April, May and June 2020. The newly developed software for implementation of PMUY has enabled the Corporation to transfer the RSP for the first LPG refill directly into the bank accounts of 3.47 crore PMUY customers amounting to Rs. 2,724 crore within a few days. This was informed by John Prasad K. Chief General Manager Corporate Communications of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd.


    He said that amidst the fight against Covid-19 pandemic Indian Oil is depending on digital technology to maintain the supply line of essential fuels, with minimal disruptions.


    He has informed that for the benefit of its 13.11 crore LPG customers, Indian Oil had been putting in place several convenient modes of refill booking from home, like SMS-IVRS, WhatsApp, digital payment websites and online refill booking through mobile apps. This way, about 25 lakh customers are able to book for LPG refills every day and take delivery of LPG refill cylinders at their doorsteps. The Corporation has also been encouraging LPG customers to make digital payments to avoid unnecessary handling of currency notes in view of Covid-19. The LPG emergency helpline number 1906 has also been kept operational.


    Considering the criticality of maintaining fuel supplies Indian Oil is running all its data centres on a 24x7 basis with 100% uptime for all business-critical applications, including SAP ERP software.


    The Corporation’s new apps for its channel partners, vendors and service providers are also playing crucial role the current crisis. While fuel station dealers and LPG distributors are able to track details of their indents, sales and balances online, another dedicated portal allows bulk customers to view their off take details on a real-time basis.


    CG/SDG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1620539) Visitor Counter : 8