      Ministry of Railways

      SER PROVIDES 2.59 LAKH FREE MEALS TO THE HELPLESS POOR PEOPLE
      Posted On: 06 MAY 2020 5:34PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 6 May, 2020


    Lockdown due to the outbreak of COVID-19 has affected the normal life of people including poor and helpless ones throughout the country. In the midst of this nation-wide crisis, South Eastern Railway (SER) has taken major initiatives to provide food to the needy, downtrodden and helpless people throughout its jurisdiction. The entire initiatives have been possible by active participation of various departments concerned, RPF Personnel, members of Civil Defence, St. John Ambulance Brigade, South Eastern Railway Bharat Scouts & Guides who have come forward to help the poor and helpless people by distributing free meals, lunch packets and dry rations comprising rice, potatoes, pulses and other edible items of daily need.


    SER has distributed as many as 2,59,704 free and hygienic meals so far to the poor and destitute people nearby and outside the railway station areas at its Headquarters, Garden Reach and all over its four Divisions viz Kharagpur , Adra, Chakradharpur and Ranchi. The worst hit victims of the lockdown are daily wage people, porters, rickshaw pullers, beggars, slum dwellers, homeless vagabonds and huge member of poor families. Out of 2,59,704 meals, 67,805 meals were served by Indian Railway Catering & Tourism Corporation by utilizing its Base Kitchen located at different stations of South Eastern Railway with the help Commercial Department. The rest 1,91,899 meals were distributed by Security and other Departments of SER. South Eastern Railway Women’s Welfare Organization (SERWWO) has also distributed food packets and cooked meals amongst poor and needy people. Foods have also been distributed through the field units of SER over its jurisdiction and employees are also distributing foods at their personal level or jointly to the starving poor people. Apart from the cooked meals, SER employees are also distributing dry ration packets containing rice, pulses, potatoes, onions, edible oil, spices, biscuits etc. During distribution, every precaution is taken to ensure social distancing, usage of masks, hand sanitizer etc.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1621452) Visitor Counter : 5