      Ministry of Railways

      SER PRODUCES IN-HOUSE MORE THAN 1.02 LAKH FACE MASKS & 5871 LITRES OF SANITIZER TO CONTAIN THE SPREAD OF COVID-19
      Posted On: 05 MAY 2020 5:24PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 5 May, 2020


    In its commitment to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, South Eastern Railway (SER) is manufacturing reusable Face Masks and Hand Sanitizer in its four divisions viz. Kharagpur, Adra, Ranchi and Chakradharpur as well as Kharagpur Workshop for protecting Guards, Drivers, Health Care Personnel, other frontline staff and all classes of railway employees. The in-house masks and sanitizer are produced under the strict supervision and guidance of Medical Department of SER.


    All the divisional units of SER and Kharagapur Workshop have geared up their machineries and have already produced a total number of 1,02,596 reusable face masks and 5871 litres of hand sanitizer so far.


    Since the freight operations of SER are going round the clock to maintain uninterrupted supply of essential commodities and the maintenance of railway assets are also done likewise, mask and hand sanitizer are distributed to ensure the safety of frontline staff and to boost their morale. Face mask and sanitizer are also distributed among the family members of railway staff and contract workers. Usage of mask has been made mandatory for all employees as a protective gadget. Hand sanitizer is also provided in every office for use of the employees every now and then.


    Apart from the above, face masks and sanitizer are also sent to health units and hospitals over SER. The Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Kits are being manufactured at Kharagpur Workshop and Kharagpur Divisional Unit of SER to support Doctors, Nurses and other Health care personnel in the wake of outbreak of Novel Coronavirus.


    SER’s in-house production is not only ensuring timely supply of the masks, sanitizers and PPEs to the frontline staff and health care personnel but is also resulting in substantial cost savings. Every precaution is taken to ensure social distancing and usages of face masks and sanitizer have been made compulsory while coming on duty.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1621210) Visitor Counter : 12