      Ministry of Railways

      SER PERFORMS ITS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES ROUND THE CLOCK IN TIMES OF CRISIS
      Posted On: 09 MAY 2020 4:27PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 9 May, 2020


    In the wake of outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent nation-wide lockdown, South Eastern Railway (SER) has boosted up its entire system to keep the wheels on move with the help of its dedicated frontline personnel.


    Though passenger train services have remained suspended since the start of lockdown but freight train operation is continuing round the clock. SER has arranged to run 615 trips of Parcel Express Trains to every nook and corner of the country during the lockdown. Running of these Freight and Parcel Express Trains has helped to ensure uninterrupted supply of essential commodities like food grains, vegetables, grocery items, fish, egg, medicine, medical equipments etc. to different destinations of the country. This has been possible due to the dedication and sense of responsibility of the SER’s front line staff i.e. locos pilots, guards, station managers etc.


    Combined effort of SER’s Operating, Commercial, Mechanical and Electrical Departments have helped to keep the supply chain of the country intact. Apart from this, tireless maintenance work of tracks, bridges etc. under the strict supervision of Engineering Department of SER is also going on round the clock which has ensured hassle-free movement of Freight and Parcel Trains. Moreover, Security Department of SER is on constant vigil to protect railway properties, establishments and ensure safe movement of Freight and Parcel Trains.


    As a part of social responsibility and commitment, SER employees have been producing face cover, sanitizer, PPE kits etc. under the strict guidance of Medical Department. These are being distributed among the frontline staff and health care personnel to ensure their safety in work places.


    Moreover, SER has distributed more than 2.6 lakh free meals to the poor and needy people throughout its jurisdiction covering Headquarters and four Divisions viz. Kharagpur, Adra, Ranchi and Chakradharpur. Different organizations like South Eastern Railway Bharat Scouts & Guides, St. John Ambulance Brigade, Civil Defence and South Eastern Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation (SERWWO) have also come forward in this crisis moment of the nation and have joined hands with SER authority in distribution of cooked meals, food packets, ration packets consisting of rice, pulses, edible oil, spices, biscuits etc. to the helpless people. All these works have been carried out by maintaining social distancing and other health precautionary measures.


    Moreover, cleaning and sanitisation work of stations, offices, colonies and other railway establishments are done regularly to provide a healthy working environment to all categories of employees, who are rendering service to the nation during this crisis period.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1622483) Visitor Counter : 5