      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Public Notice: OMCs caution people of fake e-mails/letters offering LPG distributorship
      Posted On: 08 MAY 2020 3:09PM by PIB Kolkata

      Kolkata, 08 May, 2020
      Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs), including, Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. & Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. have received complaints alleging that some unknown persons/bogus agencies are sending fake letters and e-mails to fraudulently offer LPG distributorships or Retail Outlet dealerships and demanding money for the process.
      The OMCs caution people to not fall prey to such fraudulent offers and warn them that these unscrupulous entities are targeting innocent people and are sending fake e-mails/letter allegedly from OMCs– viz. Indian Oil Corporation Ltd./ Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd./ Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (using OMC logos on their letterhead for offering LPG Distributorships / Retail Outlets) and are collecting money in the name of OMCs.
      In case any communication is received regarding offering an LPG distributorship or Retail Outlet Dealership either through mail or by letter, people are advised to immediately contact the nearest bonafide office of the related Oil Company, before sharing personal information or remitting any money.
      The contact details of the local offices are available on the respective websites and also are mentioned here:
      Petrol Pump Dealership; https://www.petrolpumpdealerchayan.in/area-offices
      LPG distributorship; https://www.lpgvitarakchayan.in/area-offices.php
      The OMCs also mentioned that in order to dupe innocent applicant, several fake websites have been created. The layout of the fake websites has been kept similar to the original websites. For instance; www.lpgvitarakchayan.in and www.petrolpumpdealerchayan.in .
      The public is therefore advised to visit ONLY official websites of OMCs at www.lpgvitarakchayan.in (for LPG distributorships) and www.petrolpumpdealerchayan.in (for Retail Outlet dealerships) for authentic and official information and prevent themselves from being cheated by the unscrupulous elements.
      While the Information Technology department of individual OMCs routinely report these fraudulent sites to be taken down, the public may also lodge a complaint with the cybercrime branch of the police, if any such case comes to their notice.
      The appointment of LPG distributors and Retail Outlet dealers by the public sector OMCs is carried out across the country through a well-established selection procedure comprising detailed advertisement published in leading Newspapers, hosting on website of the Public Sector Oil Marketing Companies and conducting draw of lots from amongst all eligible applicants, the OMCs clarified and added that none of the Public Sector Oil Marketing Companies have appointed any agency/person on their behalf for selection/appointment of LPG distributors and RO dealers across the country, nor they have authorized any agency/person to solicit any money whatsoever from any candidate at any stage of the selection process.
      The Public Sector Oil Marketing Companies shall not be responsible in any way for amount paid to any individual or group of individuals/agencies/Companies purporting to represent Public Sector Oil Marketing Companies.
      OMCs once again caution members of public that responding to such fraudulent offers through offer letter, e-mails, or website, could result in compromising crucial personal information that can be misused to cause financial and other loss to them.
      MSA
    
    
    (Release ID: 1622115) Visitor Counter : 17
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali