      Ministry of Railways

      AC Special Train to Run between Howrah & New Delhi Tomorrow
      Posted On: 11 MAY 2020 5:34PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 11 May, 2020


    As a part of the decision taken by the Union Government to run 15 pairs of special train service from May 12, 2020, a daily special train in the Eastern Railway (ER) route will run between Howrah and New Delhi. These two trains are in addition to the Shramik Specials for transporting stranded people. From the ER’s CPRO office, it is learnt that other regular passenger services including mail and express trains, passenger and suburban services shall remain suspended until further order.


    The 02301 Howrah-New Delhi AC special train will leave Howrah at evening 5.05 pm and reach New Delhi next morning at 10 am. On the other hand, the 02302 New Delhi-Howrah AC special train in the opposite direction, will start from New Delhi at 4.55 in the evening to arrive at Howrah at 9.55 am the next day.


    Both the trains will have AC-3-tier, AC-2-tier and First AC accommodations. The trains will stop at Asansol, Dhanbad, Gaya Jn., Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyay Jn., Prayagraj Jn and Kanpur Central stations en route in both the directions. No extra stoppages will be allowed.


    These special trains will have the fares of Rajdhani Express, without catering charges. Catering will be optional. Also no linen or blanket will be provided for sleeping.


    The booking for these trains are available in IRCTC websites only and hence no booking through agents or counters will be encouraged. The advance reservation period for these trains is a maximum of seven days from the date of journey. There will be no provision of current, tatkal, premium tatkal facilities. No high official recommendation, defence quota and the like will be available in these trains. Only booking against senior citizen and ladies quota will be encouraged. There will be no Wait List or RAC facilities also.


    Cancellation of the tickets will be available till 24 hours before scheduled departure of trains and the charge for so will be flat 50 per cent of the fare.


    The passengers will have to reach station at least 90 minutes before to facilitate thermal screening at the station. Only those passengers who are found asymptomatic will be permitted to travel.


    It is mandatory also that all the passengers should be wearing masks at the entry and during the travel. Passengers will have to carry confirmed tickets as well they should maintain social distancing both at the stations as well as on trains. On reaching the destination, the travelling passengers will have to adhere to the health protocols as designed by the Destination State.


    All passengers have been advised to download and use the Arogya Setu application.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1622996) Visitor Counter : 12