      Ministry of Railways

      SER Detects Migrant Labourers Moving along Rail Track, Detains them & Counsels
      Posted On: 10 MAY 2020 5:53PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 10 May, 2020


    It has been observed by South Eastern Railway (SER) personnel that migrant labours are moving along the railway track at different locations in its network. On Saturday, about 14 migrant workers in a group were moving towards Belda on foot, over the track detected by engineering staff between Jaleswar and Laxhanath Road who were detained at nearest level crossing gate. Again a group of 26 people have been found moving towards Kharagpur of West Bengal and they have been detained at Haldipada Station by Railway Protection Force (RPF) staff.


    In the evening hours again a group of people detected between Soro and Markona of Odisha moving on the railway track towards West Bengal. This type of trespassing continued even today where in the morning hours a group of people detected heading towards their home walking on the railway track near a level crossing between Soro and Markona of Odisha and another group of eight migrants found moving towards Kharagpur, on track between Balasore and Haldipada .


    As soon as these incidents reported train movements have been stopped until and unless track clearances are not received from the person in the field. These migrants’ labours are dealt very sympathetically at all the points by the station and RPF staff. The local civil authorities are informed immediately to escort them towards the public road. After allowing them to take rest, food and water were arranged for them and counseled not to walk on the railway track by the railway staff.


    SER has geared up it machinery even at the grass route level. Advisory has been issued to the concerned officials. It has been ensured that the cases of trespassing are to be reported from every corner. Adequate security persons over the track have been arranged. All the Loco Pilots have been advised to keep a sharp look out for trespassers on the track and blow horn frequently and take necessary action as and when required. RPF and Engineering staff, who are on patrolling duty, have also been advised to prevent such type of trespassing on track and report to the higher officials immediately. Station Masters have been directed to take appropriate action and inform the local administration about the incident immediately for necessary assistance in this respect.


    Awareness campaign has been arranged through different media to stop this practice in this crucial time for the safety of indivi


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1622698) Visitor Counter : 2