      Ministry of Railways

      SER MANUFACTURES 2640 PPE KITS TO FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19 PANDEMIC
      Posted On: 13 MAY 2020 5:13PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 13 May, 2020


    As a part of controlling the spread of COVID-19, South Eastern Railway (SER) has been manufacturing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Kits to railway doctors, paramedical staff, nurses, other health care personnel and frontline employees. These PPE Kits are manufactured mainly at Kharagpur Workshop and Kharagpur Division of SER. The PPE Kits include Face Cover, Eye Shield, NS-95 Mask, Coverall Gown with Hood, Shoe Cover, Gloves etc.


    Kharagpur Workshop has manufactured 1340 PPE Kits while Kharagpur Division has produced 1300 PPE Kits so far. SER, in total, has till now manufactured 2640 Personal Protective Equipment Kits. The entire manufacturing process is undertaken as per the approved Quality Assurance Plan .The Design and materials are certified from DRDE, Gwalior. The material used is non-woven polypropylene barrier fabric which is impermeable to blood and bodily fluids. Not only the stitching is to be seamless but it requires special tape and taping machine to cover the stitching with tape. After stitching, the PPE Kits are sealed in plastic bags with markings of size, serial number and date of manufacturing.


    Before starting of work, the workplace is cleaned and sanitised. The workmen are screened for any symptoms of COVID-19 and are allowed to start work after hand washing. They are maintaining social distancing in workplace and are counseled to use hand sanitizer at frequent intervals. SER is venturing in this In-house Production of PPE Kits which requires extreme care. The artisan and technicians involved in production of PPE Kits have been kept in separate workplace to avoid cross contamination.


    SER has put its all out efforts to produce high quality PPE Kits which are equivalent to the best available PPE Kit. Railway technicians have been motivated to make these PPE Kits to deal with this health crisis in the wake of COVID-19.


    This apart, huge In-house production of face masks and hand sanitizer are being done at all Divisions and Kharagpur Workshop of South Eastern Railway. RPF personnel of SER, South Eastern Railway Women’s Welfare Organization (SERWWO) and SER Bharat Scouts & Guides have also joined hands in production of such protective items for usages of railway men and their family members to contain the spread of pandemic Coronavirus.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1623562) Visitor Counter : 59