      Ministry of Railways

      SER PROVIDES 3.10 LAKH FREE MEALS TO HELPLESS PEOPLE IN LOCKDOWN DUE TO COVID-19
      Posted On: 11 MAY 2020 6:43PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 11 May, 2020


    In view of the nationwide lockdown due to outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, South Eastern Railway (SER) has come forward to help the poor, needy and destitute people by distributing free meals to them. SER, till now has distributed 3,10,886 free and hygienic meals to the helpless, poor and needy people nearby and outside railway areas at Headquarters & all over its four Divisions viz. Kharagpur, Adra, Chakradharpur and Ranchi. The global pandemic has created an unprecedented crisis leaving large section of poor people in a state of starvation. The worst hit victims of lockdown are daily wage labourers, porters, rickshaw pullers, beggars, slum-dwellers, homeless vagabonds etc. including their family members. Out of 3,10,886 meals, 78,355 meals have been served and distributed by Indian Railway Catering & Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) utilising its Base Kitchen infrastructure located in SER stations with the help of Commercial Department. The rest 2,32,531 free meals have been arranged for distribution by Security & other departments of SER. Various associations viz. South Eastern Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation (SERWWO), SER Bharat Scouts & Guides, St. John Ambulance Brigade, Civil Defence etc have also joined hands in this mass food distribution activities.


    Food is distributed through the field units of SER over its jurisdiction and employees are also distributing foods at their personal level or jointly to the needy and poor people. Apart from cooked meals, SER employees are also distributing dry ration packets containing rice, pulses, potatoes, onions, edible oil, spices, biscuits etc.


    This distribution amongst the poor and needy people has been done adopting adequate safety measures including social distancing and imparting best practices in this situation.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1623053) Visitor Counter : 9