      Ministry of Defence

      JAWANS STAND BESIDE THE DISTRESSED PEOPLE IN COOCHBEHAR, PROVIDE RELIEF MATERIALS DURING LOCKDOWN
      Posted On: 13 MAY 2020 1:26PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 12 th May, 2020


    All of them are ‘Faujis’. Yes by that name only they love to call themselves as their only motto is to serve the country and provide safety and security to the people of this country. They are the ‘Corona Warriors’. They may work in various capacities in various frontiers in different platoons but their heart beats for their remote Kuchlibari village in Coochbehar district under Mekhligunje block located in the Indo-Bangladesh border. It is the pandemic COVID-19 that has brought Shyamal Roy from CRPF, Dulal Roy from BSF, Hironmoy Roy from SSB, Manoj Roy from Indian Army and forty other ‘Faujis’ under the same canopy with the one and only aim of serving the distressed and worried people of that village in the time of the lockdown. To fulfill their goal they have accumulated a sum of Rs 3 lakhs by contributing from their own pockets.


    How so many of you came together at a time to stand beside the distressed people? Manoj Roy, serving in the Indian Army tells “Many members of this group came on leave to meet the family members but had to hold back due to lockdown and could not join their place of duty. Some members of the group are the employees of the security forces posted here. One day we sat in a meeting and thought of doing something for these poor people who are mainly daily wagers. If there is no work there is no pay. So we decided to contribute as much as possible to create a fund. The fund was created and amazingly we could pool around Rs. 3 lakhs for the purpose. Then we started identifying the families who are in dire need for the relief materials. Around thousand families were identified and were provided food materials like rice, dal, potatoes, soya beans and few other items. Sanitizers and soap were also part of the kit.’ Neither Manoj nor other members of his team want to take any credit for the work they have done. They consider it as their duty towards the nation they are serving. In reply to the question whether they are still distributing the relief materials or not, Manoj replied “We started the relief operation from 25 th April and distributed relief materials door to door. But now many of us had gone away to join their duty so there is shortage of workforce, to solve this problem now we have created a store house type of thing where all the materials are stored and those who need something they are at liberty to come and take away free of cost.’


    The sons of the soil are not only protecting us but caring for the needy too.


    SDG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1623500) Visitor Counter : 16