      Ministry of Railways

      SER TO RUN SPECIAL TRAINS BETWEEN NEW DELHI-RANCHI-NEW DELHI AND BHUBANESWAR-NEW DELHI-BHUBANESWAR
      Posted On: 12 MAY 2020 4:45PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 12 May, 2020


    As per the decision of Ministry of Railways regarding the start of Special Train Services from today on specific routes, the Special Trains like New Delhi-Ranchi-New Delhi bi-weekly Rajdhani Superfast Special and Bhubaneswar-New Delhi-Bhubaneswar Special Express will be originating/terminating or passing over SER’s jurisdiction.


    These services will be in addition to the Shramik Special Trains for transporting stranded persons, which are under operation w.e.f. May 1, 2020.


    Regular passenger services including all Mail/Express, Passenger and Suburban Services will remain cancelled until further advice.


    New Delhi-Ranchi-New Delhi Bi-Weekly Rajdhani Superfast Special


    New Delhi-Ranchi Special Train (02454) leaving New Delhi at 3.30 pm every Wednesday and Saturday from May 13, 2020 will reach Ranchi at 10am, the next day. In the return direction, Ranchi-New Delhi Special Train (02453) leaving Ranchi at 5.40 pm every Thursday and Sunday w.e.f. May14, 2020 will reach New Delhi at 10.55 am, the next day. This Special Train consisting of one First AC, five AC 2 Tier and 11 AC 3 Tier Coaches will have stoppages at Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Junction and Kanpur Central in both the direction.


    Bhubaneswar -New Delhi-Bhubaneswar Special Express


    Bhubaneswar-New Delhi Special Express Train (02823) leaving Bhubaneswar at 10am daily w.e.f. May 13, 2020 will reach New Delhi at 10:45 am on the next day. In the return direction, New Delhi-Bhubaneswar Special Express Train (02824) leaving New Delhi at 5:05 pm daily w.e.f. May 14, 2020 will reach Bhubaneswar at 5:25 pm on the next day. The Special Express Train will have stoppages at Balasore, Hijli, Tatanagar and Bokaro Steel City over SER’s jurisdiction. The train will also stop at Gaya, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Junction and Kanpur Central en-route. The train will have one First AC, three AC-2 Tier and 15 AC-3 Tier Coaches.


    Salient Features of Special Trains for Passengers


    Tickets can be booked under general quota only online through IRCTC website or through mobile app. Booking of tickets through agents (both IRCTC and Railway) will not be permitted. However, minimum PRS counter(s) shall be opened at stations from where the trains will originate/terminate or have stoppages en-route for booking of tickets by (i) High Official Requisition (HOR) holder, (ii) Sitting as well as former Parliamentarians, MLA/MLCs as per eligibility, (iii) Freedom Fighters, (iv) Fully reimbursable warrants/vouchers etc (for which fare is paid in advance/fare is reimbursed subsequently) as per rule. The Advance Reservation Period (ARP) will be of maximum seven (seven) days. Only confirmed tickets can be booked. Booking of RAC/Waiting List tickets and onboard booking by ticket checking staff will not be permitted. Current Booking, Tatkal and Premium Tatkal Booking will also not be permitted. Online cancellation will be permitted up to 24 hours before schedule departure of train.


    No catering charges will be included in the fare. Provision for pre-paid meal booking, e-catering will be disabled. However, IRCTC will make provision for limited eatables and packaged drinking water on payment basis. Information to this effect will be made available to passengers during time of booking ticket. No blanket and linen will be provided in the train during journey.


    The passengers are to reach the station at least 90 minutes prior to scheduled departure of the train to facilitate Thermal Screening at the Station. Only passengers who are found asymptomatic and face covered with mask will be allowed to travel. Passengers are also requested to maintain social distancing during the journey and to download and use “Aarogya Setu” application.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1623277) Visitor Counter : 1