      Ministry of Railways

      SER UNDERTAKES INTENSIVE SANITISATION DRIVE TO CONTAIN THE SPREAD OF CORONAVIRUS PANDEMIC
      Posted On: 15 MAY 2020 6:33PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 15 May, 2020


    In view of the nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic, South Eastern Railway has undertaken intensive sanitisation, cleanliness and disinfection drives in its four Divisions and Headquarters to prevent the spread the Novel Coronavirus.


    The disinfection and sanitisation drives have been carried out at all offices at Headquarters and Divisions including staff working halls, office rooms, common areas etc. The intensive cleaning, disinfection and sanitisation works have also been undertaken at Station areas, parking lots, parcel and station offices. Guard and Loco Pilot Lobbies are also being cleaned and sanitised on urgent and regular basis. Though this is a continuous process but cleaning and sanitization work has now been intensified due to this deadly Coronavirus. Direct contact areas like railings, handles, door knobs, lift’s gate and buttons, escalators etc. are being rigorously cleaned and disinfected on regular measure. In order to ensure hygienic and safe working environment, SER has deployed trained house-keeping staff and is laying stress on mechanised cleaning and sanitizing which is being monitored by apex level.


    The focus on the upkeep of the railway areas includes activities like cleaning of surroundings, proper disposal of waste, cleaning of toilets etc. with eco-friendly chemicals and modern equipments. Similar activities are also being carried out in train coaches and at the train depots. Multitude precautionary measures have been taken by South Eastern Railway to support frontline and other staff working at various places. They have been given face masks, sanitizers, soaps and gloves to safe guard themselves from the infectious disease. This intensive disinfection and sanitization drive is being monitored centrally & by every department. The employees who are coming to work are advised to maintain social distancing. Thermal screening of the officials is being carried out at different entry points while vehicles carrying officials and various materials are also being disinfected. Employees and stake holders without face covers are not being allowed to enter railway offices and premises. All the staff under South Eastern Railway have been sensitized and guided about the “Do’s & Don’ts” related to COVID-19 pandemic.


    CG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1624121) Visitor Counter : 29