      Ministry of Railways

      38 SHRAMIK SPECIALS WITH MORE THAN 45,000 STRANDED MIGRANT WORKERS & OTHERS ARRIVE AT VARIOUS STATIONS UNDER SER
      
      2 SHRAMIK SPECIALS ORIGINATE FROM SER

      Posted On: 17 MAY 2020 4:18PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, 17 May, 2020


    Indian Railways is running Shramik Special Trains following the order of Union Ministry of Home Affairs for movement of migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students, patients and other persons stranded at different places of the country due to nationwide lockdown in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic.


    Indian Railways is running these Shramik Special Trains since May 1, 2020 to bring back the migrant workers and others to their respective home States. These Special Trains are being run only after concurrence is given both by the State which is sending the passengers and the State which is receiving them.


    As a result of the initiative taken by the Ministry of Railways in co-ordination with respective State Governments, so far 38 Shramik Special Trains carrying more than 45,000 stranded migrant workers and others have arrived at different stations under South Eastern Railway (SER)’s jurisdiction.


    Out of 38 Shramik Special Trains, 15 Specials have arrived at Kharagpur Division at Howrah, Hijli and Balasore stations, eight Specials have arrived at Adra Division at Bankura, Purulia and Bokaro Steel City stations, 11 Specials have arrived in Ranchi Division at Hatia station and dour Specials have arrived at Tatanagar of Chakradharpur Division from different parts of the country viz. Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Kerala etc.


    It’s to be mentioned that, two Shramik Special Trains with stranded migrant workers and others have originated from SER’s jurisdiction so far. One Special left Hatia Station for Jaipur on May 14, 2020 and another Shramik Special left today for Bikaner from Shalimar station.


    During the journey, migrant workers and others are provided with food and water served by IRCTC. The stations of SER from where trains leave are properly disinfected and sanitised before and after the train movements. Medical team, members of Railway Protection Force (RPF) and other railway staff are deployed at stations to take care of the passengers. Necessary check up is also arranged for the passengers at both the entry and exit points with the active participation of the concerned State Government authority.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1624670) Visitor Counter : 17