      Ministry of Railways

      SER GEARS UP ITS SAFETY MEASURES IN VIEW OF CYCLONE “AMPHAN”
      Posted On: 19 MAY 2020 4:23PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 19 May, 2020


    South Eastern Railway (SER) has geared up with safety precautionary measures in view of cyclone “AMPHAN”, which is likely to hit West Bengal and Odhisa. Precautionary measures adopted in this regard are as under:


    ■ Close watch on Railway Bridges, Tracks, Yards & Signaling System


    ■ Silt, Vegetation and other obstructions cleared from catch water and side drains


    ■ Close coordination with State Govt. officials


    ■ All DG sets, diesel drive pump, earth moving equipment’s etc. has been kept ready.


    ■ Patrolling at vulnerable locations by deputing patrolmen & Watchmen


    ■ Sectional trackmen will patrol the tracks


    ■ Tree cutting and road clearing teams are kept in alert at critical locations


    ■ Arrangements have been made to stock sufficient quantities of track maintenance reserve materials


    ■ Constant watch over Meteorological Department advisories


    ■ Additional Control Room & Disaster Management Cell of SER is opened.


    SER has done preparations and ground work to meet the challenges posed by Cyclone AMPHAN. Taking advantage of the meteorological forecasts, SER has planned for early restoration of train traffic and railway track, if affected by AMPHAN. Round the Clock Disaster Management Cell has been opened at SER HQs at Garden Reach and at Divisional Headquarters. Hot line has been established between HQ and divisional Disaster Management Cell.


    SER has also taken adequate steps by positioning of Special Teams for early restoration of tracks, signalling system and electrification etc., safety of train operations, to run train, if there will be no electric supply.


    Diesel locomotives have been kept in position for utilization during failure of electricity. As Red Alert has been given in coastal areas, SER is keeping watchful eye at all the stations in Howrah – Kharagpur-Bhadrak Section and other sections too.


    General Manager, SER has directed the concerned officials to be on full alert towards any incident like flood situation near Railway Track and to ensure the safety for staff and their families. The staff and their family members are advised to stay indoors when cyclone hits the territory. Helpline number will be kept operational at HQ and divisions for assistance to employees’ families.


    Accordingly, all precautionary measures have been taken. The catch water drains and side drains have been cleared of silt, vegetation and other obstructions to ensure free flow of rain water. The water ways of bridges have been cleared of vegetation and other obstructions.


    Close coordination is being maintained with State Govt. officials at different levels. Full Supply Level (FSL) in case of canals & Danger Level (DL) in case of bridges have been painted with bright red band across each pier adjacent to the abutment so as to be clearly visible to the Patrolman, Stationary Watchman and Drivers.


    Arrangements have been made not to allow water to stagnate on the track. In station yards, the cross drains and longitudinal drains have been cleared/provided proper grades.


    Patrolling of Railway tracks by Patrolmen has also been planned. They observe danger or interruption if any and protect the trains from any unusual occurrence. Stationary Patrolmen and Watchmen along with mobile Patrolmen have been deployed in vulnerable sections.


    Instructions have been issued that whenever there is heavy rain, the sectional Trackman will organize patrolling of track on their own in their beat to make sure that the track is safe for passage of trains and ensure protection at all locations where washouts/slips are likely to occur.


    Arrangements have been made to stock sufficient quantities of track & bridge repair reserve materials, viz., boulders, sand, cinder, quarry dust, ballast at identified locations. The Engineering relief vans and their equipments are kept ready. Bridge materials are kept in readiness so that they can be moved as per requirement. SER is in constant touch with Indian Meteorological Department and getting weather alerts on hourly basis.


    IT HAS BEEN DECIDED THAT THERE SHOULD BE NO PASSENGER CARRYING TRAIN IN KHARAGPUR-BHADRAK SECTION AND OTHER SECTION TOO IF REQUIRED, AS PER THE INPUTS RECEIVED FROM THE METEOROGICAL DEPARTMENT DURING THIS CYCOLONE PERIOD.


    As, all passenger carrying trains have already been suspended till further announcement in view of COVID-19, only some Shramik Special Trains, one AC Special Train, Freight and Parcel Express were running as per guidelines of Ministry of Home Affairs. Shramik Special Trains will be suitably controlled, diverted and will not be allowed to run in the vulnerable section.


    In view of the above Cyclone forecast, Bhubaneswar-New Delhi-Bhubaneswar AC Special Train has been diverted via Angul-Jharsuguda-Rourkela-Tata route bypassing Bhubaneswar-Hijli (Kharagpur) route for four days.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1625115) Visitor Counter : 1