      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NDRF WORKING ON WAR FOOTING TO RESTORE NORMALCY IN BENGAL
      Posted On: 25 MAY 2020 7:07PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 25th May, 2020


    

    The National Disaster Response Force NDRF personnel, with sunny orange costume are working day and night in war footing to restore normalcy in the state which has been thrown out of gear due to devastating Cyclone Amphan. Kumar Ravi Deputy Commandant of NDRF West Bengal has informed Press Information Bureau, Kolkata that 38 teams consisting of 950 personnel have been deployed in different affected areas for the restoration work. He informed that the personnel have been drawn from different battalions posted in different states of the country. 8 teams have been put on duty drawn from the 3rd battalion of NDRF from Mundali, Odhisa, 4 teams from the 9th battalion, Patna, 2 teams from the 4th battalion, Chennai, 2 teams from the 5th battalion, Pune, 2 teams from the 10th battalion, Vijaywada and 20 teams from the 2nd battalion, Kolkata.


    

    The Deputy Commandant said that the teams have been deployed according to the requirements of the state. In North 24 parganas teams have been deployed in Bangaon, Basirhat, Hingalganj, Hansnabad and Barasat. In South 24 parganas teams are now working in Sagar Island, Kakdwip, Namkhana, Baruipur, Budge Budge and Diamond Harbour. The restoration work in Gosaba has been completed and the teams have been shifted to Kolkata for further utilization of their service. NDRF teams are also working in Nandigram and Haldia. Work in Digha and Contai has been finished. Work is in progress in Howrah, Uluberia, Domjur, Hooghly and Arambagh. Shri Ravi informed that as per the request of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation 19 NDRF teams are working in KMC area alongside with their officials.


    

    The NDRF teams are using sophisticated and state-of-the-art equipment for executing their rescue operation. An additional control room has been opened in Regional Response Center, Kailkhali.


    SDG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1626777) Visitor Counter : 23