      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NDRF EVACUATED APPROXIMATELY 5 LAKH PEOPLE IN DIFFERENT DISTRICTS
      
      CLEARED AROUND 2500 KM ROADS, REMOVED NEARLY 5500 TREES IN THE AFTER CYCLONE RESCUE OPERATION

      Posted On: 26 MAY 2020 6:43PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, 26 th May, 2020


    National Disaster Response Force, NDRF which has been deployed to bring normalcy in the Cyclone Amphan ravaged state till today have evacuated more than 5 Lakh people in different districts with the help of the local administrations. Apart from that it has also evacuated nearly 7650 livestock and cleared around 2428 km of road like National Highways, State Highways and Rural link roads. Nearly 5500 trees and approximately 945 electric poles have also been cuts/removed so far by them. This was stated in a communiqué issued by the Emergency Operation Centre (EOC), 2 BN NDRF HQ, Haringhata today.


    In view of the super cyclone Amphan, as on date total 38 teams of NDRF have been working round the clock at various Amphan devastated places in consultation with state administration. Out of these 38 teams, 19 teams are engaged in restoration work for quick restoration of electricity, water, communication and road connectivity in war footings. The self-contained teams equipped with the sophisticated tools are providing effective response and assistance to the local administrations. Teams are continuously doing restoration work in their respective areas.


    NDRF rescue teams performing the restoration works across six districts of the state affected by the Cyclone by taking precautionary measures against COVID-19.The restoration works requires high risk activity and need skilful rescuers with special equipments for functioning at the damaged sites. NDRF teams are into the work in coordination with the civil administration.


    2 BN NDRF EOC in Haringhata, Nadia is closely monitoring the situation and in touch with other agencies. One additional control room is also operational at Regional Response Centre, Kolkata for monitoring as well as co- ordination of rescue work. Shri Nishith Upadhyay, Commandant, 2 BN NDRF, along with Sh Rajesh Negi, 2 In Command, of this unit stationed at RRC Kolkata for Co –ordination with state administration and supervising the whole operations in Kolkata City as well as in West Bengal.


    SDG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1626951) Visitor Counter : 14
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali