      Ministry of Railways

      SER PRODUCES 1,13,076 FACE MASKS & 8,196 LITRES OF HAND SANITIZER TO COMBAT WITH COVID-19 PANDEMIC
      Posted On: 25 MAY 2020 4:27PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 25 May, 2020


    In view of the gradually increasing COVID-19 pandemic, South Eastern Railway (SER) has heightened its efforts to produce reusable Face Masks and Hand Sanitizer in its four divisions viz. Kharagpur, Adra, Ranchi and Chakradharpur as well as at Kharagpur Workshop. The masks and sanitizer are prepared under the strict supervision and guidance of Medical Department of SER.


    All the divisional units of SER and Kharagapur Workshop have taken major initiatives to gear up their machineries and have produced a total number of 1,13,076 reusable face masks and 8,196 litres of hand sanitizer so far.


    To provide extensive support to its employees, SER has distributed reusable face masks and hand sanitizer amongst the frontline staff like loco pilots, guards and concerned staff engaged in running of freight, parcel and special trains for ensuring their protection from the pandemic. It has also been planned to distribute mask and hand sanitizer to all employees of SER.


    Apart from the above, masks and sanitizer are also sent to the health units and hospitals under SER. During this situation, wearing face masks and use of hand sanitizer have been made compulsory across the country. The masks are largely manufactured using cotton clothes with straps for adjustment and can be reused after proper washing. Hand sanitizer is generally used to wipe out infectious agents on the hands. In-house production of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Kits have also been started at Kharagpur Workshop and Kharagpur Divisional Unit of SER for supporting the doctors, nurses and other health care personnel during treatment of COVID-19 affected people.


    SER’s in-house production not only ensures timely supply of the masks, sanitizers and PPEs to the frontline staff and health care personnel but also aids in substantial cost savings.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1626734) Visitor Counter : 44