      Ministry of Railways

      ER’S INITIATIVES TO COMBAT WITH COVID 19 PANDEMIC
      Posted On: 27 MAY 2020 6:54PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 27 May, 2020


    To prevent the spread of Coronavirus infection, Eastern Railway (ER) has initiated a number of steps to confront the national crisis. Though regular passenger train services remained suspended during the nationwide lockdown yet the freight train services continued along with Parcel Express Trains to maintain uninterrupted supply of essential commodities, like medicines, medical equipment, foodgrains, PPE materials to different parts of the country. This apart, Shramik Special & AC Special Trains are also run for carrying the stranded citizens, migrant workers, students and patients to their home. ER has also geared up its machinery and adopted the following preventive measures to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic:


    In-House Production of Face Mask & Sanitizer


    As a precautionary measure to fight against COVID-19, ER has manufactured reusable face masks and hand sanitizer in its various workshops, divisions. These articles have been distributed amongst the frontline staff like loco pilots & guards of the Freight, Parcel and Special trains to ensure their protection as well as provided to field staff and health workers in duty. It has also been planned to distribute these masks among all other employees of SER.


    Manufacturing of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)


    In order to curb the spread of Novel Coronavirus, ER has started manufacturing PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) Kits for supporting the railway doctors, para-medical staff and other healthcare personnel. The kits are manufactured mainly at its workshops, loco sheds. The PPE Kit includes Face Cover, Eye Shield, NS-95 Mask, Coverall Gown with hood, Shoe Cover, Gloves etc. ER has produced 4463 Coveralls,1064 para-medical suites, 82,702 face masks, 7088 litres of sanitiser to keep its employees safe..


    Distribution of Meals to Poor and Needy People


    In view of the nation-wide lockdown due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, ER has come forward to fulfil its social commitments. Besides, the Railway Protection Force of ER is regularly distributing free and hygienic meals to the destitute, poor and needy people nearby and outside the railway areas at Headquarters & all over its jurisdiction. [[


    Installation of “AarogyaSetu”App.


    Employees of ER are regularly encouraged to download the “AarogyaSetu” app for themselves and their family members. Employees are also counselled and encouraged to reap the benefits of the tracker in the App to keep their family members safe.


    Almost all ER employees along with their family members have installed the App.


    Running of Time Tabled Parcel Express Trains


    To maintain uninterrupted supply of essential commodities like vegetables, fruits, fish, egg, grocery items, medicines, medical equipment etc ER has been running a number of Time Tabled Parcel Express Trains towards different parts of the country.


    Running of Shramik Special Trains


    Indian Railways is running Shramik Special Trains since May 1, 2020 to bring back stranded migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students, patients etc. from different places of the country to their respective home States. ER became a part of such an initiative taken by the Ministry of Railways in co-ordination with respective State Governments.


    Intensive Sanitisation and Cleanliness Drive


    In view of the nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic, ER has undertaken intensive sanitisation, cleanliness and disinfection measures in its Divisions as well as in Headquarters to prevent the spread the Novel Coronavirus. The disinfection and sanitisation drives have been carried out at all offices of Headquarters and Divisions along with station premises, trains etc. Direct contact areas like railings, handles, door knobs, lift’s gate and buttons, escalators etc. are rigorously cleaned and disinfected on regular measure.


    Running of Special Trains


    As decided by Ministry of Railways, AC Special Train Services have started from May 12, 2020 on specific routes. These Special Trains include New Delhi-Howrah AC Special Train & Howrah-New Delhi AC Special Trains and the like.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1627214) Visitor Counter : 32