      Ministry of Railways

      93 SHRAMIK SPECIALS ARRIVE IN SER JURISDICTION
      
      SER PROVIDES MORE THAN 1 LAKH FOOD PACKETS WITH WATER TO THE MIGRANT WORKERS

      Posted On: 28 MAY 2020 4:48PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, 28 May, 2020


    Following the decision of the Central Government, Indian Railways has started running of Shramik Special trains from May 1, 2020 to move migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other passengers stranded at different places across the country to their homes due to the lockdown announced by the Union Government in the wake of outbreak of Covid-19. These special trains are run from point to point on request of both the concerned State Governments as per the standard protocols for sending and receiving the stranded passengers. For this direction, Railways in co-ordination with State Governments have taken initiatives for smooth operation of the huge number of Shramik Special trains.


    Ninety three Shramik Special trains have arrived at different stations of South Eastern Railway (SER) which has helped more than 1.12 lakh migrant workers to reach their home towns till date. This apart, three Shramik Special trains have originated from SER also.


    This railway has set up eight food supplying units in four Divisions. Kharagpur Division is supplying food and water from Kharagpur itself and Balasore. Adra Division is supplying food and water from Adra and Bokaro Steel City Station while Chakradharpur Division is providing food and water from Chakradharpur and Rourkela units. Ranchi Division is supplying food and water from Hatia and Muri. SER in association with IRCTC and different voluntary organizations has been patronising all migrant passengers with food and water. Till now, more than 1 lakh food packets (including lunch & dinner both) have been served to the migrant workers at the different stations in SER's jurisdiction to ease their hardship in this crisis moment.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1627438) Visitor Counter : 18