      Ministry of Railways

      SER STRIVES TO TAKE UTMOST CARE OF THE PASSENGERS OF SHRAMIK SPECIAL TRAINS
      Posted On: 30 MAY 2020 7:20PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 30 May, 2020


    While the country is battling with the pandemic COVID-19, Indian Railways is leaving no stone unturned to bring respite to the severely affected people of this country during this crucial time. In its constant endeavour to provide relief to the migrants to reach their respective home State, Ministry of Railways in a major decision has decided to run Shramik Special Trains across the country as per the requisition of State Governments. This initiative is expected to benefit the stranded passengers across the country.


    Indian Railways started running “Shramik Special” trains from May 1, 2020, to help movement of the migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons stranded at different places due to the lockdown. These special trains are being run from one state to another on the request of the concerned State Governments as per the laid down guidelines.


    Eighteen Shramik Special Trains have been received by South Eastern Railway (SER) on Friday (May 29, 2020) for various destinations of West Bengal. Out of these, three trains are terminated at stations under West Bengal in SER’s jurisdiction. Today six Shramik Special Trains arrived at Howrah so far either terminating or en route and one more Shramik Special Train is expected to reach Howrah.


    SER is fully ready and confident about large scale operation of such Shramik Special Trains in the midst of lockdown due to the outbreak of COVID-19. The entire movements are watched by apex level Railway officers at divisional and zonal levels. Round the clock monitoring has been arranged from the control offices located in division and zones. Efforts are made to ensure comfortable travel of the migrant workers and others passengers. Constant liaison has been kept with the State Governments also, informs the CPRO’s office. During the journey in the Shramik Special Trains, the migrants are taken care of properly with all available resources, stated SER officials.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1627951) Visitor Counter : 3