      Ministry of Railways

      SER PROVIDES 4.15 LAKH FREE MEALS TO HELPLESS PEOPLE IN MIDST OF LOCKDOWN DUE TO COVID-19
      Posted On: 29 MAY 2020 6:21PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 29 May, 2020


    In view of nationwide lockdown due to the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, South Eastern Railway (SER) has come forward to help the poor, needy and destitute people by distributing free meals to them. SER, till now has distributed 4,15,710 free and hygienic meals to the helpless, poor and needy people nearby and outside railway areas at its Headquarters & all over its four Divisions viz. Kharagpur, Adra, Chakradharpur and Ranchi.


    Out of 4,15,710 meals, 91,080 meals have been served and distributed by Indian Railway Catering & Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) utilising its Base Kitchen Infrastructure located in SER stations with the help of Commercial Department. The rest 3,24,630 free meals have been arranged for distribution by Security & other departments of SER. Various associations viz. South Eastern Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation (SERWWO), SER Bharat Scouts & Guides, St. John Ambulance Brigade, Civil Defence etc. have also joined hands in this mass food distribution drive.


    Foods have also been distributed through the field units of SER over its jurisdiction and employees are also distributing foods at their personal level or jointly to cater to the needs of poor people. Apart from cooked meals, SER employees are also distributing dry ration packets containing rice, pulses, potatoes, onions, edible oil, spices, biscuits etc.


    This distribution amongst the poor and needy people has been done adopting adequate safety measures including social distancing and imparting best practices in this situation.


    This apart, Shramik Special Trains have arrived in SER’s jurisdiction staring from May 1, 2020. IRCTC and Departmental Railway Catering have been involved in providing complimentary food packets/meals with drinking water to the migrant workers who have been transported by Shramik Special Trains to their home towns from various parts of the country. The arrangement of food distribution among the migrant workers have been organised jointly by Departmental Railway Catering, IRCTC and Charitable Organisations.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1627679) Visitor Counter : 16