      Ministry of Railways

      SHRAMIK SPECIALS RUN BY SER & GENERAL PROCEDURES FOR AVAILING SUCH TRAINS
      Posted On: 31 MAY 2020 6:42PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 31 May, 2020


    Indian Railways has made its Standard Operating Procedure for transporting migrant workers who have been stranded at various places of the country due to unprecedented lockdowns in the wake of COVID-19.


    The Shramik Specials have helped huge number of migrant workers to return home towns across the country. The railways would issue order to run such trains as long as they are needed for the stranded passengers, considering various norms of safety and security in co-ordination with the concerned State Governments.


    The South Eastern Railway (SER) officials have informed that railwaymen are monitoring round the clock and taking appropriate decision on every train. If there is network congestion in the routes, the railways immediately divert the train to run on alternate routes. This procedure is followed not only in running of Shramik Special Trains but even in normal times. Railways are trying to restore passenger services and return to normalcy.


    More than 3894 Shramik Specials have been run up till Saturday (May 30, 2020) as per the requirement of the concerned States. It is mandatory for all passengers to use face mask and maintain other health stipulations. The passengers of Shramik Special Trains are provided with food and drinking water in various strategic points by Indian Railways Catering & Tourism Corporation (IRCTC). The originating States provide adequate security at the designated station to ensure that only those passengers who have been cleared by the State Government can travel. On arrival at their destination, passengers are being received by the State Govt. for health check-up, informed CPRO’s office of SER.


    The office has also informed that 16 trains were received by SER on Saturday (May 30, 2020) for various destinations of West Bengal out of which four Shramik Special trains terminated in SER jurisdiction under West Bengal.


    Today four Shramik Special Trains have arrived at various stations of West Bengal under SER jurisdiction and another eight trains are forecasted. The passengers are received by the civil authorities with necessary arrangements as per protocols.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1628177) Visitor Counter : 28