      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      FOB, MEDINIPUR ORGANISES INTEGRATED COMMUNICATION AND OUTREACH PROGRAMME
      Posted On: 05 FEB 2020 2:04PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, February 05, 2020


    Field Outreach Bureau(FOB) Medinipur organized a two-day Integrated Communication and Outreach programme on Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat in association with NSS units of IIT Kharagpur on February 2 & 3, 2020.


    

    The NSS units of IIT Kharagpur regularly visit several schools in the villages of Kharagpur blocks to perform various social works. Most of these students are from economically weak sections of the society. With a view to giving these marginalised students an exposure to the diversity and cultural unity of India FOB Medinipur organised the integrated communication and outreach programme with participatory interactive programmes. Students of IIT Kharagpur also participated in the poster design contest. The student volunteers from NSS actively engaged in organizing the two-day event. This apart, many families of the faculty and staff also joined in the event.


    
    On day one i.e., February 2, 2020. a Sit and Draw competition for school students from nearby villages, poster design contest for students of IIT Kharagpur and a Puppet Theatre were organized at the Gymkhana of IIT Kharagpur. An exhibition on Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat was also set up at the venue. The two day thematic exhibition was opened for the public at the venue to highlight the importance and aims of the scheme. Nearly 200 school students of Disha, Hiradi High School and Benapur Girls High School participated in the event.


    

    A unique live Indian classical instrumental ensemble by children of Vistar, a music school in Kolkata was organized on the second day, February 3, 2020. It was a first time experience for many school students who come come from marginalised communities to witness the Indian classical culture.


    
    The formal prize distribution and Vistar's Senia-Shahjahanpur Ensemble performance was presided by Prof B N Singh, Registrar IIT Kharagpur. Prof Somesh Kumar, Dean Students Affairs, Prof William Mohanty, President Gymkhana and Nodal Officer of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat, Prof B M Manoj And Prof Amit Shaw, Coordinators for NSS, IIT Kharagpur were also present.


    

    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601991) Visitor Counter : 24
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali