      Ministry of Science & Technology

      One Day Workshop on “Interaction with CSIR-CMERI, CSR Personnels and NGOs for effective utilization of CSR Funds”
      Posted On: 12 FEB 2020 1:13PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, February 12, 2020.


    A One Day Workshop on “Interaction with CSIR-CMERI, CSR Personnels and NGOs for effective utilization of CSR Funds” was organized at CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur on 11.02.2020. The program was chaired by Prof.(Dr.) Harish Hirani, Director, CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur, and gracing the occasion were Chief Guest Shri S.M. Chauthaiwale, GM & BUH, NSPCL, Durgapur, and Guest of Honour Shri Gautam Mukherjee, GM, Head, CSR, SAIL, DSP, Durgapur. The program was attended by 54 participants from various NGOs and Companies such as NSPCL, TATA Long product, Jai Balaji Industries, SAIL-DSP, ECL.


    Prof.(Dr.) Harish Hirani, Director, CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur, in his welcome address expressed his eagerness to host such an interactive workshop, which will provide a deep and analytical understanding to the attendees of the array of technologies at the disposal of CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur.


    Dr. Harish Hirani stated that CSR funds should be channelized in such a manner so that consequently it aids in enhancing the Living Standard of the poor masses. CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur, is a hub for striving excellence in Clean and Green technologies and also seeks to get its lab-tested technologies implemented in the field. This Institute also provides a platform for Open-Exchange of Ideas and Information. As a testimony to the ideals of the Institute, the Zero-Waste Colony Model, Air-Purification Technologies and the Water Purification Technologies were cited to provide a picture of a comprehensive and integrated technology which effectively deals with Environmental Pollution. Dr. Hirani urged all present to believe and use the CSIR-CMERI developed technologies and help in Value-Addition to the society.


    Chief Guest Shri S.M. Chauthaiwale, GM & BUH, NSPCL, Durgapur, congratulated Director, CSIR-CMERI, for having such wonderful indigenously developed technologies and its considerable impact on the immediate environment. The technologies developed for Rural Empowerment were also appreciated and it was stated that CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur has tremendous underlying potential to revolutionize the usage of renewable energy. Shri Chauthaiwale hoped that CSIR-CMERI will continue to contribute for the Social Up gradation and Societal Enhancement.


    CG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602897) Visitor Counter : 4
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali