      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      ROB, Kolkata organizes one-day workshop on Intensified Mission Indradhanush 2.0
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2020 5:13PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, February 7, 2020


    Regional Outreach Bureau, (ROB), Kolkata organized one-day workshop on Intensified Mission Indradhanush (IMI) 2.0 in Kolkata today. Shri R.N. Mishra, Director General, Eastern Zone, Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting inaugurated the workshop. Shri A.K.A Lakra, Director, ROB, was also present on the occasion.


    Speaking at the inaugural session, Shri Mishra highlighted the importance of IMI 2.0 and urged the members of Song and Drama Division under the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to go among the people and educate them about the IMI through folk dance, songs and nukkad natak and create interest in them so that they bring their children for immunization. Shri Mishra stated that nutrition for mother and immunization for children are interrelated and very significant for children’s health.


    Government of India has launched Intensified Mission Indradhanush (IMI) 2.0 with the aim to reach out to partially vaccinated and unvaccinated children with all the available vaccines under Universal Immunization Program (UIP) across 381 districts in 29 States/UTs. The first two phases of Mission Indradhanush resulted in 6.7% increase in full immunization coverage. Intensified Mission Indradhanush was implemented in 2017-18. This was followed by a Coverage evaluation survey which showed an average increase of 18.5% in full immunization coverage as compared to that in National Family Health Survey (NFHS-4) carried out in 2015-16.


    During the various phases of Mission Indradhanush including Gram Swaraj Abihayan and Extended Gram Swaraj a total of 3.61 crore children and 91.45 lakh pregnant women have been vaccinated, across 690 districts in 36 State/UT.


    With the aim to enhance the full immunization coverage of children by intensified focus on pockets of low immunization coverage, the Government tries to reach areas where the proportion of unvaccinated and partially vaccinated children, including remote backward families in the country are high.


    MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602438) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali