      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB, KOLKATA ORGANIZES MEDIA WORKSHOP ‘VARTALAP’ AT JOYGOPALPUR, SOUTH 24-PARGANAS DISTRICT
      Posted On: 14 FEB 2020 5:33PM by PIB Kolkata


    Joygopalpur, South 24-Parganas, February 14, 2020


    Press Information Bureau, Kolkata organized Vartalap – the Media Workshop at Joygopalpur Gram Vikash Kendra, Basanti, South 24-Parganas District of West Bengal today. The media-persons of the district including those from small and medium newspapers participated in large numbers in this programme meant for dissemination of news related to Central Government sponsored welfare schemes and programmes and media-services catered to by Press Information Bureau.


    Shri R.N. Mishra, Director General (DG), Eastern Zone, Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting addressed the journalists working in South 24-Parganas district to update them about the functions of Press Information Bureau which is to provide them authentic information related to Central Government programmes and policies which reach them through digital media and other means as well. Shri Mishra highlighted the role of small and medium newspapers for dissemination of information to general people. Regarding CAA he said that journalists may write the matter properly so that people understand the fact. This act is aimed for giving citizenship, not taking it away.


    Shri Santanu Palodhi, former ADG, PIB and Shri Rathindra Mohan Bandopadhyay, veteran journalist shared their rich professional experiences and stated as to how PIB’s press releases, feature service, photos can be beneficial for them in their quest of making authentic news about Government and the welfare schemes meant for people. They urged the media persons to use information provided by PIB to sensitize common citizens about how they can avail benefits from the Centrally-sponsored schemes. In this workshop, it was also explained that how PIB press releases, photos, infographics and other media contents can be obtained directly from PIB’s website, facebook page as well as twitter handle in Bangla, apart from Hindi, English and other Indian languages.


    Shri Ashok Yadav, Lead Bank Manager, United Bank of India (UBI), Basanti Branch informed the journalists about the various banking schemes schemes of the Union Government like PMJDY, PMAY, PMSBY, PMMY, PMJJY, Atal Pension Yojana, Senior Citizen Savings Scheme, Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana and several loan schemes among others. He highlighted MUDRA loan implementation in the district specially in Basanti Block. Rupees 6 crore worth of funding to 900 women SHGs has never resulted in any payment default in the block, he informed.


    Environment activist, Dr. Arijit Banerjee, spoke in detail about the initiatives taken at South 24-Parganas to save environment and make the region ODF area. He stated that use of plastic carry bags has come down due to consorted efforts. Dr. Banerjee complimented the media for positively carrying forward the campaign and creating awareness among the masses.


    Around 50 district media persons participated in the workshop.


    Smt. Chitra Gupta, Dy. Director, PIB, Kolkata conducted the event. In an interactive session held as part of the programme, the journalists shared their concerns and problems faced in their day-to-day functioning. Shri Ajay Mhamia, Joint Director, PIB, Kolkata, answered different queries from the journalists pertaining to different aspect and moved the vote of thanks. A presentation of PIB utilities, including the diversified multilingual pages of reference matter that has been made available on the revamped PIB website, including journalist welfare measures, was also presented.


    AM/CG/SSS/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603232) Visitor Counter : 8
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali