      PIB Headquarters

      PRESS RELEASE ISSUED BY DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF SHIPPING, MUMBAI
      Posted On: 20 NOV 2018 5:49PM by PIB Chennai


    Press Release issued by the Directorate General of Shipping, Mumbai is as follows:


    1. An oil spill was reported at around 0400 hours on 18.11.2018 at the MLT 1 berth of Kamarajar Port, Ennore, while discharge of oil cargo [heavy oil] was in progress from the vessel ‘MT Coral Stars’. It is understood that the leakage occurred from the Terminal’s cargo hose connected between the vessel and the terminal, thereby resulting in spillage of oil into jetty and water. Oil spill response was initiated immediately as the spillage was noticed by the ship staff. The discharging operations were accordingly ceased immediately and spreading of spilled oil was contained by the immediate response of the port by deployment of boom around the vessel.


    2. The Indian Coast Guard had carried out an aerial assessment and engaged their surface unit for oil spill response. Currently, the recovery of the spilled oil is in progress and a coordinated effort is being carried out by the port, Indian Coast Guard, vessel, and associated agencies.


    3. As per the directions of the Directorate General of Shipping, a preliminary inquiry is being carried out by the Mercantile Marine Department [MMD], Chennai and the initial inspection indicates that oil has currently been contained within the port break water limit and has not further spread out into the sea or shore area outside the port. Investigation is also on by the MMD, Chennai to determine the reason for failure of the Terminal’s cargo hoses.


    4. As per the situation report received in, a major portion of the recovery and clean-up has already completed. It is estimated that the recovery and clean-up of the spilled oil is expected to be completed by Tuesday [20.11.2018].


    ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1553317) Visitor Counter : 41
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil