      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      J&K Chief Secretary calls on Dr Jitendra Singh, briefs about various projects
      Posted On: 02 DEC 2017 6:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The Chief Secretary of Jammu & Kashmir, Shri B B Vyas called on Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today and briefed him about the status of various development projects going on in the State.
    
    Referring to the Prime Minister's Development Package, Shri Vyas informed Dr Jitendra Singh that the utilization of funds was in progress and in recent months, it had been further expedited. He also gave a brief about the implementation of the other Central Government schemes of public welfare initiated by the Central Government.
    
    Chief Secretary also updated Dr Jitendra Singh about the progress made in the power sector and the current status of Deen Dayal Gram Jyoti Yojana (DDGJY).
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh expressed satisfaction over the decks having been cleared as far as “Shahpur Kandi Project” is concerned and said, this will be a game - changer for the entire region, thus bringing about revolutionary transformation not only in agriculture and irrigation sector but also in the power sector. The Chief Secretary informed the Minister that there were no more issues pending as far as “Shahpur Kandi Project” is concerned. UJH Multi Purpose Project in the region of Kathua is also in the final stages, he informed.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh referred to a joint meeting convened by him of the three top Army Generals namely Lt Gen Suresh Sharma, Engineer-in-Chief, Lt Gen Shrivastava, DG BRO and Lt Gen Bhatt, DGMO with regard to the Chattergala tunnel which, when ready, will offer an all - weather alternative road connectivity between Lakhanpur via Bani upto Doda, Bhardawah. He said, since the tunnel involved a huge budget as well as construction through a difficult terrain, it is not going to be an easy task but the great achievement is that it has been included in the approved list of works to be taken up by BRO. He suggested to the Chief Secretary to follow it up with the concerned authorities so that it might be included in the priority list and expedited.
    
    The Chief Secretary also informed Dr Jitendra Singh that the State Government is ready to fully cooperate in setting up of North India’s first ever Bio-Tech Park in Kathua through Department of Bio-Technology, Government of India and the setting up of Radio Station at Udhampur by Prasar Bharti, Govt of India.
    
    It was also discussed that an MoU will be signed soon between the Defence authorities and the State Government to enable acquisition of extra land for upgradation of the Air strip at Kishtwar. This will create the option of landing of civilian and State Aircrafts in Kishtwar, he said.

    ******


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1511526) Visitor Counter : 265