      Ministry of Finance

      FM: Ask the officers of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) to keep pace with technology and use the latest technological tools such as data analytics in fighting the menace of smuggling of sensitive contraband items such as gold and narcotics among others.
      DRI celebrates its Diamond Jubilee on its 60th Foundation Day in the national capital today.
      Posted On: 04 DEC 2017 8:59PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley exhorted the officers of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), the premier anti-smuggling intelligence and investigation agency of the country, to keep pace with technology and realign itself to the ever changing economic scenario in order to counter and curb the menace of circulation of Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN), illicit international trade of wildlife and environmentally sensitive items, clandestine export of antiques and trade-based money laundering offences among others. The Finance Minister Shri Jaitley was addressing the august gathering including senior officers and staff of DRI among others at a function organised to mark the DRI Diamond Jubilee and DRI Foundation Day Celebrations 2017 in New Delhi today. The Finance Minister Shri Jaitley asked the officers to find new and innovative techniques to thwart the new ways of smuggling of sensitive contraband items such as gold and narcotics, and detecting import-export related commercial frauds. He asked them to continue to exhibit the passion and dedication in the light of threat of increased smuggling across the borders and multifarious means of commercial frauds presenting a challenge to DRI, and especially to use the latest technological tools such as data analytics in fighting this challenge successfully.


    Earlier, the Union Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley congratulated the DRI, its officers and staff on their past performance. He also appreciated the inaugural issue of DRI Publication ‘Smuggling in India Report’ released on the occasion and lauded the idea of presenting DRI Martyr’s Medals, done for the first time.


    Over the years, as an organisation, the DRI has carved a niche for itself in the field of investigation and law enforcement, adapting and realigning itself to the ever changing economic scenario. DRI occupies a position of eminence in matters of national security and economic health, playing key role in the Government’s efforts against black money, and in protection of environment and preservation of India’s rich and ancient cultural heritage.


    This year the organisation completed 60 years (Diamond jubilee) of its establishment. A function to commemorate the occasion was organised in the national capital here today. The Finance Minister Shri Jaitley was the Chief Guest of the event and the Minister of State (Finance) Shri Shiv Pratap Shukla was the Guest of Honour. Dr. Hasmukh Adhia, Finance Secretary and Ms. Vanaja N Sarna, Chairperson, CBEC were also present among others on the occasion.


    ************************


    DSM/KA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1511828) Visitor Counter : 165