      Ministry of Defence

      Flagging Off Ceremony : Army Organised Capacity Building Tour for Sarpanchs of Kishtwar to New Delhi and Agra
      Posted On: 01 DEC 2017 7:00PM by PIB Delhi


    As part of the Indian Army’s ongoing outreach programme to foster a sense of belongingness and spirit of national integration across the entire swathe of the country, a Capacity Building Tour, comprising of 22 Sarpanchs from Kishtwar District of J&K to New Delhi and Agra is being organised from 01 Dec to 10 Dec 17, under Sadhbhavana. This tour is aimed to inculcate a sense of affinity and to provide the Sarpanchs with a vivid outlook on the latest developments in the field of agriculture and horticulture and Panchayati Raj System, in other parts of the country.
    
    The tour was flagged off by Army official from Kishtwar on 1st of Dec. The flagging off ceremony was attended by civil administration officials and by local populace of Kishtwar, including family members of participants. Army officials addressed all the participants of tour and wished them bon voyage.
    
    During the course of Capacity Building Tour the participants will visit Indian Agriculture Research Institute, PUSA Institute where they will be introduced to latest development in field of agriculture and horticulture. They will be visiting office of DM Agra where they will be briefed about Panchayati Raj System. Apart from these visits the participants will also be provided an insight into rich heritage of country by visiting monuments like India Gate, Taj Mahal, Red Fort, Jama Masjid, Qutab Minar and Fatehpur Sikri.
    
    This tour will culminate on 10 Dec 17 and it is expected that on their return the participants would have inculcated knowledge of modern developments in field of agriculture and will feel a revived sense of belongingness towards the nation. The tour shall also spread a message of goodwill in Kishtwar district about genuine efforts being undertaken by Army by bringing the Sarpanchs of this district at par with rest of the nation.

    *****


    
    
    Col Aman Anand
    PRO (Army)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1511546) Visitor Counter : 111