      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Advisory Forecast for Rapid rise in Water levels of Rivers in North Konkan and North Madhya Maharashtra and Gujarat in association with OKCHI Cyclone and in Andhra Pradesh and South Odisha in association with Low Pressure Area
      Posted On: 05 DEC 2017 8:33PM by PIB Delhi

      
      Rainfall Forecast issued by India Meteorological Department for today and tomorrow indicate that Heavy rainfall is likely in North Konkan North Madhya Maharashtra and Gujarat State during the next 24 hrs in association with Ockhi Cyclone which is likely to cross the coast near Surat. Likely formation of a depression in Bay of Bengal with associated heavy rainfalls in North Coastal Andhra Pradesh and South Odisha on December 07 and 08, 2017.

        Due to this rivers in North Konkan, North Madhya Maharashtra and Gujarat State are likely to rise rapidly. The likely impact of these rains as inferred from rainfall runoff model run for three days advisory forecast is likely rapid rise in the river levels in the following basins as under:


        Godavari Basin: River Godavari and its tributaries in North Madhya Maharashtra in Nasik district are likely to rise. As the rainfall is likely to affect only a very small catchment area of this basin not much effect will be felt in the river Godavari and its tributaries.


        West Flowing River South of Tapi: Rivers Damanganga and its tributaries in districts of Nasik in Maharashtra, Valsad in Gujarat and Daman in UT of Diu and Daman are likely to rise. However as the rainfall will be only for one day no major flooding is expected in the basin.


        Mahi Basin: River Mahi and its tributaries in Gujarat may rise in association with heavy rainfall in the districts of Mahisagar, Panchmahal, Kheda and Vadodara. However, as the rainfall will be effective for only one day not much flooding is expected except for some rise in the river in the areas affected by heavy rainfall.


        Sabarmati Basin: River Sabarmati and its tributaries also may not see any major flooding. However, the river may rise in some areas which are directly affected in the path of the cyclone which would have weakened sufficiently by the time it reaches this basin.


        East Flowing Rivers between Mahanadi and Godavari: Rivers Rishikulya, Vamsadhara and Nagavali in South Odisha and North Andhra Pradesh Coast are likely to rise in association with heavy rainfall which is expected on December 06 and 07, 2017 in association with likely movement of depression over Andhra Pradesh. General vigil may be kept in these catchment areas in the districts of Gajapati, Rayagada, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram for rapid rise in water levels.


        Indravathi and Sabari Basins of Godavari Basin: Rains in South Odisha and Noth Coastal Andhra Pradesh may lead to rise in water levels of Sabari basins in Nowrangpur, Malkangiri,Koraput and East Godavari districts.


        Krishna and its tributaries: River Krishna and its tributaries such as Paleru, Munneru, Wyra alongwith main Krishna downstream of Pulichintala may get inflows in association with the rainfall in Krishna and Guntur districts of Andhra Pradesh.


        Pennar Basin: River Pennar and its tributaries in South Andhra Pradesh may get some inflows in association with rainfall over Coastal Andhra Pradesh in the district of Nellore in Andhra Pradesh.


        As the path of the depression is not yet well established, sufficient vigil may have to be maintained in Coastal Areas of North Tamilnadu (Chennai, Kanchipuram, Tiruvallur, Cuddalore, Villupuram districts) Andhra Pradesh (from Nellore to Srikakulam districts) and South Odisha during the next three days.


        ***


        Samir/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1511912) Visitor Counter : 97