      President's Secretariat

      President of India presents Pt. Ramnarayan Sharma National Ayurved Award
      Posted On: 04 DEC 2017 2:32PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, presented the Pt Ramnarayan Sharma National Ayurved Award for the years 2008-2014 at Rashtrapati Bhavan today (December 4, 2017).


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that Ayurveda is a holistic medical system for healthy living. It takes an integrated approach to the physical, mental, spiritual and social aspects of the human body, and their inter-linkages. Ayurveda and yoga are based on an exploration of the relationship between mind and body. The idea of ​​a healthy body being connected to a healthy mind or vice-versa is a powerful one. We should motivate future generations to focus on both aspects of the human personality – mental and physical.


    The President said India’s forests, mountains and villages are its main source of medicinal plants and herbs. Ninety per cent of the country’s medicinal plants and herbs are obtained from forests. More than 5,000 types of herbs are found in our forests. There is a need to preserve and protect this priceless resource. People should be sensitive to the protection of medicinal plants and herbs.


    Addressing Ayurveda specialists present on the occasion, the President said that modern lifestyle-related diseases are affecting people rapidly, and the world is looking to alternative medicines from India. Here Ayurveda can play an important role. The President said the specialists had a huge responsibility in establishing Ayurveda as a powerful medium for the prevention, treatment and management of such diseases.


    The Pt Ramnarayan Sharma National Award was instituted by the Ramnarayan Vaidya Ayurved Research Trust in 1982. It honours an eminent Ayurvedic scholar every year. The Award consists of a cash prize of Rs 2 lakh, a silver idol of Lord Dhanwantari and a citation.


    Please click here for the Hindi Speech


    *****


    AKT/SH/SBP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1511677) Visitor Counter : 398