      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NDMA to conduct Training of Trainers for Sendai Framework
      Posted On: 17 DEC 2017 4:44PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju will inaugurate here tomorrow the first national-level Training of Trainers programme to sensitise various Central Ministries and Departments on utilisation of Sendai Monitor for developing action plans for Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR).
    
    The three-day programme is being organised by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) in collaboration with the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction-Global Education and Training Institute (UNISDR-GETI) from December 18-20, 2017.
    
    The Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction (SFDRR), 2015-2030, is the first major agreement of the post-2015 development agenda and identifies targets and priority actions towards reducing disaster risks and implementing development that is both resilient and sustainable. India, being a signatory to the SFDRR, is committed to work towards achieving the targets enshrined in the Framework.
    
    In June 2016, India became one of the first countries to align its National Disaster Management Plan (NDMP) with the SFDRR, which clearly identifies regional, national and local targets along with short, medium and long-term timelines. Various activities are being undertaken across the country to achieve the targets identified in the SFDRR. It is important to monitor and assess the progress towards implementation of these activities.
    
    This training programme will build the capacity of the participants to utilise defined indicators to monitor the progress of the Sendai targets. Training modules at the programme will also enable them to lead consultations and train others on the monitoring of the Sendai Framework Targets.
    
    During the programme, various case studies on the implementation of Sendai priorities will be discussed to give a practical understanding of the issues to the trainees.
    
    Similar training programmes for State Government officials will also be held subsequently.
    
    Senior officials of NDMA and UNISDR, and participants from nodal Ministries, National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), India Meteorological Department (IMD) and Central Water Commission (CWC), among others, will attend the programme.

    *****


    
    
    NK/SB/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1512937) Visitor Counter : 1321