      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Outcome of seminars and conferences should be visible on the ground says Gadkari
      
      International Conference on Ground Water Inaugurated
      Posted On: 11 DEC 2017 2:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Road Transport and Highways and Shipping Shri Nitin Gadkari has said that deliberations and outcome of seminars and conferences should be visible on the ground and benefit the farmers and common man. Inaugurating the 7th International Ground Water Conference on Ground Water vision 2030 in New Delhi today the Minister said that Water, Power, Transport and Communication are the four major sectors which contribute to the national economy. He said “Now-a-days water is the most crucial issue for our country. Proper conservation and storage of water resources can increase agricultural income of the farmers, Industrial production and help in employment generation. Scientists and researchers should think of innovative methods for recycling of water and its further use in irrigation and industries”. Shri Gadkari said that geology of every district and region is different and region-wise micro planning is needed. Scientists should device economically and technologically viable solutions for water storage and conservation, the Minister added.


    In her address to the conference Union Minister for Drinking Water and Sanitation Sushri Uma Bharti said that rivers are flowing from thousands of years and there was no problem. Only for the last few decades we are facing problems of pollution and scarcity. She said the sense of responsibility has to be cultivated among industrialists, farmers and common man who are using river water. Water management should be taught in schools and universities, the Minister added.


    Union Minister for State for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal expressed concern that there is no proper regulation on the use of ground water yet. He said ground water regulation and governance are quite complex and need to be tailored to suit local conditions.


    Union Minister for State for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Dr Satya Pal Singh emphasized that an integrated view of water is required. Isolated planning on surface water, ground water and river water will be a fruitless exercise. He hoped that an integrated view regarding the aspects of water management will emerge from this conference.


    The conference has been organized on the Ground water issues in the country with the theme “Ground Water Vision 2030- Water Security, Challenges and Climate Change Adaptation”. The three day (11 – 13 December, 2017) conference is being organized by the National Institute of Hydrology (NIH), Roorkee and Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) under the aegis of Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Government of India.


    The aim of IGWC-2017 is to provide a common platform for policy planner, researchers, academician, water managers, professionals, industrialists, technocrats and young researchers and aspirants to discuss and present their view and vision on emerging issues related to ground water management in the face of growing challenges of the needs of the rising earth pollutions and anticipated impacts of climate change.


    Delegates from 15 countries are attending the conference and 250 research papers will be presented, including 32 Keynote papers. The Conference will take stock of present status and challenges of ground water management in the country under the changing water use and climatic scenarios and provide a common platform for policy planners, researchers, professionals and technocrats to discuss and present their view on emerging issues related to ground water management.


    NP/Samir/SKP/JK/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1512182) Visitor Counter : 133