      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Shri Giriraj Singh Launches Public Procurement Portal for MSEs - MSME Sambandh
      
      The Portal will help in Monitoring the Implementation of Public Procurement from MSEs by CPSEs
      Posted On: 08 DEC 2017 5:02PM by PIB Delhi


    A Public Procurement Portal ‘MSME Sambandh’ was launched by Shri Giriraj Singh, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for MSME, here today. The objective of the portal is to monitor the implementation of the Public Procurement from MSEs by Central Public Sector Enterprises.


    Shri Giriraj Singh addressing at the launch function of Public Procurement Portal for MSEs


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Giriraj Singh said that MSME is not given its due importance. He also stated that in the words of the Prime Minister MSME sector generates more employment next only to Agriculture sector. Shri Singh also said that 80% of jobs in industry is given by MSME with just 20% of investment. He appealed to the stakeholders to take advantage of the portal thereby fulfilling the mandate given to them. He highlighted the fact that such portal would gel with the ease of doing business and ‘Make in India’ initiatives of the Government of India. He also said that his government is ready to help the MSEs in all possible ways.


    Dr. A.K. Panda, Secretary, MSME informed that the Micro and Small Enterprises would be able to access the information about the products being procured by CPSEs. Thus, it would help the MSEs in participating in the procurement process.


    Background:


    The Procurement Policy launched in 2012 mandates the Central Government Departments / CPSUs to procure necessarily from MSEs i.e. every Central Ministry / Department / PSU shall set an annual goal for procurement from the MSE sector at the beginning of the year, with the objective of achieving an overall procurement goal of minimum of 20 per cent of the total annual purchases of the products or services produced or rendered by MSEs. By creating an online portal, the Ministries and the CPSEs can assess their performance.


    ********


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1512113) Visitor Counter : 416