      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Commonwealth Secretary General Rt. Hon. Patricia Janet Scotland Invites Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore to attend Commonwealth Sports Ministers’ Conference to be held in April 2018
      Posted On: 14 DEC 2017 7:12PM by PIB Delhi


    The Commonwealth Secretary General, Rt. Hon. Patricia Janet Scotland called on Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Youth Affairs & Sports Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore here today.
    
    During the discussion, Col. Rathore proposed the idea of a concurrent Commonwealth Youth Festival alongwith the Commonwealth Games. The proposed Youth Festival can be a platform for intermingling of youth of Commonwealth countries in an informal environment which often gets lost in the highly competitive environment of the games. “Having a Commonwealth Youth Festival alongwith the Commonwealth Games will augment the sport’s capacity to carry positive messages” said Col. Rathore.
    
    The Youth Affairs and Sports Minister also explained the concept the Khelo India scheme and upcoming Khelo India School Games to the Secretary General. He also explained to the Secretary General about the success of the sports in weaning off youth from militancy in the disturbed areas. He gave the example of popularity of football in Kashmir valley. Both the leaders also agreed to develop the virtual communities of sportspersons and the youth of Commonwealth countries where free flow of ideas will strengthen the bond between the sportspersons and future leaders.
    
    Responding to the idea of Commonwealth Community Cricket Games for under-19 youth, the Sports Minister said that similar results can also be obtained by having arrangements of training in each other countries. The weather appropriate training schedules in each other countries will lead to long lasting relationships among the young players and will also deepen the cooperation. Both the dignitaries emphasized that sports is a platform which brings people closer, barriers are broken on the sports fields and bonds established are forever.
    
    . The Secretary General extended the invitation for Commonwealth Sports Ministers’ Conference scheduled to be held on the sidelines of upcoming Commonwealth Games in April, 2018. Col. Rathore accepted the invitation.

    ***


    
    
    AD/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1512649) Visitor Counter : 138