      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Year End Review: Achievements and Initiatives of the Department of Sports during 2017
      Posted On: 13 DEC 2017 12:32PM by PIB Delhi


    The major achievements of Department of Sports (Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports) During 2017 are given below:


    1. Training Center for Para Athletes: Sports Minister laid the Foundation Stone at Gandhinagar, Gujarat for the first ever training center dedicated for Para Athletes on 5 th February, 2017. The center is proposed at an estimated cost of over Rs. 50 crores. It will have the World Class facilities where Para athletes will be trained for various International Competitions including Asian Games, Common Wealth Games and Olympic Games. The center will have the following facilities for Para athletes:


    (i) Indoor Hall (64m x 42m) fully AC


    (ii) Elite Hostel (100 bedded) fully AC


    (iii) VIP Accommodation for Foreign Guest (20 nos) AC.


    (iv) Open land for warmup.


    2. International Boxing Academy: A tripartite Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) involving International Boxing Association (AIBA), Boxing Federation of India (BFI) and Sports Authority of India (SAI) was signed on 1 st March 2017 in New Delhi to set up boxing academy at Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium, New Delhi and Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex, Rohtak.


    3. High level committee to resolve the grievances and complaints of women sports persons: The Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports organized a conference on 'Women and Sports in India’ in New Delhi on the occasion of International Women Day on 8 th March, 2017 to deliberate upon various issues for encouraging more and more women to take up sports. A committee under the chairmanship of AS & FA with representatives from athletes, an advocate and a senior officer of MYAS and a sports journalist (all women) has been constituted for this purpose.


    4. Successful conduct of 22nd Asian Athletic Championship, 2017 : India conducted successfully 22 nd Asian Athletic Championship, 2017from 06 – 09 July, 2017 at Bhubaneswar, Odisha. India topped in the medal tally by winning 29 medals (12 Gold, 5 Silver, 12 Bronze).


    5. Grameen Marathon: Ministry organized the first Grameen Marathon on 6 th August for the youth of rural area in Delhi (Nizampur village) with around 15,000 participants. It involved boys and girls from rural areas of Delhi and helped spread the message of sports and physical activity as way of life. Objective of such sporting events is also to provide a platform to talented youngsters from rural and tribal regions and to help them grow and provide us a chance to train them further so that they can represent India at world stage.


    6. Rural Games: The first edition of Rural Games or Grameen Khel Mahotsavwas organized between 28th August to 3rd September, 2017 in Nizampur village in Delhi. The Rural Games aimed at popularising the indigenous games like wrestling, athletics etc. and also had fun games like Matka Race, Tug of War for senior citizens to add the fun element in the games to convey the message that every age category needs to take up and practice sports.


    7. Launch of Sports Talent Search Portal: Sports Talent Search Portal was launched to spot the best talent from among the young population of the country, by the Vice President of India Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu at a function at the Indira Gandhi Stadium in New Delhi on 28 th August, 2017 in the presence of the MoS(I/C) YAS, Arjuna awardees and thousands of school children. The portal will provide a transparent platform for talented youth to upload their achievements. Shortlisted applicants will undergo selection trials and those who pass the trials will be offered admission to SAI schemes.


    8. India Australia Sports Partnership: During Australian Prime Minister’s visit to India, Mr. Malcolm Turnbull, five Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs) between Government of India and Government of Australia were signed on 10 th April, 2017 at New Delhi for developing the relation in the field of sports between both countries.


    Further, India and Australia on 12 th April, 2017 launched sports partnership in Mumbai aimed at increasing cooperation in sports. The partnership will advance India-Australia cooperation in four areas- Athlete/Coach training and Development, Sports Science, Sports Governance & Integrity and Grass-root participation.


    9. Empowered Steering Committee (ESC): The Ministry has approved the constitution of an Empowered Steering Committee (ESC) based on the recommendations of the Olympic Task Force, which was constituted in January 2017 for preparation of a comprehensive action plan, including short-term and medium to long-term measures for effective participation of Indian sportspersons in the next three Olympic Games to be held in 2020 (Tokyo), 2024 (Paris) and 2028 (Los Angeles).


    10. Financial assistance to Abhinav Bindra Foundation Trust: The Ministry has sanctioned Rs. 5 crore to AbhinavBindra Foundation Trust (ABFT) to set up a state-of-the-art high-performance facility for rehabilitation, fitness-training and sports science (“Facility”) at the Centre at the Padukone-Dravid Centre for Sports Excellence, Bengaluru. The Facility will be named as the “Sports Authority of India (SAI)-AbhinavBindra Targeting Performance Centre”.


    11. Stipend of Rs 50,000 per month to the elite athletes: On the recommendation of the Olympic Task Force, the Ministry has on 15.9.2017 decided to give stipend of Rs 50,000 per month to all the athletes selected under Target Olympic Podium Scheme to meet pocket expenses during their preparation for participation in international sports events .


    12. Revamped Khelo India Programme: The Union Cabinet has approved the revamped Khelo India programme at a cost of Rs.1,756crore for the period 2017-18 to 2019-20. This marks a watershed moment in the history of Indian sports, as the Programme aims at mainstreaming sport as a tool for individual development, community development, economic development and national development. The revamped Khelo India Programme would impact the entire sports ecosystem, including infrastructure, community sports, talent identification, coaching for excellence, competition structure and sports economy.


    13. National workshop on “Sports for All”: A national workshop on “Sports for All” was organized on 26.9.2017 at New Delhi with the participation of about 80 representatives from State Governments, National Sports Federations, Indian Olympic Association, Department of Sports, Sports Authority of India, National Observers, etc. One of the key objectives of the workshop was to bring about convergence among all the stakeholders and create a shared vision in order to harness the multiple benefits that sports offer. Experts from Sport England made presentation on community sports and gender equality. The Head of Talented Athlete Scholarship Scheme (TASS) of the UK made a presentation on talent identification and development system. Presentations on community sports were made by Magic Bus and Isha Foundation (NGOs)


    14. Successful conclusion of FIFA U-17 World Cup


    The 17th edition of the FIFA Under -17 World Cup was successfully held from 6th to 28 October 2017. First time in history, India hosted such a big international football competition. The Venues of the competition were JLN Stadium- New Delhi, PJN Stadium, Fatorda- Goa, Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium- Kochi , Indira Gandhi Athletics Stadium- Guwahati, VivekanandYuva Bharti Krirangan, Salt Lake- Kolkata, DY Patil Stadium- Navi Mumbai. Twenty Four Teams from across the world participated in the tournament. The Final Match was played between England and Spain before a packed YubabharatiKrirangan Stadium, Salt Lake at Kolkata on 28th October, 2017 in which England were declared FIFA U-17 World Cup Champions.


    15. Mission XI Million


    Mission XI Million is a joint programme, of this Ministry, All India Football Federation (AIFF) and Federation International de Football Association (FIFA) to popularise football across the country. The programme targets to reach 11 Million boys and girls across the country for promotion of football by 30th September 2017. Government of India has allocated around Rs. 12.55 crores towards the said programme and an equal amount will be spent by AIFF/ FIFA. Around 11 Million children have already been covered under the said programme. The programe covered 11 Million students, parents, and coaches as part of Mission XI Million Programme played an important role to popularize football in the country.


    16. National Sports University in Manipur:


    The proposal for setting up of National Sports University in Manipur was formally announced by the Finance Minister in his Budget Speech (2014-15) on 10 July 2014. NITI Ayog has conveyed in- principle approval for the project. This new Central Sector Scheme would be implemented in five years. Tentative cost of the project will be more than Rs.500 crores. The training programe of the proposed Sports University would be organized under Four Schools: School of Sports Science and Sports Medicine, School of Sports Management and Technology, School of Sports Education and School of Interdisciplinary Studies. The Four Schools would have Thirteen Departments under them.


    The Government of Manipur has provided the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports with land measuring 325.90 acres West Imphal District of Manipur, for the proposed University on 29.12.2016. Hindustan Steelworks Construction Limited (HSCL), the Project Management Consultant for setting up the proposed University.


    To ensure that the proposed University conforms to the best international standards and practices, Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with the Universities of Canberra and Victoria have been signed by the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports in April 2017. Pending finalization of NSU Bill, National Sports University Society established under the Manipur Societies Registration Act, 1989, will function as the university till such time the bill is passed. BPES and B.Sc. (Sports Coaching) courses will start from the KhumanLampak Sports Complex which will be the Head Quarters of the National Sports University Society. The plan is to take initially 60 Students each for the two courses. It is proposed to appoint one Officer on Special Duty (OSD) and one Finance Officer for the same apart from 16 Faculty Members to run the courses.


    17. Olympic Task Force (OTF)


    An Olympic Task Force (OTF) was set up in January, 2017 to prepare a comprehensive Action Plan for effective preparation of Indian sportspersons in the next three Olympic Games 2020 Tokyo, 2024 & 2028. The Task Force was entrusted with the preparation of an overall strategy for sports facility, training selection procedure and other related matters. The OTF has submitted its report in August, 2017.


    Members of the ESC will be Hony. Chairperson (Selection by the Government through search committee process);IOA representative (President, IOA as Member and Secretary General, IOA as an alternate Member); 03 eminent athlete representatives who have retired from active sports, preferably from 3 sports disciplines having strong medal prospects at Olympic level, to be selected by the Government from amongst National Observers; One elite coach from a High Priority sport to be selected by the Government from amongst the existing Chief Coaches or High Performance Director on rotational basis; 1 Sports Scientist and 1 Sports Medicine Director (selection by the Government through search committee process); One representative from Government and one from the Sports Authority of India; One High Performance Director (to be appointed by Government following search committee process); One Chief Executive Officer (to be appointed by Government following search committee process); The ESC can co-opt upto two experts at a time on need basis.


    *****


    AD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1512446) Visitor Counter : 4509
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi