      Ministry of Defence

      OCKHI Operations
      Posted On: 08 DEC 2017 10:17PM by PIB Delhi


    Southern Naval Command continued all the activities associated with OCKHI as hitherto for the ninth consecutive day on 08 Dec 17 over Southeast Arabian Sea and L&M islands. The search area was extended up to Maldives based on inputs that some Indian fishermen could be stranded there. Indian Naval Ship (INS) Mumbai which was on its routine operational deployment in that area was entrusted with the additional task to carry out search off Maldives. It has been confirmed by the ship that no Indian fishermen are stranded in that area. It has also been ascertained through official channels that no Indian fisherman has reached Maldivian shores.
    
    P8I aircraft of Indian Navy had detected some boats with fishermen at “Bassas de Pedro”, a traditional fishing area off Lakshadweep islands. INS Kalpeni was directed to investigate in the area, where it located 21 fishing boats with more than 180 fishermen. The fishermen and the boats were safe, unaffected by ‘OCKHI’ and wished to continue fishing in the area. INS Kalpeni, with six local fishermen embarked from Kochi, subsequently continued its guided search for missing fishing vessels for the third day off Bitra and Androth islands. INS Jamuna also continued replenishment of fresh water in excess of 14000 litres today at Kavaratti. INS Sharda has disembarked all Humanitarian assistance and Disaster relief (HADR) material at Minicoy. Assistance was also provided by naval personnel to repair Reverse Osmosis (RO) plant for generating fresh water and repair a Tug.
    
    Normalcy has almost been restored at Minicoy. A total of 83 packets of medicines were supplied to L& M islands till now through INS Shardul, Jamuna, Sharda and Trikand. A total of 8800 Kg food grains, 7700 litres of mineral water, 25 tons of fresh water and clothing for 1500 personnel have been supplied as part of HADR materials till date.

    ****


    
    
    Koc/114/Dec 17

    
    
    (Release ID: 1512159) Visitor Counter : 235