      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Water storage level of 91 major reservoirs of the country goes down by one percent
      Posted On: 08 DEC 2017 5:13PM by PIB Delhi


    The water storage available in 91 major reservoirs of the country for the week ending on December 07, 2017 was 96.444 BCM which is 61% of total storage capacity of these reservoirs. This percentage was at 62 for the week ending on November 30, 2017. The level of water storage in the week ending on December 07, 2017 was 96% of the storage of corresponding period of last year and 95% of storage of average of last ten years.


    The total storage capacity of these 91 reservoirs is 157.799 BCM which is about 62% of the total storage capacity of 253.388 BCM which is estimated to have been created in the country. 37 Reservoirs out of these 91 have hydropower benefit with installed capacity of more than 60 MW.


    REGION WISE STORAGE STATUS:-


    NORTHERN REGION


    The northern region includes States of Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan. There are 6 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 18.01 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 11.44 BCM which is 64% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 56% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 63% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the corresponding period of last year and is also better than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    EASTERN REGION


    The Eastern region includes States of Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal and Tripura. There are 15 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 18.83 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 14.22 BCM which is 76% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 81% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 70% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the corresponding period of last year but is better than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    WESTERN REGION


    The Western region includes States of Gujarat and Maharashtra. There are 27 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 27.07 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 18.96 BCM which is 70% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 76% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 70% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the storage of last year and is equal to the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    CENTRAL REGION


    The Central region includes States of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. There are 12 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 42.30 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 23.62 BCM which is 56% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 81% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 63% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is less than the storage of last year and is also less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    SOUTHERN REGION


    The Southern region includes States of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, AP&TG (Two combined projects in both states), Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. There are 31 reservoirs under CWC monitoring having total live storage capacity of 51.59 BCM. The total live storage available in these reservoirs is 28.20 BCM which is 55% of total live storage capacity of these reservoirs. The storage during corresponding period of last year was 39% and average storage of last ten years during corresponding period was 61% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. Thus, storage during current year is better than the corresponding period of last year but is less than the average storage of last ten years during the corresponding period.


    States having better storage than last year for corresponding period are Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal, Tripura, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, AP&TG (Two combined projects in both states), Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. States having equal storage than last year for corresponding period is Punjab. States having lesser storage than last year for corresponding period are Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Odisha, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Telangana.


    ****


    Samir/SKP/IA/JK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1512112) Visitor Counter : 136