      Ministry of Defence

      International Workshop on Physics of Semiconductor Devices: IWPSD 2017
      Posted On: 11 DEC 2017 5:45PM by PIB Delhi


    Solid State Physics Laboratory (SSPL), a premier semiconductor research laboratory of DRDO is organising the 19th International Workshop on Physics of Semiconductor Devices (IWPSD 2017) jointly with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi in association with Society for Semiconductor Devices, Semiconductor Society (India) and Society for Information Display. Chairman ISRO and Secretary Department of Space Dr. AS Kiran Kumar will formally inaugurate the event on 12 December 2017 at IIT Delhi in presence of Chairman DRDO & Secretary Department of Defence R&D Dr. S Christopher.
    
    The biennial event IWPSD is considered as a prominent international forum on Advanced Semiconductor Technologies. The event held in India provides an opportunity for Indian researchers to interact with internationally acclaimed experts. Scientists and academicians from international and national educational institutes, government laboratories and leading industries interact to discuss state-of-the-art in advanced semiconductor R&D. The workshop has always received wide international participation and serves as the principal forum for dissemination of semiconductor research in South Asian region.
    
    Semiconductor devices are used in the technological aids related to defence and space applications in addition to day-to-day consumer electronics.
    
    The four day workshop has a strong technical program covering most of the emerging semiconductor R&D fields with five parallel sessions which will cover topics of current interest including VLSI technologies, Sensors, GaN (Gallium Nitrite) Materials and Devices, Opto-electronics, Crystal Growth & Epitaxy, Photovoltaics, Display Technologies, 2D materials & Organic Semiconductors and Semiconductors for Quantum Computing etc. Special emphasis will be given on the role of semiconductor technologies in space, defence and civilian applications.
    
    Many renowned scientists and technologists from USA, Europe, Asia Pacific and other countries are participating in this event. Over 130 internationally acclaimed plenary/invited speakers will deliver talks on research in their field of expertise. In addition about 500 researchers from national Institutes like TIFR, NPL, IISc, IITs, NITs, CEERI etc. and other prominent Central and State universities would be participating in the workshop and over 500 research papers will be presented.
    
    A number of prominent Industries in the area of semiconductor R&D are showcasing their products on the occasion. A special industry session is also being organized to promote Make in India theme. The workshop would also provide a platform for exploring possibility of establishing semiconductor manufacturing in India by Indian and foreign ventures.

    ***


    
    
    MJPS/NA/RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1512199) Visitor Counter : 190