      Ministry of Defence

      RRM Dedicates to the Nation Two Crucial Bridges in Eastern Arunachal Pradesh
      Posted On: 12 DEC 2017 8:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Raksha Rajya Mantri Dr Subhash Bhamre dedicated to the nation two crucial bridges in Eastern Arunachal Pradesh today. The minister, who arrived at Mohanbari Airforce Station in Dibrugarh, Assam early this morning from New Delhi on a two day visit to the region, was received by Maj Gen Gajendra Singh, GOC Dao Division and Gp Capt V Ahluwalia, Station Commander, Airforce Station Mohanbari. The minister then flew to Rowing in Eastern Arunachal Pradesh where he inaugurated the two bridges. Out of the two, he first inaugurated the Injupani Bridge, a 140 metre long bridge on Roing-Koronu-Paya road, which is a part of Trans Arunachal Highway. The completion of the Injupani Bridge would provide an uninterrupted access between Roing & Tezu, both important district HQs in Arunachal Pradesh.
    
    The minister then inaugurated the Deopani/Eze Bridge, which is 300 metre long pre-stressed concrete balanced cantilever bridge over the Eze river at Roing in Arunachal Pradesh. Dedicating both the bridges to the nation, the Minister praised the commendable work being done by Project Udayak of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in this region. He appreciated the timely completion of these crucial bridges, which would provide round the year connectivity to the strategic Dibang valley bordering China. Lt Gen SK Shrivastava, Director General Border Roads brought out the hurdles faced by the BRO in the forms of turbulent flash floods and difficulty in sinking of well foundation in the bouldery river bed. At the end, Brigadier Rakshvir, Chief Engineer Udayak conveyed his thanks to Raksha Rajya Mantri for sparing his valuable time for inauguration of the bridges. The inauguration programme was attended by the local people including the various local dignitaries.
    
    MJPS/NM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1512418) Visitor Counter : 236