      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Doctors in Government Hospitals
      Posted On: 22 DEC 2017 3:55PM by PIB Delhi


    Health being a State subject, the responsibility for improving the functioning of the State Government hospitals is under the jurisdiction of respective State Governments. The information in respect of State Government hospitals is not maintained centrally.


    So far as Central Government hospitals under the administrative control of this Ministry is concerned, based on the requisitions received from various Government Hospitals/Institutes/Units, posts are encadred as per norms in Central Health Service (CHS) thereby increasing the number of sanctioned posts of doctors.


    Insofar as the three Central Government Hospitals in Delhi viz. Safdarjung Hospital, Dr. RML Hospital and Lady Hardinge Medical College & Associated Hospitals are concerned, performance of these hospitals regarding patient health care services is regularly monitored by the Hospitals/Government. The day to day activities in these hospitals, like sanitation, patient flow, hospital infection control practices, attendance of staff, etc. are supervised by the Medical Superintendents/Additional Medical Superintendents as well as by the Supervisory staff to maintain hygiene and sanitation.


    Status of functional and non-functional equipments is regularly monitored. In order to provide state-of-the-art facilities and basic amenities to the patients, latest high-end Test machines/equipments are procured by these hospitals as per the need arising from time to time.


    Besides the above, several steps have been taken by the Government to improve the overall satisfaction of the doctors working in Government Hospitals:-


    (i) Enhancement of retirement age in all four sub-cadres of

    Central Health Service (CHS) to 65 years w.e.f 31.05.2016 to retain the talent.


    (ii) Introduction of time-bound promotions for doctors under Dynamic Assured Career Progression (DACP) Scheme, upto Senior Administrative Grade (SAG) level.


    (iii) The duration of study leave to pursue higher studies/research work has been increased to 36 months for CHS officers instead of 24 months in other cases.


    (iv) The benefit of Non-Functional Upgradation (NFU) has been granted to CHS doctors.


    (v) The Ministry has started Foundation Training Programme (FTP) for newly recruited CHS Officers.


    (vi) Electronic submission of Annual Performance Appraisal Report (APAR) on Smart Performance Appraisal Report Recording Online Window (SPARROW) software has been introduced for CHS.


    (vii) Counseling pattern has been introduced for recruitment in GDMO sub-cadre.


    (viii) Annual Preventive Health Check-Up introduced for doctors over 40 Years of age.


    The Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare, Sh Jagat Prakash Nadda stated this in a written reply in the Lok Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513814) Visitor Counter : 587