      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Welfare of Tribal Women
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2017 5:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Government has adopted Tribal Sub-Plan (now called as ‘Scheduled Tribe Component’) strategy for ensuring overall development of tribal areas across the country while ensuring inclusive growth of STs including tribal women. While the major schemes / programmes for providing infrastructural facilities and other amenities like roads, electricity, water, education, health etc. in the tribal areas are implemented by the concerned Central Ministries / Department and State Governments, the Ministry of Tribal Affairs implements schemes/programmes which are primarily aimed at filling critical gaps in these sectors for tribal population. Ministry of Tribal Affairs while trying to ensure that women benefit equally from general schemes also has some special schemes meant for the benefit of ST women and girls as given below:


    (i) Scheme of Girls & Boys Hostels for STs: Under the scheme, Central assistance is given to States / UTs / Universities for construction of new hostel buildings and / or extension of existing hostels. State Governments are eligible for 100% central share for construction of all Girls’ hostel and also for construction of Boys’ hostel in naxal affected areas. The funding pattern for other Boys’ Hostel to State Governments is on 50:50 basis.


    (ii) Scheme of Ashram Schools in Tribal Areas: The objective of the scheme is to provide residential schools for STs to increase the literacy rate among the tribal students and to bring them at par with other population of the country. Under the scheme, State Governments are eligible for 100% central share for construction of all Girls’ Ashram Schools and also for construction of Boys’ Ashram Schools in naxal affected areas. The funding pattern for the other Boys’ Ashram Schools is on 50:50 basis.


    (iii) Scheme for Strengthening Education among ST Girls in Low Literacy Districts: This scheme is being implemented in 54 identified low literacy Districts where the ST population is 25% or more, and ST female literacy rate is below 35%, or its fractions, as per 2001 census.


    (iv) In addition to above, to maximize retention of ST students within various stages of school education and promoting higher learning, monetary incentives are provided by Ministry of Tribal Affairs in the form of scholarships such as Pre Matric Scholarship, Post Matric Scholarship, National Overseas Scholarship, Scholarship for Top Class Education and Rajiv Gandhi National Fellowship for ST students.


    (v) Special Central Assistance to Tribal Sub Scheme (SCA to TSS) (hitherto known as SCA to Tribal Sub Plan (TSP)): It is 100% grant from Government of India. Its objective is to bridge the gap between Scheduled Tribes (ST) population and others by providing support for education, health, sanitation, water supply, livelihood, skill development, minor infrastructure etc. It is a flexible scheme and supplements the efforts of the line Ministries/Departments.


    (vi) Grants under Article 275(1) of the Constitution: It is 100% grant from Government of India. Funding under this programme is to enable the State to meet the cost of such schemes of development as may be undertaken by the State for the purpose of promoting the welfare of Scheduled Tribes in that State or raising the level of administration of Scheduled Areas therein to that of the administration of the rest of the areas of that State. Funds are provided to States for various sectoral interventions.


    The Ministry has insisted upon the States, that in interventions under Special Central Assistance to Tribal Sub Scheme, and under Article 275(1) grants, one third beneficiaries should be women / girls.


    (vii) Adivasi Mahila Sashaktikaran Yojana: National Scheduled Tribes Finance and Development Corporation (NSTFDC), an apex organization under Ministry of Tribal Affairs is implementing this exclusive scheme for tribal women. Under the scheme, Scheduled Tribes women can undertake any income generation activity. Loans upto 90% for scheme costing upto Rs.1 lakh are provided at a concessional rate of interest of 4% per annum.


    Schemes being implemented by Ministry of Tribal Affairs for STs

                                                                                                                                         
S. No.  Name of the Scheme / Programme                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
1       Special Central Assistance (SCA) to Tribal Sub Scheme (TSS) (hitherto known as SCA to Tribal Sub Plan (TSP)).                    
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
2       Grants under Article 275 (1) of the Constitution of India.                                                                       
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
3       Pre-Matric Scholarship for ST students.                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
4       Post Matric Scholarship for ST students.                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
5       Girls & Boys Hostels for STs.                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
6       Ashram Schools in Tribal Sub-Plan Area.                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
7       Vocational Training in Tribal Areas.                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
8       National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education for ST students.                                                        
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
9       National Overseas Scholarship for ST Students.                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
10      Mechanism for Marketing of Minor Forest Produce (MFP) through Minimum Support Price (MSP) and Development of Value Chain for MFP.
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
11      Grants-in-Aid to State Tribal Development Corporative Corporations (STDCCs), etc. for Minor Forest Produce (MFP) Operations.     
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
12      Grants-in-Aid to Voluntary Organisations working for the welfare of STs.                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
13      Strengthening Education among Scheduled Tribe Girls in Low Literacy Districts.                                                   
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
14      Development of Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTGs).                                                                    
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
15      Institutional support for Development and Marketing of Tribal Products / Produce.                                                
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
16      Equity Support to National /State Scheduled Tribe Finance and Development Corporations.                                          
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
17      Research Information & Mass Education, Tribal Festival and Others.                                                               
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         
18      Grant-in-Aid to Tribal Research Institutes.                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         

    This Press Release is based on the information given by the Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Shri Jaswantsinh Sumanbhai Bhabhor in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha on 18.12.2017 (Monday).


    ***


    MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513037) Visitor Counter : 1462