      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Advisory for air pollution
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2017 6:11PM by PIB Delhi


    “A Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) for control of air pollution in Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR) has been notified by the Ministry. This plan specifies actions required for controlling particulate matter (PM) emissions from various pollution sources and prevent PM10 and PM2.5 levels to go beyond ‘moderate’ national Air Quality Index (AQI) category. The measures are cumulative. Emergency and Severe levels include cumulatively all other measures listed in the lower levels of AQI including Very Poor, Poor and Moderate. Actions listed in the Poor to Moderate category need to be implemented throughout the year.
    
    Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has issued a comprehensive set of directions under section 18 (1) (b) of Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1986 for implementation of 42 measures to mitigate air pollution in major cities including Delhi and NCR comprising of action points to counter air pollution in major cities which include control and mitigation measures related to vehicular emissions, re-suspension of road dust and other fugitive emissions, bio-mass/municipal solid waste burning, industrial pollution, construction and demolition activities, and other general steps.
    
    Air quality of Delhi is being monitored regularly through manual and Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations in Delhi. Improvement in pollution during this Diwali was observed as compared to last year. During episodic rise of pollution from 7.11.2017 to 14.11.2017 various measures were taken such as ban on construction, sprinkling of water, ban on entry of trucks, ban on DG sets, etc., in furtherance of GRAP.
    
    The air quality situation in NCT of Delhi in winter deteriorates mainly due to to adverse meteorological conditions such as low wind speed and low mixing height; and crop burning, which leads to episodic events. The measures being suggested are strict implementation of GRAP for handling the issues in short term. In the medium term, steps to address bio-mass burning, controlling fires at landfill sites, increasing public transport etc., are being taken up”.
    
    This information was given by Minister of State for Environment Forest and Climate Change Dr. Mahesh Sharma in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.

    ***


    
    
    HK/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513068) Visitor Counter : 1089