      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Cardiovascular Diseases in India
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2017 4:51PM by PIB Delhi


    As per a report on “India: Health of Nation’s State – The India State Level Disease Burden Initiative”, recently published by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the disease burden trends in States of India shows an increase in the contribution of Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) from 30% of total disease burden in 1990 to 55% in 2016. As per the report, Ischemic Heart Disease is the top cause of disease burden in the country in 2016.


    Unhealthy diet, lack of physical activity, harmful use of alcohol, overweight, obesity, tobacco use, inter-alia are the risk factors of Cardiovascular Diseases (CVDs).


    While Health is a State subject, the Central Government supplements the efforts of the State Governments for improving healthcare. Government of India has launched National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular Diseases and Stroke (NPCDCS) which is implemented for interventions up to District level under the National Health Mission. NPCDCS has focus on awareness generation for behaviour and life-style changes, screening and early diagnosis of persons with high level of risk factors and their treatment and referral (if required) to higher facilities for appropriate management for Non-communicable Diseases (NCD) including cardiovascular diseases.


    For early diagnosis, Population-based Screening for common NCDs including Diabetes and Hypertension, which are the biological risk factors of CVDs, has been initiated by Government of India by utilizing the services of the Frontline-workers and Health-workers under existing Primary Healthcare System. This process will also generate awareness of risk factors of common NCDs.


    The Central Government, through its hospitals augments the efforts of the State Governments for providing health services in the country. Under PradhanMantriSwasthyaSurakshaYojana (PMSSY), 6 new AIIMS have been set up and up-gradation of identified medical colleges has been undertaken which will also enhance the tertiary care facilities in the country.


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Smt Anupriya Patel stated this in a written reply in the LokSabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513026) Visitor Counter : 547