      Ministry of Education

      Quality of Research in Universities
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2017 6:51PM by PIB Delhi


    In order encourage research and development in the country, University Grants Commission (UGC) has laid out a number of schemes, award, fellowships, chairs and programmes under which financial assistance is provided to institutions of higher education as well as faculty members working therein to undertake quality research in almost all areas of knowledge across disciplines. These schemes include:


    (i) Special Assistance Programme (SAP);


    (ii) Basic Scientific Research (BSR);


    (iii) Universities & Colleges with Potential for Excellence (UPE/CPE);


    (iv) Research Scientists;


    (v) Digital repository of research and teaching material;


    (vi) Minor and Major Research Projects (MRP);


    (vii) Research Fellowships;


    (viii) Scholarships and fellowships in engineering and technology;


    (ix) Research awards;


    (x) Research workshops, seminars and conferences; and


    (xi) Emeritus fellowship


    The Government has also emphasized the need for promoting research that is socially relevant. For this purpose, two schemes namely Impacting Research Innovation and Technology (IMPRINT) and Uchhatar Avishkar Yojana (UAY) have been launched. IMPRINT focuses on research in higher educational institutions, with an allocation Rs.487.00 crore for a period of three years beginning 2016-17. The cost of the project is met to the extent of 50% by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) and the remaining 50% by the participating Ministry/Department. UAY promotes industry sponsored, outcome-oriented research projects with an outlay of Rs.475.00 crore for a period of two years beginning 2016-17. The project cost is met to the extent of 50% by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) and 25% each by the Industry and the participating Ministry/Department. UAY is the best example of industry academia collaboration.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    AK/RK/ QUALITY OF RESEARCH IN UNIVERSITIES

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513103) Visitor Counter : 687