      Ministry of Home Affairs

      “Visionary Summit” (Dr. Anandswarup Gupta Memorial Lecture Series) organized by BPR&D concludes
      Posted On: 22 DEC 2017 8:14PM by PIB Delhi


    Dr Anandswarup Gupta Memorial Lecture series, 2017, the Visionary Summit, was held here today to commemorate the 47 th Founder’s day of the Bureau of Police Research & Development. The summit was inaugurated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Kiren Rijiju earlier the day.


    Underlining that training is integral part of Police Modernisation, Shri Rijiju called upon the BPR&D to focus on the setting up of the National Police University National Police Technology Development Center (NPTDC) at IIT Delhi and the National Police Information Technology Center (NPITC) at Bengaluru.


    During the summit, Shri P. C. Halder, former DIB, spoke about the emerging challenges and the need for predictive policing. He highlighted the importance of data storage and data management in effective predictive policing. Legal issues, issues of privacy should also be considered before engaging in predictive policing. Ms. Satwant Atwal, IG, BSF presented the various initiatives taken by BSF in efficient border management through predictive policing. The key to the various challenges posed to police today can be through smart and safe technologies and not by increasing the number of police personnel at the border. Shri Alok Bansal, Director, India Foundation, deliberated on the necessity of cadre management at the lower rungs of police structure. He said that the BPR&D as a Think Tank must tackle various ideologies relating to terrorism and insurgency.


    During the second session on Public Perception of Police and the need for Standardization in delivery of Citizen Centric police services, Shri Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, DG, CRPF, spoke about the need to transform the police force to a citizen centric service. Shri Shekhar Gupta, Chairman, The Print said that in India, progress and reformation has taken place in all areas of governance except in the areas of Land and policing, welfare of policemen and police station infrastructure needs more attention.


    Shri Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog, during the concluding session on Neo-Policing Formats for Developing Incredible India and Smart Cities, said that for an innovative and sustainable Urbanization, the police must integrate themselves with the emerging smart cities. For an Incredible India, BPR&D must take the initiative in changing the perception of security scenario of India, prepare an index for ranking of states for their preparedness to counter crime, terrorism etc, engage in modernization of police forces etc. NITI Aayog would render all required assistance to BPR&D in these initiatives. Shri Sudhir Pratap Singh, DG, NSG, highlighted the important role of BPR&D as the think Tank to the Indian Police. Dr. A. P. Maheshwari, DG, BPR&D, said that BPR&D is collaborating with various stakeholders and knowledge partners in establishing itself as a Think Tank.


    The event was attended by serving police officers, retired police officers, representatives from think tanks, Ministries etc.


    ***


    NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513925) Visitor Counter : 534