      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      Infrastructure Project Cost
      
      Monitoring of Central Sector Infrastructure Projects costing over 150 crores
      
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2017 1:32PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, monitors on-going Central Sector Infrastructure Projects costing Rs. 150 crore and above on time and cost overruns on the basis of information provided by the project implementation agencies. As on 01.10.2017, a total of 1263 projects were on the monitor of this Ministry. Of these, 297 are showing time overruns, 350 are showing cost overruns and 103 are showing both time and cost overruns. These 350 projects showing cost overrun of Rs. 2.65 lakh crore. The Project-wise details of 350 projects showing cost overruns are available at www.cspm.gov.in/publications.


    Causes for time overruns are project-specific and depends on a variety of technical, financial and administrative factors. As reported by the project implementing agencies on this Ministry’s On-line Computerized Monitoring System (OCMS), the main reasons for delay in timely completion of the Projects are: delay in land acquisition, delay in environment and forest clearances, funding constraints, rehabilitation and resettlement issues, local body / municipal permissions, utility shifting, contractual issues, etc. The Project-wise details of delayed projectsare available at www.cspm.gov.in/publications.


    The range of delay in these 297delayed projects is 1-261 months.


    The major steps undertaken to ensure completion of Central Sector Infrastructure Projects without time and cost overruns include; rigorous project appraisal; On-line Computerized Monitoring System (OCMS) for better monitoring; setting up of Revised Cost Committees in the Ministries for fixation of responsibility for time and cost overruns; regular review of infrastructure projects by the concerned administrative Ministries; and setting up of Central Sector Projects Coordination Committees (CSPCCs) in the States under the Chief Secretaries for removal of bottlenecks and for facilitating the speedy implementation of major projects.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Statistics and Programme Implementation Shri Vijay Goel in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    RDS/sk


    

    
    (Release ID: 1513569) Visitor Counter : 206