      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Welfare Schemes for Economically Backward Classes
      Posted On: 19 DEC 2017 3:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government is implementing following Schemes for Economically Backward Classes (EBCs):-

     1. Dr. Ambedkar Central Sector Scheme of Interest Subsidy on Educational Loans for Overseas Studies for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and Economically Backward Classes (EBCs).
     2. Dr. Ambedkar Centrally Sponsored Post-Matric Scholarship for the Economically Backward Classes (EBC) Students.

    In addition from the year 2017-18, Central Sector Scheme of Assistance to Voluntary Organizations working for welfare of OBC has been revised with focus on skill development and has been launched as “Assistance for Skill Development of OBCs/DNTs/EBCs”, involving National Backward Classes Finance and Development Corporation.


    Under the Dr. Ambedkar Centrally Sponsored Post-Matric Scholarship for the Economically Backward Classes, the scholarship inter-alia includes reimbursement of compulsory non-refundable fees to EBC students.


    As regards concession in requisite fees in employment and other sectors, the extant rules provide concession to such classes which are covered under Constitutional provisions.


    Dr. Ambedkar Central Sector Scheme of Interest Subsidy on Educational Loans for Overseas Studies for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and Economically Backward Classes (EBCs)


    The objective of the scheme is to award interest subsidy to meritorious OBC and EBC students so as to provide them better opportunities for higher education abroad and enhance their employability. To be eligible under the scheme, a student should come under the income ceiling of Rs. 3.00 lakh per annum for OBCs and for EBCs it is Rs 1.00 lakh per annum. 50 % of the outlay every year is earmarked for Girl students. The students should have secured admission in the approved courses at Masters, M.Phil or Ph.D levels abroad. He/She should have availed loan from a scheduled bank under the Education Loan Scheme of the Indian Banks Association (IBA) for the purpose.


    Under the scheme, interest payable by the students availing the education loans of the IBA for the period of moratorium (i.e. course period, plus one year or six months after getting job, whichever is earlier) as prescribed under the Education Loan Scheme of the IBA, shall be borne by the Government of India. After the period of moratorium is over, the interest on the outstanding loan amount shall be paid by the student, in accordance with the existing Educational Loan Scheme as may be amended from time to time. The candidate will bear the Principal installments and interest beyond moratorium period. The Scheme was launched in 2014-15. The Canara Bank has been nominated as Nodal Bank under the Scheme.


    Dr. Ambedkar Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Post-Matric Scholarship for the Economically Backward Classes (EBC) Students.


    This is a Centrally Sponsored Scheme being implemented through the State Government and Union Territories w.e.f. 2014-15. The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to the EBC students studying at post-matriculation or post-secondary stage. The income ceiling of parents/guardians for eligibility is Rs.1.00 lakh per annum (including self-income, if employed).


    The Scheme is a “Funds-Limited” Scheme. The funds will be released to the States on first-come first-served basis, subject to a maximum amount to be worked out every year based on total budget made available that year, under the scheme.


    Assistance for Skill Development of OBCs/DNTs/EBCs


    The aim of the scheme is to involve the voluntary sector and National Backward Classes Finance and Development Corporation (NBCFDC) to improve educational and socio- economic conditions of the target group i.e. OBCs/DNTs/EBCs, with a view to upgrade their skill to enable them to start income generating activities on their own or get gainfully employed in some sector or the other. The Government of India meets 90% of the approved expenditure of the training programme. The scheme has been revised in 2017-18 with focus on skill development. Moreover, the scheme has been made completely online from 2014-15.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E-2/19-12-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513170) Visitor Counter : 1009
    
    
    
    
    

2.