      Ministry of Textiles

      22nd AEPC Export Awards 2016-17 presentation ceremony held
      Posted On: 19 DEC 2017 4:15PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister for Textiles and Information & Broadcasting, Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani said that the Ministry of Textiles is implementing a Knowledge Network Management System (KNMS) to facilitate exchange of knowledge amongst academia, farming community and the industry on the productivity of natural fibres and diversification of their bye-products. This is one of the follow-up actions taken by the Government, to carry forward the success of the mega textiles trade event, Textiles India 2017.The Minister said this, at the presentation ceremony of the 22 nd AEPC Export Awards 2016-’17, in New Delhi on 18 th December, 2017.


    The Textiles Minister said that focussed attention is being given to improve market access of Indian exporters, and that the Government is looking at solutions for all parts of the sector. Smt. Irani said that huge focus is being laid on up-skilling of various people involved in the textiles sector. She added that the Ministry is working on a policy measure that would be a shot in the arm for the silk and jute sectors. The Minister also extended her heartiest congratulations to the winners of the awards.


    The Commerce and Industry Minister Shri Suresh Prabhu said that the Ministry has been taking various measures to enable the textiles sector realize its potential. He highlighted the importance of global trade in fostering growth, and the role of market research in discovering new territories and coming up with new products. He ensured the industry that the Government is working on facilitating the industry in accessing new markets through various bilateral and multilateral dialogues and negotiations.


    Talking about the awards, Minister of State, Textiles, Shri Ajay Tamta complimented AEPC for honouring apparel exporters who have excelled in export performance. He recalled the importance of the apparel Industry in providing livelihood to a large number of skilled and semi-skilled workers in the country.


    CEO, NITI Aayog, Shri Amitabh Kant said that textiles sector is important since it provides growth with jobs. He said that the Aayog accords a great importance to the textile and apparel sector due to this reason.


    The 22nd AEPC Export Awards 2016-17 were held at a glittering ceremony in Hotel Le Meridien, New Delhi. The awards recognized the top achievers of the apparel industry across a wide range of KPIs and rewarded the best performers in a total of 18 categories.


    Chairman, Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC), Shri Ashok Rajani, leading garment exporters of the country and AEPC officials were among others present on the occasion.


    About The Awards


    AEPC Export Awards pay tribute to the success and innovative approaches of Indian apparel export companies. Extending across diverse product categories and including both long-established and start-up companies, the awards are a celebration of the contributions exporters have made to the industry and, in turn, the national economy. This year, AEPC recognized the achievers from the apparel Industry in a total of eighteen categories and for the first time, AEPC Export Awards included two new award categories viz. for sustainability and good practices.


    ***


    DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513178) Visitor Counter : 544