      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh attends 54th Anniversary Parade of SSB
      Posted On: 23 DEC 2017 6:21PM by PIB Delhi


    Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) celebrated its 54 th Anniversary in its grand campus amidst imposing settings at 25 th Battalion, here today. Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh took the salute of the splendid parade as Chief Guest and inspected the impressive parade with Shri Rajni Kant Mishra, Director General, SSB. The Anniversary function was further followed by brilliant and disciplined march past of the smartly dressed Force personnel representing all seven Frontiers and one Mahila contingent of SSB.


    After the parade, the Union Home Minister awarded President’s Police Medal for Gallantry ( Posthumously) to Late CT/GD Shri Sanjeet Kumar and the Gallantry Medal was received by his wife Smt. Manu Sharma. Late CT/GD Shri Sanjeet Kumar bravely laid down his life for the motherland while fighting against Naxals in Dumka, Jharkhand in the year 2015. He also felicitated four awardees for President Police Medal for distinguished service and 23 awardees for Indian Police Medal for meritorious service in true acknowledgment of their selfless and unwavering service to the Nation. He also awarded four SSB personnel with Union Home Minister Medal for Excellence in Training.


    Later, the vivid and stunning display of SSB troops, Dog squad, Dare Devil team, Parkour event were captivating and exhilarating. SSB Martyrs were honoured by introducing a Tableau called “Pride of India” on parade to commemorate the sacrifices of the bravehearts in the line of their duties.


    Union Home Minister in his address appreciated the discipline, dedication and synchronization shown by the SSB Jawans and Mahila contingent in their parade and March past.


    Shri Rajnath Singh applauded and praised SSB for serving the Nation with the motto of “Service, Security and Brotherhood” wherever it has been deployed since its inception in the year 1963. He further said that he personally witnessed the people friendly approach followed by SSB in true words and spirit in its work culture and ethos during his visit to the 36 th Battalion SSB, Gayzing, Sikkim.


    He said that SSB has become the second largest Border Guarding Force of the country by raising and with operationalization of its all 73 Battalions in a very short span of time. He further said that with the approval of cadre review faster promotional avenues will open up for SSB personnel and it will surely infuse more zeal and enthusiasm among the Force personnel.


    The Union Home Minister also commended the unprecedented and exceptional achievements of SSB against perpetrators of various crimes, drug peddlers, illegal arms, FICN, wildlife and prohibited items on the border and he categorically applauded the efforts of SSB in seizing contraband and prohibited items valuing more than Rs. 700 crores and apprehending 7,233 offenders till date in the year 2017. He also appreciated the initiatives of SSB in operationalization of 18 Rescue and Relief Teams at its all Sector Headquarters to enhance the capabilities of the Force in its area of responsibility as first responder in case of any disaster.


    He also appreciated the ongoing crusade and campaign of SSB against the menace & evils of human trafficking and child labour. He expressed his happiness that SSB has signed an MoU with National Skill Development Corporation to impart training to the victims rescued from human traffickers and make them self-sufficient.


    He said that SSB is the first Border Guarding Force of the Nation to induct women in the year 2007 for border guarding duties and today 1,854 women are serving in SSB. He expressed his happiness that wherever important duties have been assigned to these women Force personnel they have proved and established their steadfast perseverance and commitment for their assigned duties and they are working tirelessly along with their male counterparts in apprehension of anti-national elements.


    He declared that Rupees one crore will be given to the CAPF personnel who lost their lives in the line of duty since January, 2016. He also said that MHA is seriously contemplating on the proposal to help those CAPF personnel who had got injured while performing duties particularly to those who have become more than 50% disabled. He also announced grant of Rs. 10,000/- per annum for uniforms will be given to all CAPF personnel as per the recommendation of 7 th Pay Commission.


    On this occasion, Shri Rajnath Singh released a SSB Souvenir consisting of various informative and educative articles of retired and serving Force personnel.


    Shri Rajni Kant Mishra, Director General, SSB in his welcome speech thanked and conveyed his gratitude to Union Home Minister for gracing the occasion of 54 th Anniversary of SSB. He further highlighted the glorious past of SSB and elaborated the achievements and initiatives taken by SSB for effective border management on open and porous Indo-Nepal and Indo-Bhutan borders. He thanked the Union Home Minster for approval of the cadre review proposal of combatized and non-cobatized personnel. He also informed that modernization of the Force is on anvil and under current modernization plan Netra-2 UAVs have been purchased and Bullet Proof vehicles, Mine Protected Vehicles, Patrolling vehicle including Motorcycles, Modern Assault Rifles, Night Vision devices and Communication devices are being purchased soon to strengthen the operational capabilities of Force. He said that additional three Bomb Disposal Squads have also been set up to reinforce the SSB’s tactical operational powers in counter-insurgency areas of deployment.


    Union Home Minister later met a group of 46 girls & 130 boys, who reached Delhi from different parts of the country including the states of Bihar, West Bengal, Assam, Jammu & Kashmir and Sikkim under “Educational Excursion cum Study Tour” organised by SSB in its Civic Action Programme and “ Beti Bachao Beti Padhao” campaign. These young girls and boys hailing from far-flung and remote areas shared varied and vibrant experience of their Educational Excursion-cum-Study Tour to various places of historical interest like Amritsar, Agra, Kolkata & Bangalore. Union Home Minister wished them good luck for their future endeavours in Nation building.


    The magnificent parade was attended by Chief of the Army Staff, General Bipin Rawat, Director General, National Security Guards (NSG) Shri Sudhir Pratap Singh, Shri Sonam Tobga, Charge d ’ Affairs, Embassy of Royal Govt. of Bhutan and Shri Parshotam Kandal, SSP Counsellor, Embassy of Nepal. Delegation of Nepal Armed Police Force, retired and serving officers of SSB and their families were also present.


    ***


    NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513966) Visitor Counter : 1081