      Ministry of Education

      Identifying fake universities in the country
      Posted On: 21 DEC 2017 5:33PM by PIB Delhi


      University Grants Commission (UGC) has maintained the list of 23 fake Universities/Institutions, which is available on UGC website www.ugc.ac.in . In addition, Bhartiya Shiksha Parishad, Lucknow, UP; and Indian Institute of Planning and Management (IIPM), New Delhi are also not recognized by the UGC under Section 2(f) of the UGC Act, 1956. The following steps have been taken by the UGC in the last one year to identify such Institutions/Universities:


      i. Published public Notices on list of fake Universities/Institutions in Hindi and English Newspapers.


      ii. Sent letters to State Chief Secretaries, Education Secretaries and Principal Secretaries to take action against fake Universities/Institutes of located in their jurisdiction and identify such Universities / Institutes which are functioning in their State.


      iii. Show Causes Notices have been issued to the unauthorized institutes awarding invalid degrees.


      iv. Public Notices have been issued on illegal status of Bio-Chemic Education Grant Commission, Nadia, West Bengal and IIPM, New Delhi .


      Apart from the above, following fake Universities/Institutes have been included in the list of fake Universities maintained by the UGC:


      i. Institute of Alternative Medicine and Research, 8-A, Diamond Harbor Road Builtech inn, 2 nd Floor, Thakurpukur, Kolkata-700063


      ii. Viswakarma Open University for Self-employment, India, Rozgar Sewasadan, 672, sanjay Enclave, Opp. GTK DEPOT, New Delhi-110033


      iii. North Orissa University of Agriculture & Technology, University Road Baripada, Distt. Mayurbhanj, Odisha-757003


      iv. Sree Bodhi Academy of Higher Education, No. 186, Thilaspet, Vazhuthavoor Road, Pondicherry-605009


      This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satyapal Singh today in a written reply to a Rajya Sabha question.


      *****


      AK/RK/Fake universities in the country

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513705) Visitor Counter : 490