      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Training of trainers workshop on Sendai Framework concludes
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2017 6:33PM by PIB Delhi


    The first national-level training of trainers programme to sensitise various Central Ministries and Departments on utilisation of Sendai Monitor for developing action plans for Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) concluded here today.


    The three-day workshop, organised by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) in collaboration with the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction-Global Education and Training Institute (UNISDR-GETI), was inaugurated by Shri Kiren Rijiju, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs on Monday.


    During the third and final day of the Training of Trainers workshop, participants were given practical hands-on training wherein group discussions were held on developing action plans for DRR. Each group presented the modalities for developing DRR plan in line with the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction (SFDRR), 2015-2030.


    The SFDRR is the first major agreement of the post-2015 development agenda and identifies targets and priority actions towards reducing disaster risks and implementing development that is both resilient and sustainable. India is a signatory to SFDRR and is thus committed to work towards achieving the targets enshrined in the Framework.


    Discussions on monitoring and evaluation of action plans, and follow-up activities to achieve the objectives outlined in the action plan were held. Participants were also briefed about the defined indicators that should be used for achieving the action plan.


    A collective draft action plan for DRR was prepared as an outcome of the training programme. Participants were also asked to share their feedback, indicate the usefulness and suggest ways to improve the training for their line Ministries and Departments.


    Senior officials of NDMA and UNISDR, and participants from nearly 12 Central Ministries (Defence, Power, Mines, Health and Family Welfare, Housing and Urban Affairs, Road Transport & Highways, etc.), National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) participated in this workshop. Various Central agencies such as National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC), India Meteorological Department (IMD), Central Water Commission (CWC), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) and Department of Telecommunications (DoT) were also present.


    ******


    NK/SB/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513430) Visitor Counter : 517