      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      Ganga Gram Project to be launched at Swachhta Sammelan tomorrow
      Posted On: 22 DEC 2017 5:38PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation is holding a multi-stakeholder meet on 23 rd December at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi to formally launch the Ganga Gram Project under the Namami Gange Programme, for holistic sanitation development in villages on the banks of River Ganga.


    In August 2017, with active cooperation with the five Ganga States (Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal), the Ministry declared all 4,470 Ganga Grams Open Defecation Free (ODF). The Ministry is the nodal Ministry for the Government’s flagship programme, Swachh Bharat Mission. Since the launch of Mission in October 2014, the Ministry has constructed 5.2 crore toilets and has made 2.95 lakh villages, 260 districts, 6 States and 2 Union Territories, open defecation free.


    Subsequent to making all Ganga Bank villages ODF, the Ministry and State Governments identified 24 villages to be taken up as a pilot project to transform them into Ganga Grams. They will set the bench mark of cleanliness and integrated effort of development. These will be converted into Ganga Grams by 31st December 2018.


    Ganga Gram vision is an integrated approach for holistic development of villages situated on the banks of River Ganga with active participation of the villagers. The objectives of Ganga Gram Project include solid and liquid waste management, renovation of ponds and water resources, water conservation projects, organic farming, horticulture, and promotion of medicinal plants.


    An Advisory Board has been created as a policy framing and decision-making body under the chairmanship of Hon’ble Minister for Drinking Water and sanitation. Another Committee has been constituted as Project Committee for project supervision, implementation and co-ordination.


    Ganga Swachhata Manch, a forum of individuals, academicians, civil society organisations and the like, which has been formed upon the initiative of Hon’ble Minister for Drinking Water and Sanitation will also be launched tomorrow. This Manch has been created for awareness creation, knowledge sharing, learning and advocacy for the Ganga Gram Project.


    The Ganga Gram Swachhta Sammelan will be presided over by the Hon’ble Minister MDWS, Sushri Uma Bharati. Shri Nitin Gadkari , Hon’ble Minister for Water Resources, Ganga Rejuvenation and River Development will be the chief guest and Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Hon’ble Minister for Rural Development and Panchayati Raj will be the Guest of Honour. The sammelan will be attended by about 1200 delegates including 500 village sarpanches from Ganga States, State and District government officials, NMCG Members and Ganga Swachhta Manch volunteers.


    <><><>><>


    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513857) Visitor Counter : 1199
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi