      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Rapidly Increasing Pollution in the Country
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2017 6:19PM by PIB Delhi


    “The methodology for assessment of pollution in various parts of world is not same. Countries can be ranked on the basis of different criteria pollutants with different results. As such it is difficult to compare different countries since they differ in their various characteristics.
    
    The measures for abatement of pollution are taken under the provisions of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 and Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and rules made thereunder. Noise pollution is regulated under Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000 notified under Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. The Government has laid down National Ambient Air Quality standards and has notified 115 emission / effluent standards for different sectors of industries besides 32 general standards for ambient air, noise and water discharge. Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules has been notified and comprehensive amendments to various Waste Management Rules including Municipal Solid Waste, Plastic Waste, Hazardous Waste, Bio-medical Waste and Electronic Waste have been made for control of pollution in cities. Directions have been issued for effective management of solid waste and municipal sewage to 184 towns. Government of India is implementing Swachh Bharat Abhiyan which covers solid waste. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has issued a comprehensive set of directions under section 18 (1) (b) of Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1986 for implementation of 42 measures to mitigate air pollution in major cities. The State Pollution Control Boards have initiated steps towards implementation of these directions. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) in association with State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) / Pollution Control Committees (PCCs) is monitoring air, noise and water quality across the country under National Air Quality Monitoring Programme (NAMP), National Ambient Noise Programme (NANP) and National Water Quality Monitoring Programme (NWMP)”.
    
    This information was given by Minister of State for Environment Forest and Climate Change Dr. Mahesh Sharma in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.

    ***


    
    
    HK/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513076) Visitor Counter : 1083