      Prime Minister's Office

      PM to visit cyclone ‘Ockhi’ affected areas of Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala tomorrow
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2017 3:54PM by PIB Delhi


    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi will visit Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala tomorrow. He will review the situation arising in the aftermath of cyclone “Ockhi,” and the status of relief operations, at Kavaratti, Kanyakumari, and Thiruvananthapuram. The Prime Minister will meet with officials and public representatives. He will also meet with cyclone victims, including fishermen and farmer delegations.


    Parts of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Lakshadweep were severely affected by Cyclone Ockhi in late November and early December 2017.


    The Prime Minister constantly monitored the situation arising out of the cyclone. He spoke to all relevant authorities and officials.


    Defence Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitaraman undertook a visit to the cyclone affected areas of both Kanyakumari district in Tamil Nadu and Thiruvananthapuram on 3rd and 4th December. National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) chaired by the Cabinet secretary, Shri P K Sinha met on 4 th December and reviewed the relief and rescue operations in States and Union Territories affected by the cyclone.


    Government agencies both from the Centre and the affected States, including Coast Guard, Air Force, Navy, and NDRF were involved in relief and rescue operations. Relief camps were set up in the affected areas. The Union Government has released the second instalment of State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) to the Government of Kerala and Tamil Nadu in the current financial year of 2017-18 to supplement the efforts of State Government in dealing with the natural calamity. During the financial year 2017-18, amount of central share of SDRF to State Government of Kerala and Tamil Nadu is Rs. 153 crore and Rs. 561 crore respectively.


    As the influence of Cyclone Ockhi waned after December 5th, the Prime Minister took to Twitter to compliment central agencies, various state governments, local administrations and alert citizens for showing remarkable preparedness and assisting people during the adverse times.


    Earlier, through his tweets from time to time, he informed people of all possible assistance being provided to those affected. He also motivated people to assist fellow citizens in cyclone relief.


    *****


    AKT/NT/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513005) Visitor Counter : 1415
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Kannada , Gujarati