      Ministry of Shipping

      Setting up of Inland Container Depots
      Posted On: 21 DEC 2017 4:42PM by PIB Delhi


    Proposals for setting up of Inland Container Depots (ICDs) which are considered as Dry Ports, Container Freight Stations (CFSs) and Air Freight Stations (AFSs) are received from central and state Government PSUs and private developers from time to time. An Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) is functioning under the aegis of Department of Commerce since 1992 for giving single window clearance to these agencies for setting up of ICDs/CFSs in India. Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) has initiated action for development of dry ports at Wardha, Jalna, Nashik and Sangali, the status of Dry ports is as follows-

     1. Wardha:

    The Dry Port is proposed to be constructed over an area of 140 Hectares in a phased manner and Phase-I involves development of approx. 25 Hectares of the total area. Construction of the Dry port will take about one and half years.

     1. Jalna:

    The Dry Port is proposed to be constructed over an area of 180 hectares in a phased manner. Phase-I involves development of approx. 60 Hectares of the total area. Construction will commence after preparation of DPR for the project.

     1. Nashik:

    JNPT is planning to develop a Dry Port at Niphad in Nashik District. The present extent of land available for Dry port is approx. 100-110 acres. Construction will commence after the completion of land acquisition process.


     1. Sangali:


    JNPT is planning to develop a Dry port at Ranjani Village in Sangli district. The present extent of land available for Dry port is approx. 2500 acres. Pre-feasibility study of the project is in progress. Construction will commence one year after finalization of land acquisition process.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Shipping and Road Transport and Highways Shri Pon. Radhakrishnan in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha today.


    .*****


    NP/MS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1513649) Visitor Counter : 369
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

1.