      Ministry of Railways

      Measures by Railways for Safety of Passengers
      Posted On: 22 DEC 2017 4:43PM by PIB Delhi


    Safety is accorded the highest priority by Indian Railways and all possible steps are undertaken on a continual basis to prevent accidents and to enhance safety. These include timely replacement of over-aged assets, adoption of suitable technologies for upgradation and maintenance of track, rolling stock, signalling and interlocking systems, safety drives, greater emphasis on training of officials and inspections at regular intervals to monitor and educate staff for observance of safe practices. Preventive and predictive maintenance of the Railway assets is undertaken to ensure safe train operation. Safety devices/systems being used to prevent accidents include Electronic Interlocking, track circuiting, provision of Block Proving Axle Counters (BPAC), Colour Light LED Signals, Train Protection Warning Systems (TPWS), Mobile Train Radio Communication (MTRC), Dedicated OFC based Acoustic Sensing Systems, Vigilance Control Device (VCD), Fog Pass Device, usage of 52kg/60 kg, 90 or higher UTS rails and Pre-stressed Concrete Sleepers, use of vehicular digital types of machines for ultrasonic flaw detection (USFD), Technology of Alumino Thermit welds has been upgraded by introduction of Auto weigh method, pre-heating with compressed air petrol and 3 piece moulds, so as to upgrade the quality and reliability of welds. Electronic monitoring of track geometry is carried out to detect defects and plan maintenance. Steel Channel Sleepers on girder bridges is being used while carrying out primary track renewals. Further it has been decided to lay Thick webs switches, Weldable Cast Maganese Steel crossings on identified routes. Progressive use of Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) Coaches, use of Centre Buffer Coupler with Integral Coach Factory (ICF) Coaches, etc. Railway tracks are replaced on age cum condition basis through track renewal works which is an ongoing process. Other measures include training of loco pilots and other safety category staff, improvement of their working conditions including proper rest and periodic medical examinations etc. Besides, patrolling of tracks, footplate inspections and safety reviews at various levels, etc. are regularly conducted to continuously monitor and improve safety aspects of the Indian Railways.(IR)


    This Press Release is based on the information given by the Minister of State for Railways Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha on 22.12.2017 (Friday).


    ****


    AKS/MKV/DK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1513841) Visitor Counter : 1199