      Ministry of Railways

      Wrestlers of Indian Railways bring laurels to India at the recently concluded Commonwealth Wrestling Championship at Johannesburg, South Africa.
      
      20 Players out of 60-Member Indian Wrestling Team were from Indian Railways and all Railway Wrestlers were among those bagging medals.
      
      Indian Team as a whole bagged 59 medals, out of which 20 medals were contributed by Indian Railway Wrestlers.
      
      Railway Minister congratulates the Railway Wrestlers on their achievement.
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2017 12:27PM by PIB Delhi


    With continuing its winning spree and rich sports heritage, Indian Railways’ athletes have once again brought laurels to the nation in recently concluded Commonwealth Wrestling Championship at Johannesburg, South Africa from 15 to 17 th December, 2017, out of 60 players,(Men & Women) 20 players were from Indian Railways.


    Indian Team of wrestlers bagged 59 medals and out of these, 20 medals were contributed by Indian Railway wrestlers including Shri Sushil Kumar & Ms. Sakshi Malik , both Olympic medalists. Out of 20 medal winning performances, 10 medals in Free Style (Men category), 3 medals in Greco Roman Style (Men category) and 7 medals were contributed in “Women” Category by Railway wrestlers for India in the Championship. The highlight of the event was that all the 20 wrestlers belong to Indian Railways bagged medals.


    Minister of Railways & Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal along with Minister of State for Railways & Minister of Communication (Independent Charge), Shri Manoj Sinha and Minister of State for Railways, Shri Rajen Gohain, Chairman Railway Board Shri Ashwani Lohani and the President, Railway Sports Promotion Board & Member Staff, Railway Board, Shri D.K. Gayen have congratulated all the wrestlers including wrestlers from Indian Railways brought laurels to the nation. The wrestlers called on the Railway Minister yesterday i.e. 19 th December, 2017 at Rail Bhawan.


    It may be mentioned that India had sent two teams of 10 players each for each of the three styles (Greco Roman, Free Style and Female Wrestling).


    In the above championship, following 20 wrestlers from Indian Railways represented in the Commonwealth Championship:


    MEN CATEGORY:


    Free Style: S/Shri Sushil Kumar, Hitender, Jitender, Parveen Rana, Sumit and Bajrang (All from NR), Rahul Aware, Utkarsh Kale, (Both from CR), Deepak, (From ECR), Pawan, (From NCR).


    Coach : S/Shri Anil Maan and Rajeev Tomar, (Both from NR).


    Greco Roman Style:


    S/Shri Amarnath Yadav, (From NER), Anil, Hardeep, (From NR).


    Coach : S/Shri Sonu, (From NCR), Chander Vijay Singh, (From NER).


    Referee : Shri Sanjay Kumar, (From NR).


    WOMEN CATEGORY:


    Ms. – Gargi Yadav, (From NER), Sakshi Malik, Vinesh, ( Both From NR), Kiran, Kavita, Ritu Malik, Seema, (All From NWR).


    Coach : Shri Kuldeep Singh, (From NR).


    *****


    AKS/MKV/PM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513277) Visitor Counter : 347