      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Setting up of Residential Schools for SC Girls
      Posted On: 19 DEC 2017 3:33PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment is in the process of revision of the Scheme, 'Babu Jagjiwan Ram Chhattrawas Yojna (BJRCY)' for inclusion of one more component therein, i.e. 'Setting up of Residential Schools for SC Girls'.


    Under this component, residential schools for SC girls are proposed to be set up for class VI to XII students in the educationally backward districts of States having large SC population. The State Governments will provide adequate land free of cost for construction of school complex mandatorily. The Central Government will provide capital cost for construction of school complex and eligible recurring cost for the first three years. In addition, one-time grant for procurement of essential and non-recurring items like furniture, recreation, garden, etc. is proposed to be provided by the Central Government. No fund have been specifically allocated for ‘Residential Schools for SC Girls’ for the Financial Year 2016-17 since the revision of the scheme is yet to be approved.


    Under the revised scheme, a Monitoring Committee is proposed to be constituted to review its implementation.


    The Department of Social Justice and Empowerment is entrusted with the task of educational, economic and social empowerment of Scheduled Castes. To fulfil the mandate, the Department undertakes various schemes & programmes for providing scholarships, financial assistance for pursuing research studies, construction of hostels, loans at concessional rates of interest and implementation of Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Vijay Sampla in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E-3/19-12-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513168) Visitor Counter : 402