      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Vice-President of India Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu unveils plaques to mark the laying of the foundation stones of the International Exhibition-cum-Convention Centre (IECC) & Integrated Transit Corridor Development Project.
      Posted On: 22 DEC 2017 6:11PM by PIB Delhi


    Vice-President of India Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu unveiled plaques to mark the laying of the foundation stones of the International Exhibition-cum-Convention Centre (IECC) & Integrated Transit Corridor Development Project in New Delhi today. Speaking on the occasion, the Vice President said that IECC at Pragati Maidan will be a state-of-the-art world class complex. He said that such a complex was long overdue at a central location in the capital city of Delhi. He further added that the IECC project will strengthen and diversify the roots of trade within India, while also giving a boost to India’s trade with different markets of the world.


    The Vice President emphasised the need for such convention and exhibition facilities in other cities as well. Linking the initiative to Prime Minister’s slogan to Reform, Perform and Transform, he said it was aligned with the basic objectives of development and good governance.


    Commerce and Industry Minister Shri Suresh Prabhu emphasised the importance of such projects for propelling India into a new trajectory of growth and development. He said the facilities which are going to be created by ITPO as part of IECC, are really in the spirit of what Modern India should be. India will be able to truly showcase its prominent position in international trade and business through such exhibition halls. He said that the convention centre will be an exhibit in itself for New India.


    Shri Hardeep S. Puri, Union Minister of State (I/C) Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs emphasised the role of his Ministry in approving and funding the Integrated Transit Corridor Development Project which will lead to traffic decongestion in and around Pragati Maidan. This project will provide an alternative to Bhairon Marg through a 27 mtrs. wide six lane tunnel underneath Pragati Maidan connecting Purana Qila Road to Ring Road, while Mathura Road will be signal free from W point to DPS. MoS (I/C) said that IECC is going to be an iconic centre which will draw visitors for its own beauty and help Delhi assume its rightful role as a Global City where world leaders and businesses want to stage International Events.


    Shri C.R. Choudhary, Union Minister of State for Commerce & Industry stated that the Prime Minister has laid emphasis on development of infrastructure to achieve the larger goal of inclusive growth and development. He appreciated the role of Chairman of ITPO, Shri L.C. Goyal for construction of this landmark structure at such an amazing pace to be completed within two years.


    Shri L.C. Goyal, CMD, ITPO said that the complex would be a new landmark in the capital city of Delhi and more significantly a unique symbol of New India envisioned by the Prime Minister of India. He further added that it is a big day for ITPO, and it will be a bigger day when they deliver these projects of national importance and superior quality by September’ 2019.


    Other Dignitaries present on the occasion were Shri P.K. Sinha, Cabinet Secretary, Ms. Rita Teaotia, Commerce Secretary, Shri Durga Shankar Mishra, Secretary, Housing and Urban Affairs, Dr. A.K. Mittal, CMD, NBCC & Shri Sarvagya Srivastava, Engineer-in-Chief, PWD, Government of Delhi.


    ****


    NP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513879) Visitor Counter : 658
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi