      Ministry of Defence

      AFGJI HOSTS 32nd ANNUAL ATHLETIC MEET
      Posted On: 23 DEC 2017 3:55PM by PIB Delhi


    Air Force Golden Jubilee Institute, Subroto Park, New Delhi hosted the 32nd Annual Athletic Meet on 22nd and 23rd December 2017. Air Cmde M Mohanta, Principal Director (Schools Adventure & Sports) and Chairman Managing Committee, Air Force Schools was the Chief Guest on 22nd December and he declared the Meet open. The Torch Ceremony was conducted and the oath was administered to all the athletes. Then there was an astounding Aero-modelling display by the students. The Primary Wing students participated in the cultural programme and presented a fine display of dances and drills. The prestigious sports scholarships were awarded to the meritorious athletes by the Chief Guest. Mrs Bandita Mohanta felicitated the Primary Wing athletes who won in various sports events. Medals were awarded to the Special Wing athletes by Wg Cdr DK Kaushik, Executive Director of the school. Various races, jumps and throws were held on 20th and 22nd December for the students as well as the staff.


    The Closing Ceremony was held on 23rd December. The Chief Guest on the occasion was Air Vice Marshal MSG Menon VSM, Assistant Chief of the Air Staff (Air Force Works). After the Welcome Address proposed by the School’s Sports Captain Yash Chugh, an impressive March Past was done by the students. Thereafter, the Annual Sports Report was presented by the Principal, Mrs Poonam S Rampal highlighting the achievements of the students at the zonal, state and national level. After that, athletic events were held wherein the young athletes took part and displayed their sporting prowess. During the cultural programme, the Primary Wing students put up a dance based on Assamese culture and performed Yoga asanas. The Special Wing students performed an aerobic drill ‘Swasthyavardhan’ on the lively beats of ‘rapture’. The ‘Ghoomar’ dance by the senior students showcased Rajasthani music and culture.


    Mrs Lakshmi Menon gave away the scholarships and prizes to the exceptional athletes and the prominent trophies were given away by the Chief Guest. The trophy for overall Best House in Games was bagged by Arjan House. In his address, the Chief Guest lauded the efforts of the students for winning in sports and games like tennis, cycling, volleyball, net ball, skating, taekwondo, kurash to name a few. Thereafter, the Chief Guest declared the Meet closed and with the release of balloons and lowering of the flag, the 3 day sporting spectacle came to an end. After the Vote of Thanks proposed by School Sports Vice-Captain Shefali Arora, the national anthem was sung by all. The Annual Athletic Meet gave a splendid chance to all the athletes to showcase their sportsmanship spirit and also to play the games with zeal and fairness.


    ARG/BBS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513954) Visitor Counter : 804