      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Reforms in Agriculture Sector by Niti Aayog
      Posted On: 19 DEC 2017 4:31PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government is aware of the roadmap outlined by NITI Aayog for reforms in agriculture sector and doubling farmers income by 2022. The Roadmap presents a quantitative framework for doubling farmers’ income which has identified seven sources of growth. These are:


    (i) increase in productivity of crops.


    (ii) increase in production of livestock.


    (iii) improvement in efficiency of input use (cost saving).


    (iv) increase in crop intensity.


    (v) diversification towards high value crops.


    (vi) improved price realization by farmers.


    (vii) shift of cultivators to non-farm jobs.


    This Policy paper was shared with the States/UTs for devising a relevant strategy so as to realize the goal of doubling farmers’ income by 2022. Apart from the above, the Department has also constituted an Inter-Ministerial Committee for recommending suitable strategy.


    Agriculture is a State subject and the State Governments are primarily responsible for the growth and development of agriculture sector in their respective States. The role of Central Government is to supplement the efforts of States through appropriate policy measures and budgetary support.


    The National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) conducted “Situation Assessment Survey (SAS) of Agricultural Households” during NSS 70th round (January 2013- December 2013) in the rural areas of the country with reference to the agricultural year July 2012- June 2013. The information on unemployed farmers in the country is not available in the data collected during the above NSSO survey.


    The Department is working out specific interventions for promoting ancillary activities like bee-keeping and also finalizing farm sector programmes under the ‘Skill India’ programme to improve employment opportunities and to reduce over dependence on the agriculture sector.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Shri Parshottam Rupala, in reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    SS/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513185) Visitor Counter : 1498