      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Revival of Sick Fertilizer units and commissioning of New Fertilizer Units
      
      Indigenous urea production to increase by 72.146 lakh metric tonne per year, leading to huge reduction in import of urea: Shri Rao Inderjit Singh

      Posted On: 19 DEC 2017 1:39PM by PIB Delhi

    Minister of State for Planning (IC) and Chemicals & Fertilizers, Shri Rao Inderjit Singh, in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today, informed that Government of India is reviving 5 closed fertilizer plants of Fertilizer Corporation of India Ltd. (FCIL) and Hindustan Fertilizer Corporation Ltd. (HFCL) namely Talcher, Ramagundam, Gorakhpur and Sindri plants of FCIL and Barauni plant of HFCL by setting up new ammonia-urea plants of 12.7 Lakh metric tonne per annum capacity each using state of the art technology, in the following states : -

                                                                                                    
Sl No .  Name of Fertilizer plant                    Name of location & State where plant is located
                                                                                                    
                                                                                                    
                                                                                                    
1 .      Talcher Fertilizers Ltd .                   Talcher, Odisha                                
                                                                                                    
                                                                                                    
                                                                                                    
2 .      Ramagundam Fertilizers & Chemicals Ltd .    Ramagundam, Telangana                          
                                                                                                    
                                                                                                    
                                                                                                    
3 .      Hundustan Urvarak & Rasayan Ltd . ( HURL )  Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh                       
                                                                                                    
                                                                                                    
                                                                                                    
4 .      Hundustan Urvarak & Rasayan Ltd . ( HURL )  Sindri, Jharkhand                              
                                                                                                    
                                                                                                    
                                                                                                    
5 .      Hundustan Urvarak & Rasayan Ltd . ( HURL )  Barauni, Bihar                                 
                                                                                                    
                                                                                                    

    In addition to above, Cabinet on 21.05.2015 approved the setting up of a new ammonia-urea complex of 8.646 LMTPA capacity at Namrup within the existing premises of Brahmaputra Valley Fertilizer Corporation Limited ( BVFCL). Subsequent to commissioning / start of the above plants, the indigenous urea production will be enhanced by 72 . 146 lakh metric tonne per year leading to huge reduction in import of urea . The aforesaid proposal upon implementation / operation will bridge the gap between demand and supply of urea in the country, and will rejuvenate the fertilizer sector, Shri Singh informed .


    In a separate written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today, Shri Singh stated that commercial production from Ramagundam unit is likely to start by 2018 while from other 4 units, it is likely to start by 2020.


    Further, the Minister stated that under the provision of New Investment Policy (NIP) -2012 dated 2 nd January 2013 and read with its amendment dated 7 th October, 2014, Matix Fertilizers & Chemicals Limited (Matix) has set up a Coal Bed Methane (CBM) based greenfield ammonia- urea complex at Panagarh, West Bengal with the installed capacity of 1.3 MMT per annum. The commercial production of Matix has started on 1 st October, 2017. Chambal Fertilizers & Chemicals Limited (CFCL) has also proposed to set up a Brownfield project with capacity of 1.34 MMT at Gadepan, Rajasthan, which is likely to start commercial production in January, 2019.


    *****


    VM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1513144) Visitor Counter : 855