      Ministry of Railways

      Steps Taken By Railways to Provide Security to Passengers
      Posted On: 22 DEC 2017 4:35PM by PIB Delhi


      Policing on Railways being a State subject, prevention of crime, registration of cases, their investigation and maintenance of law and order in Railway premises as well as on running trains are the statutory responsibility of the State Governments, which they discharge through Government Railway Police (GRP)/District Police. However, Railway Protection Force (RPF) supplements the efforts of GRP in providing better protection and security of passenger area and passengers and for matters connected therewith.


      However, following steps are being taken by the Railways to provide security to passengers:


      1. On vulnerable and identified routes/sections, 2500 trains (on an average) are escorted by Railway Protection Force daily, in addition to 2200 trains escorted by Government Railway Police of different States daily.


      2. Surveillance is kept through CCTV cameras, provided at about 394 stations over Indian Railways, to ensure safety and security of passengers.


      3. Security Help Line number 182 is made operational over Indian Railways for security related assistance to passengers in distress.


      4. An Integrated Security System consisting of surveillance of vulnerable stations through Close Circuit Television Camera Network, Access Control etc. has been sanctioned to improve surveillance mechanism over 202 railway stations.


      5. Ladies Special trains running in Metropolitan cities are being escorted by lady RPF personnel. The train escorting parties have been briefed to keep extra vigil on the ladies coaches en route and at halting stations in long distance trains.


      6. Surprise checks are conducted in trains to ensure security of passengers and alertness of train escorting staff.


      7. Frequent announcements are made through Public Address System to educate passengers to take precaution against theft, snatching etc.


      8. Through various social media platforms viz. twitter, facebook etc., Railways are in regular touch with passengers including women passengers to enhance security of passengers and to address their security concern.


      9. Drives are conducted from time to time against the entry of unauthorized persons in trains and railway premises.


      10. Liaison is made by RPF with the State Police/GRP authorities at all levels for prevention of crime, registration of cases, their investigation and maintenance of law and order in Railway premises as well as on running trains.


      This Press Release is based on the information given by the Minister of State for Railways Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha on 22.12.2017 (Friday).


      ****


      AKS/MKV/DK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1513838) Visitor Counter : 1257