      Ministry of Culture

      Culture Minister performes Bhoomi Pujan of the 3rd phase of National Museum Building
      Lord Rama always been a source of inspiration: Dr Mahesh Sharma

      Posted On: 18 DEC 2017 5:37PM by PIB Delhi

    On the occasion of Museum Day, the Minister of State for Culture (Independent Charge) and Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Dr. Mahesh Sharma performed Bhoomi Pujan before starting the construction of the 3 rd phase of National Museum Building at New Delhi today. On this occasion the Minister also inaugurated an exhibition titled “Rāma Abhirāma: The Beauty of Rāma in Indian Art and Tradition”.


    In his inaugural address the Minister emphasised on the need to pass on the rich heritage to the future generation and said that this exhibition will be helpful in knowing the Beauty of Rāma in Indian Art and Tradition. He also said that the mesmerizing persona of Rāma has always been a source of inspiration for writers, painters and performing artists to create the various art works in different material and mediums.


    Dr Sharma further said that many of these exhibits are from reserve collection, which has been mounted for the first time on public viewing. Artisans have beautifully expressed themselves through the various mediums.


    The artefacts in the exhibition consist of bronzes and terracotta sculptures, wood carvings and miniature paintings belonging to different schools, gold coin and worship icons that reflect the artistic brilliance imbibed with devotion along with the masks, Pạtachitras, embroidered temple hanging, Rāma n ā ma n ā m ā val ī .


    The exhibition focuses on Rāma through the lens of emotions and sentiments and brings forth the visual representation of episodes from the Rāmāyaṇa. The exhibition also looks at Rāmāyaṇa as a living tradition and highlights it’s ritualistic and performance aspects. The story of Rāma and splendor of Rāmāyaṇa has been arranged on the basis of seven kāṇḍas, namely Bāla, Ayodhyā, Araṇya, Kishkindhā, Sundara Yuddha and Uttara. It also explores the spread of the ideas and morals of Rāma as it has been disseminated into folk and vernacular styles.


    On this occasion, Dr Mahesh Sharma also released Five Books by Prof. B.B. Lal, Former Director General, Archaeological Survey of India.


    ****


    SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513049) Visitor Counter : 271