      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Solid Waste Management Rules for Swachh Bharat Programme
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2017 6:13PM by PIB Delhi


    “Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs (MoHUA) launched Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) on 2.10.2014 which provides financial assistance to the extent of 35% (revised) of project cost. MoHUA is handholding the States and UTs in all aspects of implementing SBM and Solid Waste Management (SWM) Rules, 2016.MoHUA is mandated to take periodic review of the measures taken by the states and local bodies for improving their solid waste management practices. Thereby, MoHUA is supporting the States and UTs in formulating policy and strategy by deputing officials to the State Committees and assisting them in drawing their State Policies and strategies in consonance with the SWM Rules 2016. Further, MoHUA has also published the revised Municipal Solid Waste Management Manual, 2016 which is in compliance with the SWM Rules, 2016.
    
    The SWM Rules, 2016 mandate the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to co-ordinate with State Pollution Control Boards and Pollution Control Committees and review the implementation of the Rules. CPCB has issued directions to the secretary-in-charge of state urban development departments of all States/UTs for implementation of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and to constitute State Level Advisory Body (SLAB). CPCB has also issued directions to the commissioners of municipal authorities of 53 metro-cities and 18 state capitals and specifically to Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to direct various authorities of Delhi such as East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), North Delhi Municipal Corporation, New Delhi Municipal Corporation, Delhi Cantonment Board (DCB) to ensure structural stability of landfill sites.
    
    The SWM Rules, 2016 mandate all resident welfare and market associations, gated communities, institutions, hotels, restaurants, vegetable, fruit, flower, meat, poultry and fish market to ensure segregation of waste at source. Further, the Rules prescribe that as far as possible the bio-degradable waste shall be processed, treated and disposed off through composting or bio-methanation within the premises. The gas so generated may be used for cooking or for the production of electricity, heat/ light”.
    
    This information was given by Minister of State for Environment Forest and Climate Change Dr. Mahesh Sharma in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.

    ***


    
    
    HK/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513071) Visitor Counter : 1273