      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Regional Conference on Good Governance and Best Practices inaugurated
      Posted On: 22 DEC 2017 8:03PM by PIB Delhi


    The 2-day Regional Conference on Good Governance and Replication of Best Practices organized by Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) in collaboration with Government of Assam Department of Administrative Reforms was inaugurated today at the Assam Administrative Staff College, Guwahati.


    Inaugurating the conference, the Chief Secretary, Government of Assam, Shri Vinod Kumar Pipersenia said that there should be freedom for vertical interaction in the bureaucratic system which will promote innovation and create a congenial atmosphere for progressive administration. The Chief Secretary has made a clarion call for constant skill upgradition as the shelf life of knowledge is short. Society should not make government irrelevant.


    Addressing the gathering, Secretary, DARPG, Government of India, Shri K V Eapen, said the aim of organizing this regional conference is to give exposure to Administrative Reforms Department to some Best Practices. He said issue of good governance is a priority. It has to be taken on a war footing .The issue is simplification of procedures, process and Public grievance redressal. Digital India has now begun to transform the nook and corner of the country. He further said E-office is now enhancing public administration. E- governance is the core of good governance, Shri Eapen added.


    Earlier in the Technical session, there were panel discussions on State Collaboration Initiative, PM Awarded Initiatives 2017 and Responsive Public Service Delivery. In the State Collaborations Initiative, resource speaker pointed out that the objective was catalyzing promotion and achieving reforms at the cutting edge or point of delivery of Public administration. Under SCI, the strategy is to build collaboration with states government for improving public service delivery. SCI puts citizens at Centre stage, particularly the poor. It Builds capacity at District, State and Centre to ensure optimal use of systems and resources. On the Responsive Public Service Delivery, India ranked 107 out 193 Countries in 2016. On the PM Awarded Initiative, 2017, resource speaker from Tripura said that Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana is a Comprehensive Insurance cover against failure of crops to help in stabilizing income of farmer. It encourages farmers to be innovative and modernizing agricultural practices and income flow of credit to Agriculture sector.


    ***


    NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513918) Visitor Counter : 717