      Vice President's Secretariat

      Being Indian national is seeking a larger unifying identity rising above narrow
      considerations and hence, spiritual, says Vice President Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu
      
      Nationalism flows from a sense of unity of purpose and action, asserts Shri Naidu
      
      Notes that Shirdi Sai Baba combined elements of Hinduism and Sufism to propagate message of one supreme reality

      Posted On: 23 DEC 2017 4:26PM by PIB Delhi

    Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has stressed that being Indian national amounts to being spiritual as it is all about seeking a larger identity rising above narrow and divisive considerations. Speaking as the Chief Guest at the ‘2nd Global Sai Temple Summit’ at Shirdi in Maharashtra today, Shri Naidu drew parallel between spiritual quest and nationalism.
    
    Shri Naidu noted that Shirdi Sai Baba combined the elements of Hinduism and Sufism in propagating the message of one supreme reality of ‘Sab Ka Malik Ek’ (One God governs all) which he said is the principle of unity of human kind, underlying all major religions of the world. Noting that spirituality is all about seeking ‘higher truth’ to be at peace with oneself, Shri Naidu emphasized that ‘nationalism’ promotes a higher level of consciousness.
    
    The Vice President said “India is a larger collective and to be known as Indian is going beyond the identity based on birth, caste, region or religion and coming together for a larger cause. Nationality and nationalism are the instruments of larger unity and integration, uniting the people, thereby going beyond primary identities. This unifying principle of nationalism should not be misunderstood. To feel, think and act as an Indian or Bharatiya involves overcoming our primary and divisive identities. So, in my view, to be an Indian is being spiritual, as it elevates us to a higher level of identity and shared experience, purpose and actions.”
    
    Noting that Shirdi Sai Baba had shown the way to address ‘internal unrest’ faced by individuals, Shri Naidu said that India as a larger collective entity is facing a set of challenges on socio-political and economic fronts and the best way to address them is for all Indians to be united in effort in a spirit of nationalism. “This kind of spiritual uplift is needed for building a New India in which everyone is equal and has an equal stake”, he stressed.
    
    Shri Naidu further said that Indian civilization all along advocated the principles of ‘Sarve Jana Sukhinobhavantu and Vasudaika Kutumbakam’ and all the countrymen should work together inspired by this spirit.
    
    The Vice President urged the multitude of devotees of Sai Baba and others to take a pledge on the occasion of death centenary of Baba to carry forward his message and strengthen the bonds of peace, unity and humanity.

    *****


    
    
    BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513957) Visitor Counter : 634