      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Major outcomes in development of innovative products and processes under R&D Scheme supported Projects of MoFPI
      Posted On: 19 DEC 2017 12:59PM by PIB Delhi


    As per the National Accounts Statistics, Central Statistical Office, Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, the growth rates in the gross value added (GVA) in the food processing industries at 2011-12 prices were observed to be in the order of 1.60%, 12.82% and 6.87% during 2013-14, 2014-15 and 2015-16 respectively. As per a study, “An assessment of the extent of food processing in various food sub-sectors” instituted by Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare and conducted by Institute of Economic Growth in 2014, the level of food processing in India in 2010-11 was estimated at 6.76 per cent. As per the ITC Trade Map international trade data pertaining to the year 2016, India has a share of 2.22 per cent in world’s major food exports and 1.7 per cent in world’s food imports.


    Ministry of Food Processing Industries, through its “scheme for Research & Development in processed food sector”, has been supporting Research and Development projects in Food Processing Sector. Autonomous Institutions under the Administrative control of Ministry of Food Processing Industries i.e National institute of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management (NIFTEM) and Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (IIFPT) are also actively engaged in various research activities in the sector. These research projects/activities have resulted in development of various food processing related innovative products and processes. A list of some major outcomes in development of various food processing related innovative products and processes under R&D scheme supported projects is at Annexure .


    This information was given by Minister of State for Food Processing Industries, Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha today.


    ….


    Annexure


    Major outcomes in development of various food processing related innovative products and processes under R&D Scheme supported Projects


    (1) Automated line for small onion processing


    (2) Value added products from onion: peeled vacuum packed onion, dehydrated flakes and powder and onion paste


    (3) Nutritious and value added products from millets: millet idli mixes, puffed millets, ragi biscuits, millet based health mixes and pasta.


    (4) Non-dairy ice cream – coconut milk ice cream and millet milk ice cream


    (5) Carbonated fruit juices from amla, guava and grapes


    (6) Puffing machine and technology for making puffed rice/millets


    (7) Quinoa nankhatai, mahua nutribar for protein supplementation


    (8) New technology for converting sugarcane juice into powder form developed.


    (9) Tamarind dehuller and deseeder developed.


    (10) Technology for production of PUFA rich unsaturated fatty acid from fish oil (sardine) developed.


    (11) Technology for preparing snack food using flaxseed developed.


    (12) Carbon dioxide and phosphine fumigation technology in place of methyl bromide developed for pest management in grain


    (13) Strip based detection test for adulterants and contaminants in milk developed and transferred to 5 dairy companies.


    (14) Degradable polymer based food packaging developed.


    (15) Improved process of drying fish in north east India using herbs and herbal preparations using traditional methods developed.


    (16) Use of ultrasound technology for processing and preservation of liquid food (like tender coconut water) developed.


    (17) Technology for on-farm processing, value addition and safe storage of onions developed.


    (18) Enhancing the shelf life of sapota by value addition using osmotic and dehydration technologies developed.


    (19) Edible coating formulations to improve post-harvest quality and shelf life of fresh fruits developed.


    *****


    SBS/AK/AC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513138) Visitor Counter : 652