      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Ministry of Skill Development and Maruti Suzuki enter into an agreement to support Skill India in automobile industry
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2017 6:05PM by PIB Delhi


    In the august presence of Minister of State for Skill Development & Entrepreneurship Shri Anantkumar Hegde, in order to provide high employment potential trades related to automobile and manufacturing industry to youth under the Skill India Mission, Directorate General of Training (DGT), Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, Government of India and Maruti Suzuki India Limited signed a Memorandum of Understanding today. The Flexi MoU was signed by Shri Vijay Kumar Dev, Director General, DGT (MSDE) and Shri Mukesh Kumar Gupta, Vice President (Maruti Suzuki India Limited).


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Anantkumar Hegde, Honourable Minister of State for Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, Government of India said, “I am happy to be here and learn new things from you. This is a very important initiative and I am pleased to be a part of it. Maruti has been providing training at the primary level for the last two years and during our last interaction the company had expressed its intent about expanding their reach. I would suggest that, along with basic training, Maruti should also provide advanced level of training to those students who are interested in learning further. Right now the training program caters to students like 10th pass and 12th pass outs.


    There are various companies in automation and automobile ancillary industries that are run by entrepreneurs. These entrepreneurs need first hand training to run their business successfully. Maruti can design special courses for these budding entrepreneurs since skill training and entrepreneurship are essentially two sides of the same coin.


    No matter how much we do, our scope is limited by the system that we exist in. However, the industry is always ahead and has been like this always. Japanese companies like Suzuki and others are the epitome of ethics when it comes to their working culture.”


    As a part of the agreement, Maruti Suzuki in consultation with DGT will develop specific training modules as per need of the automobile industry. The company shall conduct courses at pan-India locations leveraging the facilities and services available at ITIs, regional training centers, training centers of training partners, vendors and dealers associated with Maruti Suzuki. The courses include Manufacturing, Automotive Service & Repair, Automotive Body Repair and Automotive Paint Repair. Maruti Suzuki shall also identify new courses as per the requirements of the automobile value chain and propose the same to DGT for approval. All these courses are to be approved by NCVT (National Council for Vocational Training) and it will award certificates to all candidates who successfully complete the course.


    The successful trainees will be eligible for employment in Maruti Suzuki or its business partners after due screening and fulfilment of selection criteria by Maruti Suzuki or its business partners. As on 15th December 2017, over 1680 students have enrolled for the course and this figure is expected to go upto 2400 by FY 2018-19.


    This association will provide an opportunity to the youth to acquire skills related to automobile and manufacturing industry through specially designed “Learn and Earn” approach, consisting a mix of theoretical and On-the-Job Training (OJT) components, thereby improving their employability potential. It will also contribute in the overall growth of automobile and manufacturing industry by creating a pool of skilled resources.


    All course content will be covered under CTS (Flexi MoU) and DGT will ensure that the assessment is done expeditiously on completion of course, by the appropriate assessing body.


    Maruti Suzuki will ensure that not less than 80% of trainees are placed with Maruti Suzuki or its business partners. The automobile manufacturer will also ensure the eligible trainees take up apprenticeship / higher education in suitable streams and shall also guide the students to become entrepreneurs.


    AD/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513061) Visitor Counter : 397