      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Flagging off of First Trial Shipment of Green Chillies by Air from Varanasi
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2017 7:21PM by PIB Delhi


    Eastern Uttar Pradesh is one of the potential areas for export of fresh fruits and vegetables, such as green chillies, okra, bitter guard, green peas, brinjal and mango and guava etc. Despite the potential of fresh produce in Uttar Pradesh, exports are not taking place due to logistic constraints.


    To address this concern, the Agricultural and Processed Food Exports Development Authority (APEDA) has sensitized exporters to source produce from Uttar Pradesh for export to various markets. As an outcome of this effort, one exporter has agreed to export green chillies and green peas from Varanasi to Dubai. Necessary tie up with importers has also been facilitated by APEDA. With the efforts of APEDA, facilities of custom clearance and phyto-sanitary certificate issuance at Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport, Varanasi are being set up, to facilitate exporters from the region for export of fresh fruits and vegetables. Spice Jet airlines has also come forward to facilitate trade from Varanasi by sending the consignment via Delhi.


    APEDA organized the first trial shipment export of green chillies etc. by M/s. Elite Oceanic Trading Pvt. Ltd. from Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport, Varanasi to Dubai with the logistics support of Spice Jet airline.


    The first trial consignment was flagged off by Shri D.K. Singh Chairman, APEDA today. The consignment was flagged off in the presence of Dr. B. Singh, Director, Indian Institute of Vegetable Research (IIVR) and representatives of NPPO, DGFT, the state horticulture department, exporters and farmers. This was the first consignment of vegetable exports from the Purvanchal Region of Uttar Pradesh and would encourage entrepreneurs to boost export of fresh vegetables from this region.


    APEDA an apex organization under the Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Government of India, is responsible for promotion and development of export of various agro products.


    APEDA’s export basket includes fresh and processed fruits and vegetables, alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, pickles, chutneys, guar gum, poultry, meat and dairy products, confectionery, cut flowers, food grains, aromatic plants, Basmati Rice and Indian Long Grain Rice and other Indian delicacies. India exports agricultural products to more than 80 countries. The export of Agro products for the year 2016-17 was to the tune of Rs. crore 1,08,284.


    NW


    

    
    (Release ID: 1513454) Visitor Counter : 555