      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Ministry of Minority Affairs – YEAR ENDER 2017
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2017 6:20PM by PIB Delhi


      Ø Creating employment and employment opportunities was priority of the Ministry of Minority Affairs during the year 2017.


      Ø The Budget of Minority Affairs Ministry was increased to Rs 4195.48 crore for 2017-18. This is Rs 368.23 crore more than 2016-17 Budget of Rs 3827.25 crore with an increase of about 9.6 per cent. The Central Government’s focus is on educational and skill development of Minorities.


      Ø The Ministry of Minority Affairs went completely online/digital.


      Ø Union Minister of Minority Affairs, Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi launched a portal for Private Tour Operators (PTO) for Haj 2018 to ensure that the entire process related to Haj becomes fully transparent.


      Ø Ministry of Minority Affairs had constituted a Committee to review the existing Haj Policy of the Government for 2013-17 and to suggest framework for new Haj policy 2018-22. The Committee presented its report to the Union Minister of Minority Affairs in October. The Committee started its work on February 15, 2017 and had a number of meetings to compile the information and finalise its report. It had extensive consultations with all the stakeholders, community leaders and general public. The Central Government lifted ban on women going to Haj without “Mehram” (male companion). For Haj 2018, a large number of women are applying to go to Haj without “Mehram”.


      Ø Increase in Haj quota benefits all states. 1 lakh 70 thousand and 25 people went for Haj pilgrimage in 2017. Haj quota of the states was released on March 9, 2017 and process for selection of pilgrims through draw of lots started from 14 th March. Saudi Arabia has increased annual Haj quota of India by 34,005.


      Ø Union Minister of Minority Affairs launched Haj Committee of India Mobile App at Haj House in Mumbai in January. Applying for Haj, enquiry and information, news and updates and e-payment are the main features of Haj Committee of India Mobile App. Application for Haj can be made directly from the App.


      Ø Ministry of Minority Affairs received more than 1.5 crore applications for various scholarships.


      Ø “Hunar Haat”, a spectacular platform of Ministry of Minority Affairs was held at India International Trade Fair (IITF) from November 14-27, 2017. About 130 artisans from 20 states & Union Territories participated in the Hunar Haat.


      Shri Naqvi inaugurating ‘ Hunar Haat’ at IITF-2017


      Ø Earlier, in February this year, the Hunar Haat at Baba Khadak Singh Marg, New Delhi, was visited by more than 20 lakh people from across the country. More than 100 artisans and more than 30 culinary experts from about all the states and Union Territories participated at about 130 stalls in the second “Hunar Haat”. The selected artisans include several state and national level awardees. The Facebook page of “Hunar Haat” was launched on February 16, 2017. A Hunar Haat was organized in Puducherry in September, 2017.


      Ø A meeting with the Anglo-Indian community from all corners of the country was held in New Delhi, with an aim of socio-economic-educational empowerment of the community.


      Ø A joint campaign was launched in January by the Ministry of Minority Affairs, National Waqf Development Corporation (NAWADCO) and Central Waqf Council to utilise the Waqf properties for socio-economic-educational empowerment of minority communities specially Muslims. The Minority Affairs Ministry has been working on different strategies for welfare of Muslim community, which include protection and development of Waqf properties .


      Ø All India Conference of Chairpersons and Chief Executive Officers of State/UT Waqf Boards was held in New Delhi in January.


      Ø The 75 th meeting of Central Waqf Council was held in New Delhi. There are about 4 lakh 49 thousand and 314 registered and non-registered Waqf properties across the country. The number of these properties will be increased after computerisation of Waqf boards.


      Ø A conference of Principal Secretaries/Secretaries-In charge of minority welfare in states/UTs to review progress of implementation of Multi-Sectoral Development Programme, scholarships & other schemes of Minority Affairs Ministry was organized in Lucknow. The purpose of the conference was to review the efficacy of the various schemes of the Ministry implemented during the 12 th Five Year Plan and to seek suggestions from the states for their implementation during the remaining period of the 14 th Finance Commission (from 2017-18 to 2019-20).


      Ø The 53rd General Body Meeting of Maulana Azad Education Foundation was organised in New Delhi.


      Ø 76 th meeting of Central Waqf Council was held in New Delhi.


      Ø “Jiyo Parsi Publicity Phase-2” was organized in Mumbai. The main objective of the “Jiyo Parsi” scheme is to reverse the declining trend of Parsi population by adopting a scientific protocol and structured interventions, stabilize their population and increase the population of Parsis in India.


      Ø A workshop of Inspecting Authorities of Maulana Azad Education Foundation was organized in New Delhi. The workshop was organised specially for equipping the Inspecting Authorities with the knowledge about various schemes of Ministry of Minority Affairs and procedure of the financial assistance provided by Ministry to NGOs and other institutions for implementation of the schemes. These Inspecting Authorities give their recommendations based on their findings for sanctioning grant-in-aid by MAEF. The grant-in-aid is sanctioned on the basis of the recommendations and reports of these Inspecting Authorities after inspection of institutions.


      Ø Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi announced that a certificate course for “GST Facilitator” was launched in Hyderabad. He also announced that course for “Sanitary Supervisors” will be started in about 100 Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Centres, being established across the country. Shri Naqvi undertook “Shramdan” (voluntary work) at the campus of Maulana Azad Education Foundation of the Minority Affairs Ministry under “Swachhta Hi Seva” (cleanliness is service) campaign.


      Ø “Progress Panchayat” was held in Alwar Rajasthan on December17, 2017 and various development projects including schools, hostels, primary health centres were inaugurated.


      Ø Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu delivered the 10 th Annual Lecture of National Commission for Minorities on December 19 on the issue of “Minorities in Nation Building”.


      ***


      HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513423) Visitor Counter : 2942