      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Status of MPF in States
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2017 4:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Modernisation of State police forces is the prime responsibility of the States. The Government of India supplements the efforts of State Governments by providing central assistance to strengthen police infrastructure. To equip the security system with state-of-the-art technology in view of the increasing crimes in the country, the Government has approved an enhanced outlay under the umbrella scheme of “Modernisation of Police Forces (MPF)” with a total outlay of Rs. 25,061 crore. Under this umbrella scheme, a sub-scheme of “Assistance to States for Modernization of Police” with an outlay of Rs. 7,380 crore has been approved for the period from 2017-18 to 2019-20. This sub-scheme is in continuation of the scheme of Modernisation of State Police Forces under implementation since 1969-1970. Under this sub-scheme central assistance to States is provided for acquisition of security/ surveillance/communication equipments, modern weaponry, forensic equipments etc.


    The Government has received requests from various States to provide more funds for MPF. In this regard, it is noteworthy that the entire fund allocated for the MPF scheme is allocated to States as per pre-decided ratio. As per the guidelines, there is thus no scope for additional allocation. In case of the States who do not furnish Utilization Certificates (UCs), funds of such states are pooled together and released to better performing States, i.e., States with no pending UCs.


    Modernisation is an ongoing process. Under MPF, since 2000-01 to 2015-16, against a total amount of Rs. 15,808.92 crore released, the States have utilized Rs. 15,264.51 crore as on date, which is 96.55% utilization of funds released upto 2015-16. The States have undertaken various activities such as improved housing facilities for police personnel, construction of modern police buildings, acquisition of improved and advanced weaponry to maintain internal security, enhanced training facilities with latest training gadgets, improved communication network and computerization of police offices to increase their operational efficiency, investigation skills and improved service delivery. Towards development of capability of State Police Forces, as a part of CCTNS project, the Government of India has launched the Digital Police Portal on 21.08.2017, which provides facility to police officers for the purpose of investigation, policy making, data analytics and research through national database of crime records. Further, a sub scheme of “Assistance to States for Special Projects /programmes for upgrading Police infrastructure [Forensic Laboratories & Institutes and equipment]” with an outlay of Rs. 587 crore has been approved under which projects of police modernisation will be given central assistance. One of the components is “ Assistance to North Eastern States for Special Projects/programmes for upgrading Police infrastructure, training institutes, investigation facilities, etc.” with a total outlay of Rs. 100 crore.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju in written reply to a question by Smt. Rajani Patil and Shri P. Bhattacharya in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    NK/SB/PK/AK/526

    
    
    (Release ID: 1513321) Visitor Counter : 420