      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      ICT based real time monitoring of Anganwadi Services taken up under National Nutrition Mission by WCD Ministry
      Posted On: 29 DEC 2017 5:17PM by PIB Delhi


    The ICDS Scheme has an in-built monitoring system since its inception to track the physical progress of the scheme in respect of various input process, output and impact indicators through a standardized Management Information System (MIS), regular reports, monthly, quarterly half yearly, etc.


    In order to strengthen the performance of ICDS, Government has introduced 5-tier monitoring and review mechanism at different levels (National/ State/ District/ Block and Anganwadi level) for monitoring the status of Anganwadi Centres. Government has issued guidelines on 31.03.2011 for Constitution of Monitoring and Review Committees at different levels to review progress in implementation of the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) Scheme. Composition and key roles of such committees at different levels have been defined and with a view to strengthen and make ICDS more participatory, Panchayati Raj institutions and MPs and MLAs have been assigned representation on various committees at State, District and Block level Monitoring Committees. Rapid Reporting System has also been introduced for the ICDS Scheme for capturing on-line data.


    Besides the in-built five-tier monitoring system, the newly set up National Nutrition Mission has ICT-based real-time monitoring system through Common Application Software (CAS). The software also provides a template for its integration with Mother and Child Tracking System/Reproductive Child Health portal for facilitating auto-population of information across the software of MWCD and MoHFW. To digitize and computerize the data generated at the AWCs, Tablets and Smart Phones are provided to Lady Supervisors and Anganwadi worker.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Women and Child Development, Dr. Virendra Kumar in reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1514662) Visitor Counter : 552