      Ministry of Defence

      Infrastructure with DPSU
      Posted On: 27 DEC 2017 2:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Nine Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs) have 47 units & Ordnance factories have 41 units spread all over India. They have established all facilities for design, development, manufacture and repair of equipment/ products for the armed forces.


    The details of major infrastructure and assets developed by Ordnance Factories and Defence Sector Undertakings are as under:


    OFB: Ordnance Factory Board has developed infrastructure facilities for construction of Missile, tanks, high explosive, cartridge 105mm, Rocket Pinaka restricted high explosives etc.


    HAL : Hindustan Aeronautics Limited has developed facilities for design, development, manufacturing and repair overhaul of Aircraft, helicopter, Engines and associated accessories and avionics facilities are also established for manufacture of structures for space applications and manufacturing and repair overhaul of industrial and marine engine etc.


    BEL : Bharat Electronics Limited has developed infrastructure facilities for design, development, manufacturing and supply of sophisticated strategic electronic equipment/systems primarily for the Defence in the areas of communication, electronic warfare & avionics, missile systems, radar & fire control systems etc.


    BEML : Bharat Earth Movers Limited has created world class manufacturing and testing facilities for armoured recovery vehicles, BEML high mobility vehicles, Hull for T-72 tanks, Arjun Armoured Repair and Recovery Vehicle (ARRV), BMP transmission and ejector & air cleaner assembly etc.


    BDL : Bharat Dynamics Limited has developed infrastructure facilities which include building, plant & machinery, testing facilities, modernization & automation of grain loading for Akash project etc.


    MIDHANI : Mishra Dhatu Nigam Limited has developed world class facilities for making super alloys etc.


    MDL : Mazagaon Dockyards Limited has huge infrastructure and assets which include Fabrication shops, Dry Docks, Impounded wet basin, slipways, cradle assembly shop, submarine assembly shop etc.


    GRSE : Garden Reach Ship Builders & Engineers Limited has acquired Raja Bagan Dockyard from Central Inland Water Transport Corporation (CIWTC) and have infrastructure facilities for construction of modern ships under large platforms like frigates, anti-submarine warfare corvette, Missiles corvette, Landing ship tank etc.


    GSL : Goa Shipyard Limited has undertaken a planned modernization programme and is in the process of creating infrastructure for Indigenous Construction of Mine counter Measure Vessels (MCMVs) etc.


    HSL : Hindustan Shipyard Limited has developed infrastructure facility for covered building dock, three slipways, repair graving dock, large wet basin with depth of 10M, high pressure hydraulic flushing facilities for submarines etc.


    Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL) was in losses for many years due to lack of orders. However, it earned profit during the last two years and Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML) had one time loss during the year 2012-13 due to an extraordinary situation. However, BEML earned profit during successive financial years.


    Ministry has issued letter of offer for construction of Special Operation Vehicles and Fleet Support Ships to HSL.


    This information was given by Raksha Rajya Mantri Dr. Subhash Bhamre in a written reply to Col Sonaram Choudhary in Lok Sabha today.


    NAo/Nampi/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1514262) Visitor Counter : 366