      Ministry of Railways

      Increase in Railway Passengers
      Posted On: 27 DEC 2017 4:46PM by PIB Delhi


    The increase in passenger traffic on Indian Railways and particularly between Delhi and Mumbai is 0.68% and 0.99% respectively during the Financial Year 2017-18 (April, 2017 to November, 2017) as compared to the corresponding period of last year.


    Indian Railways endeavours to operate special trains during peak seasons, festivals, special events for clearance of extra rush of passenger traffic keeping in view the pattern of traffic, commercial justification, operational feasibility and availability of resources. Running of special trains on various sectors is a continuous process.


    Special trains on special charges are introduced based on demand pattern. Special trains run over and above the scheduled time-tabled trains are charged at the rate of 10% of basic fare for second class for reserved accommodation and 30% of basic fare for all other classes, subject to minimum and maximum.


    Apart from above, Suvidha trains are introduced based on the demand pattern. Minimum fare of Suvidha trains is equal to Tatkal fare applicable for the class of accommodation for initial 20% of the berths and thereafter the fare increases for subsequent slabs of 20% of seats/berths booked subject to maximum three times of the Tatkal fare.


    The second class accommodation of above trains can be declared as reserved or unreserved and charging is made accordingly. In case of unreserved second class accommodation the fares as applicable to normal superfast Mail/Express trains are applicable.


    Special trains on special charges and Suvidha trains are introduced based on the demand pattern. The fares of these trains have been kept higher since special efforts like monitoring of waiting list position of each and every trains, arrangement of rakes and coaches, required staff etc., at short notice are made for running of these services. Apart from this, operational cost of running of passenger train services is increasing year after year and the passenger fare is highly subsidized.


    This Press Release is based on the information given by the Minister of State for Railways Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha on 27.12.2017 (Wednesday).


    ****


    AKS/MKV/DK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1514321) Visitor Counter : 722