      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Schemes of M/O SJ&E for Senior Citizens
      Posted On: 28 DEC 2017 5:36PM by PIB Delhi


    This Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment is implementing a new scheme namely Rashtriya Vayoshri Yojana (RVY), which was announced by Finance Minister in the Budget Speech of 2015-16. This is a Central Sector Scheme funded from Senior Citizens’ Welfare Fund. Under this Scheme, aids and assistive living devices are provided to senior citizens belonging to BPL category who suffer from age related disabilities such as low vision, hearing impairment, loss of teeth and loco-motor disabilities. The aids and assistive devices viz. walking-sticks, elbow-crutches, walkers, tripods/quad-pods, hearing aids, wheelchairs, artificial dentures and spectacles are provided to eligible beneficiaries.
    
    Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of India is the nodal Ministry to oversee the implementation of the Scheme. The Scheme is being implemented by the “Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation (ALIMCO)”, a Public Sector Undertaking under this Ministry. The devices are distributed in the camp mode to the identified beneficiaries. The National launch of Rashtriya Vayoshri Yojana was held on 1st April, 2017. A total of 187 districts from all States/UTs have been selected for Rashtriya Vayoshri Yojana distribution camps. As on date, 16 distribution camps have been organized at district level.
    
    As information received from the Department of Financial Services, Ministry of Finance, Atal Pension Yojana (APY), a new scheme, has been announced in 2015 wherein the subscriber has been guaranteed a minimum pension from Rs.1000 or Rs.2000 or Rs.3000 or Rs.4000 or Rs.5000 on completion of 60 years of age based on the periodic contribution being made by the subscriber. Based on the scheme chosen by the subscriber and his age at the date of joining, the contribution amount is fixed for such subscriber whereby he has to contribute upto the age of 60 years to avail the benefits. The scheme is open for the Indian citizen between the age of 18-40 years. The scheme has been implemented through the banking system only. Eligible existing subscribers of the Swavalamban Scheme (NPS Lite) in the age group of 18-40 years are required to be migrated to APY unless they exercise the option to opt-out.
    
    As per the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India, “Police” and “Public Order” are State Subjects and, as such the primary responsibility of prevention, detection, registration, investigation and prosecution of crime including crime against Senior citizens lies with the State/UT Administrations.
    
    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Vijay Sampla in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.

    *****


    
    
    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E-4/28-12-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1514522) Visitor Counter : 1189