      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Plastic Waste
      Posted On: 29 DEC 2017 7:10PM by PIB Delhi


    “Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) conducted study in 60 major cities of India. It has been estimated that a total of around 4059 T/day of plastic waste is generated from these cities. Based on the above study it is estimated that plastic waste generated from entire country is around 25,940 T/day. It is further estimated that plastic waste generated varies from 3.10% (in Chandigarh) to 12.47% ( in Surat) of total Municipal Solid Waste generated.


    The Central Pollution Control Board has assigned a study to Indian Institute of Toxicological Research (IITR), Lucknow to study “Impact of Plastic Waste Disposal on Soil and Water Quality at Lucknow Dumpsites”. The soil and water quality data revealed that the heavy metals, chloride, phthalates migrate from plastic waste into the surrounding medium. The leachate can cause considerable pollution problems by contaminating the surrounding soil, ground or surface water.


    The Government has notified Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. As per the rules, the generators of waste have been mandated to take steps to minimize generation of plastic waste, not to litter the plastic waste, ensure segregated storage of waste at source and handover segregated waste to local bodies or agencies authorised by the local bodies. The rules also mandate the responsibilities of local bodies, gram panchayats, waste generators, retailers and street vendors to manage the plastic waste. The rules mandate the producers, importers and brand owners to work out modalities for waste collection system based on the principle of Extended Producer Responsibility. The occupational safety, health and welfare of workers employed in the factories are taken care by various legislations by government of India i.e. the factories Act 1948 and others.”


    This information was given by Minister of State in Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Mahesh Sharma, in reply to a written question in Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    HK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1514709) Visitor Counter : 2305