      Ministry of Railways

      Revamping of Railway Stations
      Posted On: 27 DEC 2017 4:53PM by PIB Delhi


    Indian Railways has advertised its plan to redevelop ‘A-1’ and ‘A’ category stations on ‘as is where is’ basis, by inviting open bids from interested parties. The cost of station redevelopment is to be met by leveraging commercial development of land and air space in and around the stations.


    Bids were invited by Zonal Railways for 23 stations in the first phase of the station redevelopment programme. Bids have been received only for Jammu Tawi and Kozhikode stations on 12.07.2017 and 24.07.2017 respectively. These bids have been taken up for evaluation.


    Eight stations viz. Anand Vihar (Delhi), Bijwasan (Delhi), Chandigarh, Gandhinagar, Habibganj (Bhopal), Shivajinagar (Pune), Surat and Sabarmati have been entrusted to Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Ltd. (IRSDC) for redevelopment.


    An MoU has been signed by Ministry of Railways with Ministry of Urban Development for integrated planning for station redevelopment projects in cities identified as SMART cities in association with Smart City authorities. The following 10 Stations have been taken up for redevelopment under this scheme:


    Tirupati, Delhi Sarai Rohilla, Nellore, Madgaon, Lucknow, Gomtinagar, Kota, Thane New, Ernakulam Jn. and Puducherry.


    Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) has been entrusted to redevelop Safdarjung Station in New Delhi alongwith IRCON.


    Government of Odisha has taken up the work of redevelopment of Bhubaneswar railway station at its own cost.


    At present, Ministry of Railways is formulating revised schemes for station redevelopment on fast track.


    This Press Release is based on the information given by the Minister of State for Railways Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha on 27.12.2017 (Wednesday).


    ****


    AKS/MKV/DK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1514328) Visitor Counter : 1237