      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Year End Review 2017:Ministry of Home Affairs
      Posted On: 28 DEC 2017 2:24PM by PIB Delhi


      Following are the highlights of the activities of Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) during the year 2017:


      Cabinet approves umbrella scheme of Modernisation of Police Forces. The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, on 27 th September gave its approval for implementation of umbrella scheme of "Modernisation of Police Forces (MPF)" for years 2017-18 to 2019-20. The financial outlay for the scheme over the three-year period is Rs.25,060 crore, out of which the Central Government share will be Rs.18,636 crore and the States’ share will be Rs.6,424 crore. Special provision has been made under the Scheme for internal security, law and order, women security, availability of modern weapons, mobility of police forces, logistics support, hiring of helicopters, upgradation of police wireless, National Satellite Network, CCTNS project, E-prison project etc.


      Cabinet approves extension of implementation of Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems Project by one year. In April, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi approved the proposal of the MHA for extension of the implementation phase of the Crime and Criminals Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) Project for another year beyond 31 st March, 2017. The extension would help in achieving the remaining objectives of the project comprehensively. The maintenance phase of the Project will continue till 2022 as approved earlier. With a total outlay of Rs. 2,000 crore, a sum of Rs. 1,550 crore, which was the total allocation to the project so far, has been spent till 2016-17.


      The Mos (Home) Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir reviewed the working of CCTNS, on April 6, 2017.


      Union Home Minister launches the Digital Police Portal under CCTNS project. The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh launched the Digital Police Portal under the CCTNS project in New Delhi on August 21, 2017. The MHA will undertake steps to integrate the various organs of the Criminal Justice System such as the Police, Courts, Prisons, Prosecution, Forensic Laboratories, Finger Prints and Juvenile Homes with the CCTNS database. This Interoperable Criminal Justice System (ICJS) will be a useful resource for all stakeholders including the policy makers. The Digital Police Portal will enable citizens to register FIRs online and the portal will initially offer seven Public Delivery Services in 34 States & UTs. The CCTNS portal will provide investigator the complete record history of any criminal from anywhere across the country.


      MHA gives a boost to “Make in India” in the field of manufacturing of arms. In October, the MHA liberalised the Arms Rules to boost “Make in India” manufacturing policy of the Government as also to promote employment generation in the field of manufacturing of arms and ammunition.


      BSF Air Wing inducts own pilots and crew. The Air Wing of Border Security Force (BSF) added a new chapter with the induction of its own pilots and crew on 9 th February, 2017. MoS, Shri Kiren Rijiju became the first dignitary to be flown by “all BSF” aircrew, aboard the MI-17 V5 helicopter from Guwahati. Till now the BSF aircrafts were being operated by Aircrew from the Indian Air Force.


      Union Home Minister chaired the review meeting of Left Wing Extremism (LWE) affected States. On 8 th May, t he Union Home Minister carried out a review of the situation in the ten LWE affected States. On specific directions of the Home Minister, Districts Magistrates and SPs of the 35 worst affected LWE districts were also present. Shri Rajnath Singh enunciated an operational strategy ‘SAMADHAN’ to fight Left Wing Extremism. The elements of this strategy are S for Smart Leadership, A for Aggressive Strategy, M for Motivation and Training, A for Actionable Intelligence, D for Dashboard-based Key Result Areas and Key Performance Indicators, H for Harnessing Technology, A for Action Plan for Each Theatre and N for No access to Financing.


      The Union Home Minister again convened a meeting in New Delhi on 4 th August to review the status of development projects and security related issues in LWE affected states. During the meeting different development projects including Road Requirement Plan, air connectivity, power, education, health and banking sectors were reviewed. Under RRP-1, 4433 km roads have been constructed which include 1504 km road constructed during the last three years in the most difficult areas. The Home Minister asked to expedite the remaining roads at the earliest.


      Shri Rajnath Singh chaired a meeting of the Consultative Committee for the Ministry of Home Affairs on “LWE related issues” in New Delhi on 29 th August. He informed the members that the LWE scenario exhibits significant improvement over the years and the declining trend continued in the last three years. As compared to data of 2010, year 2016 reflected a decline of 53% in number of violent incidents and 72% in resultant deaths and the trend continued in 2017. Shri Rajnath Singh further informed the members that this year overall situation so far also indicates a declining trend and the number of violent incidents has declined by 25.6% as compared to corresponding period of 2016.


      Shri Rajnath Singh chaired High Level Meeting on the LWE situation in Chhattisgarh, on November 3, 2017. As part of efforts to enhance skill development, Chhattisgarh has been sanctioned 09 ITIs and 14 Skill Development Centres. The initiatives taken to improve education infrastructure include approval of 02 Kendriya Vidyalayas at Bijapur and Sukma and 03 JNVs at Bijapur, Narayanpur and Kondagaon. Jagdalpur Medical College has been approved for up-gradation as Centre of Excellence at a cost of 200 Cr under PMSSY.


      
      Liberalization of Visa regime. With effect from April 1, 2017, e-Visa has been sub-divided into 3 categories i.e. e-tourist visa, e-Business visa and e-Medical visa. Presently, e-visa facility has been extended to the nationals of 163 countries for entry through 25 airports (E-visa service was earlier granted through 16 airports) and 5 Indian Ports i.e. Cochin, Goa Mangalore, Mumbai and Chennai to tap the potential of cruise tourism from different countries. The window for application under e-visa scheme has been increased from 30 days to 120 days and duration of stay on e-visa has been increased from 30 days to 60 days with double entry on e-Tourist and e-Business visa and triple entry on e-Medical visa. Separate immigration counters and facilitation desks to assist medical tourist have been provided at Indian airports namely, Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad.


      Improvement of immigration service at Delhi International Airport. Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba chaired a meeting in New Delhi on 1 st November to discuss various measures including technology upgradation, provision of modern equipment, additional space, professional manpower etc. for improving immigration services at Delhi Airport. The measures substantially improved Immigration services at Delhi International Airport which will facilitate not only foreigners coming to India, but also Indian travelers visiting abroad.


      Union Home Minister operationalised the New Intelligence Set-up of SSB. Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh operationalised the New Intelligence Set-up of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) at a function in New Delhi on 18 th September. This marked the culmination of a long pending aspiration of the Force following approval of the Union Home Minister. SSB has been declared as the Lead Intelligence Agency (LIA) for both the Indo-Nepal and Indo-Bhutan borders. MHA has accordingly sanctioned 650 posts in various ranks from Battalion to Frontier Headquarters.


      Centre appoints Shri Dineshwar Sharma as its Representative in J&K. The Government has appointed Shri Dineshwar Sharma, former Director of Intelligence Bureau, to initiate and carry forward a dialogue with elected representatives, various organizations and concerned individuals in the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Considering the positive initial response from different sections of people in J&K, it is expected that all stakeholders in the state who believe in peace would support the Government initiative and join the dialogue process.


      Union Home Minister pays 4-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir. The Union Home Minister paid a four-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir from September 9-12, 2017. Addressing a press conference in Jammu, Shri Rajnath Singh said that the Centre is trying to ensure equitable development in all the three regions of J&K. Several projects are under implementation under PMDP. The Centre has decided to give 3,000 jobs to migrants from Kashmir valley and Rs 1,080 crores have been sanctioned to the state under this head. The Government has increased the compensation for those who get killed in ceasefire violations from Rs 1 lakh to 5 lakh. The Government has also decided to construct 6,000 Transit Accommodation in the Kashmir valley. He said that the Government has also allocated a package of Rs 2,000 crores for the rehabilitation of POJK migrants.


      CRPF’s Helpline in J&K. The CRPF Helpline was launched in J&K on June 16, 2017. The Helpline has been started to build bridge of trust and confidence with citizens.


      Cabinet approves extension of time period of the Scheme "Special Industry Initiative for J&K" (Sll J&K) – Udaan. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, on September 20, 2017 approved the proposal of the MHA for extension of time period of the Scheme "Special Industry Initiative for J&K" (Sll J&K) - Udaan till 31st December, 2018 without any modification and cost escalation. Initially the time period of Udaan was upto 2016-17.


      Shri Rajnath Singh chairs Standing Committee meetings of Inter-State Council. The Union Home Minister chaired the 11 th Standing Committee meeting of the Inter-State Council in New Delhi on 9 th April. The Standing Committee examined in detail various recommendations of the Punchhi Commission contained in Volume II & III.


      Shri Rajnath Singh chaired the 12 th meeting of the Standing Committee of Inter-State Council in New Delhi on 25 th November. He said that the recommendations of the Standing Committee on Punchhi Commission’s report will then be placed before the Inter-State Council, headed by the Prime Minister.


      Meetings of Islands Development Agency (IDA). The Union Home Minister chaired the first meeting of the newly constituted Islands Development Agency (IDA), in New Delhi on July 24, 2017. The IDA was set up on June 01, 2017 following the Prime Minister’s review meeting for the development of islands.


      Shri Rajnath Singh chaired the second meeting of IDA in New Delhi on 8 th November. The IDA reviewed the concept development plans and detailed master plans for holistic development of 09 islands (four in A&N Islands i.e. Smith, Ross, Long, Avis) and (five in Lakshadweep i.e. Minicoy, Bangaram, Thinnakara, Cheriyam, Suheli). It was decided that the Naval air station at Shibpur near Diglipur in northern Andaman & Nicobar Islands would be co-used as Joint User Airport. It was also decided to develop a PPP package including an airport (Joint User Airport) at Minicoy Island, to unlock the tourism potential.


      Show Cause Notice issued to Associations for cancellation of FCRA registration. As a one-time measure, all associations were given an opportunity by way of a Public Notice uploaded on fcraonline.nic.in on May 12, 2017 requiring the associations to file their missing Annual Returns pertaining to FY 2010-11 to 2014-15 within a period of one month. 5,922 associations were issued show cause notice in July, 2017 as to why their registration under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, (FCRA) may not be cancelled. Besides, over 2,000 NGOS were asked to validate their existing FCRA designated bank accounts and the list of these NGOs is available on website: www.fcraonline.nic.in . Over 1,000 NGOs which have been found to be misutilizing foreign funds and violating various provisions of FCRA, 2010 and Rules made thereunder, have been barred from operating their foreign contribution accounts.


      Finally to ensure compliance of the provisions of FCRA, 2010 and rules made thereunder, the Government through public notice dated 19 th September, 2017, gave one more opportunity to the 4,842 associations who didn’t comply to the public notice dated 12 th May, 2017, which resulted in cancellation of their registration, to file their annual returns with penalty for the missing years for the period 2010-11 to 2015-16.


      2 nd meeting of National Platform on Disaster Risk Reduction. Shri Rajnath Singh inaugurated the two-day second meeting of National Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction (NPDRR) in New Delhi on 15 th May. The theme of the Second meeting of NPDRR was “Disaster Risk Reduction for Sustainable Development: Making India resilient by 2030”.


      NIA Hqrs new Office Complex inaugurated. The Union Home Minister inaugurated the new Headquarters Office Complex of the NIA in New Delhi on October 10, 2017. Shri Rajnath Singh said the NIA recently launched a crackdown on terrorism funding in the Kashmir Valley sponsored from a hostile neighbouring country and their accomplices in third countries abroad. He said the Government initiated steps to grant full autonomy to the NIA in investigations.


      West Zone Regional Training Centre of IB inaugurated in Jodhpur. The Union Home Minister inaugurated the West Zone Regional Training Centre of the Intelligence Bureau (IB), in Jodhpur, Rajasthan on 16 th October. The purpose of the training centre is to strengthen and professionally empower the State Police Special Branches. The West Zone will include states of Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Maharashtra.


      New HQs building of Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D). The Union Home Minister inaugurated the new HQs building of BPR&D, Ministry of Home Affairs in New Delhi on 8 th September.


      Foundation Stone laid of NIDM. MoS Shri Kiren Rijiju laid the foundation stone of the National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM) in New Delhi on February 17, 2017.


      Foundation Stone laid of new NDRF Campus in Andhra Pradesh. Union Home Minister laid the foundation stone of the new NDRF campus at Konda Pavuluru, Andhra Pradesh, on 9 th January. This campus will c ome up in 50 acres land provided by the Andhra Pradesh Government and the expenditure for construction will be borne by the Central Government.


      India-Russia Agreement on Cooperation signed in Moscow. The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh paid a three day visit to Moscow, Russia from 27th-29th November. An updated and more comprehensive agreement on Cooperation on Security between Ministry of Home Affairs of India and the Ministry of Interior of the Russian Federation was signed by the two Ministers. This agreement provides a comprehensive approach for cooperation in security related issues. A Joint Action Plan between India’s NCB and the Ministry of Interior of the Russian Federation for the period 2018-20 was also signed.


      Union Home Minister addresses 9th meeting of Heads of Government authorities of SCO Member States dealing with the prevention and elimination of emergency situation in Kyrgyz Republic. A high level Indian delegation headed by the Union Home Minister in August, 2017 participated in the 9th meeting of Heads of Government authorities of Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Member States dealing with the prevention and elimination of emergency situation in Ata city of the Kyrgyz Republic. While making the opening statement at the SCO meeting, Union Home Minister expressed gratitude to all Member states of the SCO for their support for India's membership. Shri Rajnath Singh also moved a proposal to organise a Joint Urban Earthquake Search and Rescue exercise to improve collective preparedness.


      Visit of Director, FSB, Russia. The Union Home Minister received a 9-member Russian delegation led by the Director of the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation (FSB), Mr. Alexander Bortnikov in New Delhi on 24 th March. Shri Rajnath Singh mentioned that Inter-Agency cooperation between the two countries should cover bilateral, regional and international issues.


      Memorandum of Cooperation on Home Land Security between India and USA. The Union Cabinet approved the Memorandum of Cooperation on Home Land Security between India and USA on 28 th June, 2017. It will further strengthen bilateral security relations between India and the USA and will also help in coordination and interactions among the six Sub-Groups that are proposed to be formed under Homeland Security Dialogue between the two countries.


      Home Affairs Dialogue (HAD) between India and UK held. The First Home Affairs Dialogue between India and UK was held in New Delhi on 4 th May. The Indian side was led by the then Union Home Secretary, Shri Rajiv Mehrishi and the UK delegation was led by Ms. Patsy Wilkinson, Second Permanent Secretary, Home Office, Government of UK. Both India and UK laid emphasis on cooperation on anti- terrorism mechanism and to strengthen mutual support to check cyber crimes. Both sides agreed to formalise these arrangements. The second HAD was held in London on 17 th July. The Indian delegation was led by Shri Rajiv Mehrishi and Mr Philip Rutnam, Permanent Secretary, UK Home office led the UK delegation.


      First Meeting of India-Australia Joint Steering Committee held. The First Meeting of India-Australia Joint Steering Committee was held in New Delhi October 6, 2017. Shri TVSN Prasad, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs and Mr. Stephen Bouwhuis, First Assistant Secretary, International and Auscheck Division, Criminal Justice Group, Attorney-General's Department led the respective delegations. The two sides discussed scope for cooperation in counter-terrorism and checking extremism and radicalization besides steps to check illegal financial transactions and counterfeiting and cybercrimes.


      Shri Kiren Rijiju presents Country Statement at Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction at Cancun, Mexico. A high level Indian delegation headed by MoS Shri Kiren Rijiju participated in the Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction (GPDRR) at Cancun, Mexico from May 22-26, 2017. While presenting the Country Statement, Shri Kiren Rijiju briefed about the steps taken by India, after the adoption of the Sendai Framework.


      4-day-long BIMSTEC Disaster Management Exercise – 2017 held. The first Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation, Disaster Management Exercise (BIMSTEC DMEx-2017) was held from October 10-13, 2017. Members of the BIMSTEC i.e Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Bhutan and Nepal participated in the four-day exercise, conducted by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) as the nodal agency in Delhi and the National Capital Region.


      Cabinet approves bilateral MoU between India and Afghanistan on Technical Cooperation on Police Training and Development. The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, on September 27, 2017 gave its approval for signing an MoU between India and Afghanistan on Technical Cooperation on Police Training and Development. The MoU will help in capacity building of Afghanistan National Police and improving the security apparatus in the region.


      India and Thailand sign MoU on Cooperation in Controlling Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances, their Precursors and Chemicals and Drug Abuse. An MoU between India and Thailand was signed in the presence of MoS, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir and Minister of Justice of Thailand, Mr. Suwaphan Tanyuvardhana, in New Delhi on June 30, 2017. The MoU will enhance the mutual cooperation between India and Thailand in regulation of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and combating drug trafficking.


      21st India-Myanmar National Level Meeting held in Myanmar. 21 st India-Myanmar National Level Meeting took place at Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar on July 5-6, 2017. Indian delegation was led by Shri Rajiv Gauba, Home Secretary (then designate), while Myanmar delegation was led by Maj Gen Aung Soe, Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Myanmar. During the meeting, security, cooperation in prevention of drug trafficking, boundary matters, wildlife smuggling, visa and prisoners in jail of respective countries were discussed.


      Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh chairs meeting with the Chief Ministers of the Indo-Bangladesh Border (IBB) States. The Union Home Minister chaired a meeting with the Chief Ministers of the Indo-Bangladesh Border (IBB) States, in Kolkata on 7 th December. Shri Rajnath Singh highlighted the concept of Border Protection Grid (BPG) for multipronged and foolproof mechanism to secure our border.


      Union Home Minister chairs the first meeting of CMs of 5 States on Indo-China Border in Gangtok. Shri Rajnath Singh chaired the review meeting of Chief Ministers bordering with China, in Gangtok on 20 th May. He said the Central Assistance for Border Area Development Programmes (BADP) has been enhanced from Rupees 990 Crore in 2016-17 to Rs. 1,100 crore in the current financial year.


      Union Home Minister chairs meeting to review Indo-Myanmar border issues. The Union Home Minister chaired the meeting of Indo-Myanmar Border States at Aizawl, Mizoram on June 12, 2017. He informed that to address specific developmental needs of border areas along international boundaries, allocation under BADP to 17 border states has been raised to Rs. 1,100 cr. in 2017-18.


      Union Home Minister reviews measures to check cyber crimes in financial sector. Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh chaired a meeting of all agencies concerned and representatives of relevant states in New Delhi on 13 th November to review the progress of the decisions taken during the meeting taken by him on September 19, 2017 for curbing the financial sector frauds emanating from the usage of cards and e-wallets in particular.


      An Inter-Ministerial Committee on Phone Frauds (IMCPF) has been constituted in the MHA on September 28, 2017. The Committee under the chairmanship of Additional Secretary, MHA held its first meeting on October 24, 2017 and discussed various nature of phone frauds taking place in India and the steps to be taken by the various stakeholder organisations in order to curb such instances.


      Shri Rajnath Singh reviews issues related to Enemy Properties. The Union Home Minister reviewed the functioning of Freedom Fighters and Rehabilitation (FFR) Division of Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on 18 th December. Shri Rajnath Singh directed that considering the importance of the new provisions in the Enemy Property Act, 2017 which has been amended recently to include disposal/transfer of Enemy properties, the Rules may be notified expeditiously. During the meeting, it was informed that the survey of 6,289 Enemy Properties has been completed and the survey be completed in respect of remaining 2,991 properties which are vested with the custodian.


      Women’s Police Stations set up in Kohima and Dimapur for empowering women. Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh, speaking on the occasion of Hornbill Festival 2017 as Chief Guest on December 8, 2017, commended the role of the State Government in raising Nagaland’s 15 India Reserve (Mahila ) Battalion and setting up of Women’s Police Stations in Kohima and Dimapur for empowering women.


      Union Home Secretary chairs review meeting on Women Safety. The Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba chaired a meeting on November 22, 2017 to kick start the process of formulating comprehensive Safe City plans for women in eight metropolitan cities of the country – Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Lucknow and Hyderabad.


      Shri Rajnath Singh inaugurates Web Portal “Bharat ke Veer” to enable people to contribute towards family of martyrs. The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh inaugurated the web portal and mobile application named “Bharat ke Veer” on April 9, 2017. The portal is an IT based platform, with an objective to enable willing donors to contribute towards the family of a braveheart who sacrificed his/her life in line of duty.


      Cabinet approves enhancement of the age of superannuation of Medical Officers of Central Armed Police Forces and Assam Rifles. The Union Cabinet on July 12, 2017 gave its ex-post facto approval for enhancement of the age of superannuation in respect of doctors Central Armed Police Forces and Assam Rifles from 60 to 65. It would help in retention of officers in Specialist and General Duty Medical Cadre and thereby help in better patient care, proper academic activities in Medical colleges as also in effective implementation of National Health Programmes for delivery of health care services.


      MHA Mobile Application launched for Grievances Redressal of CAPF personnel. The Union Home Minister launched the MHA Mobile Application for grievance redressal of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) personnel on May 11, 2017. The Union Home Minister also launched BSFMyApp on the occasion. The MHA Mobile App provides a common system in which all personnel of various CAPFs can submit their grievances through a Mobile Application and the same provides respective Forces to receive the submitted grievance for further action. The Mobile application also has a provision for MHA to continuously monitor the action taken by various CAPFs on their grievances and regulate the process for further improvement in the Grievance Redressal System.


      Welfare and Rehabilitation Board (WARB) Mobile App for CAPF personnel launched. On 18 th September, the Union Home Minister launched the Welfare and Rehabilitation Board (WARB) Mobile App for CAPF personnel. The App is available on Google Play store and is user friendly. It contains various useful features to facilitate retired CAPFs and Assam Rifles personnel to get their genuine grievances redressed, re-employment and other relevant and important information.


      BSF and NSDC sign MoU on Skill Development. The BSF signed an MoU with the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) in New Delhi on 31 st July in the presence of MoS (Independent Charge) Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE), Shri Rajiv Pratap Rudy and Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju. The MoU will enable NSDC to provide “Skill training to retired and retiring BSF personnel, as well as to the population residing in the border areas.


      Shri Rajnath Singh inaugurates YUVA – a skill development programme. The Union Home Minister inaugurated the YUVA – a skill development programme and an initiative by Delhi Police under Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana, in New Delhi on 29 th August.


      New guidelines for grant of rewards to be paid to officers, informers and other persons in case of seizures of Narcotics drugs, Psychotropic substances etc. The Government of India issued new reward guidelines called “The guidelines for grant of rewards to be paid to the officers, informers and other persons, 2017” on October 10, 2017 enhancing the grant and payment of reward to informers and government officers.


      Indian Police contingent makes a record breaking haul of 321 medals during the World Police & Fire Games held in the US. A 101-member Indian Police contingent returned with a record breaking haul of 321 medals from the World Police & Fire Games held in USA in August. The contingent bagged 151 Gold, 99 Silver and 71 Bronze medals in the seven events they participated in the Games held in Los Angeles, California, from August 7-16, 2017.


      ***


      NK/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1514455) Visitor Counter : 4873