      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Meeting of consultative committee of m/o social justice & empowerment held
      Posted On: 28 DEC 2017 3:58PM by PIB Delhi


    The Consultative Committee Meeting of Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment held under the Chairmanship of Union Minister of Social Justice & Empowerment Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot here today. The Ministers of Social Justice & Empowerment Shri Krishan Pal Gujar, Shri Vijay Sampla and Shri Ramdas Athawale were present in the meeting. The Theme of the meeting was “Discussion on Corporation vis-à-vis; (i) National Scheduled Castes Finance and Development Corporation (NSFDC); (ii) National Backward Classes Finance and Development Corporation (NBCFDC) and (iii) National Safai Karamcharis Finance and Development Corporation (NSKFDC)”.


    The Managing Directors of these three Corporations gave the detailed presentations on the working of their Corporations.


    Addressing the occasion Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot said that the mission of NSFDC is to promote prosperity among Scheduled Castes by improving flow of financial assistance and through skill development and other innovation initiatives and it has succeeded in its efforts.


    He added that the main objective of NBCFDC is to promote economic and development activities for the benefit of Backward Classes and to assist these by way of loans and advance for economically and financially viable schemes and projects. The Corporation also assist these classes by way of loan for pursuing general/professional /technical education or training at graduate and higher levels and to assist in the upgradation of technical and entrepreneurial skills of Backwards Classes for proper and efficient management of production units. Schemes are implemented through State Channelizing Agencies (SCAs) nominated by respective State Government/UT and PSBs/RRBs. The Skill Development Training Programme (SDTP) are implemented by Government Training Institute and Sector Skill Councils.


    Shri Gehlot said that NSKFDC works as an Apex Corporation for the all round socio-economic uplifment of the Safai Karamchairs (including waste pickers), Scavengers and their dependents throughout India. The Schemes/programmes of NSKFDC are implemented through State Channelizing Agencies (SCAs) nominated by the State Govts/UT Administrations, Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) and nationalised banks. The financial assistance is provided at concessional rates of interest to the SCAs/RRBs/Nationalized Banks for onward disbursement to the target group of NSKFDC.


    The Members of Parliament present in the meeting include: Shri Hariom Singh Rathore, Shri K.H. Muniyappa, Dr. Mamtaz Sanghamita, Shri Nagesh Godam and Smt. Vasanthi M. (All Lok Sabha) and Shri Ahamed Hassan (Rajya Sabha). Senior officers of the Ministry of Social Justice and these Corporation were also present.


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJE/28-12-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1514478) Visitor Counter : 201