      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Flyover-cum-ROB at Narela to provide relief to Lakhs of people & ease traffic congestion - Hardeep Puri
      Foundation stone laid

      Posted On: 29 DEC 2017 6:53PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Hardeep Puri, Minister of State (I/C) for Housing and Urban Affairs has informed that the proposed Flyover-cum-ROB on Urban Extension Road-1(UER1) will provide the vital missing link and create connectivity on either side in UER-1, thereby providing relief to lakhs of people by easing traffic congestion and making traffic smoother and fast. It will also provide traffic safety near railway crossing. He was addressing a gathering at the foundation stone laying ceremony of Flyover-cum-ROB at Narela, New Delhi here today. Shri Anil Baijal, Lt.Governor of Delhi, Shri Udit Raj, Member of Parliament, Shri Durga Shankar Mishra, Secretary, M/o Housing & Urban Affairs, Shri Udai Pratap Singh, VC, Delhi Development Authority and senior officers of the Ministry were also present at the ceremony.
    
    Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said that this project of construction of Flyover-cum- Rail Over Bridge (RoB) on Urban Extension Road-I (UER-I) has been mooted at one of the busiest points which see frequent shut downs of traffic due to closing of level crossing on busy Delhi-Karnal Railway line and the presence of Grain Market (Anaj Mandi) as well as the FCI godowns near railway crossing. The Urban Extension Road-1 (UER-I) being constructed as per the provisions made under the Master Plan for Delhi 2021, has already been completed from NH I to Bawana except the stretch over FCI godowns and the railway line.
    
    The cost of project is Rs. 437.21 crore, which includes Rs. 55.59 crore for construction of ROB. Project is being funded with a financial assistance of Rs. 349.77 crore (80% of cost ) from the Urban Development Fund and Rs 87.44 crore will be DDA’s own contribution. The construction of ROB is already in progress by the Railways. This Project is planned for completion in April 2019. When completed, this will be the widest flyover in Delhi with a width of 51m. This flyover-cum-ROB will have six lane carriage way, two bus lanes for BRT corridor and provision of footpath and cycle track, multi-utility zone for services.
    
    This is one of the 05 projects approved for funding of Rs 643.58 crore through the Urban Development Fund by the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs for handling congestion in Delhi. The other projects involving construction of flyovers, underpasses etc., are coming up at Mahipalpur, ITO, ISBT and Rani Jhansi Road. All these projects when completed will definitely go a long way in improving the facilities and quality of life of the people of Delhi.

    *****


    
    
    RJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1514700) Visitor Counter : 409