      AYUSH

      AYUSH Ministry is supporting research in Homoeopathy and Ayurveda for prevention and treatment of diabetes: Shri Shripad Yesso Naik
      Posted On: 29 DEC 2017 7:02PM by PIB Delhi


    National Homoeopathic Seminar on Non-Communicable Diseases that includes diabetes and cancer, was organized by Dr D.P. Rastogi Central Research Institute (Homoeopathy), Noida which is a unit of the Central Council for Research in Homoeopathy (CCRH), an autonomous organization under the Ministry of AYUSH. The seminar was held at Amity University from 2 nd to 3 rd November 2017, as a part of the Continuing Medical Education (CME) Programme, a Central Sector Scheme of the Ministry of AYUSH, Govt. of India.


    The seminar was attended by 180 delegates that included homoeopathic practitioners, medical officers, researchers and post graduate students.


    There were 18 resource persons that included seven allopathic experts on diabetes, cancer and other non communicable diseases (NCD).


    The objective of the seminar was to update the knowledge of homoeopathic doctors in the integrative management of NCDs including diabetes and cancer.


    The Ministry through its Research Councils is actively participating in screening risk group population for the early detection of diabetes, cancer, hypertension and other NCDs under the National Program for the Prevention of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular Diseases, and Stroke. This activity is presently being pursued in four districts, namely Krishna (Andhra Pradesh) & Darjeeling (West Bengal) since September 2015 and followed by Sambalpur (Odisha) & Nasik (Maharashtra) in 2017 on a pilot basis. So far 2,17,448 people have utilized these services. The Ministry is also supporting various research institutions that focus on the use of homoeopathic and ayurvedic system of medicine for prevention and treatment of diabetes and also on the use of these systems as adjuvants in the treatment of cancer.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/SK/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1514705) Visitor Counter : 624