      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Santosh Kumar Gangwar releases ESIC Calendar and Diary
      Posted On: 29 DEC 2017 5:17PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar , Union Minister of State (I/C) for Labour & Employment, Government of India released the ESIC Calendar, Diary and Telephone Directory for the year 2018 at a special function in New Delhi today.


    The ESIC Calendar-2018 gives basic information about the efforts taken by ESIC in increasing ESI coverage and reach, various benefits offered and areas of priorities for the New Year under ESI Scheme etc. The ESIC Diary-2018 also gives complete information about the initiatives and achievements of ESIC during the year 2017 and various benefits offered to the Insured Persons and their Beneficiaries besides complete address and contact number of various ESIC Establishments pan India.


    A short presentation on the ESIC achievements and areas of priorities for the upcoming New Year-2018 depicted through Calendar and Diary was made the occasion. The Minister appreciated and congratulated the entire ESIC team for bringing out important information on ESI Scheme through these releases which will benefit all the Stakeholders of ESI Scheme. The Minister also referred to the efforts taken by the ESIC for improving its services to the Insured Persons and Employers so as to ensure a healthy and happy workforce of the country.


    The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation is a pioneer Social Security organization providing comprehensive social security benefits like reasonable Medical Care and a range of Cash Benefits in times of need such as employment injury, sickness, death etc. The ESI Act applies to premises/precincts where 10 or more persons are employed. The employees drawing wages up to Rs.21,000/- a month are entitled to health insurance cover and other benefits, under the ESI Act. The Act now applies to over 8.98 lakh factories and establishments across the country, benefiting about 3.19 crores family units of workers. As of now, the total beneficiary population of ESI Scheme stands over 12.40 crores. Ever since its inception in 1952, the ESI Corporation has, so far set up 151 Hospitals, 1489/174 Dispensaries / ISM Units, 815 Branch/Pay Offices and 63 Regional & Sub-Regional Offices.


    *****


    SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1514663) Visitor Counter : 367