      AYUSH

      Year End Review- Ministry of AYUSH
      
      All India Institute of Ayurveda Inaugurated by the Prime Minister at New Delhi
      
      NAM Extended for another Three Years with an Outlay of Rs. 2400 crore
      
      First ever International Conference and Exhibition on AYUSH organised
      Posted On: 29 DEC 2017 5:52PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of AYUSH continued to work tirelessly in 2017 to propagate, publicise and popularise the alternate system of medicine with an aim of minimising the gap between demand and supply of medical facilities in the country. During the year 2017 the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi dedicated the All India Institute of Ayurveda to the Nation, Union Cabinet has approved three years extension of National AYUSH Mission(NAM), Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) for international cooperation in the field of AYUSH were signed with many countries, grand celebration of International day of Yoga and National Ayurveda Day and organization of international conferences are some of the most credible accomplishments of the Ministry.


    Following are the significant achievements and details of the important activities of ministry of AYUSH during the year 2017:


    National AYUSH Mission (NAM):


    The Union Cabinet has approved the continuation of National AYUSH Mission (NAM) as a Centrally Sponsored Scheme from 1 st April, 2017 to 31 st March, 2020 with financial outlay of Rs.2400.00 Crore. The Mission was launched on September 2014 for promotion of AYUSH healthcare in the country.


    Under Mainstreaming of AYUSH component, 8994 PHCs, 2871 CHCs and 506 District Hospitals have been co-located with AYUSH facilities. Under NAM, Ministry intends to set up fifty bedded hospitals in all the districts in next 10 years. So far 66 fifty bedded integrated AYUSH hospitals and 992 yoga wellness centres have been assisted. An amount of Rs Rs. 490 Crores for the year 2017 18 has been released to various States/UTs under NAM.


    National Ayurveda Day Celebration:


    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi dedicated the All India Institute of Ayurveda, to the Nation on 2 nd National Ayurveda Day on 17 th October, 2017 . The first ever All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA) is set up along the lines of AIIMS.


    Ministry celebrated 2 nd National Ayurveda Day with the following events:-

     1. Organized Conference on 16 th October, 2017 at India Habitat Centre, New Delhi to bring all Stake holders of Ayurveda Sector and create a platform for constructive discussion on the road map to triple the Industry’s potential in just five year time.
     2. Organized the Ayurveda Conclave Vision 2022- Taking of Ayurveda Sector from $2.5 Billion to $ 8 Billion Industry.
     3. All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA), SaritaVihar, New Delhi dedicated to the Nation by the Hon’ble Prime Minister on 17 th October, 2017.

    Financial assistance has been provided for 23 Health Melas and 10 Seminars/Workshops


    International Day of Yoga Celebration:


    The Third International Day of Yoga was celebrated with great enthusiasm across the country with mass yoga demonstrations at National and International level in various places. The main event of Mass Yoga Demonstration was organized at Ramabai Ambedkar Ground, Lucknow on 21 st June, 2017 where t he Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, participated in the mass Yoga demonstration event.


    To commemorate the celebration of 3 rd International Day of Yoga (IDY), the Ministry of AYUSH organized an “International Conference on Yoga for Wellness” at New Delhi during 10-11 October 2017. The Conference was inaugurated by the Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu. Nearly 600 Indian and foreign delegates including 80Yoga experts/ enthusiasts from 44 countries attended the Conference.


    International AROGYA 2017:


    Ministry of AYUSH in collaboration with Department of Commerce, Ministry of Commerce and Industry; Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and Pharmexcil organized the ‘International AROGYA 2017’ – First Edition of International Exhibition and Conference on AYUSH and Wellness on the theme ‘Enhancing the export potential of AYUSH’ during 4-7 Dec. 2017. The event was attended by International Ayurveda Experts/ Academicians/ Scientists/ Regulators/ Manufacturers. During the International Conference and Regulators Meet, important topics relating to standardization and quality control in AYUSH sector; enhancing the export potential of AYUSH and business opportunities; and integrative healthcare, etc. were extensively deliberated.


    BIMSTEC Task Force on Traditional Medicine:


    1st Meeting of BIMSTEC Task Force on Traditional Medicine in India was organised by the Ministry of AYUSH during 24-25 October, 2017 at New Delhi, wherein delegations from the People’s Republic of Bangladesh, the Kingdom of Bhutan, the Republic of India, the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal, the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Kingdom of Thailand along with the BIMSTEC Secretariat participated.


    International Cooperation:


    Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs)- Federal level MoU signed with 11 countries and Institute level MoUs signed with 24 Countries so far. 28 AYUSH Information Cells have been set up in 25 countries so far.


    Three MoUs were signed by the Central Council for Research In Homoeopathy, an autonomous body under Ministry of AYUSH with:

     1. Scientific Society for Homoeopathy (WissHom), Germany for cooperation in the field of research and education in Homoeopathic Medicine
     2. Federal University of Rio De Janerio- UFRJ for cooperation in the field of Research and Education.
     3. Institute for the History of Medicine, Robert Bosch Foundation, Stuttgart, Germany for cooperation in the field of development of museum on AYUSH system and archives on homoeopathy.

    The Joint Declaration of Intent (JDI) between the Federal Ministry of Health of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Ministry of AYUSH of the Republic of India regarding cooperation in the sector of Alternative Medicine was signed during 4th Indo-German Intergovernmental Consultations (IGC) at Berlin on 1st June 2017.


    The High Commission of India in Singapore organized a Symposium cum Seminar on the theme “Preventive Health Care and Immunity Betterment – The Ayurvedic Way” as a part of celebration of 3rd International Day of Yoga on 21st June 2017 in Singapore in collaboration with Ayurvedic Practitioners Association of Singapore (APAS).


    Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY) and Institute of Post Graduate Teaching & Research In Ayurveda (IPGTRA) have been redesignated as WHO Collaborative Centres in Traditional Medicine under WHO’s reference number WHO CC No. IND-118 and WHO CC No. IND-117.


    An MOU has been signed between CCRAS & University of Debrecen, Hungry on 01 st October, 2017 for establishment of European Institute of Ayurvedic Sciences (EAIS).


    A Homoeopathy Chair has been deputed at the Yerevan State Medical University, Armenia consequent to signing of MoU between CCRH and Yerevan State Medical University, Armenia for setting up of AYUSH Academic Chair.


    National Medicinal Plants Board (NMPB):


    NMPB in collaboration with Federation on Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Stakeholders (FEDMAPS), New Delhi had organized an International Symposium on “National Policy Drafting of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants of India” on 19th & 20th January, 2017. The purpose of said event was to draft the National Policy Document of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (MAPs) of India. The review meeting was conducted on 22nd November 2017 and finalization of draft National Policy on Medicinal Plants is in the process.


    Achievements under Central Sector Scheme for Conservation, Development and Sustainable Management of Medicinal Plants during 2017-18 till December 2017 are supported 2845.07 hectares under Resource Augmentation of Medicinal Plants, Supported 1000 hectares of area for five Medicinal Plants Conservation and Development Areas (MPCDAs), Supported 43 Joint Forest Management Committees (JFMCs) in States, for livelihood augmentation, through value addition activities and supported projects for setting up of Herbal Gardens, School Herbal Gardens and Home Herbal Gardens.


    In collaboration with Federation of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Stakeholders (EFDMAPS), New Delhi, NMPB is sourcing the monthly Mandi price of 100 high demanded medicinal plants from 25 major herbal mandies of India. These monthly prices will be published in ‘e-charak’ portal and website of NMPB for all the stakeholders.


    Preventive study of Dengue and Chikungunya during 2017 (Ongoing):


    Protocol for the study titled ‘Effectiveness of Eupatorium perfoliatum vis-à-vis health awareness in preventing dengue & chikungunya fever during outbreak – an open cluster level study.’ was approved by different committees of the Council and study was initiated on 1 st July 2017. This is an open cluster level study. The study participants are enrolled from the slum areas with high mosquito exposure but apparently healthy. The study shall be conducted at JJ colony of Mayapuri, Piragadi, Zakira, Chunna Bhatti, Keshav Vihar and Madhav Vihar at New Delhi. Enrolled individuals received Eupatorium perfoliatum 30 once in a week for 10 weeks. Total 70,000 participants enrolled and under follow up study is ongoing.


    Central Council for Research in Siddha (CCRS) has a collaborative research project underway on standard care in Dengue with Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi. It is a “Multi-centre open labelled non-randomised parallel group Phase III clinical trial to compare the effectiveness of Siddha, Ayurveda and Homeopathy standard care in Dengue infection/post infective Dengue arthralgia”.


    Pharmacopoeia Commission for Indian Medicine & Homoeopathy:


    Publication and revision of Ayurvedic, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathic Formularies/ Pharmacopoeia/ Codex and of such addenda or supplementary compendia


    Three Pharmacopoeial publications namely Ayurvedic Pharmacopoeia of India Part-I, Volume IX, Ayurvedic Pharmacopoeia of India Part - II, Volume IV and Unani Pharmacopoeia of India Part - II, Volume III were released at the hands of Sh. ShripadNaik, Honourable Minister of State I/c, Min. of AYUSH, during Silver Jubilee celebration & Inauguration of 21 st Convocation of CRAV and National Seminar on “Evidence Based Ayurvedic Approach to Diagnosis, Prevention and Management of Diabetes and Its Complications” held on 29 th May, 2017.


    Development of pharmacopoeial standards


    The APC was reconstituted for the period of three years consequent upon expiry of tenure of previous committee. Work regarding development of pharmacopoeial standards for 30 single drugs and formulations each alongwith hydro-alcoholic and water extracts of 5 drugs each has been allotted in project mode. Progress of the work is being closely monitored. Apart from it, drafting of Veterinary Formulary and revision of Ayurvedic Pharmacopoeia of India Part I, Vol. I and Ayurvedic Formulary of India, Part-I & II are also going on.


    The SPC was reconstituted for the period of three years consequent upon expiry of tenure of previous committee. Work regarding development of pharmacopoeial standards for 20 single drugs and formulations each has been allotted in project mode. Apart from it, manuscripts of two new publications namely Siddha Pharmacopoeia of India Part I, Vol. III and Siddha Formulary of India (SFI), Part III (Tamil) alongwith revised editions of SFI Part I (Tamil), SFI Part I (English) and SFI Part II (English) are being worked out.


    The UPC was reconstituted for the period of three years consequent upon expiry of tenure of previous committee. Revision of National Formulary of Unani Medicine (NFUM), Part I to VI and Unani Pharmacopoeia of India, Part I, Vol. I-VI is under process.


    The tenure of HPC was extended for a period of one year suppressing expiry of the incumbent committee. Work regarding development of pharmacopoeial standards for 10 single drugs has been allotted in project mode. Progress of the work is being closely monitored. Apart from it, revision of Homoeopathic Pharmacopoeia of India Vol. I-IX is also going on.


    Achievements under Extra Mural Research (EMR) Scheme during the year 2017-18


     New projects clearly/conditionally approved by PAC - 12


     Grant in-Aid approved for ongoing projects – 23


     Projects completed - 11


     Research papers published in reputed journals - 2


    AYUSH Education Reforms


    In order to raise the levels of the AYUSH education, Ministry is planning a country-wide collective of AYUSH students which will serve as a platform for students for organizing various activities.


    National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) for all AYUSH Educational Institutions for admission of undergraduate Course through designated Authority. For all system of AYUSH, minimum 50% marks should be obtained by the candidates to be eligible for admission in Under Graduate Course.


    National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) for all AYUSH Educational Institutions for admission of Post graduate Course / Exit Exam through designated Authority. For all system of AYUSH, minimum 50% marks should be obtained by the candidates to qualify the test. By assessing the percentage of qualifying students in PG NEET / Exit examination of a particular AYSUH Institution, the due benefits should be given to that particular college and the same will be incorporated in MSR of both ASU & H system. Colleges shall be exempted from obtaining permission from Central Government for one year, if 70% of the students of the previous batch qualify the PG-NEET / Exit exam.


    AYUSH National Teachers Eligibility Test shall be conducted for appointment of all teachers in AYUSH Institutions, and a unique verification code for such teachers shall be allotted by CCH / CCIM before their appointment.


    The attendance of Teaching Staffs in all AYUSH Medical Colleges shall be through geo location based system, which shall be made accessible by the relevant Council (CCIM / CCH) as well as the Ministry.


    *****


    NB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1514684) Visitor Counter : 3930
    
    
    
    
    

3.