      Ministry of Textiles

      The year that was: Significant achievements of Ministry of Textiles in 2017
      Posted On: 26 DEC 2017 6:28PM by PIB Delhi

     1. First Mega International trade event-“Textiles India 2017”

    The first ever mega international trade event for the textile sector was organized in Gandhinagar, Gujarat from 30 June, 2017 - 2 July, 2017 to showcase the incredible strength and range of India’s textile and handicrafts industry. The event recorded participation from more than 100 countries and generated business and business enquiries of about Rs. 3, 50,000 lakh. A total of 65 MoUs with an estimated value of more than Rs. 11,000 crore were signed during the event. The event has firmly established Indian Textiles brand at the global platform and has provided new energy for attracting fresh investments in the textiles sector.


    Besides a mega exhibition that showcased the richness of Indian textile tradition, the three-day Textiles India 2017 witnessed also a host of activities, including country sessions for Korea, Bangladesh, Russia and ASEAN countries, and state sessions for Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Assam, Gujarat, Telangana, and Karnataka. Six major conferences and 27 roundtables on various subjects were also held.


    Following institutional mechanisms have been set up to give effect to the recommendations of conferences and roundtables during Textiles India 2017:

     1. An inter-ministerial steering committee to oversee implementation of a Knowledge Network Management System (KNMS) for exchange of knowledge amongst academia, farming community and the industry on the productivity of natural fibres and diversification of their bye-products
     2. An Inter-Ministerial Synergy Group on Man-Made Fibre (MMF) to formulate policy interventions to enhance growth and competitiveness of MMF industry in India
     3. A Task Force on Textiles India to steer follow-up action on various outcomes of Textiles India 2017 for growth of the textiles sector

     1. Powerloom Sector:


    “PowerTex India” has been launched on 1st April, 2017, with an outlay of Rs. 487 crores for three years to support 44 lakh workers/weavers. The scheme has components relating to loom upgradation, infrastructure creation and concessional access to credit. It has the potential to generate investments worth Rs. 1000 crores, employment for 10,000 people and will also result in higher returns to powerloom units.


    SAATHI: ‘SAATHI’ (Sustainable and Accelerated Adoption of Efficient Textiles Technology to Help Small Scale Industries) was launched jointly by Ministry of Textiles and Ministry of Power to provide energy-efficient powerlooms, motors and rapier kits to small and medium powerloom units at no upfront cost. Energy Efficient Services Limited (EESL) would procure and provide these equipments to the workers at no upfront cost and the worker would repay in installments to EESL over a period of 4 to 5 years. The initiative will help 24.86 lakh powerloom units in the country.


    A toll free helpline No. 1800220017 has been started at Office of the Textile Commissioner, Mumbai from 01.04.2017, to facilitate Powerloom weavers.


    A dedicated website www.ipowertexindia.gov.in has been created whereby Powerloom weavers can apply online for various schemes under PowerTex India. The entire process ranging from application and sanction of subsidy has been made online, so as to enable powerloom units to avail the facility in an effective, transparent and seamless manner.


    The beneficiary can also track the status of their application in iPowerTex android Mobile App. The online portal and Mobile App are operational from 1 st December, 2017 on optional basis. Online application will be made mandatory from 1 st January, 2018.


    Ministry of Textiles has introduced a new Converged Group Insurance Scheme for Powerloom weavers by clubbing Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti BimaYojana (PMJJBY) and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojna (PMSBY) for the age group of 18 to 50 years and Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana(AABY) for the age group of 51 to 59 years, effective from May 2017. 72,378 Powerloom weavers have been enrolled / insured till November 2017.


     1. Handloom and Handicraft sectors:


    Deendayal Hastkala Sankul, the first ever state-of-the-art trade centre and crafts museum at Varanasi , was dedicated to the public by the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India on September 22, 2017. Set up on a sprawling 7.5 acres of land, the centre would provide world-class marketing facilities to the weavers and artisans and would also boost the tourism potential of Varanasi.


    India Handmade Bazaar , an online portal to provide direct market access facility to artisans and weavers, was launched on January 29, 2017. The portal enables weavers & artisans to enter information about their products for easy understanding of customers/exporters. Weavers and artisans can access the portal through their registered mobile number.


    Weavers’ Mudra Scheme, which was launched last year to provide concessional credit to handloom weavers, has picked up momentum. 28,000 weavers have benefited from the scheme so far and loans amounting to Rs. 138 crore have been sanctioned. A similar scheme was launched for handicraft artisans too, under which 2,173 artisans have been sanctioned loans of Rs.11.5 crore.


    Hastkala Sahayog Shivirs : For the first time, a massive outreach programme for weavers and artisans was organized through Hastkala Sahayog Shivirs. 394 such Shivirs were held in 247 districts across the country during October 7 – 17, 2017. About 94,000 weavers and artisans participated in these camps, attended also by several Union Ministers, State Ministers, MPs and MLAs. In the Shivirs, weavers and artisans received assistance in availing MUDRA loan, supply of looms, accessories and tool kits, Pahchan cards (ID cards), yarn passbooks and for enrolment of their children for formal education through NIOS and IGNOU.


    MoU with M/s. CSC e-Governance Services India Ltd .: The Ministry of Textiles signed an MoU on August 7, 2017 to set up Common Service Centers (CSCs) in Weavers’ Service Centres and handloom clusters. Weavers will be provided access to healthcare, financial and education services, essential public utility services, social welfare schemes and exhibition and marketing support through these CSCs.


    MoU with Financial Corporations : An MoU was signed with National Backward Classes Finance Development Corporation (NBCFDC) and National Schedule Castes Finance Development Corporation (NSFDC), to implement schemes of Government of India for artisans and weavers belonging to OBC and SC categories in 14 identified clusters, with necessary forward linkages for income sustainability and enhancement.


    Educational facilities to children of handloom weavers: Memorandums of Understanding were signed with IGNOU and National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) to provide customized educational services to weavers. The Ministry of Textiles provides 75% of the fee in case of SC, ST, BPL and Women weaver families.


    Kamala Devi Chattopadhya National Award’ for women weavers was introduced on on the occasion of International Women’s Day, on March 8, 2017.


    Pushtaini Hunar Vikas Yojana was launched at Institute of Carpet Technology, Badohi to impart technical and soft-skills training to weavers from traditional carpet-weaving families.


    On the lines of Bunkar Mitra helpline for handloom weavers, a dedicated helpline for artisans (helpline No. 1800 208 4800) was launched on May 5, 2017. The helpline provides 24x7 services in seven languages – Hindi, English, Kannada, Assamese, Bengali, Tamil and Telugu.


    8.92 lakh artisans received Pahchan ID cards which would enable them to smoothly access the benefits they are entitled to.


    On the occasion of the birth centenary of Bharat Ratna Dr. B.R. Ambedkar on April 14, 2017, a conference of artisans and weavers belonging to the SC communities was organized in New Delhi. The birth centenary was celebrated also at 61 field offices of Office of the Development Commissioner (Handicrafts), where special camps were organized with the help of bank officials. Artisans were provided education on use of BHIM application for making digital payments and were also given MUDRA loans, tool kits and other services.


    E-Commerce : In order to provide direct marketing platform to handloom weavers and artisans, 21 leading e-commerce companies have been engaged for online marketing of handloom products. Sales worth more than 5.5 crore have been achieved through e-marketing in 2017-18.


    India Handloom Brand: Indian Handlooms got worldwide recognition through India Handloom Brand (IHB) which guarantees high quality, authentic handloom items made with organic substances. Partnerships have been entered into with 100 retail stores to sell exclusive India Handloom Brand items, out of which 25 retail stores have started operations. 23 garment manufacturers are working with IHB producers for sourcing fabrics from IHB-registered weavers. Leading garment brands have been working with IHB in bringing out a separate range of garment line using handlooms.

     1. Technical Textiles

    Technotex 2017, the 6th International Exhibition and Conference on Technical Textiles, was held from April 12 - 14, 2017 in Mumbai. Maharashtra was the host state while Gujarat, Jharkhand and Karnataka participated as partner states. A CEOs’ forum with major players of the technical textile industry was also held. Industry from 22 countries such as China, Taiwan, U.S.A., Japan, France, Ghana, Indonesia and Bangladesh exhibited their products at the exhibition.


    Eleven Focus Incubation Centers (FICs) in Centres of Excellence and in IITs (Delhi, Bombay, Kanpur & Kharagpur) have been established at a cost of Rs. 59.35 crore. FICs will provide plug-and-play facility to potential entrepreneurs to enter technical textiles business.


    Notification of Post-GST Rates under Refund of State Levies: The Ministry has notified post-GST rates vide Gazette Notification No. 14/26/2010-IT dated November 24, 2017 under the scheme for Remission of State Levies (RoSL) on exports of readymade garments & made-ups and under AA-RoSL for garments. For garments, the rates range between 1.25% and 1.70% and for Made-ups, they range between 1.40% and 2.20%. These rates have been made effective from October 1, 2017.


    The Government has also enhanced the rates under Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS) on readymade garments and made-ups from 2% to 4%. These rates will be applicable between 1 st November, 2017 and 30 th June, 2018 and are expected to boost Indian exports in the textile sector.

     1. Silk Sector

    Production of Import Substitute Raw Silk : The production of import substitute bivoltine silk in the country is expected to reach around 6,200 MTs in 2017-‘18 as compared to 5,266 MTs in 2016-‘17, registering an increase of 19%. Muga silk has recorded highest ever production of 170 MTs and has acquired a new growth momentum. Bivoltine silk production has grown by 105% in the last three years and has enabled substantial import substitution.


    The indigenous automatic reeling machines and Buniyad reeling machines were launched on March 8, 2017 to increase quality and productivity. Buniyaad machines have also helped in doing away with the regressive practice of thigh reeling by women.


    An MoU for cooperation in sericulture sector has been signed between Central Silk Board and Guangxi Agriculture Department, China on July 1, 2017 at Gandhinagar. The MoU envisages collaboration between the two institutes to develop disease-resistant species of silkworm seeds.


    A state-of-the-art Centre of Excellence for training has been established at Bangalore, with classroom and laboratory facilities for practical training.

     1. Cotton Sector

    India has acquired the first place in the world in cotton acreage, with an area of around 105 lakh hectares. India has emerged the largest producer of cotton in the world, with a production of 345 lakh bales in 2016-17. India is also the 2nd largest exporter of cotton.


    MSP Operations for Cotton: To ensure remunerative price to cotton farmers, the Government of India has nominated the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) as nodal agency to undertake Minimum Support Price (MSP) operations in all cotton-growing states when prices of seed cotton (kapas) touches the MSP level. In the present cotton season 2017-18, 88.31 lakh bales of kapas had arrived till December 13, 2017, out of which, 3.62 lakh bales have been procured by CCI under MSP operations.


     1. Jute Sector


    Approval of Price for Raw Jute for the year 2017-18 : Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs approved the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of raw jute (TDN3 equivalent to TD5 of old grade) for 2017-18 season at Rs. 3,500/- per quintal. It also approved that Jute Corporation of India will continue as Central Government Nodal Agency to undertake Price Support Operations and the losses incurred, if any, in the MSP operations will be fully reimbursed by the Central Government.


     1. Technology Upgradation Fund Scheme


    A total of 3,504 cases have been approved under Amended Technology Fund Scheme (ATUFS), with a projected investment of Rs 12,426 crore against government subsidy of Rs 956.50 crore. These new projects have the potential to create about one lakh new jobs, in addition to supporting about 3 lakh existing employees .


     1. Unlocking potential of North Eastern Region in textiles


    The Government of India organized the first ever North East Investment Summit focusing on manufacturing in textiles and allied sectors at Shillong during January 29 – 30, 2017, to unveil the potential of the region as a global investment destination. The summit was attended by many central ministries, all NE states, Export Promotion Councils, Industry Associations and investors from India and neighboring countries. 21 Memorandum of Understandings (MoU) to promote investment opportunities, business and R&D projects in NER were signed during the summit.


    The Apparel & Garment Centre at Ampati, Meghalaya was inaugurated by the Union Textiles Minister Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani on January 30, 2017. The Centre was set up under North East Textiles Promotion Scheme (NERTPS).


    Ministry of Textiles is implementing sericulture projects in NER with Central Government support of Rs.690.01 crore. Objectives of these projects are to establish sericulture as a viable commercial activity in NER, by creating necessary infrastructure and by imparting skills to the locals for silk worm rearing and allied activities in the silk production value chain. Under the project, a total of 28,200 acres have been brought under host plantation of Mulberry, Eri and Muga silk, supporting beneficiaries across all NE States. The interventions have helped in production of 1,460 MT of raw silk, registering a cumulative increase of 36% from 2014-15 to 2016-17.


    Scheme for Promotion of Geotechnical Textiles in NER: Four new road projects (two in Mizoram and two in Meghalaya) have been initiated and Rs. 8.80 crore have been released for construction of more durable roads. So far, 34 new projects have been approved in 8 NER States with a cost of Rs. 98.19 crore.


    One road project of Airport Road, Manipur has been completed with the application of geotextiles. The application of Geotextiles in the construction of two road projects - Khudrakpam to Taorem in Imphal District of PMGSY under MSRRDA, Manipur and Shillong- Nongstoin Road, Meghalaya - are under progress.

     1. National Institute of Fashion Technology

    A NIFT campus at Srinagar became functional in 2017. The campus was set up at a project cost of Rs. 325.36 crores.


    A graduate prograame focusing on cluster crafts has been started from the 2017 academic session. NIFT had signed MoUs with Development Commissioner (Handicrafts) and Development Commissioner (Handlooms) for cluster initiative for symbiotic collaboration in linking handloom clusters with budding fashion professionals.


    USTTAD (Upgradation of Skills and Training in Ancestral Arts/Crafts for Development) project initiated in collaboration with Ministry of Minority Affairs will encompass 25 handicraft and handloom clusters.


    Four one-year Certificate Programmes have been initiated; these are Certificate Programme in Fashion Design Development (CPFDD), Certificate Programme in Fashion Design and Management (CPFDM), Certificate Programme in Application of Information Technology in Fashion (CPAIT) and Certificate Programme in Knitwear Design and Manufacturing (CPKDM).


     1. Skilling in Textile Sector


    As part of the Government's broad focus on Skill Development, Ministry has been implementing Integrated Skill Development Scheme (ISDS), an employment linked programme for meeting the skill requirement of textile industry. More than 4.8 lakh people have been trained during last year of which 74% have been placed.


    On December 20, 2017, the Union Cabinet gave its approval for a new skill development scheme covering the entire value chain of the textile sector excluding Spinning & Weaving in organized Sector, titled "Scheme for Capacity Building in Textile Sector (SCBTS)" from 2017-18 to 2019-20 with an outlay of Rs. 1300 crore. The scheme will have National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) compliant training courses with funding norms as per the Common Norms notified by Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship.


    The objectives of the scheme are to provide demand driven, placement oriented skilling programme to incentivize the efforts of the industry in creating jobs in the organized textile and related sectors; to promote skilling and skill up-gradation in the traditional sectors through respective Sectoral Divisions/organizations of Ministry of Textiles; and to provide livelihood to all sections of the society across the country.


    The scheme will be implemented for the benefit of all sections of the society across the country including rural, remote, LWE affected, North East, J&K by imparting skills in the identified job roles. Preference will be given to various social groups, SC, ST, differently abled, minorities and other vulnerable groups. Under previous scheme of skill development implemented by the Ministry of Textiles in the XII Plan period, more than 10 lakh people have been trained of which more than 70% were women. Considering that the apparel industry, a major segment to be covered under the scheme, employs majorly women (about 70%), the trend is likely to be continued in the new scheme.


    10 lakh people are expected to be skilled and certified in various segments of Textile Sector through the scheme, out of which 1 lakh will be in traditional sectors.

     1. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT SCHEME

    A project titled “National Sizing Survey of India” for developing Indian standard size of apparel has been sanctioned to National Institute of Technology (NIFT), at a total cost of Rs.31 crore.


    A project titled “Development of Value Added Textile Product From Different Fibres” in Himalayan Region has been sanctioned to the textile research association NITRA.

     1. NATIONAL TEXTILE CORPORATION (NTC)

    NTC has registered a net profit of Rs. 969.38 Cr. during 2016-‘17. The company produced 300 lakh kg. of yarn & 111 lakh metres of cloth during April-October, 2017. Productivity of NTC mills has improved to 94.14 gms during April-October, 2017 against 94.10 gms. during 2016-‘17. All the details of land available with NTC i.e. location, area etc. has been digitized.


    `

     1. Web-based software system for Collection of Textile Statistical Return: Office of the Textile Commissioner has put in place a web-based software system - Textile Statistical Return System (TSRS), to collect necessary data from all textile units. Around 500 units have been registered on this web portal.

     1. Swachhata Hi Sewa campaign: Ministry of Textiles organized Swachhata Hi Sewa campaign at all its offices/ organizations across the country from September 15, 2017 to October 2, 2017. The Textiles Minister Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani participated in Shramdan Sewa Diwas on September 17, 2017 in Chandigarh; Minister of Textiles, Shri Ajay Tamta participated in Uttarakhand and Secretary (Textiles), Shri Anant Kumar Singh participated in Weaver Service Centre at Hyderabad.


    ***


    DJM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1514173) Visitor Counter : 3591
    
    
    
    
    

1.