      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Shri Mansukh Mandaviya says Government to push Road Safety through amendment of Motor Vehicles Act
      Posted On: 28 DEC 2017 5:27PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Mansukh Mandaviya, Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways, Shipping and Chemicals & Fertilizers, in a written reply to the Lok Sabha today informed that Government has introduced Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Bill, 2017 in the Parliament, which has been passed by Lok Sabha and is currently before Rajya Sabha for passing. The Bill contains the provision of setting up of National Road Safety Traffic Management Board (NRSTMB) which will work as the lead agency for the Government of India for road safety. The Hon’ble Supreme Court has also directed all the States to frame State Road Safety Policy and establish lead agency in all States / UTs.


    The Government has also made it mandatory for the fitment of speed governors on certain category of transport vehicles with maximum pre-set speed of 80 kmph and for transport vehicles like dumpers, tankers, school buses, those carrying hazardous goods with maximum speed of 60 kmph. However, keeping in view the non-availability of speed governors for certain models of motor vehicles, the Ministry has issued advisory to all the States/UTs to exempt specific models of transport vehicles from the requirement of fitment of speed governor till the time the speed governors of at-least two or three manufacturers are available at competitive rates.


    To ensure the safety of passengers, the Government has issued notification for manufacturers of Motor Vehicles to comply with additional safety features like seat belt reminder, manual over-ride, speed alert system vehicle reverse gear sensor etc. for the vehicles manufactured on and after the 1st of July, 2019.


    In a separate written reply, Shri Mansukh Mandaviya informed the House that to curb the menace of vehicular pollution, the Government has taken proactive steps to promote environment friendly vehicles. Furthermore, steps have been taken by notifying alternate fuels like ethanol, biogas, electric hybrid etc. and mandating mass emission standard for BS-VI throughout the country w.e.f. from 1st April, 2020.


    ***


    NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1514516) Visitor Counter : 435