      Ministry of Defence

      Re-Employment of Armed Forces Personnel
      Posted On: 27 DEC 2017 2:31PM by PIB Delhi


    Government provides non-monetary benefits such as travel concessions, health amenities, housing facilities, re-employment and pension concessions to serving and retired defence personnel including their family members. The details of the benefits are as under:


    Travel Concessions:-


    The service personnel and their dependents including father, mother, brothers and sisters, if otherwise dependent on service personnel, are entitled for LTC from Duty Station to Home Station and back once in a year.


    The service personnel and their dependents consisting of wife and dependent children are authorised for LTC from Duty Station to anywhere in India once in alternate year. In case the said concession is availed by personnel, the concession of travel entitlement from Duty Station to Home Station will be forgone. Retired defence personnel are not entitled for LTC.


    The Chakra series Gallantry awardees and widows after their demise are granted complimentary Card passes for travel in trains.


    The Chakra series Gallantry awardees and widows after their demise are offered concession in Economy Class Fare by Air India.


    Health Amenities:


    In the case of Serving personnel & their dependents all medical facilities (both in and out-patient treatment) except for in-patient treatment for dependents with psychiatric ailments, is provided as per the guidelines.


    Ex-Servicemen & their Dependents are provided medical facilities under Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) through ECHS Polyclinics, Government and empanelled hospitals.


    Housing Facilities :


    All serving defence personnel are entitled for house / HRA as per the existing regulations. Retired defence personnel can retain authorised accommodations upto three months post retirement but are not entitled to housing facility thereafter.


    Reemployment:


    Reservations are provided in Government jobs, Central Public Sector Enterprises, Nationalised Banks//Financial Institutions to Ex-servicemen. Reservations are also provided in Central Public Sector Enterprises and Nationalised Banks to dependents of servicemen killed in action.


    Pension Concessions:


    Serving personnel on completion of requisite Qualifying Service are entitled for pensionary benefits. In case of death after retirement, the wife/eligible member of the family is entitled for family pension subject to fulfilment of conditions. In case of death of a service personnel while in service, the wife/eligible member of the family will be entitled for family pension i.e. ordinary Family Pension/ Special Family pension/ Liberalised Family Pension or Dependent pension depending upon the attributability or aggravation of death to or by service.


    Provisions for re-employment of Ex-servicemen in jobs already exist. The details of reservation available to Ex-servicemen is as under:


    In Central Government Ministries / Departments:

      * 10% Direct recruitment posts upto the level of Asst. Commandant in Central Para Military Forces.
      * 10% Direct recruitment posts in Group ‘C’.
      * 20% Direct recruitment posts in Group ‘D’.

    In Central Public Sector Enterprises:

      * 14.5% in Group ‘C’ Posts.
      * 24.5% in Group ‘D’ Posts
      * (including 4.5% for disabled ESM/ dependents of servicemen killed in action).

    Nationalised Banks:

      * 14.5% in Group ‘C’ Posts.
      * 24.5% in Group ‘D’ Posts
      * (including 4.5% for disabled ESM/ dependents of servicemen killed in action).

    This information was given by Raksha Rajya Mantri Dr. Subhash Bhamre in a written reply to Smt Poonam Mahajan in Lok Sabha today.


    NAo/Nampi/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1514261) Visitor Counter : 752
    
    
    
    
    

*