      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB Kolkata organised Round table discussion on ‘Empowerment of Women’
      Posted On: 06 MAR 2020 2:59PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 06.03.2020


    Press Information Bureau, Kolkata in collaboration with Visvabharati University organised a round table discussion on ‘Empowerment of Women’ on the occasion of International Women’s Day 2020 at Women Study Centre, Visva-Bharati in Shantiniketan,Bolpur on Thursday.


    Dr Asha Mukherjee, Head of the Philosophy and Comparative Religion department as well as the Acting Registrar of the University inaugurated the programme by lighting the lamp. She told that the whole world is facing discrimination problem which is a deep rooted one. To overcome the problem, girls need to be more educated which will ensure the empowerment of both men and women. They should have courage to question and raise their voices against the inequality meted out to them, she added.


    Professor Susmita Bhattacharjee of Bengali department gave lot of examples from the Tagore’s Literature, where women broke the traditional way of living for solving various problems of society. She quoted lots of paradigm from Tagore’s literature.


    Professor Prashanta Kumar Ghosh from the Department of Social Work said that it is the high time to include women in every sector of the society. He told that Tagore had shown the way where women were involved with small scale industries in Sriniketan. Col.(Retd) Dr Susmita Das , Army Medical Corp informed that women are too keen to join the armed forces now-a-days. Sri Ritankar Kundu, lead bank Manager of Shantiniketan shared his experience about repayment of loan. The UCO Bank manager told that it is the women, be it women Self help group or individual, pay back the loan in time more sincerely.


    The discussion was held at Indira Gandhi Centre. More than 50 students, some of them are foreign nationals, attended the discussion. Their active participation made the discussion livelier.


    Smt Chitra Gupta, Deputy Director of the PIB Kolkata gave the vote of thanks to the attendees.


    CG/CB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605520) Visitor Counter : 13
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali