      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PIB Kolkata Round Table on 'Women's Empowerment' throws light on various aspects of women’s issues
      
      Women are the real Architects of the society: Dr. Sumita Das Ghose

      Posted On: 06 MAR 2020 4:26PM by PIB Kolkata

    Siliguri: March 6, 2020


    Women need to be empowered economically, socially and culturally to bring in changes in their status across the world, said Dr. Debjani Basu Mallick, District Tuberculosis Officer of Health of Darjeeling and Kalimpomg District at a round table on the theme of "Women's Empowerment", jointly organized by Press Information Bureau, Kolkata and Salesian College, Siliguri at Salesian College in Siliguri today. Dr. Mallick stated that women must be fit physically, socially and mentally because poverty and malnutrition are the main threat to them. Under nutrition and over nutrition are equally dangerous for health. She urged to take balanced diet to remain healthy. On Coronavius (COVID 19), Dr. Mallick asked not no worry to much. But she urged to remain alert, adopt sanitation and wash hands frequently. If one finds any symptom, he/she must visit the nearby health center, she mentioned.


    Dr. Samita Das Ghose, Obstetrician, Gynaecologist, Colposcopist and Endoscopic Surgeon, Neotia Getwell Health Care Centre, Siliguri mentioned that women need to be fearless apart from being educated and financially self-dependent. She explained in detail how to remain fit and healthier by adopting hygiene and preventive health care. Mentioning that women are real architects of the society, Dr. Ghose stressed on the need for women to take care of their health, in order to take care of family and others. “We need to inculcate this right from the cradle. Health education in our society needs to inculcate this", Dr. Ghose added.


    Welcoming the panelists, Smt. Jane Namchu, Additional Director General of Press Information Bureau, Kolkata and Regional Outreach Bureau, West Bengal, Union Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, said, this is a decade when women's rights & gender-equality have taken centre-stage. A gender-equal world can be a healthier, wealthier and harmonious place. She further said that the story of women’s struggle for equality does not belong to any one activist or any one organization, but to the collective efforts of all who care about human rights. Brainstorming sessions such as this have the potential to arrive at important solutions for significant issues, The ADG mentioned.


    The conference, which has been held as a part of the Government’s sustained campaign for creating a gender-equal society, highlighted various women’s issues and aspects of gender equality. The panelists consisted of Dr. Meenakshi Chakraborty, Principle, Kalipada Ghosh Tarai Mahavidyalaya, Bagdogra; Dr. Shamistha Bhattacharjee, Associate Professor, Community Medicine, North Bengal Medical College; Professor (Retired), Noreen Dunne, St. Joseph's College, Darjeeling; Dr. Gunjeet Auora Mehta, Associate Professor and Dean, PG Department, Salesian College, Siliguri; Ms. Sanchita Aich, Journalist, Echo of India, Siliguri and Ms. Deeksha Rupasa, Editor, The Statesman.


    The discussion session focused on issues related to women’s emancipation, gender equality and women’s empowerment and highlighted the way forward to strengthen the empowerment of women and ensuring dignity for women in various aspects of life.


    It was also discussed that empowerment is not only confined freedom from being dominated at home and workplaces but reform a broader aspects of society norms and to work harmoniously with the other genders. Society cannot run smoothly if men and women do not work shoulder to shoulder and without respecting the dignity of each other. It was mentioned that women should be sufficiently brave enough to ask for their rights, and need to raise their voice at right time against any violences and discriminations against them. For that reason, women must be empowered with knowledge, education and financial independence.


    The Various Ministries and Departments of Government of India have launched a campaign to observe International Women’s Day (IWD) 2020 as a run-up to 8th March, celebrated as International Women’s Day all over the world. The campaign which started on 1st, March, has a theme for all the days. The themes that are being observed are: education, health and nutrition, empowerment of women, skills &entrepreneurship and participation in sports, special circumstances, rural women & agriculture and urban women.


    JN/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605542) Visitor Counter : 14
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali