      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      An awareness workshop on ‘Impact of Personal Hygiene and Environmental Sanitation on Nutrition’ organized in Kolkata
      Posted On: 16 MAR 2020 5:15PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, March 16, 2020


    In an awareness Workshop cum Seminar organized by Food and Nutrition Board, Eastern Region, Ministry of Women and Child Development, Shri Rabindranath Mishra, Director General, Press Information Bureau, Kolkata emphasized that for communicating the intended message of Swachhata, Hygiene and Food Nutrition, proper strategy of Information, Education and Communication is of utmost importance. The daylong seminar delved on aspects related to ‘Impact of Personal Hygiene and Environmental Sanitation on Nutrition’ with emphasis on Swachhata, Hygiene and Food Nutrition. Shri Mishra said that Hygiene, Food Nutrition and Swachhata are all interconnected and the importance of these can be communicated with a strategy well-planned to create awareness. He said that it is essential to create demand in the mind of people so they have the urge for information to be aware on the topic and their curiosity will eventually drive success with involvement of the stakeholders in the value chain of Food Nutrition, Hygiene and sanitation. Mentioning about Government’s initiative on Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan, Poshan Abhiyaan, he said that awareness campaigns should involve the stakeholders towards providing the behavioural transformation and attitudinal change in the mind of people. He further said that the benefits of Institutional Delivery, Food fortification, Immunisation, Child Growth monitoring, proper healthy diet are initiatives in that endeavour. Shri Mishra said the initiative should leverages latest technology with segmented strategy, approach and convergence to disseminate the intended messages to people. He emphasised that Government’s initiative Poshan Abhiyaan is with the objective of improving nutritional outcomes for children, adolescents, pregnant women and lactating mothers.


    Speaking on the occasion, Prof (Dr.) Ragunath Mishra, Medical Superintendent cum Vice Principal, IPGMER & SSKM and Prof(Dr.) Abhijit Hazra, Dean of Student Affairs, IPGMER & SSKM conveyed their well wishes for the success of the programme and said this workshop is a platform to listen to people their perspectives and expectations from the medical fraternity for the successful implementation of programmes related to Food Nutrition, Hygiene and Sanitation.


    Delivering her lecture Dr. Madhumita Dobe, Director -Professor, All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, delved in detail about the efficacy of hygiene and sanitation for a healthy life-style. She said that service quality and affordability forms important component for decision making and for final success of any policy. She suggested that any policy has to dovetail their strategy with this in perspective, especially related to hygiene and sanitation. She said hygiene and sanitation utility is well-known to all, however, it needs a constant effort to practice and to make people aware about its importance. She further said that the appeal towards the information on nutrition and sanitation and its intended communication should involve individuals along with their communities so that the value-addition is felt by all in the value chain, resulting in its success. She said the nurses in hospital, who are attending this workshop and listening to the speakers, should set role models so that patients and visitors in today’s era are not apprehensive to be infected by virus and infections while visiting hospitals. She said nurses are vital component in the message communication of Food Nutrition and hygiene for mothers in their delivery of new born in hospitals.


    Shri Nagendra Nath Tiwari, Deputy Technical Adviser, Food and Nutrition Board, Eastern Region, Ministry of Woman and Child Development said health sector should not be viewed as expenditure sector, rather an investment sector with long term benefits. He said that productivity and economic advantages of nutritious and healthy society forms the bedrock of any developing economy. Shri Tiwari reiterated the importance of nutrition and said that food nutrition and sanitation go together with Hygiene.


    Speaking on the occasion, Prof(Dr.) Soumitra Ghosh, In-charge of Department of Internal Medicine, Obesity and Lifestyle Diseases Division, said that physical infrastructure is important at the same time, there has to be an emphasis on behavioral and attitudinal change for the success of any social and behavioral campaign. He said being from the medical fraternity, he can say with assertiveness that most of the life-style diseases can be tackled with a positive mind and healthy diet and nutritious food helps prevent most of the diseases. Lauding the efforts of all the senior officials of Press Information Bureau, State and Central Government officials, nurses, students of IPGMER & SSKM present on the occasion, he said that the workshop is a meeting place of all medical fraternity, Government officials and nutrition experts to develop a roadmap for successful implementation and efficacy of campaign driving the message of the importance of Food Nutrition, Hygiene and Swachhata.


    SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606577) Visitor Counter : 5