      Ministry of Communications

      Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), Regional Office Kolkata organises a seminar on ‘Emergence of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning’
      Posted On: 13 MAR 2020 12:36PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, March 13, 2020


    Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), Regional Office Kolkata organised a one day seminar ‘Emergence of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning’ here today. Emphasising the Government’s initiatives and vision of ‘Digital India’, various speakers from academia and telecom industry delved in detail about the emerging areas of Technology and its application in Telecom and allied sectors. The seminar has emphasised on Applied areas of Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine learning, Deep learning and big data, AI in Telecom systems and networks, on evolving and disruptive applications of AI in telecom sector, Potential of Machine Intelligence in Improving Quality of Experience for Applications with respect to NextGen Communication Pipe and applied areas of AI in banking sector, among others. The present seminar also delved in detail looking after the interest of service providers, consumers and other stakeholders in telecom and broadcasting value chain.


    Shri Tushar Kanti Paul, Advisor, DoT, Department of Telecom as a Guest of Honour during the programmes, said that there is a clear mandate from Government that DoT in its ‘National Digital Communication Policy 2018’ has emphasised in its ‘Mission 2’ to Propel India to harness the powers of emerging digital technologies including of 5G, AI, Internet-of-Things (IoT) and Big Data. He emphasised on policy guidelines which mentions about creating a roadmap for leveraging emerging technologies including AI and Big Data in a better, effective and synchronised manner. He said that NITI Aayog has also identified focal areas for application of AI such as in Health Care, Agriculture, Education, Smart Cities (Infrastructure) and Smart Transportation. Similarly, Ministry of Commerce and Industry has in its constituted task force has identified, some additional domain of relevance like Manufacturing, Fin. Tech., Retail, Environment and for Divyangs, among others, he said. He further said that there is a need to go for AI to remain internationally competitive. He informed that 99 percent of population of West Bengal are having facility of 3G and 4G telecom services, so an endeavour in this direction is a positive one for better service to stakeholders.


    Professor Dr. Parthasarathi Chakraborti, Director, IIEST, Shibpur present as Chief Guest addressed the participants and emphasised about the importance and challenges in AI and its applied areas with advent of Quantum computing in AI.


    Shri Souvick Kumar Das, Advisor, TRAI, Regional office Kolkata said that as a sector regulator, TRAI has a paramount role in regulating Quality of service, Interconnection, tariff in telecommunication and broadcasting sector. It has a role to promote the orderly growth of sector in technology and service arena. He said that TRAI does programmes, technology seminars and workshops to create awareness and to have feedback from the consumer. He further said that this seminar is one such initiative in this endeavour. He emphasised that Artificial Intelligence has a role and application in various arena including Information Technology and Telecommunication in dynamical analysis and optimal utilisation of telecom resources for better customer service. He said the telecom sector is going through tremendous changes and utilisation of latest technology will be a key component in its day to day telecom operation resulting in better customer experience.


    SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606215) Visitor Counter : 7