      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Information awareness is key for promotion of Swachhata and driving the message of Healthy Food, Nutrition and Hygiene among people
      Posted On: 13 MAR 2020 6:03PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, March 13, 2020


    In an awareness session, ‘Orientation and Designing Plan of Action for hygiene, environmental sanitation and Nutrition’ organised by Food and Nutrition Board Eastern Region Kolkata, Ministry of Women and Child Development here today, Shri Rabindranath Mishra, Director General (Eastern Zone), Press Information Bureau emphasised the importance of information communication in effective delivery of intended message for promotion of Swachhata and driving the message of Healthy Food, Nutrition and Hygiene’s importance among people. He said that Information dissemination is a quintessential tool for effective communication about hygiene, nutrition and for sensitizing people on the importance of Swachhata. Shri Mishra further said that social message communication is equally important along healthy food intake for better nutrition. He said that the behavioural changes along with proper, effective and timely information plays a vital role in society to address issues pertaining to nutrition and hygiene. He suggested that utility of Vaccination and Immunisation and tackling iron deficiency among new born should form the core component of Information, Education and Communication (IEC) messages dissemination by media and nutrition agencies. With emphasise on leafy green vegetables and seasonal fruits, he advised that it is the parents and teachers who have to play a key role in advising children to avoid the intake of fast food. He said with changing trends of life-style and urbanisation, there has been a change of perception among the young populace, about what is right food for them and what is a proper and balanced nutritious food intake. This has to seen from the perspective of behavioural and attitudinal change essential to drive the message of nutrition along with hygiene and Swachhata. While emphasised that importance of institutional delivery of new born, he said that parents, especially mothers have a very important role in creating awareness about nutrition in family and healthy growth of new born child.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Madhumita Dobe, Director, All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, Kolkata emphasised on the importance of solid waste disposal for Swachhata. To prevent diseases, she said that it is essential to protect food from rodents and to develop a proper plan for food storage management to tackle issues of food wastage. She said that well cooked food will drive away most of the common diseases. Washing vegetables while preparing food along with following a healthy process of cooking with clean water and ingredients are essential for proper nutritious food intake. In her discussion, she delved into the importance of hygiene gradient, as she informed that Food Hygiene is key to good Health.


    Shri Nagendra Nath Tiwari, Deputy Technical Adviser, Food and Nutrition Board, Eastern Region, Kolkata said that this seminar and programme is just a platform to create awareness about importance of nutrition, hygiene and Swachhata. He said that these are just some of method in that endeavour to bring about perception change in society for tackling pertinent issues related to food nutrition and hygiene. He urged the participants to develop a plan of action for better hygiene, environmental sanitation and nutrition for healthy day to day life-style.


    Senior officials of Press Information Bureau, Panchayat and Rural development department, ICDS, Health and other dignitaries of Central and State Government were also present on the occasion.


    SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606349) Visitor Counter : 24