      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Government is committed for the welfare of all sections of society- Shri.Ramdas Athwale
      Posted On: 04 SEP 2019 7:09PM by PIB Bengaluru


    Government is committed for the welfare of all sections of society- Shri.Ramdas Athwale


    Bangalore, September 4,2019


    Government is committed for the upliftment of all castes and sections of society. A law has been passed both in Rajyasabha and Loksabha for providing 10% of reservation for economically weak section of both upper castes and other castes of society who are below eight lakh rupees income slab said Shri Ramdas Athwale, Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment at Bengaluru today.


    The minister was briefing the press after the meeting with State Government officials on Social Justice and Empowerment.


    The minister said that there is 50% reservation for SC/ST and OBCs. With 10% of reservation for economically weaker section of all castes, the percentage of reservation has been raised to 60% by the parliament the minister said.


    Raising concern over increasing cases of atrocities against backward classes in Karnataka minister appealed the state government to look into the matter seriously. He said that Rs. 81,000 crore has been allotted under Special component plan for the year 2019-20 for the social, economic and educational development of SCs and STs the minister added.


    The minister said that there are total 13 lakh disabled people which is 2% of the total population of the state. Around 9, 34,937 disabled people are getting pension in Karnataka. There is 4% reservation in government services for the disabled people in the country the minister added.


    Minister said that there are 2,497 manual scavengers in Karnataka and state government should find a solution to end manual scavenging using advanced technology and machineries. The minister said that the government is providing loan for municipalities’ upto 50 lakhs with 4% interest to purchase machines for this purpose.


    Minister said that there are increasing number of inter caste marriages in state with 2041 marriages in 2014-15 to 5273 marriages in 2018-19 which is good to end up caste system in society.


    Addressing on the abrogation of article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir the minister said that the government is committed for the development of Jammu and Kashmir and protection of civilians. He called corporate houses to visit Jammu and Kashmir and start business there.


    Talking about the success of various central government schemes in Karnataka, the minister said that , Mudra Yojana has 2.3 crore beneficiaries in Karnataka. Under PM Aawas Yojana around 38,547 houses are being constructed for the beneficiaries and 31,15,256 LPG connections have been provided for the beneficiaries in state under PM Ujwala Yojana the minister said.


    The minister said that the people of Karnataka have extended their immense support to central government in the recently held Loksabha polls and the government will support the state in all aspects of development.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1584172) Visitor Counter : 16