      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi inaugurates “Hunar Haat” in Puducherry
      Posted On: 24 SEP 2017 2:17PM by PIB Delhi


    

    “Hunar Haat”, being organised by Ministry of Minority Affairs from 24th to 30th September, 2017


    

    Ministry of Minority Affairs working to establish “Hunar Hub” across the country to provide a platform to master artisans and craftsmen to display as well sell their products: Shri Naqvi


    

    Encouragement to talent and skill development to be an essential part of the vision of “New India”: Shri Naqvi


    
    
    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said here that Ministry of Minority Affairs is working to establish “Hunar Hub” across the country to provide a platform to master artisans and craftsmen to display as well sell their products.
    
    Shri Naqvi and Puducherry Chief Minister Shri V. Narayanasamy today inaugurated “Hunar Haat”, being organised by Ministry of Minority Affairs at Puducherry.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that the artisans and craftsmen will also be provided training according to the requirements of the current markets.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that encouragement to talent and skill development will be an essential part of the vision of “New India”.
    
    “Hunar Haat” is being organised at Craft Bazaar, Gandhi Thidal Beach, Goubert Avenue in Puducherry, one of renowned centre of art & culture, till 30th September, 2017 to provide market and opportunity to master artisans from across the country. Puducherry Member of Parliament Shri R. Radhakrishnan, National Minorities Development and Finance Corporation Chairman Shri Shabaz Ali and officials from Puducherry Government and Minority Affairs Ministry were also present on the occasion.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that Ministry of Minority Affairs has prepared an E-Portal to provide national as well as international markers to artisans and craftsmen from across the country. A data bank of artisans and craftsmen will be prepared by this year end, thousands of artisans from various parts of the country have already been registered.
    
    Shri Naqvi said that “Hunar Haat” of Minority Affairs Ministry have been very successful and encouraging for master artisans belonging to the poor sections of the Minorities.
    
    Master artisans from 16 states are showcasing their traditional talent in “Hunar Haat” at Puducherry. Artisans have brought for display and sale, a wide variety of traditional and rare Handicraft and Handloom items which include Hyderabad Pearl, Wrought Iron & Wood Carving, wooden and sandalwood items, hand-made jewellery, Hand Embroidery, handmade painting, wooden-toys/gift Items, printed dresses and Maheshwari Saree etc are also available.
    
    Traditional stalls have been constructed in the “Hunar Haat” where the visitors will also enjoy delicious foods from various parts of the country. Culinary experts are participating from different States. Delicious food items like Rajasthani Food, Maharashtrian Food, Gujarati Thali, Punjabi Food, Malabar Food, Mughlai food, Mutton/Kakori Kabab, , food from Andhra Pradesh, M.P, Halwa, Ghewar, West Bengal Sweets, chokha-bati, traditional pickles from Kerala and other states are also available.
    
    The participating artisans belong to different parts of the country. Artisans from Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Nagaland, Orissa, Puducherry and Uttarakhand etc are participating.
    
    The Ministry of Minority Affairs has organized “Hunar Haat” earlier also at different places. Recently, “Hunar Haat” had been organized at Baba Kharak Singh Marg, Cannaught Place in New Delhi which was a hit among the people as more than 26 lakh people, both domestic and foreign visitors, visited this “Hunar Haat”. The people purchased goods at large scale which helped and promoted traditional arts of these master artisans.
    
    In the coming days, “Hunar Haat” will also be organised at Mumbai, New Delhi, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bangaluru, Lucknow, Allahabad, Ranchi, Guwahati, Jaipur, Bhopal etc to promote artisans and craftsmen.

    *****


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1503847) Visitor Counter : 106