      PIB Headquarters

      RBI’s Financial Literacy week begins
      Posted On: 05 JUN 2017 4:28PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    The Reserve Bank of India is observing Financial literacy week, up to June 9, 2017 as part of its effort to promote financial literacy at the grass root level. As part of the financial literacy week, messages containing information on Know Your Customer (KYC), discipline while taking loans, instructions for filling customer’s complaints to banks or Banking Ombudsman and tutorials on how to use digital banking etc will be highlighted through various media. Booklets and brochures containing these messages will be distributed through bank branches.


    Regional Director, Reserve Bank of India Shri S.M.N Swamy along with Shri. N Sivasankaran, Convenor State Level Bankers Committee, Shri. Alok Kumar Sharma - General Manager SBI, Shri. R Sundar, CGM, NABARD and Smt. Uma Sankar, General Manager RBI jointly inaugurated the financial literacy week at a function in Thiruvananthapuram by lighting the lamp.
    Speaking on the occasion Shri S.M.N Swamy, RBI Regional Director said that Sustainable development is possible only when those people who currently do not have any access to financial service gets access to it. He said that the banks need to solve the doubts of customers regarding banking services and simple language should be used for communication with masses.


    Shri. N Sivasankaran, State Level Bankers Committee Convenor said that providing knowledge about banking services is the need of the hour as even highly educated people become victims of banking fraudsters.


    SBI General Manager Shri. Alok Kumar Sharma presented a practical banker’s perceptive on financial literacy. Shri. R. Sundar, CGM, NABARD spoke on the role of NABARD in Financial Literacy. Smt. Uma Sankar, General Manager RBI, Kumari Chaithanya Devi, Regional Literacy Officer RBI, Shri. Vipin Babu-Deputy Manager, National Payments Corporation of India and Shri.S. Sooraj, AGM, RBI participated in the function.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492556) Visitor Counter : 65
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam