      PIB Headquarters

      Top priority to be given for modernization of Post Offices : Minister of State Pon Radhakrishnan
      Posted On: 06 JUN 2017 5:37PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    The Minister of State for Road Transport, Highways and Shipping Shri. Pon. Radhakrishnan has said that the government is giving top priority for the modernization of Post Offices in the county. He said in the changed circumstances, digitalisation is being brought in the Postal Department and Post Offices are being strengthened through more banking services and business solutions. The Minister of State was inaugurating the newly constructed buildings of the Post Offices at Puthur in Kollam district and Nooranad and Vallikunnam in Alappuzha district today. Shri. Pon. Radhakrishnan said the construction of new buildings for Post Offices at Sasthamangalam, Poojappura and Karamana in Thiruvananthapuram , Changanassery in Kottayam, Kalpetta in Wayanad and Vengara in Malappuram will be completed in a time bound manner. He also informed that Rs.25 crore would be made available from Central Road Fund for the development of roads in Mavelikkara constituency.


    Shri. Kodikkunnil Suresh MP , presiding over the meeting urged the Centre to open more Postal ATMs in the state. Shri. K. Somaprasad MP delivered the key note address. Kollam District Panchayat member Smt. Reshmi R.S., Vettikkavala Block Panchayat member shri. C.Anil Kumar, Pavithreswaram Panchayat President Smt. Dhanya Krishnan and member Smt. Vinodini G. participated in the function.


    Kerala Circle Chief Post Master General Shri. M. Sampath welcomed the gathering and Kochi Central Region Post Master General Smt. Sumathi Ravichandran proposed the vote of thanks.


    After the formal inaugural function at Puthur Post Office premises, Minister of State Shri. Pon. Radhakrishnan visited Nooranad and Vallikunnam Post Offices.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1492565) Visitor Counter : 61
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam