      PIB Headquarters

      IGNOU announces admission cycle
      Posted On: 16 JUN 2017 3:12PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has announced its admissions to the July 2017 admission cycle. The last date for submission of applications for all programmes other than Certificate is 31st July 2017. The last date of submission of applications for Certificate Programmes is 30th June 2017.


    The University is offering Masters and Bachelor’s Degree programmes in various subjects including Rural Development, Computer Applications, Tourism Studies, English, Hindi, Philosophy, Gandhi and Peace Studies, Education, Public Administration, Economics, History, Political Science, Sociology, Psychology, Adult Education, Extension and Development Studies, Gender and Development Studies, Distance Education, Anthropology, Commerce, Social Work, Dietetics and Food Services Management, Counselling and Family Therapy, Library and Information Science etc. IGNOU is also offering Post Graduate Diploma, Diploma, Post Graduate Certificate and Certificate programmes including Appreciation Courses on a wide range subjects.


    Bachelor Preparatory Programme (BPP), a course of 6 months duration is offered by IGNOU in English, Hindi and in various Regional Languages including Malayalam. Educational aspirants who missed formal schooling of 10+2, can seek admission to the various Bachelor Degree Programmes offered by IGNOU on successful completion of BPP.


    The University has switched to online mode of admissions except for certain merit based programmes from July 2017 admission cycle onwards. The online admission facility can be accessed through the link www.onlineadmission.ignou.ac.in


    For further details contact IGNOU Regional Centre Trivandrum, Rajadhani Building, Killippalam, Karamana. P.O, Thiruvananthapuram 695002, Ph: 0471-2344113/2344120 Email: rctrivandrum@ignou.ac.in.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1493916) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam