      PIB Headquarters

      WITH LOCKDOWN BEING RELAXED, FOCUS SHIFTS TO STRICT PERSONAL HYGIENE TO CONTAIN COVID 19 SPREAD
      
      GOVERNMENT BODIES PLAN CONTACTLESS SOAP CUM WATER DISPENSERS IN PUBLIC PLACES

      Posted On: 01 JUN 2020 6:38PM by PIB Chennai

    Prime Minister had stressed on saving water in his Mann Ki Baat address on Sunday. Water conservation is important as summer is peaking across the country . Additionally when the country is fighting covid 19 pandemic , frequent washing of hands with soap and water is advised to stop spread of Corona virus. Ordinary taps can lead to spread of disease as we are forced to use hands for opening and closing the taps especially in public places like offices, bus stands and railway stations. A bit of fine tuning with technology can make it safe in addition to conserving water by arresting wastage.


    Tiruchirapalli Railway coach depot and Freight depot fabricated contactless hand wash soap dispenser and water flowing taps to avoid human contact. This would prevent spread of covid 19 disease effectively . Since Railway workmen have to use the taps frequently , this mechanism is very helpful to prevent spread of pandemic. This also ensures safety of employees and is cost effective. Under Project Swachh, dual basin type foot pedal operating tap cum soap dispenser was designed inTrichyGoldenRock Railway workshop. The tap cum dispenser was manufactured using refurbished materials available in the workshop. Dispensing of water and soap solution is done by pedal operated mechanism and hence usage of hands is avoided. These specially designed hands free wash basins built in various designs by Railway Goldenrockworkshop are being distributed to railway hospitals and railway police stations .


    Likewise, rising to the occasion, a city based NGO, alongwith an electrical company devised pedal operated hand wash facility. This can save water as well as avoid hand touch to prevent spread of disease. The Director of the NGO , Subburaman said that the water from the drain can be used for gardening and will not be wasted. Two units have been installed in Tiruchirapalli collector office complex and district rural development agency office. This can be of great use in schools, colleges and offices. Further, trichy district rural development agency has decided to install such hands free wash basins in 14 block offices in the district. Responding to the call of our honourable Prime Minister for achieving Self reliant India, there are many others who are devising such indigenous products for the use of public at large.


    Aatmanirbhar Bharat-Self reliant India is the motto behind these innovative ideas which utilise technology in accordance to various needs.InTiruchirapalli city, high power sprayers are being used to sanitise roads and residential areas in containment zones. Spray guns have been purchased by Trichycorporation from Bharat heavy Electricals Ltd Ranipet which is used to spray disinfectants in Mahatma Gandhi Govt Hospital premises.


    Prevention is better than cure is the motto to stop the spread of Covid 19 pandemic. Indigenous methods and machines are used to enforce prevention measures.As the lockdown norms are being relaxed , awareness is being created to wear masks and wash hands frequently as only these two norms will help in containing the virus effectively .


    DRDA Project Director Shankar NGO director Subburaman


    Pedal washbasin installed in Trichy public place


    Pedal washbasin at railway coaching depot


    DRDA Trichy Project Director Shankar operating pedal wash basin


    

    
    (Release ID: 1628399) Visitor Counter : 27
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil