      PIB Headquarters

      ATMANIRBHAR BHARAT: SELF HELP GROUPS GIVEN SPECIAL COLLATERAL FREE LOANS TO OVERCOME THE LOCKDOWN INFLICTED JOBLESSNESS
      RS 12 CRORE LOAN TO BE DISBURSED TO 1500 SELF HELP GROUPS IN FOUR CENTRAL TAMILNADU DISTRICTS

      Posted On: 01 JUN 2020 1:36PM by PIB Chennai

    Union Finance Minister had announced that Rs 20 lakh collateral free loan will be given to eligible women self help groups in the country as part of special AatmaNirbhar Bharat package. Covid 19 lockdown had affected many families to go without income. Government is giving help by giving them financial assistance under PM Jan Dhan, PM KisanSamman and state governments are giving money to ration card holders.Three Free cooking gas cylinders per family were given under PM Garib kalyan yojana to eligible families during lockdown period. In most of the households, women who are the mainstay of the family manage earning some income through some crafts by utilising the fund arranged by self help groups which give them fiscal empowerment.


    In Tamil Nadu special loans are being given to women self help groups to tide over the crisis of covid 19 lockdown. A SHG member in Karur said that the loan scheme is good for those who are affected by lockdown as there is no job. She said that SHG member can take loan upto Rs 5000 and doesn’t have to pay it back for 6 months. This has to be paid only in 2 to 3 years and therefore is a big relief for the affected. Tiruchirapalli district Central cooperative Bank is giving these special loans to Self Help groups at subsidised interest of 58 paise. Under gold loan scheme Rs 3000 is given per gram for 7 per cent interest. SmtSubha of Tiruchirapalli said this is very useful especially during lockdown as one don’t have steady income. SHG group members can take a maximum of Rs one lakh loan.


    Tiruchirapall district central cooperative bank has Trichy, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts under its jurisdiction. Shri Mohandas, from Karur's Kulithalai thanks government for allowing SHGs to take loan upto Rs 20 lakhs without collateral. He urges govt to ensure that banks give loans for the livelihood regularly. Smt Kala SHG member from Ethiraj Nagar, Ariyalur says that there is no job for her and her husband during lockdown. She thanks government for giving loan without any collateral through self help group. In Trichy district there are 39 branches, 147 primary agriculture cooperative credit societies and in Perambalur there are 10 branches and 53 primary agri cooperative credit societies. In Karur there are 15 branches and 84 primary agriculture cooperative credit societies and in Ariyalur there are 9 branches and 64 primary agriculture cooperative credit societies. There are 4520 SHGs and 16030 groups under primary agriculture cooperative credit societies in the four central districts of Trichy PerambalurAruyalur and Karur. According to authorities, Rs 12 crore loan will be given to eligible 1500 Self help groups in the four districts. In Ariyalur district Rs 25.75 lakhs special loan was given to 42 self help groups and Rs 5 lakhs given to five members at Rs one lakh each.


    People affected by lockdown needs help to bury the past and move forward and government is doing its best by implementing special packages. Self-help groups help women to join together and face the lockdown crisis boldly. Fiscal empowerment of women will definitely help them overcome lockdown problem as economic independence is very crucial for women who raise the families shouldering every responsibility

    
    
    (Release ID: 1628276) Visitor Counter : 63