      PIB Headquarters

      MISSION DOUBLING FARMERS'S INCOME: UNION CABINET EMPOWERS FARMERS WITH TWO KEY DECISIONS
      
      ONE NATION ONE AGRICULTURE MARKET TO RAISE FARMERS' BARGAINING POWER

      Posted On: 05 JUN 2020 3:44PM by PIB Chennai

    India is fighting Covid 19 pandemic decisively with each sector bouncing back with government's intervention after phased relaxations in lockdown. Farmers are the unsung heroes who ensured the nation does not go hungry despite the lockdown . They helped implementation of government schemes hasslefree with food grains regularly distributed through ration shops. But there are many constraints that added to farmers' sufferings as they didn’t have agriculture labourers to reap the harvest and vendors to market their products. Union Government stepped in by offering helping hand to farmers with a plethora of steps to ensure that their livelihood is not affected. PM Kisan Samman scheme ensured that Rs 2000 is deposited in the account of each farmer ahead of the usual schedule . In an important move to increase farmers income particularly after a national lockdown , Union cabinet had recently taken two landmark decisions - amending the essential commodities act and approving the farming produce trade and commerce(promotion and facilitation) ordinance,2020.


    Many farmers in Tiruchirapalli welcomed the government decision to amend Essential commodities Act. A farmer said that now government has decided to remove cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion and potatoes from the list. During lockdown the prices of onion went down as low as Rs 20 per kilo. By delisting the above products, fears of private investors of excessive regulatory interference in their business operations are removed .


    The freedom to produce, hold, move, distribute and supply these items like onion, potato etc will lead to harnessing of economies of scale and attract private sector/foreign direct investment into agriculture sector. It will help drive up investment in cold storages and modernization of food supply chain and this will ultimately help the farmers to grow more and hence help them increase the income.


    The Union cabinet also approved the farming produce trade and commerce ordinance. Tiruchirapalli Assistant Director (Agriculture) Shri Mohan said that with this ordinance, farmers and traders will enjoy freedom of choice of sale and purchase of agriculture products. He said that this will be definitely a boon to the farmers as it will promote barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade and commerce outside the physical premises of markets notified under State Agricultural Produce Marketing legislations. This is a historic-step in unlocking the vastly regulated agriculture markets in the country . This will insulate farmers from the cost of production and help them recover from massive losses as they have more choices now and would get better prices. The new ordinance will help farmers to deal with retailers, traders and exporters directly. This will also transfer the risk of market changes from the farmer to the trader. He pointed out that the ordinance will certainly pave the way for creating One India, One Agriculture Market and will lay the foundation for ensuring golden harvests for our hard working farmers.


    Shri Narayanan from Tiruchirapalli said that this ordinance is a welcome move by the government to help farmers as it leads to One nation one agriculture market to give a vast marketing option for farmers. It is a win win situation for both farmers and consumers as farmers can sell farm products where he will get better price and consumers will get better agriculture products of his choice. Thus with the government's latest decisions in reforming the nation's decades old agricultural marketing sector, the mission of doubling the farmers income will soon be a reality.


    Prem vadhiyam farmer


    Morupatti farm


    Paddy melakudi manikandam


    

    
    (Release ID: 1629869) Visitor Counter : 73