      PIB Headquarters

      Each SHG group to get Rs One lakh credit assistance in every district
      Posted On: 09 JUN 2020 6:10PM by PIB Chennai


    Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana National urban Livelihoods Mission is being implemented in Tamil Nadu to alleviate poverty in urban households. Covid 19 pandemic lockdown had affected urban households as most of them lost their daily wages due to no work. Union government announced many financial assistance through Atmanirbhar scheme including Rs 500 per month for women PM Jan Dhan account holders. Three free cooking gas cylinders were given under PM Ujwala Scheme during lock down period.


    Tiruchirapalli district Makalirthittam director Shri Saravanan said that there are 1,30,000 Self help group members in Tiruchirapalli district. He said that they are working under National Urban Livelihood Mission and Tamil Nadu livelihood Mission. The members register themselves in the SHG group and attach themselves with the group. Each SHG group is linked with banks and in the first phase Rs one lakh is given as credit assistance from banks. After that loans are given as per second linkage and third linkage by banks to SHG groups. Now Tamil Nadu government has given instructions to banks to give special loans uptoRs one lakh to SHG groups to help those affected by Covid 19 lockdown. They get moratorium uptoSeptember to start paying back the loan with very low interest . Moreover covid 19 awareness is being given to SHG members through Zoom app so that they can disseminate information on Covid 19 to public. Smt M Hemalatha SHG member of VeeranginallurSomarasampettai said that they are coordinating among themselves as a group to overcome their problems. She said they are able to get bank loans and if they repay it on time they will be getting more loans. Smt Jacqueline Maria Selvi of SomarasanpettaiTiruchirapalli said that the credit assistance by banks to SHG groups is really beneficial. Due to lockdown their families are badly affected and this loan will help them tide over crisis, she added. In Karur, under special covid 19 scheme Rs 5000 each was given to SHG membersupto a maximum of Rs one lakh each to every Self help group. The members have to repay the amount only after six month moratorium. After that they can repay it in two years to three years .Rs one lakh gold loan is also being given charged with 7 per cent interest which has to be repaid in 6 months.


    Women empowerment initiatives could sustain only with financial support. The SHG members earn money through various crafts as they have to run the family during hardship period like lockdown. SmtNandhini from Panikkampatti village in Karur says that she is getting Rs 500 under PM Jan Dhan scheme during lockdown. She urges government to offer more monetary aid. SmtAnanthi from Karungalapalli village Karur says she is getting Rs 500 in PM Jan dhan account during lock down and she insisted government should offer more schemes like MGNREGA. True. It is with this intent that atmanirbharbharat scheme is launched which aims at rejuvenating rural livelihood and offering gainful employment that could prove to be a consistent source of income to rural poor .


    V Hemalatha Trichy


    Jacqueline Maria Selvi Trichy

    
    
    (Release ID: 1630481) Visitor Counter : 73
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil