      PIB Headquarters

      NATIONAL HORTICULTURE MISSION GROWING POPULAR AMONG FARMERS
      
      100 PERCENT SUBSIDY FOR SMALL FARMERS TO SET UP MICRO IRRIGATION

      Posted On: 08 JUN 2020 5:46PM by PIB Chennai

    Covid 19 pandemic lockdown had affected transportation of vegetables and as a result there was a fear of hike in prices. The government departments and civic bodies had launched various initiatives for selling the vegetables to the needy in villages and towns. The Tamil Nadu Horticulture department launched mobile vans to sell fresh vegetables in many cities including Tiruchirapalli. This helped to bring under control prices of vegetables and also ensured availability of vegetables locally. SmtGeetha housewife in Tiruchirapalli said that in the early stages of lockdown, the mobile vans were very useful as it was impossible to get vegetables from regular markets. Even though temporary markets were functioning, people were feeling insecured to go to the markets for fear of covid 19. Horticulture department had encouraged roof gardens and had given roof garden vegetable kits. Many people have started roof top gardens and they are now getting fresh organic vegetables from home itself. Varieties of spinach keerais, tomatoes, bitter gourd and even green grams can be grown in terraces.


    National Horticulture Mission under Mission for integrated development of Horticulture boosts crop diversification and promotion of hitech practices. The centrally sponsored scheme ensures holistic growth of horticulture in the region. The scheme is being implemented in 22 districts of Tamil Nadu including Tiruchirapalli, Perambalur, Pudukottai, Ariyalur and Thanjavur. The scheme covers mango, banana, cashew, chillies, turmeric flowers and aromatic plants.


    In PerambalurRs 30 crore has been allotted for drip irrigation under National Micro irrigation scheme in 4350 acre. Horticulture farmers in the district can apply under PM Micro KrishiSinchayee scheme. In this scheme 19 percent has been reserved for AdiDravidar farmers and one percent for tribals. 100 per cent subsidy will be given for small and micro farmers and 75 per cent subsidy for big farmers to facilitate micro irrigation. Farmers will have to approach Horticulture department of their blocks and register with documents like ration card, land patta and Aadhar card copy. Morever, the horticulture department encourages farmers to undertake organic farming and it has become a buzzword among farmers.


    Periasamy, a mango farmer from Srirangam said that his mango orchard is in one acre land between Cauvery and Kollidam rivers. He doesn’t use any chemical fertilizers and utilise dry leaves and decaying organic matter as manure. What makes Srirangam unique is its Imam Pasand variety of mangoes. This variety of mangoes is so tasty that no other variety can compete with it in demand. Imam Pasand mango is being sold at Rs 100 per kilo gram. Farmers say that it earns lot of revenue than other varieties. Farmers grow different varieties of mangoes in their orchard including Imam Pasand, Banganapalli, Neelam, Kallamani, Sendooram, Roomani, Kethamari, OorkaKaai. The old proverbial saying about mango had got a renewed fame in this pandemic - ' MaadhaootaathaSotraimanganiOotum' —the food that mother is not able to feed, mango with its delicious taste and nutrients can.


    Covid 19 pandemic has made us realise the importance of organic foods and nutritious foods. Stress is given to increase self immunity and easily available moringa leaves rich in iron content should be taken along with pulses says nutrition experts. They further advise to consume Vitamin C rich Fruits and vegetables in good quantity to boost self immunityalongwith observing safe distance norms.


    Greengram in roof garden


    Spinach red keerai


    Mango orchard in Srirangam


    Ripe mangoes in Srirangam

    
    
    (Release ID: 1630257) Visitor Counter : 44
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil