      PIB Headquarters

      GOVERNMENTS URGE INDUSTRIES ON UTILISING LOCAL WORKFORCE IN THE WAKE OF LABOURERS RETURNING HOME
      
      A host of schemes offered to stimulate rural crafts and industries

      Posted On: 07 JUN 2020 7:27PM by PIB Chennai

    Covid 19 pandemic lockdowns across the world had created uncertainty and joblessness among the working class people. In India covid 19 lockdown had affected daily wagers in many parts of the country including Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Maharashtra. Labourers who lost their jobs due to lockdown were dependent on government free rations for food. Stranded Labourers urged the governments to make arrangements to return to their home town and local villages. Union Government launched Shramik special trains to transport migrant labourers from Tamil Nadu, Kerala to their hometowns in Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal. Indian Railways has so far transported 57 lakh migrant labourers to their homeowns in 4155 Shramik special trains till Friday. There was reverse migration also with many labourers in Maharashtra returning to Tamil Nadu and Kerala by special trains.


    Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project Trichy executive secretary Shri Aaron Joshua Roosevelt said in an effort to encourage rural craft and industries , Rs 300 crore is given as credit support to 1. 4 lakh persons . Rs one lakh credit support is given as startup loan to persons who have returned to Tamil Nadu after losing jobs in others states due to covid 19 lockdown . The government has targeted 167 youngsters in each district to give start up funds under covid 19 assistance. Under the project, other schemes also are planned for eligible beneficiaries. There is an additional challenge if the stranded Indians who return home from abroad, decides to stay back and earn their livelihood .


    Vande Bharat flights were launched to bring back Indians stranded in foreign nations due to covid 19. Shri Radhakrishan working in Bahrain said that the fear of spread of covid 19 disease has made people trying to rush back to India. But the fact is that many of us would prefer to stay back and work here as they want to earn for their family. It should be noted that they were working hard abroad for their family and also were giving hard earned foreign exchange for our country. 117 Indians stranded abroad were brought from Kuwait to Tiruchirapalli by Kuwait Airways flight. Another flight with 104 Indians came from Kuwait to Trichy on Saturday. The flight returned to Kuwait with 6335 Kgs of perishable cargo including vegetables. From Tiruchirapalli airport Malindoair took 108 stranded Malaysian passengers to their home country. Under Vande Bharat scheme Air India Express will be transporting passengers from Doha to Tiruchirapalli on June 11, to Madurai on June 17 and to Coimbatore on June 19. On Saturday 910 Indians returned from various cities abroad like Jeddah, Kuwait Nairobi Frankfurt to our cities like Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai Kochi and Gaya.


    Along with these Indians who are returning from abroad with some earnings, the labourers who return from other states to Tamil Nadu also badly in need of jobs locally for their livelihood as these labourers don’t have savings. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister had urged industries to utilise available local workforce in their firms as other state labourers have left the state. The union government too had announced host of monetary measures under Atmanirbhar Bharat for industries and farmers including Animal husbandry . Universal health emergency is a major challenge to any nation and India being world’s largest democracy had confidently put a big step forward to fight the slowdown caused by the pandemic.


    Shramik rail at Tiruchirapalli Jn


    Air India Express flight


    Kuwait airways at Trichy airport


    

    
    (Release ID: 1630081) Visitor Counter : 21
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil