      PIB Headquarters

      TWO THIRD LOAN DISBURSED TO TAMILNADU MSMEs UNDER ATMANIRBHAR BHARAT PACKAGE 46390 MSMEs RECEIVE Rs 1936.68 CR OUT OF TOTAL Rs 3112.63 CR
      Posted On: 14 JUN 2020 5:40PM by PIB Chennai


    K DEVI PADMANABHAN FIELD PUBLICITY OFFICER TIRUCHIRAPALLI


    Union Government had announced AtmaNirbhar Bharat package to help people affected by Covid 19 lockdown. Further there many financial measure announced for Industries across sectors. Union Finance Minister said that till Thursday, public sector banks have sanctioned loans worth Rs 29,490.81 crore under Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme . Out of the sanctioned amount Rs 14,690.84 crore have already been disbursed. In Tamil Nadu, out of Rs 3112.63 crore sanctioned Rs 1936.68 crore have been disbursed to 46,390 MSMEs. The micro small and medium enterprises needed the credit support to recover from the covid 19 lockdown and revive business.


    Bank credit is offered to all sectors including farming, education, industries and public sector banks play a big role in instilling confidence in the people . In Ariyalur district, during the Bankers meeting with district collector on priority sector lending , it was decided to give Rs 2484 crore as loan during the fiscal 2020-21. It was decided to give farm and crop loans to the tune of Rs 2334.98 crore, Small and micro enterprises loan of Rs 41.59 crore , Educational loan Rs 26 crores, House Building loan Rs 31 crore and 41.08 crore for other priority schemes.


    Banks are also the economic backbone of society as people take personal loans to tide over immediate financial crisis or start small business or trade. Repaying of loans during lockdown period had been very difficult for those who had taken bank loans as there was no steady income. Moratorium to repay bank loan dues till September has been welcomed by all but most of the persons who have taken loans are urging government not to charge interest on accrued loan instalment during the moratorium period.


    SmtVasantha from PalayamKarur says she is not having jobs because of Covid 19 lockdown. She thanked the government for giving loan as it will be helpful to restart business . Shri Sivakumar from KarurKulithalai thanked government for giving first three months and again 3 months moratorium upto September to repay bank loan instalments. He said he has taken loan from bank and is running a hair cutting saloon in Kulithalai. Now that lockdown norms are being relaxed, hair cutting saloons have opened but income is not high due to fear of pandamic. He urged government to waive interest on the loan instalments. Shri Manickam from Parali village in Karur says he has taken loan from bank what business pl add He is thankful to government for giving six months moratorium .SmtSellakannu from Krishnapuram village in Perambalur said she and her husband are not having any job due to Covid 19 lockdown. However she thanked government for giving loans to SHGs for gainful employment during the hard times. Shri Vijay of PeriyarNagar ,Karur says that he has taken bank loan and started a provision store. He said he will repay the dues when business becomes normal. He said it will be difficult to pay interest money during moratorium as they are already suffering from low income.


    People recovering from Covid 19 lockdown needs financial and credit support to come back to normalcy. Be it business, trade or even personal livelihood support of banks, any aid is crucial to revive the economy. Government is closely monitoring the economic situation and had intervened at the right time with AtmanirbharBharat package with special measures for people and industries to overcome crisis.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1631533) Visitor Counter : 32
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil