      PIB Headquarters

      CONSTRUCTION CESS FUND PLAYS A SAVIOUR FOR CONSTRUCTION WORKERS DURING LOCKDOWN
      State governments offer help to the workers from Rs 31000 cr cess fund

      Posted On: 13 JUN 2020 4:56PM by PIB Chennai

    K DEVI PADMANABHAN FIELD PUBLICITY OFFICER TIRUCHIRAPALLI


    Union government announced slew of measures to help unorganised construction workers as they were affected by Covid 19 lockdown. Construction workers are dependent on daily wages and due to lockdown they had lost their source of income. Union Labour and Employment Ministry sent advisory to all States to transfer funds in the accounts of construction workers through Direct Benefit Transfer from Cess Fund collected by Labour Welfare Board. More than 3.5 crore construction workers registered under Construction welfare Boards are thus being benefited by the Rs 52,000 crore Cess Fund. Union Finance Minister had asked States to utilise the Rs 31,000 crore available in the Cess Fund with States for special assistance to construction workers during lockdown.


    As per Building and Other Construction Workers Act, one percent cess is levied and collected by State governments as Cess Fund from cost of construction. State governments utilise these funds to give assistance to beneficiary in case of accident and for pension after attaining 60 years and even educational assistance for the children of the registered members. Any construction worker between the age of 18 and 60 years of age can register themselves in the welfare Board.


    Tamil Nadu government through district administrations and welfare Boards are helping construction workers and unorganised labourers. In Tiruchirapalli, construction labourers registered in Welfare Board were given 15 kilo rice, 1 kilo pulses and 1 litre edible oil as special Covid 19 assistance kit. These were given through ration shops in the locality and strictly under safe distance norms. Additionally, Rs 1000 was deposited directly into the accounts of labourers as special assistance. In Karur district there are 29,769 persons registered in Construction workers and unorganised labourers Board. More than 16,500 persons were given assistance and money in first phase. Rest of them were asked to submit their name, bank details, Aadhar number and welfare Board registration details to office of the Labour Welfare Board. In Perambalur, 15 kilo rice, 1 kilo pulses and oil were given to 15987 construction workers in the district. Rs 1000 each was deposited in the bank accounts of all construction workers and registered auto drivers.


    SmtSumathy district Secretary of Karur Construction workers and unorganised workers Welfare committee thanked central and state governments for giving assistance at a crisis time . It was very helpful to the daily wage construction labourers as they were badly affected by lockdown. She says now the labourers need more help and benefits as they don’t have any income .


    Construction works have started slowly with relaxation in lockdown norms. However with most of the labourers leaving for home states by Shramik special trains only local labourers are available for work. Union Government's atmanirbharbharatscheme through its sector specific measures is aiming to revive our economy in a planned manner and the results will be visible once the affected derive maximum benefits from the various schemes announced .


    

    
    (Release ID: 1631374) Visitor Counter : 32
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil