      PIB Headquarters

      Postal department’s doorstep digital services a big relief to citizens in pandemic situation
      Rs 20 Cr disbursed at doorstep in Trichy region, says pmg

      Posted On: 18 JUN 2020 4:47PM by PIB Chennai

    India Post is doing yeoman service during covid 19 lockdown with postal services reaching the customers at their doorstep. Be it a raging rain or scorching summer temperatures or even life threatening Covid 19 , Postal services continue come what may. In continuation to these efforts, Citizen centric services was inaugurated at Tiruchirapalli Head Post Office on Wednesday. The Department of Posts had recently introduced the scheme for delivery of Citizen Centric Services in about 6000 post offices in the country using the Common Service Centre - CSCs Digital Seva Portal. Using the Portal, one can avail more than 100 services including e-filing of taxes GST & TDS, FastTag recharge and all kinds of bill payments such as insurance, DTH, Mobile, Landline and also booking of bus, flight tickets etc. Smt. SumathiRavichandran, Postmaster General, Central Postal Region, Tamil Nadu Circle said already Aadhaarupdation cum enrolment centre is operating at Tiruchirappalli Head Post office and the centre processes more than 100 applications per day. She urged public to avail of all the services offered at the post office.


    The Postmaster General said that during this lockdown period, various services benefiting the common man are being offered by the Department of Posts and they have received good response from the public. Postal Department made a tie up with Tamil Nadu government to provide Covid-19 relief amount for construction workers and 90,561 India Post Payment Bank (IPPB) accounts were opened for the workers in the Central Region. The relief amount was directly transferred by the state government to the respective IPPB accounts.


    Aadhaar enabled Payment System which facilitates withdrawal of money from any Aadhaar seeded bank account through postmen has received very good response from the public during this lockdown period. A sum of Rs 19.88 crores was disbursed by way of 1,06,396Aadhar enabled Payment System AePS transactions in Tiruchirappalli Region, since the lockdown started. Also more than 3000 articles containing essential items including medicines were booked and 1500 articles including medicines/equipment were delivered, through Post Offices in Central Region in the months of April and May . At present, all the post offices in Central Region are operating with full strength and providing services to the citizens including Aadhaar enrolment or updation.


    As part of “Go Green” initiative of the Department of Posts, Solar Power Plant has been formally commissioned at Tiruchirappalli Head Post Office complex on Wednesday by Post Master General. Shri. A. Thomas Lourduraj, Director Postal Services, Central Postal Region, Tamil Nadu Circle. Shri. R. GanapathiSwaminathan, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Tiruchirappalli division and other officials were present during the event. The total power that can be generated by the Solar Power Plant is 50KW. This Solar Power Plant will cater to 50% of the electricity requirements of the Head Post Office .


    Modernized Bulk Processing Centre, which facilitates exclusive packaging and posting services for bulk customers and exporters was also inaugurated in Tiruchirapalli. India Post is fast becoming a preferred export channel and many new customers are being enrolled under export channel. To cater to the needs of the growing customer base, the Bulk Processing Centre functioning at Tiruchirappalli HPO has been modernized. More than 30 lakh articles from over 60 bulk customers were processed in Tiruchirapalli Bulk Processing Centre last year. India Post which is the nervous system of the country, with a renewed vigour in digital era is continuing its service unrelentingly with more and more diversified products. And the nation's historic department is doing its bit remarkably by providing doorstep services to the citizens at a crisis hour.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1632326) Visitor Counter : 22