      PIB Headquarters

      CITIZENS GEAR UP TO PERFORM YOGA WITH FAMILY AT HOMES TO CELEBRATE INTERNATIONAL DAY OF YOGA TOMORROW
      Posted On: 20 JUN 2020 4:59PM by PIB Chennai


    <ENTRIES FOR GLOBAL MEGA VIDEO BLOGGING CONTEST TO CLOSE TOMORROW >


    K DEVI PADMANABHAN FIELD PUBLICITY OFFICER TIRUCHIRAPALLI


    Covid 19 pandemic has in a way reinforced the faith and utility of Yoga for holistic health of an individual. International day of Yoga is celebrated every year on June 21 from 2015 onwards under the auspices of the United Nations. Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi had urged the UN to celebrate International Yoga Day as the age old Indian therapy belongs to the world for its wonderful healing effect. Yoga has become part of our life and unknowingly we are performing yoga every day as it is part of our heritage. Thoppukaranams and Suryanamaskarams are simple form of yoga which most of us do regularly. Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi stressed the point of Yoga with family and Yoga at Home in view of the present situation of social distancing rules.


    Shri P N Ranjit Kumar Joint Secretary Ministry of Ayush said that Yoga is an invaluable ancient Indian practice with numerous benefits to both physical and mental health. He pointed out that given the current COVID-19 pandemic situation including restrictions on the movement of people, the benefits offered by Yoga have become especially important for physical and mental wellbeing. The practice of yoga for its proven benefits on general health and immunity enhancement, along with its globally accepted role as a stress buster has been doing a stellar role in the pandemic situation as a relaxing therapy and as a immunity booster. The union government had advised the citizens to make this year's international yoga day as a grand one by announcing the theme as #MylifeMyYoga and by stressing on doing yoga at home. The mass performance of the Common Yoga Protocol is one of the most popular Yoga programmes across the world. But this year international Day of Yoga will be observed in a non-congregative manner. He requested each citizen to join thousands of others on this day from respective homes by doing the 45- minute long common yoga protocol drill at 7.00 AM on 21st June 2020. It is designed to be easily done by the majority of the people irrespective of age and gender, and can be learnt through simple training sessions, and even through online yoga classes. Union Ministry of Ayush and Indian Council for cultural relations are jointly organising 'My Life My Yoga – Jeevan Yoga' video blogging contest. The contest videos can be posted throughMygov platform and social media like Facebook, Twitter, Youtube and Instagram. The last date of submission of videos is June 21, 2020 . The aim is to make people perform Yoga at home and send the videos to Ayush Ministry through social media .


    Various union ministry offices across Tamil Nadu are organising online live demonstrations on 21st June. Field Publicity Officer Tiruchirapalli Shri K Devi Padmanabhan said that Field Outreach Bureau Tiruchirapalli under Bureau of Outreach Communication Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting is organising online live Yoga programme alongwith Nehru Yuva Kendra and Srirangam Vivekananda Yoga Centre on June 21, from 7 AM to 9 AM. It will be shown live on https://www.facebook/srirangamvivekanandafoundation. The programme will be coordinated by Yoga masters Dr Santhanakarishnanand Dr Sridhar. More than 500 people from all over the world has already registered for the programme. Covid 19 pandemic has made us realise the importance of health and self immunity. Yoga is the best way to give relief to our mind and yogasanasrejuvenate our body. Each yogasana by its unique postures effectively offer relief to each part of our body. Yoga should become part of our life to strenghthen our body and mind and Yoga day is just a token celebration to rekindle our faith in this holistic therapy.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1632916) Visitor Counter : 14
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil