      PIB Headquarters

      CARING FOR THE DIFFERENTLY ABLED DURING COVID 19 PANDEMIC
      
      RS 1000 each offered to 13.35 lakh differently abled personsin Tamil Nadu; Rs 1000 ex-gratia for poor disabled across the country

      Posted On: 23 JUN 2020 5:58PM by PIB Chennai

    Covid 19 pandemic had created different issues and problems for different strata of people in the society. It had affected every individual citizen. Differently abled persons had to face unique issues as they should be supported physically, emotionally and economically. During the lockdown with no public transport and suburban trains, differently abled persons had difficulties in travelling. Tamil Nadu government had issued an order exempting differently abled persons from attending office during lockdown.


    Under PM Garib kalyan yojana Rs 1000 cash assistance had been announced for 3 crore poor differently abled, poor widows and poor citizens all over India. Further, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister had ordered to give Rs 1000 each to 13.35 lakh differently persons with identity cards. The government has instructed to give the covid 19 cash assistance at the doorsteps of differently abled persons. In Tiruchirapalli, Rs 1000 cash will be given at their residences from June 25 onwards. The government considering difficulties of differently abled persons has made the arrangement to disburse the money at their doorsteps. According to authorities, differently abled persons will have to show the original national differently abled identity card to the disbursal officer. They have to give personal information, educational qualification details, job details, unique Disability ID -UDID and identity card details. Rs 1000 Covid 19 cash assistance given will be sealed in the register book after giving the amount. If there is any problem in getting the amount, differently abled persons can contact the respective district welfare officer. Persons with disabilities can apply for Unique Disability ID cards. The Swavlamban ID card can be applied online entering personal details, disability details, employment details and identity details in the website www.swavlambancard.gov.in.


    As per the guidelines issued by central government, all information and awareness materials regarding Covid 19 should be made available in local language and accessible formats like Braille and audible tapes for persons with visual impairment, videographic material with sub titles and sign language interpretation for those with hearing impairment. It has been stressed that during quarantine, essential support services personal assistance should be ensured for blind persons and those who are mentally challenged. Employees with disabilities should be exempted from duty both in public and private sector. Online counselling should be given to persons with disabilities to relieve mental stress and tension.


    Shri Krishnan from Tiruchirapalli welcomed the government decision to give cash assistance for differently abled persons. He urged authorities to give more financial help to save their livelihood. Smt Sophia from Trichy says differently abled persons face variety of problems during covid 19 lockdown. She says housing society should allow maids to work in flats of differently abled persons after proper testing for symptoms.


    Differently abled persons need support of every kind and as citizens it is everyone's responsibility to help them tide over the crisis caused by the covid 19 lockdown.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1633711) Visitor Counter : 114
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil