      PIB Headquarters

      MGNREGA WORKERS HEAVE A SIGH OF RELIEF AS PAYMENTS DISBURSED AT VILLAGES NOW
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2020 1:05PM by PIB Chennai


    K DEVI PADMANABHAN FIELD PUBLICITY OFFICER TIRUCHIRAPALLI


    21 June, 2020


    Covid 19 pandemic lockdown had affected daily wagers of urban areas as well as villages. Government had given free ration including rice, pulses and oil and Rs 1000 to each ration card holder. But the most welcome move was resumption of MGNREGA works as it gave assured income to rural people. In most villages in Tiruchirapallidistrict , MGNREGA works involved desilting of irrigation canals and other waterbodies. With Cauvery water from Mettur Dam flowing past Trichy to delta region the small canals bring water to interior villages. In Tamil Nadu, MGNREGA works are being undertaken in 12,524 Gram Panchayats in 385 blocks of 31 districts. There are 1 crore 23 lakh workers in Tamil Nadu with 85 lakh job cards issued according to government records.


    Mgnrega workers had difficulty in going to banks with almost no public transport, to get their wages. As per the orders of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, wages of MGNREGA workers will be given on Thursdays at a common public place of the village by Bank agents. The MGNREGA workers have been advised to collect the money maintaining safe distance norms. This facility will be continued for the months of June, July and August according to authorities.


    MGNREGA works are being held in 404 Panchayats in Tiruchirapalli district. There are 4.61 lakh persons from 3.27 lakh households registered for MGNREGA in Trichy district. Rs 22 crore is being disbursed as MGNREGA wages through bank accounts in the district. The MGNREGA works are being held under strict safe distance norms as per government order. MGNREGA workers are happy that the works have been resumed. They urged government to give them more number of days of works so that they will get more income for their livelihood.


    SmtAmbika, MGNREGA works supervisor of Nachikurichi village in Tiruchirapalli said she is executing and monitoring works in her village. She is enforcing safe distance norms for workers. She thanked central and state government for MGNREGA works especially during Covid 19 crisis period. SmtJeyarani, MGNREGA worker from TrichyNachikurichi village thanked government for MGNREGA works. She urged government to give additional monetary assistance during the lockdown period. SmtNeelavathi, MGNREGA work supervisor said that face masks are made compulsory for all workers to prevent spread of disease. Desiltingof canal in Nachikurichi village is done as part of MGNREGA works. SmtKarumbaiyi of Kattaiyampatti village in Vayyampatti Block Tiruchirapalliconveyed her thanks to government for giving MGNREGA works. She urged government to give continuous MGNREGA jobs and was happy that wages have been increased.


    MGNREGA works have changed the face of economic life of villages with assured wages for minimum 100 days of work. This is perhaps the most popular government scheme as people are made part of development process in the villages.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1633121) Visitor Counter : 27
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil