      Special Service and Features

      eSanjeevaniopd - free national teleconsultation services from the comfort of home union government's move to enable people consult doctors on video call
      Posted On: 29 JUN 2020 6:55PM by PIB Chennai


    Union Ministry of health and Family welfare is operating eSanjeevani OPD free teleconsultation system for public to get medical consultation from the safety of home. www.esanjeevaniopd.in website is national online out patient service that enables patients to consult doctors, sitting in the comfort of home. All that one require is just a laptop or a desktop computer with camera-mic-speaker or tablet with video calling facility and a mobile phone to receive one time passwords. The software used is google chrome or Mozilla firefox to open the website.


    First one has to register on the eSanjeevaniOPD website and generate a token number. After getting SMS notification, one can log on to the eSanjeevaniopd website. Then one can wait and press call now button when it is enabled. Finally the doctor can be consulted on video call and eprescription is given. All new users should register their names on esanjeevaniopd website. One can visit the https://www.esanjeevaniopd.in website and click patient registration button. By entering mobile number and clicking send OTP button, One Time Password (OTP) is sent through SMS. With the OTP , one can fill required fields in Patient registration and token generation page. Tests results like Xrays, lab tests in JPEG PDF forms can also be attached. Once filling process is over, one should click on generate patient ID dialog box and token button.Patient id and token are sent as SMS to the user. The user is alerted again through a SMS when his turn is close. Now after logging in with patient id again, he/she will be added in queue of patients in the virtual consultation room. When the call now button gets activated, one can press it. Upon pressing the button, the doctor appears on screen in ten seconds. The consultation process is now on and doctor gives an eprescription . This can be downloaded to get medicines from nearby medical shops. In Tamil Nadu the timings for patients is from 10 AM to 3 PM on all days.


    Shri Balagopal from Tiruchirapalli says that eSanjeevani national telemedicine system is really useful especially during the covid 19 lockdown time. It is very difficult and not safe to go to hospitals unless there is an emergency as chances of getting infected is very high. So this eSanjeevani online consultancy is really safe and life saving. SmtGeetha Rani said that there is still a strong belief that one gets relief for our disease only after a doctor is directly consulted and medicines or treatment taken as advised by the doctor. Though no one is used to online consultancy, it is high time to follow it , when there is no other choice of going to hospitals at this covid 19 time, she added. Moreover doctors are busy treating patients showing covid 19 symptoms and unless one need surgery or direct attention, it is advisable to choose online medical consultancy.


    Internet has been the saving grace during covid 19 lockdown as online services have helped to avoid crowding in public places. Internet banking has helped people to stay back at home and do their banking transaction. Zoom, Skype, Google Meet and whatsapp have helped to attend official meetings while being at the comfort and safety of home. Online booking of provisions including vegetables, groceries have helped to avoid getting trapped in the crowd in shops and malls. Now online teleconsultancy that too free medical consultancy from Union government has come as a big blessing to help people in getting routine medical attention professionally.


    eSanjeevaniOPD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1635174) Visitor Counter : 96
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil