      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      
      Gandhian Principles have much relevance even today: Prof. Jagdish Mukhi
      Mega Multimedia Interactive Exhibition on 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi Inaugurated
      Posted On: 14 OCT 2019 8:42PM by PIB Guwahati


    The Mega Multimedia Interactive Exhibition on commemorating 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi organised by the Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati under Ministry of Information and Broadcasting was inaugurated today by the Governor of Assam Prof. Jagadish Mukhi at Sonaram High School playground , Guwahati. Prof. Mukhi in his speech said that Gandhian Principles have very much relevance even in today’s time. Appreciating the unique initiative of ROB to depict Gandhiji’s life and freedom struggle on a mobile train Prof. Mukhi said that the organiser must take further initiative to run an exclusive train exhibition on Gandhiji’s life and freedom struggle across the country.


    Gandhiji united the whole country with his teachings of non-violence and it is the time for us to follow his teaching in our life said the Member of Parliament Ms. Queen Ojha while addressing the audience.


    The Director General of North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting Shri L.R Vishwanath informed the gathering that the weeklong Mega Multimedia Interactive Exhibition is first of its kind in the entire North Eastern region covering an area of 10000sq.ft. The exhibition is about showcasing the life, philosophy and ideals of Gandhiji he added.


    The exhibition also depicts some of the objects and possession of Mahatma Gandhi along with some rare pictures of Gandhiji’s visit to various places in Assam. In the exhibition the hand written letters of Gandhiji, rare pictures of his life and stay in South Africa, flip book, complete timeline of Mahatma Gandhi will also be showcased. The seven-day event will also show various performances viz dance, drama, interactive sessions and discussions. Each day the exhibition will showcase cultural programmes like mimes, folk dances depicting culture and tradition of different tribes of Assam and other parts of the Northeast. One of the Major attractions of the exhibition will be the 5 hours Dance Marathon depicting dance forms of eight North Eastern states by the artists of the Song & Drama Division on its closing ceremony.


    ******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1588085) Visitor Counter : 67
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese