      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Mega Multimedia Interactive Exhibition on 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi concludes
      Posted On: 20 OCT 2019 8:39PM by PIB Guwahati


    The Mega Multimedia Interactive Exhibition on commemorating 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi concludes today at the Sonaram High School playground , Guwahati. The seven-day event saw various performances viz dance, drama, interactive sessions. One of the major attractions of the exhibition was the 5 hours Dance Marathon depicting dance forms of eight North Eastern states by the artists of the Song & Drama Division. The dance form includes Bihu, Satriya, Bhor Taal nritya, Gayon Bayon, Missing Bihu, Thiyo Naam, Sonowal Kachari Bihu etc. The week-long exhibition was organised by the Regional Outreach Bureau, Guwahati.


    Shri Biswajit Pegu, Deputy Commissioner, Kamrup, Metro who graced the closing ceremony as chief guest in his address said that there is a need to promote the colourful art and culture of different tribes of North East. And this exhibition in a unique way provide the platform to the artists to showcase their rich heritage. He further added that what better way to celebrate Gandhiji's 150 th birthday than organising such a grand programme.


    The Director General of North East Zone, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting Shri L.R Vishwanath in his welcome address said that this weeklong Mega Multimedia Interactive Exhibition is first of its kind in the entire North-Eastern region covering an area of 10000sq.ft. The exhibition is about showcasing the life, philosophy and ideals of Gandhiji he added.


    The exhibition depicts some of the objects and possession of Mahatma Gandhi along with some rare pictures of Gandhiji’s visit to various places in Assam. The handwritten letters of Gandhiji, rare pictures of his life and stay in South Africa, flipbook, a complete timeline of Mahatma Gandhi were showcased in the exhibition. The exhibition attracted people from all quarters and of all ages.


    As part of the programme art competitions on the theme of Swachh Bharat were held between the school students and prizes were distributed to the winners. The employees of Regional Outreach Bureau of Guwahati were also felicitated in the programme for their hard work for making the event a grand success.


    *******

    
    
    (Release ID: 1588561) Visitor Counter : 53
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese