      Prime Minister's Office

      
      India continues with its policy of zero-tolerance against terrorism: Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri G Kishan Reddy
      Union MoS for Home Affairs Shri G Kishan Reddy presides over the Police Commemoration Day in Guwahati today
      Posted On: 21 OCT 2019 2:46PM by PIB Guwahati


    Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri G Kishan Reddy said that India continues with its policy of zero-tolerance against terrorism. Shri Reddy was speaking at the Police Commemoration Day organised by Assam Police in Guwahati, Assam today where he asserted that Indian forces have been capable of thwarting all threats to India’s internal security and there have been reduce in casualties of Police Personnel and civilians.


    Addressing the gathering during the Smiriti Parade, Shri Reddy said that the entire country salute our police forces, their families and remember with pride those brave police personnel martyred in the line of duty this day on Police Commemoration Day.


    “Assam Police personnel have sacrificed their lives in battle against militants and insurgents, maintenance of law & order, tackling crime, ensuring security in the border areas apart from helping the needy in times of floods and other natural disasters’’, the Minister said. Since 1964 a total of 879 Assam Police Personnel have laid down their lives for maintenance of law order & order in the state, he added.


    Acknowledging the exemplary service rendered by Assam Police, the Minister said that in the several decades of fighting insurgency and militancy Assam Police have displayed great professional qualities, courage and valour in the conduct of counter intelligence operations.


    Lauding with great pride the supreme sacrifice shown by the Police Personnel, Shri Reddy said that it is because of them that the security situation in Assam has completely changed and they have ushered in an era of peace and prosperity with a fillip to investment opportunities in the state. The entire state is carrying forward the Vision of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi of Act East Policy in both in true word and spirit, he added. The Minister attributed courage, sincerity and devotion to duty as hallmark of Assam Police.


    While speaking to the media the Minister appealed to all the remaining militant or insurgent groups of the Northeast to lay down their arms and join the mainstream where they can also contribute to progress of the nation. He added that everyone should abjure violence and in a democracy like India, there is no place for violence and that every difference can be sorted out through dialogue in a peaceful manner.


    During the programme, Officials of the Assam Police Headquarters read out the names of the Police Officers/Men who have lost their lives in harness during 1-09-2018 to 31-08-2019.


    The Union Minister, DGP, Assam and other senior most officers of each rank (from DGP to Constable present in the Smriti Parade laid the wreath at the Memorial column. Three Volleys of Fire was also given in honour of the Martyrs.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1588606) Visitor Counter : 26
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese