      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister Narendra Modi Inaugurates Swachh Bharat Diwas 2019
      
      Pays homage to Mahatma Gandhi at Sabarmati Ashram
      
      Unveils Postal Stamp and Silver Coin based on Mahatma Gandhi’s life
      
      Interacts with children and volunteers at Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad, Gujarat

      Posted On: 02 OCT 2019 9:31PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi inaugurated the Swachh Bharat Diwas 2019 in Ahmedabad today. He released postage stamp and silver coin to commemorate the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. He also distributed the Swachh Bharat Puraskar to the winners. Earlier in the day, he paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi at Sabarmati Ashram. He visited the Magan Niwas (Charkha Gallery) and interacted with the children there.


    

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi while addressing a gathering of Sarpanches at the 'Swachh Bharat Diwas’ programme said that the entire world is commemorating 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and the event has been made more memorable after UN released a postal stamp on Gandhiji a few days back. He said that he had the opportunity to visit Sabarmati Ashram many times in his lifetime and today like every other time got new energy there as well.


    PM Modi said that today, the villages have declared themselves free from open defecation and he congratulated every countryman, especially those living in villages, Sarpanches and all those who have worked for 'Swachata'. He added that irrespective of age, social and economic status, everyone has contributed in this pledge of cleanliness, dignity and respect. He said that today the world is amazed by this success of ours and they are rewarding us. Entire world is amazed that India has provided toilet facilities to more than 60 crore population in 60 months by constructing more than 11 crore toilets, he added.


    Public participation and voluntarism has been the hallmark of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and the reason for its success, the PM said. He thanked the entire country for the whole hearted support provided for the mission. Stressing on the importance of public participation, Prime Minister said that collective efforts are essential for the success of important government initiatives like Jal Jeevan Mission and eliminating single use plastic by 2022.


    Prime Minister said that his Government is committed towards realizing the dreams of Mahatma Gandhi. In this context, he mentioned about the initiatives of the government to ensure self-reliance, provide Ease of Living, and taking development to the last mile. He urged the public to take a resolution for the betterment of the nation and strive hard to make it successful. He added that such 130 crore resolutions can bring about a massive transformation.


    ***


    VRRK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1587008) Visitor Counter : 1377
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada