      Ministry of Culture

      Jabalpur Edition of Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav 2019 concludes today with a dazzling grand finale of various art forms
      
      Sagar and Rewa edition of Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav to begin tomorrow

      Posted On: 15 OCT 2019 9:00PM by PIB Delhi

    Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav (RSM) 2019, the flagship festival, organized by the Ministry of Culture in Madhya Pradesh from 14th October, 2019 closed its Jabalpur component today with a dazzling grand finale of various art forms along with soulful performances of 'Dhruvaa- India’s first Sanskrit Fusion band', Veteran Manipuri dancer, Smt. Priti Patel and Qawwali Composers Sabri Brothers. Its further journey to Sagar and Rewa will begin from tomorrow.


    For Five years consistently, the festival has been receiving continuous acclaim for playing a major role to effectively connect the conglomeration of state audiences to the rich, diverse and undiscovered culture of India under the umbrella of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat. The festival brought together more than 400 performers to perform over various folk dance forms and showcased handicrafts created by master craftsmen from all over India clubbed with, diverse cuisines prepared by traditional chefs, all under one- roof.


    This RSM, which has been a stand-out cultural Utsav from its previous chapters, celebrates the idea of ‘Oneness in all’. The Union Culture Minister, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel's idea of exploring richest culture and art forms in India’s villages has been graced by performers and audience alike, which has lent a unique charm to the celebration of this festival.


    Under the broad umbrella theme of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat has covered a profusion of art forms practised and performed by artists from all Zonal Cultural Centres of India, from Classical dance, viz. Classical Dance, Loknritya, folk music, to visual and culinary arts. Handloom and handicrafts are equally being exhibited in stalls and tents curated at this Mahotsav. The gastronomic culture of Bihar, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and several other partnering states is being showcased in food stalls. The people of Jabalpur witnessed for first two days experiences an unequalled shopping journey viz handicrafts, cuisines, sculpture, photography, and performing arts, all under one campus. The inaugural day was replete with enthralling performances by Classical Instrumentalist Pandit Vishwa Mohan Bhatt, Kathak maestro Smt. Shovana Narayan and famous Hindi and Marathi Playback singer Shri Suresh Wadkar.


    The signature of the 10th Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav (RSM) is to present rich diversity and uniqueness of Indian culture and to reconnect the new generation with Indian culture. The second day opened with Dhruvaa’s band performance and with that for the first time, RSM has shed its previous presentation in serious form and adopted novelty and newness. Variations in attendance in terms of different age-groups were seen. Smt. Priti Patel’s choreographed performance of traditional Manipuri dance received graceful fervour and jubilation from the audience. Second day of RSM ended with Sabri Brother’s soulful performance for which cheers and commendation from the crowd were colossal and has left the audience mesmerized. The famous Qawwali ‘ Der na ho jaye kahin Der na jaye ‘ received joyous response from the audience.


    The Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav's next journey to Sagar begins tomorrow at the PTC Maidan Pilli Kothi Road, Civil Lines, Sagar from 6.00 pm to 9.30 pm. Some of the attraction that awaits for the 3rd day, listed below:


    1. Folk song and dance performances by all the Zonal Cultural Centres of India


    2. Presentation of Local artists’ from Madhya Pradesh under the theme of ‘Mati Ke Laal’ on Main stage


    3. Presentation of Chhau Dance of Purulia by Shivcharan Sahu and group


    4. Performance by renowned artists Roop Kumar and Sonali Rathod


    *******


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1588219) Visitor Counter : 644
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi