      Ministry of Corporate Affairs

      Preparations for grand finale of 10th Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav 2019 are in full swing at Rewa
      Posted On: 19 OCT 2019 8:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav (RSM) 2019, after its conclusion in Jabalpur and Sagar, is preparing in full gear for its last visiting city, Rewa in Madhya Pradesh. The venue at NCC Ground College Chouraha, Rewa is expected to be packed with visitors as the locals have already started visiting the Mahotsav ground before its commencement from tomorrowtomorrow. Artists of all the zonal cultural centres and local art ists are ready to deliver their best for the finale. Two days at Rewa, 20th- 21st October, 2019 will announce the end of Rastriya Sanskriti Mahotsav for this year.


    For Five years consistently, the festival has been receiving continuous acclaim for playing a major role to effectively connect the conglomeration of state audiences to the rich, diverse and undiscovered culture of India under the umbrella of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat. The festival brought together more than 400 performers to perform over various folk dance forms and showcased handicrafts created by master craftsmen from all over India clubbed with, diverse cuisines prepared by traditional chefs, all under one- roof.


    Rewa Chapter of the Mahotsav has brought together master craftsmen showcasing Patty Shawl, Mowjri, Moti Shilp, Lakh Churi Block Print art times from Rajasthan, Sea-shell items of Goa, Ajrak Print technology-Kacchwi Shawl-Kasidhakari items of Gujarat under West Zone Cultural Centre, Udaipur; Paper Mache of Bihar, Krishnanagar Dol items, crafts of Shantiniketan, Patachitra of Medinipur, Wood Crafts, Odisha’s Raghurajpur craft items under Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre, Kolkata; Tamil Nadu’s Kora Grass-Handmade Textiles-Kanchipuram Silk Sarees, Telengana’s Crochet Lays-Pochampally items, Karnataka’s Chennapatna Toys-Agarpathis, Puducherry’s Leather & Wood Works under South Zone Cultural Centre, Thanjavur. All other Zonal Cultural Centres has put up stalls exhibiting their concerned states’ authentic and genuine art and craft items for viewing and sale in designated stalls. Sahitya Akademi and CCRT, New Delhi under Ministry of Culture has also put up stalls for their publications. A separate space for ‘Chitrakala Pradarshani’ has been organised for exhibition of paintings made by traditional artists to promote our Indian art above others.


    Other than the handicrafts, under the same roof, traditional flavours in the likes of Maharashtra, New Delhi, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat and other partnering states are put up for sale in the same angaan. The people of Rewa has already started visiting the angaan before the Mahotsav will commence from tomorrow for its two day event. Three LED Screens have also been arranged inside and outside of the campus for better viewing experience by the attending visitors.


    Major attractions for tomorrow include Tabla Virtuoso, multi-percussionist Anuradha Pal’s Tabla Performance, India’s one of the finest Odissi style dancer Geeta Mahalik’s Classical performance and Malini Awasthi’s folk-song presentation. As this Maestros will deliver their unparalleled performances for the final chapter of Rewa, Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav will declare itself as a stand-out and one of the best chapters in RSM’s history. Also Flute Maestro Ronu Majumdar , acclaimed performer Tanushree Shankar and renowned playback singer Anuradha Paudwal will perform on final day of Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav.


    *******


    NB/AKJ/OA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1588527) Visitor Counter : 404
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi