      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar Inaugurates 100 Bedded ESIC Hospital in Rudrapur
      Posted On: 30 OCT 2019 6:21PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employment inaugurated the 100 bedded ESIC hospital at Rudrapur (Uttarakhand) today. Addressing the gathering, He said that the hospital has been constructed in a plot area of 5 acres along with 32 staff quarters with an approx. cost of Rs.97.72 crore. To begin with the OPD services are being provided. However, in due course, the 100 bedded ESIC Hospital shall be equipped with state of the art facilities like operation theatre, casualty block, radiology, orthopedic clinic, psychiatric clinic, general medicine and many more for the Insured Persons and their dependants. This Hospital would be exclusively run for the benefit of insured persons and their family members covered under ESI Scheme.


    Shri Gangwar informed that Government of India has taken the decision of historic reduction of ESI contributions rates being paid by employees and employers covered under ESI Scheme from 6.5 % (Employees’ share 1.75% & Employers’ share 4.75%) to 4% (Employees’ share 0.75% & Employers’ share 3.25%). For this reduction, around 3.6 crore employees and 12.85 lakhs employers will be benefitted. He also informed that ESIC has taken many decisions like opening of underutilized ESIC Hospitals and Dispensary-cum-Branch Office (DCBO) pan India and starting of Scheme Atal Bimit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana, etc.


    He further informed about the steps taken by Central Govt. to promote ease of doing business by amalgamating 38 Labour Laws into 4 Labour Codes. He also informed the crowd about the Pradhan Manti - Shram Yogi Man Dhan Yojna (PM-SYM) started by Govt. of India for workers of unorganised sector.


    Dr. Harak Singh Rawat, Minister for Forests & Wild Life, Environment & Solid Waste Disposal, Labour, Employment, Training, AYUSH, AYUSH Education, Govt. of Uttarakhand Shri Rampal Singh, Mayor, Municipal Corporation, Rudrapur and Shri Rajesh Shukla , Member of Legislative Assembly also addressed the gathering and thanked Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar and welcomed the inauguration of this ESIC Hospital, Rudrapur. They appreciated the efforts being made by Central Govt. towards providing better medical facilities to the worker population.


    *****


    RCJ/SKP/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1589628) Visitor Counter : 294
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi