      AYUSH

      MoU Signed between AIIA and Frankfurter Innovationszentrum Biotechnologie GmbH, Germany
      Posted On: 31 OCT 2019 1:18PM by PIB Delhi


      An MOU has been signed between All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA) under Ministry of AYUSH and Frankfurter Innovationszentrum Biotechnologie GmbH (FiZ) here today. The MoU signed by Prof. Tanuja Nesari Director AIIA and Dr Christian Garbe, Managing Director of Frankfurter Innovationszentrum Biotechnologie GmbH (FiZ), was agreed at FiZ on the occasion of the event “German/Indian knowledge exchange regarding current developments in the health care sector” by Dr Garbe with Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH, during September of this year.


      One important goal of the collaboration is to research in the field of genomics and develop evidence-based guidelines supported with latest technologies like Artificial Intelligence and machine learning so as to integrate Ayurvedic principles and practises into modern medicine for the wider reach to the masses. Further, exchange of knowledge and experiences will be another component in the MoU.


      Speaking after the singing of the MOU, Dr.Vaidya, Secretary, AYUSH said that the systems appear to be quiet different at first glance. On deeper observation, it appears that both the sciences can support each other. Complementing the traditional Ayurveda Medicine with conventional concepts of Biotechnology is expected in generating evidences that further help in contributing to the global healthcare, he added.


      On this occasion, Dr. Garbe said that for years there have been diverse contacts with India in order to foster both, share experience and know-how in our network and render technological knowledge economically usable as well. He explained that empirical medicine and precision medicine will become productive partners.


      Director, All India Institute of Ayurveda Prof. Tanuja Nesari said that the Ayurveda is the time tested science focussed upon providing healthy life through wholeness of body, mind, and soul considering different aspects including environmental factors.


      **************


      RJ/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1589702) Visitor Counter : 783
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali