      Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation

      Uma Bharti launches 2nd project of Swajal Yojana in Rajasthan
      Posted On: 27 FEB 2018 2:13PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Drinking Water and Sanitation, Sushri Uma Bharti, today launched the Swajal pilot project at Village Bhikampura, Karauli, Rajasthan. Besides ensuring the availability of clean drinking water to every household round the year, the project would also generate employment.


    Sushri Uma Bharti urged the people to own the project that will be started soon. She reminded that it is the death anniversary of Chandrashekhar Azad and the government is trying to fulfil his dream of Swaraj.


    She inaugurated the pilot Swajal Project at Bhikampura with a budget of more than 54.17 lakh rupees. Swajal is a community owned drinking water programme for sustained drinking water supply. Under the scheme, 90% of the project cost will be taken care by the Government and the remaining 10% of the project cost will be contributed by the community. The Operations and management of the project will be taken care by the local villagers.


    As per the plan, four reservoirs will be constructed in the village and common tap connection will be given to almost 300 households. Bhikhampura village has scarcity of drinking water and villagers have to walk to at least 3 kilometers to collect it. During the lean season, water is supplied by tankers. The new project will ease the lives of the people and ensure that potable water is available for every individual round the year.


    Hon’ble Minister also reviewed the progress of the various schemes in the district. Karauli is one of the 115 aspirational districts with the aim of ensuring overall development by proper implementation and convergence of central and state government in the district.


    She reviewed the progress in 6 key sectors including health, nutrition, education, skill development, agriculture, financial inclusion and basic infrastructure and suggested the officials to take necessary action to expedite for early implementation of the program. MDWS will closely monitor the progress.


    Rajkumari Jaatav, MLA Hindon, Parameswaran Iyer, Seceretary MDWS and other dignitaries were present in the meeting.


    <><><><><>


    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521870) Visitor Counter : 1053
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil