      Ministry of Culture

      Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahtsav ends on a grand note in Indore
      Posted On: 28 FEB 2018 5:47PM by PIB Delhi


    ‘Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav (RSM) -2018’ a diversified cultural carnival organized by Ministry of Culture in Madhya Pradesh ended today in Indore with a dazzling closing ceremony graced by the esteemed presence of the Loksabha Speaker, Smt. Sumitra Mahajan as the Chief Guest. Mayor of the Indore Municipal Corporation, Smt Malini Gaud and Local MLA, Shri Mahendra Hardiya and Shri Pranav Khullar, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Culture Shri Pranav Khullar, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Culture were also present on the occasion.


    Braving showers, people participated in the valedictory of the cultural extravaganza in large numbers. Starting its journey from the Gwalior’s Maan Mandir Fort the event showcased an amalgamation of Crafts & Art Forms, Cuisine Fest and Magnificent Performances. The festival received continuous gratitude for playing a major role to effectively connect the audience to the rich, diverse and undiscovered culture of India under the umbrella of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat.


    Loksabha Speaker, Smt. Sumitra Mahajan appreciated diligent efforts of the Ministry of Culture for organising a great amalgamation of food, dance, entertainment, performances and shopping delights which efficiently delivered a glimpse of the entire country to the audience. “This festival has a very noble objective, and that is to celebrate the spirit of tradition, culture, heritage and diversity of our great nation” she said. She complimented Minister of State for Culture (I/C) and Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Dr. Mahesh Sharma under whose dynamic leadership this festival has been conceptualized and organized.


    She said “it is easy to create culture but what is difficult is to preserve it. It has taken ages for our forefathers to form such a composite and ethnically rich culture, what is important for us is to preserve it and continue to create its awareness amongst the coming generation as well. ”


    To celebrate our plural traditions, under the Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat matrix Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav began in Gwalior on February 24, 2018. The State paired with Madhya Pradesh are Nagaland and Manipur. The Mahotsav offered people an opportunity to view and understand the colourful, vibrant and authentic folk dances from diverse corners, which together make up the ethos of the country.


    The festival showcased a titanic variety of tribal and classical art forms from different cities and towns across the country accompanied by dance, music, drama, entertainment and food. A handloom and handicrafts-utsav was also part of this Mahotsav. The gastronomic culture of Madhya Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur and several other partnering states was brought through a food festival .


    In its journey of 5 days in Madhya Pradesh, the festival promoted India’s rich Heritage by showcasing the flavours of folk dances to the citizens’ of Gwalior, Bhopal and Indore. The festival brought together performers from across the country sharing the stage and filling it with their colourful array of folklores by performing folk dance forms from all over India.


    The citizens of Indore were enthralled to see the folk dances like Pandvaani from Chattisgarh, Gudum Baja from Madhya Pradesh, Bhangra from Punjab, Laai Haroba Marshal Art from Manipur, Faag and Ghoomar from Haryana, Langaa and Bhavaai from Rajasthan, Chapeli from Uttarakhand, Chaau from Jharkhand and Laavni from Maharashtra.


    All through the event the Seven Zonal Cultural Centres under the Ministry of Culture worked in cohesion to make this festival success under the umbrella theme of “Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat ".


    The event successfully connected country’s youth to various facets of the country’s rich and vibrant culture alongside, giving artisans from different regions a chance to showcase their skill, talent, artworks and culinary expertise at a larger-than-life podium.


    Shri Pranav Khullar, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Culture presented an overview of the 5 days Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav 2018 on the occasion.


    *****


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1522061) Visitor Counter : 505
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil