      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Successful Culmination of Swachhata Hi Sewa Pakhwada by CPWD
      Posted On: 03 OCT 2018 6:26PM by PIB Delhi


    Swachhata Hi Sewa Pakhwada, has been conducted by the CPWD in a successful and grand manner across the country. During Swachhata Hi Sewa Pakhwada from 15.9.2018 to 2.10.2018, CPWD undertook massive cleanliness drive of all assets maintained by it across the country. CPWD officers and staff actively participated in the shramdans during the fortnight. Entire Drive was undertaken with close coordination, cooperation and support of all RWAs / Residents / Coordination Committees. CPWD also invited RWAs of Delhi at its Head Quarter and interacted with them. CPWD held "Swachh Office" competition among all Government buildings across the country maintained by it.


    Painting competition amongst the children was held on the theme ‘Swachhata hi Sewa’ at Sunder Nursery in the august presence of MoS (I/C) Shri Hardeep Singh Puri and Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Shri Durga Shankar Mishra which gave a boost in creating awareness and encouragement among the public on the cleanliness. The Department undertook plogging in drive led by its Director General, Shri Prabhakar Singh, at Sunder Nursery and Nirman Bhawan. It held a skit play on Swachhata which was well received by the audience.


    Addressing a function on the occasion here today, Shri Prabhakar Singh said that waste convertor composting machine has been installed by CPWD in Nirman Bhawan which was inaugurated by the Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. He said, Compost produced by this machine shall be used in the horticulture works, which shall complete the ecological loop fulfilling the environment requirement of three R’s – Reduce, Reuse and Recycle. CPWD is installing similar composting machines at other GPRAs and GPOAs. Shri Singh told the gathering that CPWD has also initiated waste segregation at source at different locations in Delhi with the help of startups with no cost to CPWD. To conserve precious water resource, CPWD has decided to install STPs to recycle the waste water for use of horticulture and other purposes in all our GPRAs, he added.


    On the occasion, Shri Prabhakar Singh also released a film on the activities carried out by CPWD across the country during Swachhata Hi Sewa Pakhwada. The film was also screened at the function. Video CDs of the film were distributed for viewing in all CPWD units and in other Government Departments for spreading cleanliness awareness among the people in the country.


    CPWD also successfully undertook plantation and maintenance drives in last two months. Shri Prabhakar Singh also highlighted that under plantation drive, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs gave a target of plantation of 50,000 tress to CPWD by 30 th September 2018, which the CPWD successfully achieved by planting 51,851 trees much before by 31 st August 2018. He also enumerated several other initiatives by CPWD for clean, green and sustainable development projects.


    As a drill to improve maintenance, CPWD decided to launch fortnight maintenance drive of GPRA / GPOA and other assets maintained by CPWD across the country on the occasion of the Independence Day.


    Shri Singh also gave away commendation certificates to several officials and staff members who who did meritorious work during the Swachhata Hi SewaPakhwada.

    
    ***
    
    RJ/KGS

    

    
    (Release ID: 1548381) Visitor Counter : 195