      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Department of Fertilizers observes Swachhata Pakhwada
      Posted On: 01 OCT 2018 6:35PM by PIB Delhi


    Department of Fertilizers, Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers, Government of India, along with 9 PSUs under its administrative control and 2 Cooperative Societies (KRIBHCO and IFFCO), observed the Swachhata Pakhwada from 1 st September to 15 th September, 2018.


    A number of Swachhata related programmes and activities, as detailed below, were conducted in the Department of Fertilizers:-


    (i) Placing of message from Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers, Shri Ananthkumar on the website of the Department of Fertilizers


    (ii) Administering of pledge by Secretary, Fertilizers, Smt. Bharathi Sivaswami Sihag among the staff of the Department of Fertilizers


    (iii) Plantation of saplings by the senior officers of the Department of Fertilizers in the campus area of Shastri Bhawan


    (iv) Holding an Essay Competition on Swachhata related themes in which Staff of Department of Fertilizers participated. Four cash prizes (i.e. 1 st , 2 nd and two Consolations Prizes) were also distributed to the Winners of Essay Competition


    (v) Conducting a Shram Daan activity by the staff of Department of Fertilizers at Boat Club and its nearby places.


    (vi) Holding a Prize Award Ceremony in the Chamber of Secretary (Fertilizers) on 28-09-2018. In the Ceremony, total 5 Swachhta Awards (i.e. 3 awards sent by Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation and 2 awards from Department of Fertilizers) were distributed by Secretary (Fertilizers) to the following officers of Department of Fertilizers, 2 PSUs and 2 Cooperative Societies (i.e. IFFCO and KRIBHCO) :-

                                                       
Best PSU Award  Sh. Manoj Mishra, CMD, National        
                                                       
                                                       
                Fertilizers Limited                    
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
1 st prize      Sh. N.S. Rao, MD, KRIBHCO              
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
2 nd prize      Brig. Sh. Surender Kumar, Sr. GM, IFFCO
                                                       
                                                       
                                                       
3 rd prize      Sh. Neeraj Kumar, Asstt. Finance       
                                                       
                                                       
                Manager Brahmaputra Valley Fertilizer  
                                                       
                                                       
                Corporation Limited (BVFCL)            
                                                       
                                                       

    During the Award Ceremony, Secretary, Fertilizers urged the PSUs and Cooperative Societies to carry on their efforts for sustainability of Swachhata, in addition to Pakhwada activities in such a way that improvement in the Swachhata in India may appear at global level. In the Prize Ceremony, Shri Dharam Pal, Additional Secretary, Smt. Alka Tiwari, Additional Secretary, Smt. Meenakshi Gupta, AS&FA, Shri Lal Sangrur, Economic Advisor, Shri Parthasarthi Sensharma, Joint Secretary and other Senior Officers were also present in the prize ceremony.


    *****


    KSP/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1548151) Visitor Counter : 708
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi