      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Applications invited for National Intellectual Property (IP) Awards-2018 and WIPO Awards
      Posted On: 02 FEB 2018 4:31PM by PIB Mumbai


    The Controller General of Patents, Designs and Trademarks, Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, Ministry of Commerce and Industry in collaboration with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) are invited applications for National Intellectual Property (IP) Awards-2018 and WIPO Awards in 10 different categories as below:

                                                                                                                  
Top Individual for Patents & Commercialization                                                                    
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
Top Indian Academic institution for Patents & Commercialization                                                   
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
Top R & D institution/organisation for Patents & Commercialization                                                
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
Top Public Limited Company / Private Limited Company for Patents & Commercialization in India                     
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
a. Indian                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
b. Foreign                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
Top Indian Private Company (MSME) for Patents & Commercialization                                                 
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
Top Start-up for IP Commercialization                                                                             
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
Top Indian Company /Organization for Designs                                                                      
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
Top Indian Company for creating Global brand                                                                      
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
Top Individual / organization for Best facilitation of Registration of GI and Promotion of registered GI in India.
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  
Best Police Unit (District / zone in a commissionarate) for enforcement of IP in the Country                      
                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                  

    Applicants are required to submit details in prescribed application forms available on www.ipindia.nic.in on or before 28.02.2018.


    National Intellectual Property (IP) Awards are conferred to recognize and reward


    a. contribution of individual, company, R & D Institutions, academic institutions, organizations for their creations and commercialization of IP which have contributed to harnessing the country’s intellectual capital and creating IP eco-system that boosts creativity and innovation and


    b. law enforcing agency to ensure effective implementation of the IP laws and create healthy IP ecosystem.


    These awards are being given since 2009 onwards. The award carries cash Prize of Rs. 1,00,000 and a citation, which is conferred by the Union Minister of Commerce and Industry in an event organized by Office of Controller General of Patents, Designs and Trademarks in collaboration with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on World IP Day (26 th April).


    ***

    
    
    (Release ID: 1518936) Visitor Counter : 592