      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Facilities to Farmers
      Posted On: 01 AUG 2017 5:21PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers’ Welfare (DAC&FW) has taken up several initiatives in the field of agricultural extension which includes ‘Support to State Extension Programmes for Extension Reforms’ which is popularly known as ATMA Scheme, Mass Media Support to Agricultural Extension and Kisan Call Centres. In order to enhance physical outreach of extension personnel for their direct interface with the farmers, financial support for specialists and functionaries down to the Block level has been provided. The key objectives of ATMA scheme include setting up of autonomous institutions at the State/District/Block level, encouraging multi-agency and broad-based extension strategies adopting group approach to extension and facilitating convergence of programmes in planning, executing and implementation. Under Mass Media scheme, the Government is educating farmers through display of exhibits for know-how on new tools and technology, creating awareness about schemes, programmes activities being implemented for benefiting and helping farmers. Farmers’ education/awareness programmes are being implemented through agriculture fair, exhibitions and use of print, electronic media like Radio, TV and Social Media platforms, etc. Under Kisan Call Centres (KCCs) scheme, farmers’ queries are answered on a telephone call in their own dialect between 6.00 AM to 10.00 PM on all seven days. Presently, these Call Centres are working in 14 different locations covering all the States and UTs. A Toll Free No.1800-180-1551 has been allotted for this purpose.


    Kisan Suvidha Mobile App has been launched by the Government which provides information to the farmers on Weather report, Plant Protection, Input Dealers, Agro-Advisory and Marketing. Besides, Pusa Krishi Mobile App, Agri-Market App and Crop Insurance Mobile App have also been launched for the benefit of farmers.


    Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has established a network of 680 Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) in the country with mandate of Technology Assessment and Demonstration for its Application and Capacity Development. A number of activities viz. on-farm trials, front-line demonstrations, creation of awareness on improved agricultural technologies, etc. are conducted by KVKs for the benefit of farmers.


    This Ministry is also implementing various crop development schemes for increasing production and productivity of the crops in the country viz. National Food Security Mission (NFSM) on rice, wheat, pulses, coarse cereals and Commercial Crops (cotton, jute & sugarcane); Bringing Green Revolution to Eastern India (BGREI) and Crop Diversification Programme (CDP). Under these schemes, scientific crop production technologies are being promoted at the farmers’ field through organization of cluster demonstrations and training of farmers with latest crop production technologies such as timely sowing, seed rate, recommended package of practices, etc. for reduction in the cost of cultivation. Assistance is given to farmers on distribution of improved seeds/hybrids, farm implements/machines, irrigation devices, plant protection chemicals, bio-pesticides for promoting Integrated Pest Management and soil ameliorants, etc. through State Government. New initiatives like distribution of seed mini-kits of newer varieties of pulses free of cost, production of quality seed, creation of seed hubs at SAU and KVKs, strengthening of bio-fertilizers and bio-agent labs at SAUs/ICAR Institute, technological demonstration by KVKs and enhancing up breeder seed production have been included under NFSM.


    Under NFSM and BGREI, there is a provision of ‘Cropping System Based Training’ of farmers which includes four sessions i.e. one before Kharif and Rabi Seasons, one each during Kharif and Rabi Seasons. Under this programme, training of trainers/farmers is imparted by Crop/Subject-Matter Specialist of ICAR Institute/SAUs/KVKs on creating awareness about the new high yielding varieties.


    National Mission on Oilseeds and Oil Palm (NMOOP): Under NMOOP programme, Transfer of Technology (ToT) component, assistance is provided to States for conducting Farmers Training and Trainers Training Programme, in which training is provided to the farmers and extension workers educating the farmers to avail the benefits of the programme.


    Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) – ‘Per Drop More Crop’: This Department is implementing ‘Per Drop More Crop’ component of PMKSY. It mainly focuses on water use efficiency at farm level through precision/micro irrigation (Drip and Sprinkler Irrigation).


    Integrated Pest Management (IPM) is an ecological approach which aims to keep pest population below economic thresholds level by employing available alternate pest control strategies and techniques viz. preventive measures, cultural, mechanical and biological control with greater emphasis on usage of bio-pesticides and pesticides of plant-origin like Neem formulation, etc. The Government is implementing “Strengthening and Modernization of Pest Management Approach in India” through 35 Central Integrated Pest Management Centres (CIPMCs) of Directorate of Plant Protection Quarantine and Storage established across the country, which inter alia, organizes Farmers Field Schools (FFSs) to promote IPM approach.


    The Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH) envisages production and productivity improvement of horticulture crops like fruits (including apple) and vegetables through various interventions. Capacity building of farmers and technicians are also provided for adopting improved technologies. Scheme also envisages creation of infrastructure for Post-Harvest Management (PHM) and marketing for better price realization of produce.


    To develop Common Agriculture Market, the Government has launched National Agriculture Market (e-NAM) project on 14 th April, 2016. Under the e-NAM, 585 regulated markets across the States are to be integrated with e-NAM portal by March, 2018. The e-NAM would facilitate farmers to on-line trade their agricultural produce in any market integrated to the portal and to the buyer registered thereon. So far, 455 markets of 13 States have been integrated with e-NAM portal.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Shri Parshottam Rupala, in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha, today.


    ****


    SS/ AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1497992) Visitor Counter : 368
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil