      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Improvement in Breed of Cattles
      Posted On: 01 AUG 2017 5:20PM by PIB Delhi


    Milk production has increased by 6.27% per annum during last three years and during the last decade milk production has increased by 4% per annum.


    As per breed survey report 2012 the country has 37.92 million animals of indigenous cattle breeds as against 23.78 million animals of indigenous cattle breeds during 2007 (as per breed wise livestock census 2007).


    In order to complement and supplement the efforts made by the States for development and conservation of indigenous breeds Government of India has initiated following programmes after detailed consultations with States and all the stake holders: i) Rashtriya Gokul Mission; ii) National Mission on Bovine Productivity; iii) National Dairy Plan-I and iv) Breed Improvement Institutes.


    Government has initiated Rashtriya Gokul Mission with the aim of development and conservation of indigenous breeds and National Mission on Bovine Productivity for enhancing milk production and productivity of bovine population in the country during last three years.


    Steps undertaken by the Government for development of cattle population in the country is as under:


    (i) Rashtriya Gokul Mission has been launched December 2014 for the development and conservation of indigenous bovine breeds thereby enhancing milk production and productivity. The framework of the scheme is to enhance milk production & productivity through induction of high genetic merit bulls for semen production; field performance recording; strengthening of bulls mother farms; setting up of Gokul Grams etc.


    (ii) National Programme for Bovine Breeding is being implemented for enhancing productivity of milch animals through extension of Artificial Insemination (AI) coverage. This is done through establishment of Multi Purpose AI Technicians in Rural India (MAITRIs); strengthening of existing AI centres; monitoring of AI etc.


    (iii) National Mission on Bovine Productivity has been launched in November 2016 with the aim of enhancing milk production and productivity and thereby making dairying more remunerative to the farmers. The scheme is being implemented with following components a) Pashu Sanjivni- this component includes identification of animals in milk using UID, issuing health cards to all animals in milk and uploading data on INAPH data base; b) Advance reproductive Technique- under the component sex sorted semen production facility is being created at 10 A graded semen stations and 50 Embryo Transfer Technology Labs with IVF facilities are being created in the country; c) Creation of E Pashu Haat Portal- The e-pashu haat portal has been launched in November 2016 for linking farmers and breeders of indigenous breeds and d) Establishment of National Bovine Genomic Centre for Indigenous Breeds(NBGC-IB): The NBGC-IB is being established for enhancing milk production and productivity through genomic selection among indigenous breeds.


    (iv) Two National Kamdhenu Breeding Centres are being established one in the State of Andhra Pradesh for southern region and other in Madhya Pradesh for northern region of the country with the aim of development and conservation of indigenous breeds in a scientific manner and thereby enhancing milk production and productivity.


    (v) National Dairy Plan-I a world Bank assisted project being implemented in 18 major dairy States with aim of enhancing milk production and productivity in order to meet demand of milk in the country through strengthening of semen stations; bull production programme (progeny testing and pedigree selection), ration balancing programme etc.


    (vi) Government has also established three subordinate organizations namely (i) Central Cattle Breeding Farms (CCBFs) (ii) Central Herd registration Scheme and (iii) Central Frozen Semen Production & Training Institute. These organizations are also undertaking genetic upgradation of milch animals through supply of disease free high genetic merit bulls for semen production and natural service for use in the breeding programme being implemented by the States.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Shri Sudarshan Bhagat, in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha, today.


    SS/ AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1497988) Visitor Counter : 373
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil