      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Action taken by Centre to stop duplicate mineral water bottle
      Posted On: 01 AUG 2017 4:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Standards for Packaged Mineral Water and Packaged Drinking Water (other than Mineral Water) are prescribed under sub-regulations 2.10.7 and 2.10.8 of Food Safety and Standards (Food Products & Food Additives) Regulations, 2011 respectively and compliance to these standards is mandatory for any packaged drinking water manufacturer in the country. These products are also under mandatory certification of Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS).


    These requirements are to be followed by all manufacturers of packaged water. However, cases of sale of packaged water by unlicensed units and not meeting the prescribed standards have come to the notice of FSSAI. Therefore, FSSAI has been regularly taking up the matter with the Food Safety Commissioners of States/UTs and urging them to undertake regular and effective enforcement action in the matter.


    Regular surveillance, monitoring, inspection and random sampling of food products, including packaged water are being undertaken by the officials of Food Safety Departments of the respective States/UTs to check that they comply with the standards laid down under Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, and the rules and regulations made thereunder. In cases where the food samples are found to be non-conforming, recourse is taken to penal provisions under Chapter IX of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006.


    Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) from time to time receives complaints regarding quality of BIS Standard marked Packaged Natural Mineral water and Packaged Drinking Water as per IS 13428 and IS 14543 respectively. Similarly complaints are also received regarding misuse of Standard Mark on Packaged Drinking Water/Packaged Natural Mineral water by manufacturers without having valid BIS Licence.


    Complaints regarding quality of BIS Standard Marked Packaged Natural Mineral water and Packaged Drinking Water are investigated both at complainant-end and Licencee’s premises for redressal.


    Complaints regarding misuse of BIS Standard Mark (ISI mark) on Packaged Natural Mineral water and Packaged Drinking Water are investigated. Depending on outcome of the investigation, raids are conducted and cases are filed in the concerned court of law


    As per the information available with FSSAI from the State/UT Governments, the details of samples of Packaged Drinking Water/Mineral Water collected, tested, found not conforming and action taken during the year 2016-17 is as under:

                                                                                                                                             
Samples collected  Samples analyzed  Samples found adulterated and misbranded  No. of cases launched             No. of convictions/penalties
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                               
Criminal           Civil             Convictions                               Penalties/amount raised (in Rs.)
                                                                                                               
                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                              
743                697               224                                       48                                83                            33  40/7,05,500
                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                              

    This information was given by Shri C. R. Chaudhary, the Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha, today.


    *****


    AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1497987) Visitor Counter : 216
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil