      Ministry of Finance

      Department of Expenditure takes various initiatives in the North Eastern States in the area of Public Expenditure Management; IT system of all the North East States' Treasuries except Nagaland integrated with PFMS;
      Trainings organized for capacity building by the Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) of PFMS and different Ministers/Departments of Government of India in North Eastern States on PFMS;
      
      More programs on Government E-Marketplace (GeM), Government Accounts and Finance and GST to be conducted for officers of the North Eastern States in the coming months.
      
      Posted On: 01 AUG 2017 12:46PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, Government of India has been taking several initiatives in the area of Public Expenditure Management in the North Eastern States with special focus on capacity building of the State Government officials and integration of the State Treasuries with the Union Public Financial Management System (PFMS) in order to improve the efficiency and transparency of public expenditure. These initiatives were reviewed recently by Shri Ashok Lavasa, Finance Secretary & Secretary (Expenditure) in a meeting with the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) and Director, National Institute of Financial Management (NIFM).


    Treasury Integration with PFMS


    To provide the Centre and State Governments with a real time, reliable and meaningful Management Information System and an effective Decision Support System (DSS) as well as track fund flow in respect of Central Sector (CS) and Central Assistance to State Plan (CASP) schemes, the IT system of all the North East States' Treasuries (namely, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Mizoram, Assam, Meghalaya, Sikkim, and Tripura) except Nagaland, have been integrated with PFMS.


    Capacity Building


    In last six months, 15 Trainings have been organized by the Central Project Management Unit (CPMU) of PFMS and different Ministers/Departments of Government of India in North Eastern States on PFMS. These 15 trainings include one training in each State Head quarter (two in Assam) by CPMU and six (6) trainings organized by different Ministers/Department in Assam/Meghalaya. Total 739 officers/officials/Non officials have been trained in these trainings. Scheme specific training on PFMS being organized by line Ministers/Departments are also being attended by the North Eastern States.


    Besides the above, the participants from North East have also been attending Treasury Integration Workshops being organized at New Delhi. State Project Management Units at Guwahati and Shillong are by now well equipped with the skill set required for providing guidance for implementation of PFMS and these SPMUs are providing and holding support to the implementing agencies on need basis.


    The National Institute of Financial Management (NIFM), an autonomous body under the Department of Expenditure has take-up training of the officers from the North Eastern States as a special focus area. Government E-Marketplace (GeM) training was conducted by NIFM faculty at Guwahati, Assam for three days, from 27th to 29th June 2017, wherein 53 participants of the Government of Assam were provided practical exposure to use of GeM for procurement of Goods and Services. A one week program on Public Private Partnership (PPP) in North-Eastern States has been conducted from 10th July 2017. More programs on GeM, Government Accounts and Finance and GST are planned to be conducted for officers of the North Eastern States in the coming months.


    ****


    DSM/SBS/KA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497916) Visitor Counter : 88