      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Financial Assistance to Economically Backward Classes Children
      Posted On: 03 AUG 2017 2:39PM by PIB Delhi


    For empowerment of Economically Backward Classes (EBCs), following two Schemes are being implemented from 2014-15 by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment:


    1. Dr Ambedkar Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Post-Matric Scholarship for Economically Backward Classes (EBCs) Students.


    2. Dr Ambedkar Central Sector Scheme of Interest Subsidy on Educational Loans for Overseas Studies for the Students belonging to Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and Economically Backward Classes (EBCs).


    Brief of the Schemes for Economically Backward Classes (EBCs) students


    Dr.Ambedkar Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Post-Matric Scholarship for Economically Backward Classes (EBCs) students


    This is a centrally sponsored scheme being implemented through the State Government and Union Territories. The objective of the scheme is to provide financial assistance to the EBC students studying at post-matriculation or post-secondary stage. The income ceiling of parents/guardians for eligibility is Rs.1.00 lakh per annum (including self-income, if employed).


    The rates under different Post-Matric Courses range between Rs. 750 per month and Rs. 260 per month for hostellers. For the day scholars the range is Rs. 350 to Rs. 160. Scholarship also include study tour charges @ Rs. 900 per annum (subject to actual expenditure), Thesis typing and printing charges @ Rs. 1000 (maximum), Book allowance for correspondence course @ Rs. 900 per annum and Reader charges for blind students in the range between Rs. 90 p.m. to Rs. 175 p.m.


    Dr.AmbedkarCentral Sector Scheme of Interest Subsidy on Educational Loans for Overseas Studies for the Students belonging to the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and Economically Backward Classes (EBCs) :


    The objective of the scheme is to award interest subsidy to meritorious OBC and EBC students so as to provide them better opportunities for higher education abroad and enhance their employability.


    To be eligible under the scheme, a student should come under the income ceiling of Rs. 3.00 lakh per annum for OBCs and Rs. 1.00 lakh for EBCs. 50 % of the outlay every year is earmarked for Girl students.


    The students should have secured admission in the approved courses at Masters, M.Phil. or Ph.D. levels abroad. He/she should have availed loan from a scheduled bank under the Education Loan Scheme of the Indian Banks Association (IBA) for the purpose.


    Under the scheme, interest payable by the students availing the education loans of the IBA for the period of moratorium (i.e. course period, plus one year or six months after getting job, whichever is earlier) as prescribed under the Education Loan Scheme of the IBA, shall be borne by the Government of India. After the period of moratorium is over, the interest on the outstanding loan amount shall be paid by the student, in accordance with the existing Educational Loan Scheme as may be amended from time to time. The candidate will bear the Principal instalments and interest beyond moratorium period.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/RS-SJ&E-1/03-08-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1498270) Visitor Counter : 282
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil