      Ministry of Earth Science

      Cloud Observatory
      Posted On: 02 AUG 2017 6:11PM by PIB Delhi


    A high altitude cloud physics observatory has been established at Munnar (Kerala), in Western Ghats, the region which is gateway for the monsoon of India.

    
    High altitude cloud physics observatory at Munnar is used to observe cloud and rain processes over that region with state of the art observations. Such facility will enable understanding of rainfall distribution and will allow better characterization of rainfall processes in the numerical models used for prediction of monsoon rainfall.
    
    It is expected that long term monitoring of cloud and rainfall processes will enable accurate representation of cloud micro-physical process in forecast models to improve over all skill of rainfall prediction for severe weather phenomena viz, heavy rainfall, thunderstorm etc., not only over Kerala but for the whole country.
    
    An allocation of Rs. 10 Crore has been made for the establishment of the laboratory.
    
    High altitude cloud physics laboratories are functional at Mahabaleshwar (Konkan) and Munnar (Kerala) to study the monsoon cloud microphysics process modulated by the Western Ghats only and hence no such additional facility are contemplated.
    
    Studies were undertaken in four climate sensitive regions of the country, viz. Himalayan Region, Western Ghats, North Eastern Region and Coastal Areas to assess the possible impacts on the four sectors viz. agriculture, water, forests and health and associated ecosystem. A Report entitled, Climate Change & India: A 4X4 Assessment – A Sectoral and Regional Assessment of Impact of Climate Change in 2030s, has been released by the Government during November, 2010 under the aegis of the Indian Network of Climate Change Assessment (INCCA).
    
    This information was given by Minister of State for Science & Technology and Earth Sciences Shri Y.S.Chowdary in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.

    ****


    
    
    RDS/nb

    
    
    (Release ID: 1498199) Visitor Counter : 463