      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Floods in Assam
      Posted On: 08 AUG 2017 5:58PM by PIB Delhi

      
      As per information received from State Government of Assam, 29 out of 33 districts have been affected due to heavy rains/ flood/ erosion during this monsoon season. As on 6th August 2017, 84 people have lost their lives and 25.42 lakh people have been affected by the flood.
      
      The State Government has framed Disaster Management Manual 2015, which has stipulated roles and responsibilities for various line department and district administrations for management of flood. All required arrangements have been made accordingly by the State/ District administration.
      
      As per the National Disaster Management Policy, the primary responsibility for disaster management rests with the States. The prevention and rehabilitation of flood affected people in flood prone areas is required to be undertaken by the concerned State Government from its own resources/ Plan funds. The State Government is providing relief assistance and looking for suitable land to rehabilitation of flood affected people as per its existing land policy.
      
      The State Governments have been taking necessary rescue, relief & prevention measures in the affected areas which include evacuation of people to safer places, operation of relief camps, cattle camps and providing essential commodities viz. cooked food, rice/ rice bran, chura, wheat, salt, baby food, kerosene oil, matchboxes, candles, halogen tablet, fodder, Polythene sheets, etc. They are also taking necessary steps to prevent outbreak of any epidemic during floods/ post flood period.
      
      NDMA has prepared guidelines on flood management and assisted them in the preparation of their flood management plans. It has provided an amount of Rs.61.4 lakh to the State Government of Assam in 2015-16 for strengthening of State Disaster Management Authority.
      
      This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju in a written reply to question by Shri Gaurav Gogoi in the Lok Sabha today.

      ****

      
      
      KSD/NK/PK/KM/RS-3680
    
    
    (Release ID: 1498855) Visitor Counter : 69