      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Constitutional safeguards under Assam accord
      Posted On: 02 AUG 2017 4:15PM by PIB Delhi


    The details of Clause 6 and 7 of the Assam Accord are as under:-


    Clause 6: “Constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards, as may be appropriate, shall be provided to protect, preserve and promote the cultural, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people.”


    Clause 7: “The Government take this opportunity to renew their commitment for the speedy all round economic development of Assam as to improve the standard of living of the people. Special emphasis will be placed on education and science & technology through establishment of national institutions.”


    Government of Assam has established a department which is named ‘Implementation of Assam Accord Department.’ To implement the above Clauses, a number of steps have been taken which have resulted into:


    1) Establishment of Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra with total construction cost of Rs. 20.35 crore, of which Rs. 18.85 crore was contributed by the Government of India.


    2) Implementation of Jyoti Chitraban Film Studio (Phase-I & Phase-II). The modernisation of Jyoti Chitraban Film Studio (Phase-III) has been undertaken.


    3) Rs. 21.00 Crore was granted as financial assistance to 219 Nos. of Satras of Assam.


    4) Rs. 7.00 Crore was provided as financial assistance for 11 Nos. historical monuments for their protection, preservation and development.


    5) Archaeological Survey of India has taken up the protection, preservation and development of 5 monuments. These are (i) Singri Temple’s ruins (ii) Urvashi Archaeological Site (iii) Poa-Mecca, Hajo (iv) Kedar Temple, Hajo and (v) Hayagriva Madhava Temple, Hajo.


    6) An Autonomous Institution namely Anandaram Borooah Institute of Language, Art & Culture Assam (ABILAC) has been established on 12th December, 1989 with the Financial Assistance from Govt. of Assam.


    7) The Directorate of Higher Education provides annual grants to various Voluntary Organisations for upliftment of the Language, Art and Culture.


    8) A Central University at Tezpur, an IIT at Guwahati and Numaligarh Refinery, Golaghat district have been established.


    9) 100 Foreigners Tribunals have been established for the detection and deportation of illegal migrants in Assam.


    10) Government of India released Rs. 44.45 crore to Government of Assam towards settlement of loan and payment of outstanding dues of employees in respect of Ashok Paper Mill.


    11) Other activities include measures taken for flood control, fencing and floodlighting along Indo-Bangladesh Border, Rail-cum-road project, commissioning of Assam Gas Cracker Project/ Brahmaputra Cracker and Polymer Ltd. (BCPL).


    The implementation of Assam Accord is a continuous process. This is reviewed time to time.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju in a written reply to question by Smt. Ranee Narah in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    KSD/NK/KM/RS-1986

    
    
    (Release ID: 1498138) Visitor Counter : 274