      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      Implementation of Central Government’s Projects
      Posted On: 03 AUG 2017 5:27PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Schemes concerning various Ministries are administered by the respective Ministry whereas MPLAD Scheme is being administered by Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation. Implementation of the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) in the field is undertaken by the District Authorities in accordance with the State Government’s technical, administrative and financial rules and as per the provisions of Guidelines on MPLADS.


    For timely execution of works, time-lines for (i) sanction of eligible works, (ii) rejection of ineligible works and (iii) completion of sanctioned works are prescribed in the Guidelines on MPLADS.


    Para 3.12 of the guidelines inter-alia provides that all recommended eligible works should be sanctioned within 75 days from the date of receipt of the recommendation, after completing all formalities. The District Authority shall, however, inform MPs regarding rejection, if any, within 45 days from the date of receipt of recommendations, with reasons thereof.


    Para 3.13 of the guidelines stipulates that the sanction letter/order shall stipulate a time limit for completion of the work to the Implementation Agency. The time limit for completion of the works should generally not exceed one year.


    The District Authority is required to review, every month and in any case at least once in every quarter, MPLADS works implementation with the Implementing Agencies. The District Authority should involve the MPs in the inspections of projects to the extent feasible.


    The Ministry continuously emphasizes on the qualitative, rule-bound and speedy implementation of the works under the Scheme as per provisions of the Guidelines on MPLADS.


    This information was given by Minister for Statistics and Programme Implementation Shri D.V. Sadananda Gowda in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha.


    ****


    RDS/nb

    
    
    (Release ID: 1498331) Visitor Counter : 72