      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Compulsory Yoga/Games in high school level
      Posted On: 08 AUG 2017 2:35PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel said in the Rajya Sabha today that education falls under the Concurrent List, majority of schools fall under State Examination Boards and the school curriculum is determined by the State Governments. However, the National Curriculum Framework 2005 recognizes the role of sports and physical education in the holistic development of children and youth in the country. As part of this policy, the Government has made access to play fields, equipment for sports & games and engagement of physical education instructor- a mandatory requirement for all schools under the Right to Education Act.


    In a written reply he said, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) places special importance on co-scholastic areas which includes sports and physical fitness. Details of salient measures taken by CBSE to promote sports in schools are given in the Annexure. It is expected that State Education Boards would also emulate the CBSE example.


    Annexure


    Annexure referred to in reply to part (a) & (b) of the Rajya Sabha Unstarred Question No. 2558 to be answered on 08.08.2017 regarding ‘Compulsory yoga/games in high school level’ by SHRI MOHD. ALI KHAN:


    Salient steps taken to promote yoga/games/sports in the schools affiliated to CBSE are as


    follows:


    In classes VI-X any two activities out of the following are compulsory:


    a. Sports/Indigenous sports (Kho-Kho etc.)


    b. NCC/NSS


    c . Scouting and Guiding


    d. Swimming


    e. Gymnastics


    f. Yoga


    g. First Aid


    h. Gardening/Shramdaan


    2. The Board has advised schools that there should be at least 40-45 minutes of physical Activities or Games period for Classes I-X every day. For Classes XI- XII schools should ensure that all the students participate in physical Activity / Games / Mass P.T. / Yoga with maximum health benefits for at least two period per week ( 90- 120 min week).


    3. The Board also organizes ‘Inter school Sports and Games Competitions’ in as many as 24 disciplines at Cluster, Zone and National level. Over 1.5 lac students participate in it each year. In order to identify, recognize, nurture and develop the extraordinary talent among the students studying in class VIII onwards in sports and games, the Board provides Chacha Nehru Scholarship.


    *****


    AD/MB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1498792) Visitor Counter : 42