      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh administers the New India Pledge to DoPT employees
      Posted On: 09 AUG 2017 4:48PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh administered the New India Pledge ‘Sankalp se Siddhi’ to the employees of the Department of Personnel & Training on the occasion of Commemoration of 75th Anniversary of the Quit India Movement, here today. The pledge commits to create a New India that is strong, prosperous and inclusive; an India that will make our freedom fighters proud.


    On the occasion, presentations were made by Joint Secretary, DoPT, Shri Devesh Chaturvedi on Strategy for Anti-Corruption: Initiatives taken by the Government of India and OSD, Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation, Shri Akshay Rout on Swachh Bharat Mission.


    Addressing the gathering, Dr. Jitendra Singh said it’s a unique privilege for us all to be part of the 75 th Anniversary of the Quit India Movement. He said that the rapid pace of events unfolded from 1942 to 1947, beginning with the Quit India Movement and resulting in India’s Independence five years later. Let us pledge to carry on with the same spirit in the next five years to drive out poverty, corruption, terrorism, communalism, casteism and build a Clean and New India by 2022 when the country will mark its 75 th Anniversary of Independence, he added.


    Dr. Jitendra Singh said the Government has lived up to its commitments by acting against corruption and creating a work friendly atmosphere. This day marks our rededication to our commitments, he added.


    Click here for DoPT Presentation on Strategy for Anti-Corruption


    Click here for Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation Presentation on Swachh Bharat Mission


    ***


    KSD/NK/PK/KM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1498990) Visitor Counter : 92