      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Incentive Programmes for Exports
      Posted On: 09 AUG 2017 4:02PM by PIB Delhi


    The names of the countries implementing incentive programmes for exports and details of incentive packages given by such countries are tabulated as under:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
S. No.  Name of the country  Name of the incentive programmes         Details of incentive packages                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
1.      U.S.A                Generalized System of Preferences (GSP)  This promotes economic growth in the developing countries and least developed countries. Preferential duty free treatment is provided for about 30-40% products of designated beneficiary developing countries. India is also one of the beneficiary developing country.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
2.      EU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

    Reserve Bank of India makes the assessment for devaluation of currency considering various factors like inflationary pressure on domestic economy etc. Devaluation may positively impact exports at times, but policy of devaluation is managed by RBI on other considerations as well.


    This information was given by the Commerce and Industry Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today


    ********


    MJPS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1498973) Visitor Counter : 106