      Ministry of Textiles

      Weavers to be provided wide array of Government services through Weavers' Service Centres: Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani
      Posted On: 06 AUG 2017 6:40PM by PIB Delhi

        
        Textiles Minister inaugurates camp on Weavers’ MUDRA loans and Hathkargha Samvardhan Sahayata Schemes for Handloom weavers
        

        Third National Handloom Day to be celebrated in Guwahati: Union Textiles Minister
        

        The Union Textiles Minister Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani has announced that weavers will henceforth be able to avail a wide array of Government services from Weavers’ Service Centres (WSCs). The Minister said that besides providing technical assistance, the WSCs will serve as a one-stop centre for weavers, providing various services, including banking, passport, insurance, PAN card, voter ID and AADHAAR. The Minister added that weavers will also be able to pay their electricity bills and undertake online courses at WSCs. There are 28 WSCs under the Office of Development Commissioner (Handlooms), Ministry of Textiles, functioning in various parts of the country. Weavers visit these WSCs frequently, in order to avail technical assistance in relation to their profession. The Minister informed that the Ministry of Textiles will enter into an MoU tomorrow with Common Service Centres, which will enable WSCs to provide the aforementioned services, beginning from this year itself.
        On the eve of 3rd #NationalHandloomDay, inaugurated a camp for Weavers MUDRA & Hathkargha Samvardhan Sahayata Schemes at Bijoynagar in Assam pic.twitter.com/oirqQ8j8d3
      — Smriti Z Irani (@smritiirani) August 6, 2017
      
        Recalling the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s words that the development of the North Eastern Region is imperative for the development of India, the Minister informed the weavers that the main event of third National Handloom Day will be held in Guwahati.
        
        The Textiles Minister said that the PM Jan Dhan Yojana has eliminated middlemen and enabled transfer of public money directly to the bank account of deserving citizens. The Minister said that around 25 crore citizens have got their bank accounts opened under PMJDY in last three years. Noting that seven banks are participating in the camp for distribution of loans today, Smt. Irani asked the woman weavers how often banks come to them to provide banking services. The Minister expressed her satisfaction that more than 250 women applied for MUDRA loans in just an hour after the camp started functioning. She informed the 600-odd woman weavers present, that loans ranging from Rs. 50,000/- to Rs. 10 lakh can be availed under MUDRA Yojana with no requirement for any security whatsoever. She said that this demonstrates the faith reposed by the Government of India in the ability of its citizens to contribute to national development by becoming self-reliant. The Minister highlighted that handloom weavers in Sambalpur, Odisha, were able to improve their earnings by more than 60% within three months of availing MUDRA loan. Smt. Irani distributed MUDRA loan sanction letters to 50 weavers on the occasion, and appealed to all weavers to apply for the loan and improve their incomes.
        Union Minister @smritiirani distributes the #MUDRA loan Certificates to weavers, at a function, in Guwahati #NationalHandloomDay pic.twitter.com/0zYpnDJK4V
      — PIB India (@PIB_India) August 6, 2017
      
        Noting that loom repair and upgradation is one reason why many weavers apply for loans, the Textiles Minister informed the weavers that Hathkargha Samvardhan Sahayata Scheme addresses this issue. She said that under this scheme, Government of India assists the weaver by bearing 90% of the cost of new looms; on distributing the scheme certificates, the Minister appealed more weavers to join the scheme so that they do not have to bear the heavy financial burden of buying a new loom.
        Textiles Minister @smritiirani distributes Loom Upgradation Assistance to Handloom weavers, in Guwahati pic.twitter.com/vBjpmAuom7
      — Ghanshyam Goel (@PIBTextiles) August 6, 2017
      
        Speaking of other initiatives taken by the Ministry for the welfare of handloom weavers, Smt. Irani spoke about the E-Dhaga app and the ‘Bunkar Mitra’ helpline. She said that with E-Dhaga, subsidy is just a click away for the weavers. She said that the app, which enables handloom weavers to order and track the shipping of yarn, will be a boon for handloom weavers. This would enable them to transact business anytime, anywhere; weavers can send their indents and payments online through this app.
        
        The Minister added that on January 4, 2017 the Ministry launched ‘Bunkar Mitra’, the first ever helpline for handloom weavers. Available seven days a week, from 10 AM to 6 PM, the issues faced by weavers are addressed in a time-bound manner through the helpline. She asked every weaver present to note down the helpline number 1800-208-9988 and to use it extensively for their benefit.
        
        
        
        Stating that education of children is the primary concern of weavers, the Minister informed the weavers that the Ministry of Textiles has entered into MoUs with Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) and National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) whereby children of weavers shall be able to avail school and university education, with 75% of fees being borne by the Government of India.
        
        The Minister requested the weavers to participate in these schemes of the Government and reap their benefits, for a better future for them and their families. She also reminded them that while many other countries earned their freedom through the sword, India achieved independence through the weapon of non-violence, of which ‘Charkha’ and 'Suta' (thread) were defining symbols.
        
        Besides the big gathering of 600-odd woman weavers, Handloom Minister of Assam, Shri Ranjit Dutta; MLA Shri Pranab Kalita; Development Commissioner (Handlooms), Ministry of Textiles, Shri Shantmanu were also present on the occasion.
        
        The third National Handloom Day will be celebrated across the country tomorrow, the main event being in Guwahati.
        
        Background
        

        The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi launched the first National Handloom Day on 7th August, 2015 , at a national level function in Chennai. The date August 7 has been chosen due to its special significance in India`s history; it was on this day that the Swadeshi Movement was launched in 1905. The formal proclamation of Swadeshi Movement was made on August 7, 1905 in a massive meeting in the Calcutta Town hall. The movement involved revival of domestic products and production processes. The Government of India has declared August 7 as National Handloom Day every year, in memory of this.
        ***

      

        GG/DJM
    
    
    (Release ID: 1498667) Visitor Counter : 238