      Ministry of Power

      Consultative Committee attached to Ministries of Power and New & Renewable Energy meets
      Posted On: 04 AUG 2017 3:06PM by PIB Delhi


    The Consultative Committee attached to Ministries of Power and New & Renewable Energy met here today under the chairmanship of Union Minister of State (IC) for Power, Coal, New & Renewable and Mines, Shri Piyush Goyal . The Committee reviewed the functioning of Power Grid Corporation of India (PGCIL) and implementation of Wind Energy Programme.
    
    The Consultative Committee meeting started with a presentation on PGCIL by its Chairman and Managing Director, Shri I.S.Jha. The presentation gave an overview of areas of operation of PGCIL, initiatives being undertaken like Development of National Grid, Green Energy Corridors for Renewables , SAARC Grid , use of new Technology in Transmission , performance of financial parameters, the challenges ahead and the way forward.

    The second half of the meeting consisted of the presentation on Implementation of Wind Energy Programme by the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE). The Hon’ble Members were apprised of growth of Wind Power in India and its share in overall Renewable Energy , installed capacity, Policy Changes, States with High Wind Potential, Domestic manufacturing, incentives for Wind energy, First Wind auction conducted successfully recently and challenges & future roadmap.


    All members congratulated the Government & PGCIL for its overall performance. Members also appreciated Government’s increased focus on Renewable Energy and achieving record growth during the last three years. Members gave their valuable suggestions to further improve the efficiency and viability of power transmission projects being set up by PGCIL. Some members suggested that the quality of power distribution infrastructure needs to be monitored and accountability needs to be fixed on the ground level to ensure that there is last mile coverage of beneficiaries.

    
    Responding to the suggestions and queries raised by the Consultative Committee members, Shri Piyush Goyal assured Hon’ble Members that their valuable suggestions would be adopted by the Ministries & PGCIL
    
    The meeting was attended by Shri Anurag Singh Thakur, Shri Bharat Singh, Shri Daddan Mishra, Shri Jugal Kishore, Sharma, Shri Krishnan Narayanasamy Ramachandran, Shri Naranbhai Bhikhabhai Kachhadia, Shri Rajesh Ranjan (Pappu Yadav), Shri Rajesh Pandey, Shri Rama Kishore Singh, Shri Sanjay (Kaka) Ramchandra Patil, Shri Shailesh (Bulo Mandal) Kumar, Shri Sushil Kumar Singh and Shri Uday Pratap Singh from Lok Sabha and Shri Bashistha Narain Singh, Shri Lal Singh Vadodia and Shri Mahesh Poddar from Rajya Sabha.


    
    The Secretary, Power, Shri AK Bhalla and Shri Anand Kumar , Secretary MNRE , the Chairman cum Managing Director & Directors of PGCIL, and senior officials of Ministries of Power and New & Renewable Energy also attended the meeting.


    RM/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1498532) Visitor Counter : 209