      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      “There are 18 Biosphere Reserves in the Country”: Environment Minister
      Posted On: 08 AUG 2017 6:58PM by PIB Delhi

      
      “Biosphere Reserve (BR) is an international designation by UNESCO for representative parts of natural and cultural landscapes extending over large area of terrestrial or coastal/ marine ecosystems or a combination thereof. BRs are designated to deal with one of the most important questions of reconciling the conservation of biodiversity, the quest for economic and social development and maintenance of associated cultural values. BRs are thus special environments for both people and the nature and are living examples of how human beings and nature can co-exist while respecting each other’s needs.
      
      There are 18 Biosphere Reserves in the country. List of Biosphere Reserves is given in the Annexure.
      
      The Biosphere Reserve Programme is guided by UNESCO Man and Biosphere (MAB) programme as India is a signatory to the landscape approach supported by MAB programme. A scheme called Biosphere Reserve is being implemented by Government of India since 1986, in which financial assistance is given in 90:10 ratio to the North Eastern Region States and three Himalayan states and in the ratio of 60:40 to other states for maintenance, improvement and development of certain items. The State Government prepares the Management Action Plan which is approved and monitored by Central MAB Committee”. This information was given by Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Harsh Vardhan, in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.
      
      Annexure
      
      LIST OF BIOSPHERE RESERVES:
      
      1) Cold Desert, Himachal Pradesh
      
      2) Nanda Devi, Uttrakhand
      
      3) Khangchendzonga, Sikkim
      
      4) Dehang-Debang, Arunachal Pradesh
      
      5) Manas, Assam
      
      6) Dibru-Saikhowa, Assam
      
      7) Nokrek, Meghalaya
      
      8) Panna, Madhya Pradesh
      
      9) Pachmarhi, Madhya Pradesh
      
      10) Achanakmar-Amarkantak, Madhya Pradesh-Chattisgarh
      
      11) Kachchh, Gujarat
      
      12) Similipal, Odisha
      
      13) Sundarban, West Bengal
      
      14) Seshachalam, Andhra Pradesh
      
      15) Agasthyamala, Karnataka-Tamil Nadu-Kerala
      
      16) Nilgiri, Tamil Nadu-Kerala
      
      17) Gulf of Mannar, Tamil Nadu
      
      18) Great Nicobar, Andaman & Nicobar Island

      ***

      
      
      HK
    
    
    (Release ID: 1498865) Visitor Counter : 1293