      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      Upgraded Passenger Terminal Building of Jammu Airport Inaugurated
      New Terminal Has Double the Earlier Area and Peak Handling Capacity

      Posted On: 17 AUG 2017 8:08PM by PIB Delhi

    The upgraded passenger terminal building of Jammu Airport was inaugurated by Shri P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, Union Minister for Civil Aviation and Ms. Mehbooba Mufti, Chief Minister of Jammu & Kashmir today. Speaking on the occasion, Shri Raju, said, “We believe in augmenting infrastructure of our airports to enhance connectivity. With the upgraded Jammu Airport, we would be better prepared to give improved services to air travelers visiting this city of temples.”
    
    Appreciating the upgraded terminal building of Jammu Airport, Ms. Mehbooba Mufti, said, “We have been witnessing promising growth in number of air travelers to and from Jammu. The upgraded terminal of Jammu Airport is in line to enhance capacity and will contribute to the economic growth of Jammu – the gateway to the State.”
    
    Dr. Jitendra Singh, MoS, PMO and Shri Jayant Sinha, MoS Civil Aviation, Members of Parliament and senior officials were also present on the occasion.
    
    Jammu Airport belongs to the Indian Air Force, and Airports Authority of India maintains a Civil Enclave for civil aircraft operations. During the year 2016-17, passenger traffic movement at Jammu airport reached 1.16 million and the passenger growth rate has touched 29 per cent in the first quarter of 2017-18. To cope with the increasing passenger growth and demand, the existing terminal building of Jammu Airport has been expanded and upgraded. The area of the terminal building has been expanded from 6700 sq. mtrs. to 14,500 sq. mtrs. with an upgraded peak hour handling capacity of 720 passengers at a time, from the earlier 360 peak hour passengers.
    
    The upgraded passenger terminal building of Jammu Airport is a glass and steel structure and is equipped with passenger facilities and amenities like CUTE-complied check-in counters, Common Use Self-Service (CUSS) kiosk for Check-in, central air-conditioning, two arrival conveyer belts, escalators and glass elevators, Flight Information Display System, PA system with comfortable seating capacity.
    
    The terminal building is also equipped with Fire Fighting and Fire Alarm System, CCTV and Baggage Scanners etc. There is a provision for installation of three Passenger Boarding Bridges with Advanced Visual Docking Guidance System (AVDGS) for the Terminal which would increase operational efficiency besides convenience to passengers.
    
    In addition to the above, the upgraded passenger terminal Building is equipped with Green features like double insulated roofing system, rainwater harvesting, 200 KLD sewage treatment plant (soil-based technology), reuse of treated water for horticulture and air conditioning purposes, use of fly ash bricks, low heat gain glazing, low VOC (Volatile Organic Compound) paints, LED lighting, energy efficient chillers, VFDs (Variable Frequency Drive) for high Capacity Motors.

    *****


    
    
    NP/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1499987) Visitor Counter : 165