      Ministry of Defence

      Scientists of DRDO
      Posted On: 11 AUG 2017 3:23PM by PIB Delhi


    There is no noteworthy increase in number of scientists leaving DRDO. The details of the scientists (excluding superannuation) who have left DRDO during the last three years is given below:

                                                    
Year              No. of Scientists left DRDO  %age 
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
2014              41                           0.544
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
2015              42                           0.557
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
2016              45                           0.602
                                                    
                                                    
                                                    
2017              15                           0.202
                                                    
                                                    
(till July 2017)                                    
                                                    
                                                    

    The reason for leaving DRDO is primarily cited as “Personal Grounds” which is less than the 1%.


    Government has introduced a comprehensive ‘Incentive Scheme for DRDO Scientists’, details are given below:-


    Incentive Scheme for DRDO Scientists’


    I. Financial Incentives:


    · Additional Increments : Two additional increments are given to Scientists C, D, E & F.


    · Professional Update Allowance : Scientist ‘B’, ‘C’ & ‘D’ are granted Rs. 15, 000 p.a., Scientists ‘E’ & ‘F’ Rs. 30,000 p.a. and Scientists ‘G’ & above Rs. 45, 000 p.a. as Professional Update Allowance.


    · Variable Increments : Up to maximum of six increments are granted to deserving Scientists at the time of promotion under FCS depending upon merit.


    II. Growth related Incentives :


    To give better growth and promotional avenues to the Scientists in DRDO, Merit based Flexible Complementing Scheme (FCS) is in place, where promotions are based on assessment and not on available vacancies. Under the FCS, Scientist recruited at the level of Sc ‘B’ in the lowest rung of Gp ‘A’ can move up to the level of Scientist ‘H’ in Level 15 Higher Administrative Grade (HAG) scale and thereafter, the level of Distinguished Scientist in the Level 16 (HAG+ scale ) achievable on personal up-gradation basis.


    III. Proposed Incentives:


    As regards Performance Related Incentive Scheme (PRIS) it may be mentioned that 7 th CPC has not recommended PRIS for DRDO although the same is in operation in Department of Space & Department of Atomic Energy.


    IV. Qualification/Skill Improvement:


    Scientists in DRDO are being sponsored for M.E./M.Tech programmes at Indian Institute of Technologies (IITs), Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and other reputed institutes under the Research & Training Scheme at Government expense so that they can up-grade their knowledge and skills. Further, scientists are also encouraged to complete Ph.D. in their respective field, for which necessary assistance is provided.


    This information was given by Defence Minister Shri Arun Jaitley in a written reply to Dr. Swami Sakshiji Maharaj in Lok Sabha today.


    Nampi/Rajib


    

    
    (Release ID: 1499332) Visitor Counter : 471