      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      Adoption of UN Fundamental Principle of Official Statistics
      Posted On: 10 AUG 2017 6:36PM by PIB Delhi


    The United Nations Fundamental Principles of Official Statistics adopted by the Government of India are as below:-


    Principle 1. Official statistics provide an indispensable element in the information system of a democratic society, serving the Government, the economy and the public with data about the economic, demographic, social and environmental situation. To this end, official statistics that meet the test of practical utility are to be compiled and made available on an impartial basis by official statistical agencies to honor citizens' entitlement to public information.


    Principle 2. To retain trust in official statistics, the statistical agencies need to decide according to strictly professional considerations, including scientific principles and professional ethics, on the methods and procedures for the collection, processing, storage and presentation of statistical data.


    Principle 3. To facilitate a correct interpretation of the data, the statistical agencies are to present information according to scientific standards on the sources, methods and procedures of the statistics.


    Principle 4. The statistical agencies are entitled to comment on erroneous interpretation and misuse of statistics.


    Principle 5. Data for statistical purposes may be drawn from all types of sources, be they statistical surveys or administrative records. Statistical agencies are to choose the source with regard to quality, timeliness, costs and the burden on Respondents.


    Principle 6. Individual data collected by statistical agencies for statistical compilation, whether they refer to natural or legal persons, are to be strictly confidential and used exclusively for statistical purposes.


    Principle 7. The laws, regulations and measures under which the statistical systems operate are to be made public.


    Principle 8. Coordination among statistical agencies within countries is essential to achieve consistency and efficiency in the statistical system.


    Principle 9. The use by statistical agencies in each country of international concepts, classifications and methods promotes the consistency and efficiency of statistical systems at all official levels.


    Principle 10. Bilateral and multilateral cooperation in statistics contributes to the improvement of systems of official statistics in all countries


    The principles have been serving as guidelines in developing good practices in the statistical system, prior to and after their adoption. Several strategies and protocols are being developed in the system, from time to time, to ensure professional independence, impartiality, accountability and transparency about methods of collection, compilation and dissemination of statistics, which are enshrined in the principles.


    This information was given by Minister for Statistics and Programme Implementation, Shri D.V. Sadananda Gowda in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ***


    RDS/nb

    
    
    (Release ID: 1499227) Visitor Counter : 105