      Ministry of Planning

      Legislative Reforms for Generating Jobs
      Posted On: 10 AUG 2017 6:38PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government of India have been implementing many programmes / schemes for generating jobs like Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP), Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana, Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana - National Rural Livelihood Mission (DAY-NRLM) and National Urban Livelihood Mission (DAY-NULM), Startup India, Standup India etc. Programmes such as Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY), Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Yuva Yojana are enhancing the employability of the labour force to access job opportunities. Besides these initiatives, flagship programmes of the Government such as Make in India, Digital India, Swachh Bharat Mission, Smart City Projects, Housing for All, MGNREGA, Sagar Mala and major reforms like Goods &Services Tax have the potential to generate productive employment opportunities.
    
    Direct intervention schemes such as the National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme (NAPS) wherein Government reimburses 25 percent of the stipend payable to apprentices enhances employability of the youth to access employment. The Pradhan Mantri Rojgar Protsahan Yojana (PMRPY) incentivizes industry to promote employment generation wherein Government reimburses employer’s contribution of 8.33% EPS made to new employees.
    
    The Model Land Leasing Act has been prepared to facilitate States for enactment of own land leasing laws to enhance agricultural productivity. The new legal framework is likely to encourage the land owners to lease out land without any fear of losing land rights and enable the tenant farmers to access bank credit, insurance, disaster relief and other support services. The land owners may also lease out land for agricultural purpose and thus help occupational mobility of the rural poor and help in rural poverty reduction. This shall provide opportunity for occupational diversification to land owners to opt for non-farm employment.
    
    The textile package announced by the Government includes several tax and production incentives. Under the package, the entire employer’s contribution of 12% towards the Employers Provident Fund Scheme, for new employees of garment industry earning less than Rs. 15,000 per month, is met by the Government of India for the first three years. In addition, considering the seasonal nature of the industry, fixed term employment has been introduced for the garment sector. A fixed term workman will be considered at par with permanent workman in terms of working hours, wages, allowances and other statutory dues. The Government has also suggested bringing in flexibility in labour laws to increase productivity.
    
    This information was given by Minister Of State (Independent Charge) for Ministry of Planning and Minister of State for Ministry Of Housing & Urban Affairs Shri Rao Inderjit Singh in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.

    ***


    
    
    RDS/nb

    
    
    (Release ID: 1499230) Visitor Counter : 121