      Ministry of Railways

      Minister of Railways Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu Inaugurates/ Dedicates Various Initiatives mostly in Jharkhand
      Posted On: 17 AUG 2017 8:11PM by PIB Delhi


    In order to make the rail journey more comfortable and remarkable, Indian Railways has been launching various services and projects. In this direction, Minister of Railways Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu Dedicated/ Inaugurated following initiatives mostly pertaining to Jharkhand through video-conferencing from Rail Bhawan today i.e. 17-08-17 : -


    1. Commencement of work of Ranchi Road-Patratu doubling (at Patratu).


    2. Laying of foundation stone for ROR flyover at Garhwa Road (at Garhwa Road).


    3. Commencement of work of Ranchi-Bondamunda doubling (at Hatia Station).


    4. Laying of foundation stone for Adityapur-Khargapur- 3rd line (at Tatanagar Station) (RVNL Project).


    5. Dedication to the Nation - Gamharia-Adityapur Section of Sini-Adityapur 3rd Line Project (at Tatanagar Station)


    6. Commencement of work of Chakradharpur-Goelkera 3rd line (at Chakradharpur Station).


    7. Dedication to the Nation - Green Corridor-Madhupur-Giridih section of Asansol Division.


    Minister of State for Civil Aviation Shri Jayant Sinha was specially present to grace the occasion. Member Engineering, Railway Board, Shri Aditya Kumar Mittal, other Railway Board Members and senior officials were also present on the occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion Minister of Railways Shri Suresh Prabhakar Prabhu said that Jharkhand did not witness the progress due to lack of Rail Infrastructure. In order to improve Railway Infrastructure in Jharkhand, the fund allocation in the budget has been raised significantly to execute the Rail projects in the state & speedy commissioning of projects. Jharkhand State Government & Ministry of Railways has formed the joint venture to implement the projects. State JVs play an important role in cooperative federalism.


    Salient Features of Projects


    1. Commencement of work for Ranchi Road-Patratu Doubling


    Benefits:


    To facilitate faster transportation of minerals & shorter route for coal belt of Jharkhand to the Northern and Western part of India.


    2. Laying of foundation stone of ROR flyover at Garhwa Road


    Benefits:


    Garhwa Road station will practically become run through station and able to take more train easing congestion.


    3. Commencement of work of Ranchi-Bondamunda doubling (at Hatia Station).


    Benefits:


    Hatia- Bondamunda is a part of the Rourkela-Gomoh route via Ranchi-Muri. This is presently a single line.


    The section is extremely busy for movement of raw materials as well as finished steel to and from Bokaro and Rourkela steel plant.


    Due to ever growing industrial as well as passenger traffic demands, the capacity enhancement of this route has become essential


    4. Laying of foundation stone for Adityapur-Khargapur- 3rd line (at Tatanagar Station) (RVNL Project).


    Benefits:


    Kharagpur- Adityapur is a part of the Howrah-Mumbai trunk route. This section is extremely busy for movement of raw materials and finished products of the core industries.


    Other important traffic includes traffic to and from Haldia port including imported coal for the steel plant and through traffic like food grains fertilizers from various parts of India. The massive steel plant of TISCO is situated at Tatanagar.


    To cater for the ever growing transportation needs of this area, the third line project has been sanctioned.


    5. Dedication to the Nation - Gamharia-Adityapur Section of Sini-Adityapur 3rd Line Project (at Tatanagar Station).


    Benefits:


    To handle the increased Passenger and Freight traffic of Tatanagar – Chakradharpur section, the third line between Sini – Adityapur has been sanctioned.


    Sini-Gamharia (16 Km) : Commissioned on 19.07.16.


    Now, Gamharia–Adityapur (6.5 Km) is being dedicated to Nation.


    With commissioning of this 6.5 km 3rd Line, Entire project has been commissioned.


    6. Commencement of work of Chakradharpur-Goelkera 3rd line (at Chakradharpur Station).


    Benefits:


    This section is a part of Howrah-Mumbai trunk route.


    There was a need to increase the sectional capacity on this stretch as a number of plants & projects are coming up along the route. This route is the feeder route for the Steel, Power, Cement plants and connects them to the mines and the important ports of the country.


    The line capacity utilisation has already crossed 100% Hence, the section of third line on the stretch of 34 Km is essential.


    7. Dedication to the Nation - Green Corridor-Madhupur-Giridih section of Asansol Division.


    Benefits of Bio-toilets:


    Freedom from human waste falling on tracks.


    Better hygiene & cleanliness of coaches & tracks.


    *****


    AKS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1499990) Visitor Counter : 131