      Ministry of Home Affairs

      A delegation of Gorkhaland Movement leaders calls on Union Home Minister
      Shri Rajnath Singh appeals leaders of GJM and all other stakeholders to call off the hunger strike, and also to withdraw the bandh call
      Posted On: 13 AUG 2017 8:53PM by PIB Delhi


    A delegation of Gorkhaland Movement leaders called on the Union Home Minister, Shri Rajnath Singh here today. The delegation submitted a memorandum of their demands to the Union Home Minister. Shri Rajnath Singh made an appeal to the Gorkha Janamukti Morcha (GJM) and other stakeholders to call off the hunger strike, and also to withdraw the bandh call, allowing normalcy to return to the area. He also appealed to the West Bengal Chief Minister Ms. Mamata Banerjee to initiate a dialogue with the GJM and other stakeholders of Darjeeling, who are on a strike for last 60 days.
    
    Following is the text of appeal of the Union Home Minister:
    
    “The Gorkha Janamukti Morcha (GJM) has called for an indefinite strike in Darjeeling hills with effect from 12-06-2017 demanding a separate state of Gorkhaland.


    I am concerned about the developments in Darjeeling and the loss of valuable lives and sufferings of people over the past 60 days which pains me immensely.


    Violence can never be a solution to any problem. In a democracy, solutions are always found through restraint, mutual dialogue and within the legal ambit.


    We all are aware of the strategic importance of the locality and the challenges that we face in the region, and I am kept informed of the developments on a regular basis by my colleague, Shri S S Ahluwalia, MP, Darjeeling.


    Keeping in mind the national interest, as well as in the interest of our Gorkha brothers and sisters, who are brave and large hearted people and have contributed immensely to nation building, I appeal to GJM and all other stakeholders to call off the hunger strike, and also to withdraw the bandh call, allowing normalcy to return to the area. It is a move that will help to create an atmosphere for finding a solution to the current crisis.


    I also appeal to West Bengal Chief Minister Ms. Mamata Banerjee to initiate a dialogue with the GJM and other stakeholders of Darjeeling, who are on a strike for last 60 days. In the meantime, the state government should restore all civil supplies and also restore internet services, Cable TV & local channels.
    
    I also appeal to the people of Darjeeling to display sensitivity, and also keep in mind their civic responsibilities. No grievances & problems can be resolved without any dialogue.”

    ****


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1499501) Visitor Counter : 45