      Ministry of Education

      Survey for Quality of Education in Government Schools
      Posted On: 10 AUG 2017 3:35PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) conducts periodic national surveys of learning achievement of children in classes III, V, VIII and X. Four rounds of National Achievement Survey (NAS) for class V, three rounds for classes III and VIII and one round for class X, have been conducted so far. These surveys reveal improvement in learning achievement levels of pupils, in identified subjects from first round to fourth round.


    As per results of third round of National Achievement Survey (NAS) in class-III 73% children achieved above 50% in language and 76% children achieved more than 50% in Maths. In class-V 36% children achieved more than 50% in language and 37% children achieved more than 50% in Mathematics. In class VIII the achievement in Maths was low as only 14% children could achieve more than 50% marks. In science similar positions persisted as only 17 % children could answer more than 50% questions correctly. In class X the 16% children achieved more than 50% marks in maths and in science 22% children achieved more than 50% scores.


    From current year onwards, Government has decided to conduct Survey of Learning Outcomes as National Achievement Survey with district as the sampling unit. The Survey will assess the competencies developed in the students studying in grades III, V and VIII in government and government aided schools.


    In order to focus on quality of education, the Central Rules to the RTE Act, 2009 have been amended on 20th February, 2017 to include reference on class-wise and subject-wise Learning Outcomes. The Learning Outcomes for each class in Languages (Hindi, English and Urdu), Mathematics, Environmental Studies, Science and Social Science up to the elementary level have, accordingly, been finalized and shared with all States and UTs. These would serve as a guideline for States and UTs to ensure that all children acquire appropriate learning level. The students learning assessment will be according to the Learning Outcomes developed by NCERT.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Shri Upendra Kushwaha today in a written reply to a Rajya Sabha question.


    ****


    GG/AK/RK/Education in Govt. Schools

    
    
    (Release ID: 1499147) Visitor Counter : 83