      Ministry of Education

      Dr Mahendra Nath Pandey launches Indian National Anthem video in sign language.
      Posted On: 10 AUG 2017 4:54PM by PIB Delhi


    Dr Mahendra Nath Pandey, Minister of State, Ministry of Human Resource Development launched the Indian National Anthem video in sign language at Films Division Auditorium, New Delhi today.


    The video features Mr Amitabh Bachchan along with children with disability singing the National Anthem in sign language at the backdrop of the Majestic Red Fort. The film is conceptualised by Satish Kapoor, Founder Director, We Care Film Festival. We Care Film Festival produced the Film under the aegis of Brotherhood, an NGO. It is directed by Govind Nihalani and the music is scored by late Aadesh Shrivastava.


    Speaking on the occasion the Minister said that our Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has a vision that India’s development will be complete when our divyangjan become an integral part of it and come forward in the nation building. Shri Modi had suggested that the term 'divyang' (divine body) instead of 'viklang' be used for persons with disability.


    He further said that we must create an environment for the disabled people by which they can be able to earn a livelihood and live an independent life like any other citizen. It is our responsibility to mainstream them into all walks of life, and to make things accessible to them so that they can be fully integrated into national life.


    He praised the government for its decision on the reservation in vacancies in government establishments to increase it from 3% to 4% for certain persons or class of persons with benchmark disability.


    He appreciated the efforts of the organizers and wished them all the success in future endeavors.


    Those present on the occasion were Mr. Sudesh Verma, National Spokesperson of BJP and Patron of We Care Film Festival, Mr. Derek Segaar, Director United Nations Information Centre for India and Bhutan, Mr Al-Amin Yusuph, Adviser, Communication and Information for South Asia, Mr. Suresh Srivastava, Secretary General, Indian Federation of United Nations Associations, among others. Many disabled students from different schools were also present.


    GG/AK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1499183) Visitor Counter : 162