      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      Shri D V Sadananda Gowda inspected the construction sites at NEIGRIHMS
      Quality should not be compromised in regards to construction: Shri D V Sadananda Gowda
      Posted On: 25 AUG 2017 5:38PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Statistics and Programme Implementation Shri D V Sadananda Gowda today visited the North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences (NEIGRIHMS), Shillong and inspected the construction work which is going on at the Institute. He spoke in detail with the authorities, site engineers and officials of the construction company HSCC. Member of Parliament Smt Wansuk Syiem also accompanied the Minister to the institute. The Minister visited the construction site for Regional Cancer Centre, Medical College Building, Hostel and Nursing College going on at NEIGRIHMS. The Minister was very categorical when he urged the officials and engineers that quality of construction should not be compromised at any cost.
    
    The minister also visited various departments of the hospital and interacted with the doctors and patients about the kind of service available at the hospital. While interacting with the press the minister lauded the efforts of the officials and doctors. The Minister expressed his satisfaction over the services available at the hospital when he said, “All the patients that I interacted with were happy with the service that they are being provided with. I am also very satisfied with the kind of cleanliness that is being maintained in and around the institute”. “It is appreciable that a medical institute of this stature is being set up and run at Shillong overcoming all challenges”, he added.
    
    The Minister was intimated by the NEIGRIHMS’ officials of the poor road condition and lack of proper water supply scheme at the hospital. In this regard the Minister requested Smt Syiem to look into the matter for early settlement of the difficulty faced by the Institute. Secretary Planning Govt. of Meghalaya Dr B D R Tiwari, however, informed the minister that the work for road connectivity has been taken up by the government and water supply project for the Institute has already been planned which will be carried out at the earliest.
    
    The Minister concluded by urging upon the officers of Central and State Govt. to provide all possible support to the central agencies in timely completion of the projects.

    ***


    
    
    KSP/nb

    
    
    (Release ID: 1500726) Visitor Counter : 201