      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      National Workshop on Enforcement of IPRs concludes with enhancing the understanding among the enforcement authorities about knowledge on IPR enforcement
      Posted On: 24 AUG 2017 5:24PM by PIB Delhi


    The three-day workshop on enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) organized by the Cell for IPR Promotion & Management (CIPAM) concluded today.


    The three-day engagement was designed to help enforcement agencies establish a platform to share knowledge on IPR enforcement furthering appreciation and understanding among the enforcement authorities and common people.


    Joint Secretary, DIPP, Shri Rajiv Aggarwal, mentioned the need for Indians to respect and commercialize their intellectual property (IP) at the workshop. Shri O.P. Gupta, Controller General of Patents, Designs & Trademark (CGPDTM) delivered a speech on “cooperation between various enforcement agencies, role of right holder and way forward”. While talking about the importance of IP for public interest, all the eminent speakers emphasized that the creativity will be restricted to great extent, if creative output is not protected.


    Delegates from World International Property Organization (WIPO), Central Government officials, police officers from across the country, people from the legal fraternity, industry experts and law students participated in the workshop. The renowned speakers shared the best practices and various aspects of effective implementation of IPR enforcement.


    Creating awareness about IPRs can help in tackling piracy since limited knowledge about its social and economic impacts leads to circulation and consumption of pirated content. With this objective, CIPAM joined hands with the industry and launched a campaign against piracy through a series of animated videos on anti-piracy.


    CIPAM has also launched a social media campaign with hashtag #LetsTalkIP to create more interest among people on intellectual property.


    ******


    MJPS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1500637) Visitor Counter : 133