      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      National Workshop on Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights
      Posted On: 21 AUG 2017 12:31PM by PIB Delhi


    The Cell for IPR Promotion and Management (CIPAM), a professional body under the aegis of the Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP), Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Government of India, is organizing a three-day workshop on Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) from 22nd – 24th August, 2017, in New Delhi.


    Shri Rajnath Singh, Union Minister of Home Affairs, will grace the occasion as the Chief Guest in august prescence of Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman, Minister of State (I/C), Commerce & Industry, and Shri Kiren Rijijiu, Minister of State, Home Affairs at the inauguration of the workshop.


    Enforcement agencies like police, Customs, as also the prosecution wing, have a major role to play in effective enforcement of IPRs in the country. Creating awareness about IPRs amongst officials of these agencies, while strengthening the enforcement regime, will also assist them in handling cases relating to IPRs in their day to day activities.


    This workshop will help enforcement agencies across the country understand and appreciate the importance of their role in IPR enforcement. It will also act as a platform for the officials to share their experiences, exchange best practices and better inter-agency coordination with respect to enforcement of IPRs.


    Additionally, a workshop was conducted at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy, Hyderabad, for IPS officers from all States and the neighboring countries of Nepal, Bhutan and Maldives.


    Trainings have also been conducted at North Eastern Police Academy (NEPA), where officials from nine states participated. CIPAM aims to conduct such trainings across the country in future as well.


    IPRs have now been made a part of the training calendar at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy, Hyderabad, and North-Eastern Police Academy, Meghalaya.


    Earlier this year, the Ministry has also launched a toolkit for police officials across the country to help them deal with IP crimes, specifically Trade Marks counterfeiting and Copyrights piracy.


    *****


    MJPS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1500162) Visitor Counter : 87