      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      EPFO organizes Tiranga Yatra – Commemoration of 75th anniversary of the Quit India Movement in Mumbai
      “Corruption Quit India and make swacch India”, Shri Bandaru Dattatreya appeals
      Posted On: 24 AUG 2017 8:10PM by PIB Delhi


    There are moments in the journey of nations that fundamentally alter the course of history. One such moment was the Quit India Movement that began on 9 th August 1942 which finally culminated into freedom of India. Thereby the nation is observing the 75 th anniversary of Quit India Movement. The Tiranga Yatra is an opportunity to achieve ‘Sankalp’ to ‘Siddhi’ towards a ‘New India’.


    Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation, is participating in the celebrations of 75 th anniversary of Quit India Movement by organizing Tiranga Yatra all the stakeholders i.e. workers from different industries, employers from different sectors and staff & officers of Ministry of Labour and Employment including EPFO participated in the Tiranga Yatra organized in Mumbai on 23 rd August 2017. The Tiranga Yatra was flagged off by the Minister of State(IC) for Labour and Employment, Shri Bandaru Dattatreya, near Indian Oil Office, Bandra(E), Mumbai and culminated at EPFO Regional Office at Bandra(E), Mumbai.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Bandaru Dattatreya has appealed to all workers, employers, staff & Officers of EPFO to identify themselves as Indians duly rising above from caste, creed and religion. Shri Dattatreya raised slogan “ corruption Quit India and make swacch India ”. Shri Dattatreya has appreciated initiatives taken by EPFO for use of new technology and Aadhaar based service to subscribers. He has reiterated that Government is committed for providing housing to all by 2022 and EPFO has launched Housing Scheme where 90% of the EPF money can be withdrawn in addition to monthly payment of EMI out of the future accumulations in their provident fund. He asked the employees and officers to the slogan ‘ Karenge aur karke rahenge ( करेंगे और करके रहेंगे ) ’.


    The Tiranga Yatra was also attended by Shri Gopal Shetty, MP(Lok Sabha), Shri Ashish Shelar, MLA(Maharashtra Assembly), Smt. M. Sathiyavathy, Secretary, Ministry of Labour & Employment, Govt. of India, Shri Heeralal Samariya, Addl. Secretary, Ministry of Labour & Employment, Govt. of India, Dr. V.P. Joy, Central PF Commissioner and other senior officials from the Ministry of Labour & Employment.


    *******


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1500659) Visitor Counter : 239