      Ministry of Steel

      “Transformation of SAIL has begun, let us all be part of it,” Says Chairman, SAIL to Rourkela Steel Plant collective
      ‘Product Differentiation is the key strategy to meet the competition”
      Posted On: 18 AUG 2017 5:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) Chairman, Shri P.K. Singh visited SAIL’s Rourkela Steel Plant (RSP), on 18th August and interacted with a cross section of around 700 enthusiastic employees. Throwing light on the current scenario in the steel industry, Shri P. K. Singh said, “In the present circumstances, only the best in the class will survive. At a time of high overcapacities across the world, product differentiation is the requirement of the hour and we have to match the best in quality, variety and standards.” Shri Singh, exhorted the RSP collective that the transformation of SAIL has begun and “Let us all be part of it “. SAIL’s Director (Finance) Shri Anil Chaudhary, Director (Technical) Shri Raman and CEO, RSP Shri Ashwini Kumar were also part of the intensive interaction with the employees during the brainstorming session. Addressing the gathering, Chairman, SAIL, Shri PK Singh further said, “Rourkela has one of the best workforces in the industry where the ramping up after modernization was achieved in one of the shortest times. These interactions are aimed at enthusing the collective to exploit full potential of installed technologies and manpower. In the current challenging times, Company’s targets and priorities have to widely disseminate at all SAIL units.


    SAIL’s Rourkela Steel Plant (RSP), which boasts of a 4300 mm wide state-of-the-art New Plate Mill, has carved a name for itself as a unique producer of special grades of steels. This mill has the potential to capture demand from niche segments and be the desired choice for top consumers. Stepping decisively in the direction of ‘Make in India,’ the Plant has teamed up with the Defence Metallurgical Research Laboratory (DMRL) and the Indian Navy to develop special grade DMR-249A steel plates for Indian Naval requirements. Also, the plant will meet the indigenous requirements of various sectors including manufacturing, power etc. and the construction sector. SAIL RSP’s New Plate Mill along with Special Plate Plant have created unique facilities for making of special grades steels for defence applications thereby increasing the capacity of quenched, tempered plates with desired ballistic qualities. The plant also aims at catering to niche markets as well as to reduce the import burden on Nation. Plates with newer specifications (like API 5L X-70 PSL-2 grade), cost effective and quality plates for the construction sector produced using TMCP (Thermo Mechanically Controlled Process) are featuring in the new product basket of SAIL and import substituting products aimed for defence sector are already under development. Besides, the New Plate Mill is rolling boiler quality plates of a thickness of 140 mm in the grade IS 2002 GR-II, which is again an import substitution product.


    YSK/MI

    
    
    (Release ID: 1500079) Visitor Counter : 74