      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      National Sports Museum to be established in New Delhi
      Posted On: 23 AUG 2017 10:40AM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports is going to establish National Sports Museum, first of its kind, at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, New Delhi. The decision was taken three months back and after a series of meetings and his personal visits to several locations in the capital, the current venue for museum was finalized by the Sports Minister Shri Vijay Goel himself.
    
    Shri Vijay Goel said, the Museum will showcase the India’s achievements in sports and also focus on the traditional sports within the country. He said, the aim of the Museum is to popularise the sports as a way of life within the country. Accordingly, the proposed Museum would go beyond the classical approach of a collection of memorabilia to become an interactive venue of interest for all age groups. In addition, Shri Goel said, it will display achievements of the Indian greats in sports and also act as an educational hub and offer opportunity for the young to delve into some sporting activity.
    
    Shri Vijay Goel has appealed to all past and present sports persons and members of public to contribute any memorabilia held by them for permanent display in the National Sports Museum. He said such contribution will be recognized and acknowledged.
    
    Shri Goel said that it is proposed that the Museum will have audio-visual display of rules and legacy events pertaining to various sports as part of education for the budding sportspersons, a well-equipped library of sports and physical fitness, painting gallery and amphitheater for screening of legacy matches/ contests/games is also planned.
    
    He said, the Museum will also have a cafeteria, an activity zone, a souvenir/pro shop and a play area. It is proposed that the activities planned in various segments will include sporting activities, sports related computer games and kiosks selling sports memorabilia and sports equipment.
    
    Shri Vijay Goel said the first phase for establishing the museum will commence soon as the idea has been transformed from concept to museum model stage by the experts.

    *****


    
    
    AD/MB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1500391) Visitor Counter : 302