      Vice President's Secretariat

      Parliament and Legislative bodies should be platforms for debates and not disruption: Vice President
      Addresses the State Reception hosted by Government of Andhra Pradesh
      Posted On: 26 AUG 2017 7:26PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that Parliament and Legislative bodies should be platforms for debates and not disruption. He was addressing the State Reception hosted by the Government of Andhra Pradesh in his honour, in Amaravathi, Andhra Pradesh, today. The Governor of Andhra Pradesh, Shri E.S.L. Narasimhan, the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradedh, Shri N. Chandrababu Naidu, the Union Minister for Civil Aviation, Shri Ashok Gajapathi Raju Pusapati, the Minister of State for Science & Technology and Earth Sciences, Shri Y.S. Chowdary and other dignitaries were also present on the occasion.
    
    The Vice President cautioned the lawmakers that people were getting disillusioned with frequent disruptions of legislative bodies and emphasised that obstruction was not a solution for any problem. He further said that the ballot was more powerful than a bullet and what required was constructive debates. In politics there were no enemies but only rivals and asked them not to indulge in personal attacks, he added.
    
    The Vice President said that our freedom fighters have sacrificed their life for attaining Independence for the country and now the Swarajya should be converted in to Surajya. The House should debate, discuss and decide and there should be no scope for disruption, he added.
    
    The Vice President said that that the country was grappling with the problems of poverty, illiteracy, corruption, social discrimination and economic disparities even after 70 years of Independence, and called for eradicating them and uplifting the poorest of the poor. He further said that people to supplement the efforts of the governments in quickening the pace of development. The fight against corruption must be taken to its logical end and the cleansing process must go on, he added.

    ***


    
    
    KSD/BK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1500768) Visitor Counter : 128