      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Hope Doklam standoff between India and China to be resolved soon: Shri Rajnath Singh
      Posted On: 21 AUG 2017 2:25PM by PIB Delhi

      Our Security Forces capable of safeguarding our borders; India has no expansionist designs: Union Home Minister
      The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh today hoped the Doklam standoff between India and China will be resolved soon. Asserting that our Security Forces are capable of safeguarding our borders, Shri Rajnath Singh said that India has neither expansionist designs nor attacked any country. We don’t want confrontation; we want peace, he added.
      
      Addressing a grand Pipping Ceremony of the ITBP here today, the Union Home Minister said we want friendly relations with all neigbhours. He said it was with this intention, the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi had invited leaders of all neighbouring countries for the swearing in ceremony of his Government. Quoting former Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Shri Rajnath Singh said that we can change friends, but not neighbours.
      
      Pointing out that there has been a long delay in granting promotions in the ITBP which was pending since 2011, Shri Rajnath Singh said the disciplined ITBP personnel have borne the delay with perseverance. He assured that the MHA will improve their career prospects, besides resolving Housing and Welfare issues of the CAPFs.
      
      Speaking on the occasion, MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju said today’s ceremony will serve as a morale booster to the ITBP personnel. He said the gap between policy makers and those implementing it on the ground has been bridged in the MHA.
      
      Addressing the gathering, DG, ITBP, Shri RK Pachnanda said the mass promotions today to 1,654 ITBP personnel, pending for more than six years, have been enabled by the persistent efforts of the MHA.
      
      Director, Intelligence Bureau, Shri Rajiv Jain and DGs of CAPFs were present during the ceremony.

      *****

      
      
      KSD/NK/KM/PK
    
    
    (Release ID: 1500173) Visitor Counter : 135