      Vice President's Secretariat

      Frequent disruptions faced by Parliament and State legislatures were a matter of concern: Vice President
      Addresses the State Reception being hosted by Government of Telangana

      Posted On: 21 AUG 2017 7:44PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has expressed his concern over the frequent disruptions faced by Parliament and State legislatures and advised lawmakers to debate and decide instead of stalling legislative business. He was addressing the gathering at a State Reception given in his honour by the Telangana Government, in Hyderabad today.
    
    The Vice President recalled the advice of former President, Shri Pranab Mukherjee to discuss, debate and decide. He further said that there should not be any scope for the fourth D - Disrupt. He called upon legislators to regularly interact with people and come out with effective laws for spurring the growth of the country.
    
    The Vice President also counseled the Chief Ministers of the two Telugu-speaking States to resolve differences in an amicable manner and strive for promoting Telugu language. He also wanted the Chief Ministers to recapture the past glory of the Telugu States.
    
    Recalling his association with Hyderabad, the Vice President said that he had been residing in the historic city for the past 40 years and his political career blossomed there. Paying rich tributes to Telangana culture and history, he said it is a land known for struggles and movements. He eulogized the contribution of the people from Telangana during the freedom struggle and recalled how they fought against the tyranny of Nizam and the Razaakars. Komaram Bheem, Sammakka- Sarakka and Chakali Ailamma were symbols of the rebellion, he added.
    
    Making a special mention of Telangana cuisine, the Vice President said that Hyderabad biryani and haleem have become world famous. He further said that Hyderabad was the brand for promotion of Telangana and has put the State on the international map.
    
    The Vice President said that everyone should strive to realize the dream of Mahatma Gandhi to establish ‘Ramrajya’. He stressed that ‘Swarajya’ should be transformed into ‘Surajya’.
    
    The Governor of Telangana, Shri E.S.L. Narasimhan, Chief Minister of Telangana, Shri K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Union Minister of State for Labour and Employment (Independent Charge), Shri Bandaru Dattatreya, the Deputy Chief Minister of Telangana, Shri MD Mohammad Ali, the Deputy Chief Minister of Talangana, Shri Kadiyam Srihari and other dignitaries were also present on the occasion.

    ***


    
    
    KSD/BK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1500274) Visitor Counter : 122