      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Union Sports Minister Vijay Goel provides unique opportunity to slum children to catch a glimpse of FIFA U-17 World Cup trophy, also gifts them Footballs
      Mission 11 Million to trophy tours, various programmes being conducted to popularize Football across the nation: Vijay Goel
      
      “Prime Minister’s presence at the inaugural ceremony will be inspiring for team India”: Goel

      Posted On: 25 AUG 2017 5:16PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel provided a unique opportunity to slum children from across Delhi today to witness the FIFA U-17 World Cup trophy displayed at his residence. The children were also gifted footballs during the event.


    Shri Goel said that the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, has always encouraged sports and sportspersons with the motto of “KhelogeToKhiloge”. It has inspired to initiate Mission 11 Million programme, which aims to take football to 11 million kids across the country through 15, 000 schools. So far, 8 million kids have been reached via 12, 000 schools across the country with competitions and mini-football fests.


    The Sports Minister also said that various Chief Ministers will be urged to take up mass football distribution in their respective states to popularize football. Shri Goel also added that school students in Delhi will get to watch India’s Delhi matches for free and will discuss the same with authorities from the other venues/cities too. “India has been doing well in recent times and we will continue to support our players in every possible way”, the Minister pointed out.


    Shri Goel has visited all the venues to check the preparedness for the upcoming World Cup, which is the first FIFA tournament to be hosted by India. Shri Goel also said that India will be keen and willing to host other FIFA events in future too. The FIFA U17 World Cup will be played between October 6 and October 28, 2017.The final will be held at the Salt Lake Stadium in Kolkata on October 28, 2017.


    ******


    HK/MB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1500724) Visitor Counter : 85