      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      National Workshop on Enforcement of IPRs inaugurated in New Delhi
      Posted On: 22 AUG 2017 4:03PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Home Affairs, Shri Rajnath Singh inaugurated the three-day workshop on Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) today, in the august presence of Commerce and Industry Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman and Minister of State, Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju.


    Addressing the Workshop Shri Rajnath Singh said that counterfeiting and piracy activities give rise to serious organized crimes. Such activities finance criminals and terrorists who deal in counterfeit goods to launder illegal money. He said police officials should be therefore equipped with proper knowledge and training, so as to curb and restrain IPR violations, at the very outset.


    The Union Minister of Home Affairs announced that IPR training modules would be introduced in police training institutes and academies across India to familiarize and sensitize our police forces on IPRs.


    Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman said that the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) in collaboration with CIPAM is setting up two Technology and Innovation Support Centres (TISCs) in Punjab & Tamil Nadu for technology and innovation support. She emphasized that people need to understand the ways to create and protect their intellectual property for a secure future.


    Shri Kiren Rijijiu, Minister of State, Home Affairs, called upon people to respect others’ intellectual property and talked about creating a strong IPR enforcement mechanism in the country.


    This workshop will help enforcement agencies across the country understand and appreciate the importance of their role in IPR enforcement. It will also act as a platform for the officials to share their experiences, exchange best practices and better inter-agency coordination with respect to enforcement of IPRs. Besides people from enforcement agencies, many IP professionals, lawyers, law students and people from industry associations are also participating in the workshop.


    The Cell for IPR Promotion and Management (CIPAM), a professional body under the aegis of the Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP), Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Government of India, is organizing this three-day workshop on Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) from 22nd – 24th August, 2017, in New Delhi.


    ******


    MJPS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1500337) Visitor Counter : 71