      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Gradual outsourcing of maintenance functions of CPWD for developing core competency
      E & Y Report on Reorganisation of CPWD submitted to Minister of HUA
      
      DG to be selected from a panel of senior officers; hierarchy to be reduced from present 8 levels
      Posted On: 31 AUG 2017 4:18PM by PIB Delhi


    A Study commissioned by the Government has recommended gradual outsourcing of ‘maintenance functions’ of the construction major, Central Public Works Department (CPWD) to reputed private agencies for improving user services, establishing benchmarks and image improvement.


    This significant recommendation was among a set of measures suggested by Ernst & Young in it’s Report on ‘Working and Reogranisation of CPWD for Improved Efficiency and Effectiveness’ presented to the Minister of Housing & Urban Affairs Shri Narendra Singh Tomar today.


    The Report stressed on the need to redefine the focus of CPWD so as to promote it’s competency in the core area of construction for which maintenance of residential properties need to be outsourced. It was noted that more than 50% of the total strength of CPWD of 21,806 personnel are currently engaged in maintenance works which account for only 20 % of its turn over by value.


    While suggesting that CPWD could continue as an attached office of the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs, the Report advocated radical reorganization of business processes and decision making systems for ensuring completion of projects in time, transparency, accountability, ease of working, better coordination etc. In place of the present eight levels of processing and decision making, two to three layers have been suggested by categorizing projects into small, medium and large.


    As against present mode of selection of Director General of CPWD based on seniority, it has been recommended that DG be chosen from a panel of senior officers. Extensive use of technology in the form of integrated IT based ‘Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)’ system has been recommended for effective monitoring and resource utilization.


    Since a large component of projects undertaken by CPWD are commissioned by various ministries and other agencies of the Government, the Report has suggested clear definition of obligation of such agencies like ensuring encumbrance free land, approvals etc.


    Proper integration of different wings of CPWD like civil, electrical, horticultural and architecture cadres under common command is among the other recommendations.


    Shri Durga Shanker Mishra, Secretary (HUA) discussed the recommendations with Minister of Housing & Urban Affairs Shri Narendra Singh Tomar. It was decided that CPWD will initiate action to outsource maintenance functions in select areas of Delhi to begin with and a road map will be evolved to implement other recommendations after detailed examination.


    These recommendations have been made in the context of over 50% of works being implemented by CPWD getting delayed, lower levels of satisfaction over maintenance services, 70% of projects being of less than Rs.5.00 cr value each, 47% of total staff located in Delhi Region etc.


    The Ministry has commissioned Ernst & Young in May this year to study the functioning of CPWD for suggesting measures for improvements.


    AAR/KM


    August 31, 2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1501356) Visitor Counter : 146