      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Record-breaker Trupti Mane leads Maharashtra’s 10-medal haul
      Posted On: 06 FEB 2018 8:00PM by PIB Delhi


    The 2017 Commonwealth Youth Champion in the 58kg category, Trupti Mane of Maharashtra edged out Sukarna Adak (West Bengal), even as both girls set new youth National records on the second day of the weightlifting competition at the Khelo India School Games. Mane’s gold medal was among Maharashtra’s 10-medal haul on tuesday, taking its overall weightlifting medal count to 14.


    In the snatch leg of the lifts, Adak bested Mane with a 78kg snatch lift for a new record. The Maharashtra lifter had broken it in her third attempt with 75kg. Mane, however, edged to the front in the clean & jerk section of the contest, lifting 97kg to set a new youth national mark and her combined total of 172kg was another youth national record.Both the records were set by Thasana Chanu of Manipur at the Youth Asian Games in Nanjing in 2013.


    Adak going for her third attempt performed the clean part of the lift successfully but collapsed to the ground, unable to better her 90kg effort. Pooja Pardeshi, also of Maharashtra, finished third with a total lift of 147kg.


    In the boys’ 69kg competition, R. Sivalingeswara Sai gave Telangana its first weightlifting medal of the Games, lifting a total of 239kg to finish ahead of Dambi Umpe and Tejas Jondhale, both from Maharashtra, who settled for silver and bronze respectively.


    Earlier in the day, Jeremy Lalrinnunga led Maharashtra’s sweep to the podium in the boys 62 kg class, while Lamabam Nilam Devi of Manipur caused an upset in the girls’ 53kg class by beating Commonwealth Youth Championship gold medallist Ananya Patil of Maharashtra to second place.


    The second day’s proceedings in weightlifting concluded with Manipur’s Potshangbam Umeshwori Devi picking up gold in the girls’ 63kg class, while Prajakta Salunkhe’s silver medal gave Maharashtra its final medal of the day. N Lekha Maalya of Tamil Nadu picked up the bronze.


    ******


    PP/AD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519456) Visitor Counter : 105