      President's Secretariat

      President of India to open Rashtrapati Bhavan’s annual “Udyanotsav” tomorrow
      Posted On: 04 FEB 2018 5:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram NathKovind, will open the annual “Udyanotsav” of Rashtrapati Bhavan tomorrow (February 05, 2018).


    The Mughal Gardens will remain open for the public from February 6, 2018 to March 9, 2018 (except on Mondays which are maintenance days and March 2, 2018, in view of Holi) between 0930 hrs to 1600 hrs. Members of the public will also be able to visit the Spiritual Garden, Herbal Garden, Bonsai Garden and Musical Garden.


    The special feature of this year’s Udyanotsavis bulbs flowering plants.Ranunculus and Tulips which are in bloom since the first week of January 2018,have been planted in phased manner and are expected to blossom till the final week of February, 2018. About 10,000 programmed Tulip bulbs in 8 varieties of different colours - red, white, and yellow mixed with red, pink and purple - were imported from the Netherlands and have been planted in the Mughal Gardens.


    The several beds of roses, including both new and heritage varieties, margined with dwarf trimmed hedge and numerous exotic flowers,including Tulips and other bulbous flowering plants, are the main attraction of the Long Garden – the middle terrace of Mughal Gardens.


    Flower Carpets in magnificent designs will be on display in the Central Lawn, revealing the skill and craft of the gardeners of Rashtrapati Bhavan. The dominant colour scheme of this year’s ornamental flowers is various shades of yellow, red, orange and white. As in previous years, a small cactus corner forms part of the Mughal Gardens display. Visitors and plant lovers will also be able to see a Lotus pond - with a cascading waterfall - in the Spiritual Garden. Flowering and other house plants have been placed along a vertical wall in the Long Garden so that they are able to sustain themselves with limited soil.


    Entry and exit for the general public will be from Gate No. 35 of the President’s Estate, close to where North Avenue meets Rashtrapati Bhavan. Visitors are requested not to bring any water bottles, briefcases, handbags/ladies purses, cameras, radios/transistors, boxes, umbrellas, eatables etc. Such articles, if any, will have to be deposited at the entry point. However, arrangements of drinking water, toilets, first aid / medical facility, rest rooms for senior citizens, women and children are provided at various places along the public route.


    The Mughal Gardens will be open on March 9, 2018exclusively for special category visitors - farmers, differently abled persons, defence/paramilitary forces and Delhi Police personnel -from 0930 hrs. to 1600 hrs. Entry and exit will also be through Gate No. 35.


    The Tactile Garden will be open exclusively for visually impaired people on March 9, 2018 from 1100 hrs. to 1600 hrs. Entry and exit will be from Gate No. 12, situated on Church Road (next to the North Avenue).


    Background note on Mughal Gardens is attached.


    ***


    AKT/SH/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1519104) Visitor Counter : 211