      Ministry of Culture

      Seven days cultural extravaganza ‘Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav’ under ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’ begins in Madhya Pradesh tomorrow
      Posted On: 23 FEB 2018 5:39PM by PIB Delhi


    To celebrate the idea of unity in diversity, Ministry of Culture is organising a Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav under the Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat matrix in Madhya Pradesh beginning February 24 for a duration of 7 days. The States paired with Madhya Pradesh are Nagaland and Manipur.


    The Mahotsav will cover a profusion of art forms from classical and folk music and dance, theatre to literature and the visual arts and would offer the chance to experience the best in established and emerging virtuosity.A handloom and handicrafts-utsav is part of the proposed event. The gastronomic culture of Madhya Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur and several other partnering states will be showcased through a food festival.


    Inauguration and curtain raiser for the media and other stake-holders has been planned on February 24 th at the Man Mandir Fort from 12 a.m. to 1 p.m. A small performance on that occasion will showcase the unique leitmotif of the Mahotsav.


    The Mahotsav will be spread across the following venues in Madhya Pradesh:

                                                                            
· The Man Mandir Fort and few other chosen venues at Gwalior  February 24-25
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
· The Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalaya at Bhopal    February 26-27
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
· The Lal Baag Palace at Indore                               February 28   
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
· Holi Interlude                                              March 1-2     
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
· Sheesh Mahal/Betwa river-side at Orchha                     March 3       
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
· Maharaja ki Chhatri, Shivpuri                               March 4       
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            

    At Gwalior


    ‘Dhurv Pad Se Dhrupad’, a festival dedicated to the Dhrupad Guru – Shishya parampara at Man Mandir palace

                                                                                                                                            
Day 1 (February 24)                                                              Day 2 (February 25)                                        
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
Invocation by Dhrupad Kendra, Gwalior                                            Invocation Dhrupad Kendra, Gwalior                         
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
Dagar Vani by Pandit Abhijeet Sukhdane with Pandit Sanjay Aagle on the Pakhawaj  Performance by young artists –                             
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                 *Sumeet Anand from the Guahar Vani Dhrupad tradition.      
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                 *Yakhlesh Baghel and Anuj Pratap Singh, Dhrupad Jugalbandi.
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
Mallick brothers from the Darbhanga Gharana of Dhrupad                           Rudra Veena recital by Ustad Bahauddin Dagar               
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            

    Time 6 pm – 9 pm


    Also at the venue


    ‘Celebration of our plural traditions, ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’: -

      * Folk Music and Dance from Nagaland Manipur and other North-Eastern States.
      * Handloom and Handicraft Utsav organised by the Zonal Cultural Centres in partnership with state governments. Live demonstration of different crafts from Nagaland and Manipur.
      * Screening of films on the cultural traditions of Nagaland and Manipur and other North Eastern states.
      * Exhibition on conservation of heritage by the Archaeological Survey of India.
      * Food festival with traditional cuisines from different states with special focus on Nagaland and Manipur.

    Time: 10 a.m. – 9 p.m.


    At Bhopal


    The Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalaya

                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Day 1 (February 26th)                                                                                                                                              Day 2 (February 27th )                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Folk fusion of Guru Rewben from the Tangkhul Naga tribe of Manipur                                                                                                 Khamba Thoibi dance from Manipur            
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Pung Cholam dance dance of Manipur                                                                                                                                 Performance of Lai Haroba from Manipur      
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                   (merry-making festival of the Meiteis tribe)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                 
Folk dance of Zeliang tribe from Nagaland                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Dhrupad Bhakti Sangeet with composition of diverse saints such as Kabir by Padamshree gurus Gundecha Bandhus accompanied by shishyas Sanjeev Jha and Manish Kumar  Kuki dance from the Kuki tribe of Nagaland  
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                 
Dagar Vani by Pandit Nirmalaya Dey                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                 
Kathak by Durga Arya                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                 

    Time 6.30 am – 9 pm


    Also at the venue


    ‘Celebration of our plural traditions, ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’

      * ‘Samvaad’, a literary meet with writers and poets from Manipur, Nagaland and other North East States.
      * Folk Music and Dance from Nagaland Manipur and other North-Eastern States.
      * Handloom and Handicraft Utsav organised by the Zonal Cultural Centres in partnership with state governments. Live demonstration of different crafts from Nagaland and Manipur
      * Exhibition and screening of films on the cultural traditions of Nagaland and Manipur and other North Eastern states.

    Time: 10 a.m. – 9 p.m.


    At Indore


    The Lal Baag Palace

                                                                                        
February 28                                                                             
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
Manipuri Raas Leela                                                                     
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
Kathak by Jaikishan Maharaj                                                             
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
Dance drama on ‘ Langmeidong ’, by the Centre for Youth and Cultural Activities, Manipur
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
War dance, Chang Lo, from the Chang tribe of Nagaland                                   
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
Haveli Sangeet by Padma Bhushan Acharya Gokulotsav ji Maharaj                           
                                                                                        
                                                                                        

    With a break of two days for Holi, the same pattern will be repeated at Orchha and Shivpuri where the Zonal Cultural Centres will showcase traditional music, dance and folk theatre forms from across the country with a special thrust on Nagaland and Manipur, the two paired States under the Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat matrix.


    *****


    NB/PS/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521543) Visitor Counter : 1202
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
*