      Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA)

      Cabinet approves Six Laning of Nidagatta - Mysuru Section of NH-275 in Karnataka
      Posted On: 20 FEB 2018 1:12PM by PIB Delhi


    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for six-laning of Nidagatta - Mysuru Section of NH-275 from km 74.200 to km 135.304 on Hybrid Annuity Mode in Karnataka.


    The development of six-laning of about 61 km is estimated to cost approximately Rs.2919.81 crore including the cost of land acquisition and pre-construction activities. The civil construction cost is approximately Rs.2028.93 crore.


    The project would also provide employment opportunities to locals during project construction. With the widening and improvement of the highway, the areas would experience greater economic growth resulting in higher employment opportunities for locals. An employment potential of 2,48,000 (appox.) mandays will be generated locally during the construction period of the Stretch.


    The project road is a section of NH 275 connecting the two prominent cities in the state of Karnataka i.e. Bengaluru the commercial capital and Mysuru the cultural capital. Also, it links important places like Mangalore, Kodagu, parts of Kerala, etc. to Bangalore.


    The existing 4 lane road has already crossed its capacity, resulting in traffic jams and accidents. The road is passing through congested and thickly populated towns and settlements like Maddur, Mandya & Srirangapatna, etc.


    The upgradation to 6 Lanning alongwith 7m service road on each side and construction of bypasses at Maddur, Mandya & Srirangapatna and grade separated structures of this stretch of the National Highway will greatly reduce the time and cost of travel, particularly of heavy traffic plying in the region. The provision for by-passes will ensure decongestion of the urban areas of Maddur, Mandya & Srirangapatna. Elevated road has been proposed in the dense built-up areas of Maddur. The project entails construction of service roads of about 60.35 km on both sides, which would facilitate movement of local traffic in the inhabited /urbanized areas.


    The bus shelters being developed at 21 places will be of great utility for enhancing public transport facilities. The existing traffic on this stretch is varying from existing 41433 to 52163 Passenger Car Units (PCUs) and keeping in view the expected traffic growth in the near future, the expansion to 6-Laning is a very timely step taken by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways.


    *****


    AKT/VB/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1521025) Visitor Counter : 573
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil