      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      Union Minister of StateShri Vijay Goel Holds Review Meeting in Guwahati on Progress of Infrastructure Projects
      Posted On: 21 JUN 2018 4:26PM by PIB Guwahati


    Union Minister of State for Statistics & Programme Implementation and Parliamentary affairs, Shri Vijay Goel today held a review meeting at NEDFi, Guwahati to review large infrastructure projects being implemented by Central agencies. National Highway Authority of India, Oil India Limited and Indian Railways took part in the meeting.


    The Minister reviewed the progress of central sector infrastructure projects costing Rs. 150 Crore and above in Road Transport and Highways, Petroleum and Natural Gas and Railways sectors being implemented by NHAI, Oil India Limited and NF Railways.


    During the Review of Progressof the projects of NHAI it was informed to the Minister that in case of the East-West Corridor project in Assam covering 13 districts, out of total 636.657 Km length, four laning of 606.793 Km has been completed. Remaining 29.864 Km is under progress which is mostly in Dima Hasao District. NHAI is constructing total 130.09 Km of National Highway in Dima Hasao district, out of which 106.280Km has been completed. The Minister was also informed about the issues like Landslide, Law and Order situation etc. which are treated as one of the main reasons behind the delay in the construction work. The Minister Shri Goel took the matter seriously and assured to provide full support from the Government and resolve the problems.


    While reviewing New Bongaigaon-Goalpara-Kamakhya Doubling Project, it was informed to the minister that due to delay in getting the Earth cutting permissions from District Authorities the project may get delayed. The Minister Shri Goel requested the State Government to take review of the whole procedure so that the process could be simplified wherever possible.


    The Minister also reviewed the Rs. 571.66 Crore project ‘Augmentation of Pumping Capacity of Barauni-Bongaigaon PhaseII’ being implemented by Oil India Ltd.This after completion would enable Guwahati refinery to receive more imported crude oil for processing purpose.


    Shri Goel directed the officers of Oil India Limited to complete the project within given time frame.


    Reviewing progress of projects by all the three sectors Shri Goel assured to provide full support from the Government of India. In this regard he stressed the need for calling up regular meetings to look into and resolve the problems faced by the Central Sector PSUs in the State.


    After the review meeting the Union Minister of State also hold a Press Conference with the local media. In the Press Conference the Minister said that all projects and their progress in North East will be closely monitored and be given utmost importance. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is working with a vision and the success of it can be seen in the progress of the country, headded.


    Earlier, the Union Minister of State ShriVijay Goel participated in a Yoga Session on the occasion of International Yoga Day at the Sonaram High School Field, Guwahati this morning. ShriGoel stressed the importance of Yoga and fitness in the normal way of life.


    ***


    KSD/BM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1537798) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese