      PIB Headquarters

      WORK SHOP ON ‘BETI BACHAO – BETI PADHAO’ FOR SONG & DRAMA CULTURAL TROUPES
      Posted On: 01 NOV 2017 6:38PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Shri M.V.V.S. Murthy, Director General, Press Information Bureau (PIB) Hyderabad, Ministry of I & B, Government of India said that spreading awareness about the need to marry girls after 18 years of age is very crucial. Inaugurating, a two day orientation programme cum workshop for the cultural troupes of Song & Drama Division, on ‘Beti Bachao – Beti Padhao’ here today, he said that, ensuring that girls are married after 18 years, will solve problems like low birth weight of babies and reduce infant and maternal mortality. Shri Murthy urged the artists to inform people about the Supreme Court’s judgement in their messages according to which a person marrying a girl below 18 years is punishable and can be jailed for the offence. He said the population of India is likely to become 150 crore by 2050 and said there is an urgent need to ensure the health and welfare of our masses. He also urged the artistes to emphasise the need to educate girl child.


    Smt. Viziendira Boyi, IAS, Director of Women Development & Child Welfare, who was guest of honour at the programme said that social messages through art forms like Burrakatha, Oggukatha, Dramas, Skits and Dances are more likely to gain the attention of the people, than mere speeches. Smt Boyi, said that the child sex ratio (CSR) in Telangana was 1000 boys for 914 girls, according to 2011 census, and with the efforts of the government it is 1000:967, at present. Reaching out to people to spread the message of ‘Beti Bachao – Beti Padhao’ through these art forms will be more effective, she added.


    Pointing out that Hyderabad is one of the 100 districts in the country with poor CSR, she said that spreading awareness among the public is very important.. She said girl child today faces several threats, from the time she is conceived to the day she is born and brought up in a proper manner.


    Earlier, Shri Kuldeep Sagre, Manager, Song & Drama Division, said that, 147 programmes are likely to be organised by 18 private registered troops in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to spread awareness on the need to save girl child.


    Shri I. Hari Babu, FPO, DFP, Ministry of I & B, also spoke. Shri M. Devendra, Joint Director, DFP, was also present on the occasion.


    The workshop is being organised by Song & Drama Division, Ministry of I & B, Government of India in coordination with the Department of Women Development and Child Welfare, Government of Andhra Pradesh & Telangana.


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1507913) Visitor Counter : 116
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu