      PIB Headquarters

      STAFF SELECTION COMMISSION RECRUITMENT OF SCIENTIFIC ASSISTANT IN INDIA METEOROLOGICAL DEPARTMENT EXAMINATION, 2017
      Posted On: 20 NOV 2017 6:33PM by PIB Hyderabad


    Staff Selection Commission will conduct R ecruitment of Scientific Assistant in India Meteorological Department Examination, 2017 in Computer Based Mode from 22.11.2017 to 25.11.2017against 1102 vacancies estimated tentatively and the actual number of vacancies may vary. In Southern Region, 85,815 candidates have been admitted to appear in the examination.


    The examination will be held in 45 Venues located at 7 Centres (cities/towns) viz. Guntur, Vijayawada and Vishakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh; Hyderabad, Warangal in Telangana; Chennai, Madurai in Tamil Nadu.


    Examination will be held in two batches. Timings of Morning Shift: 10.00 AM to 12.00 Noon and Evening Shift: 02.45 PM to 04.45 PM.


    Southern Regional Office has already posted basic details like Date, Time and City of the examination in its Website ( www.sscsr.gov.in )so that candidates can know these in advance. F acility to download e-admission certificate is provided in our website in such a way that candidates can download it ONLY 7 DAYS BEFORE THEIR DATE OF EXAMINATION AND ALL THE SUBSEQUENT DAYS TILL THEIR DATE OF EXAMINATION . These details are also intimated to the candidates through SMS to the phone numbers and e-mail to the mail IDs provided by the candidates in their Online application.


    Candidates may please note that Prohibited items such as watches, books, pens, paper chits, magazines, electronic gadgets (mobile phones, Bluetooth devices, head phones, pen/buttonhole cameras, scanner, calculator, storage devices etc) are STRICTLY NOT ALLOWED in the examination lab. If any such item is found in the possession of a candidate in the examination lab, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled and legal/criminal proceedings could be initiated against him/her. He/she would also be liable to be debarred from appearing in future examinations of the Commission for a period of 3 -5 years.


    Candidates should also not wear charms, veil, items containing metals such as rings, bracelet, earrings, nose-pin, chains, necklace, pendants, badge, broach, hair pin, hair band, clothes with full sleeves or big buttons, etc. Candidates are advised to wear open footwear like slippers, sandals instead of shoes as the candidates could be asked to remove shoes by the frisking staff.


    Candidates are requested to note that they shall not be permitted to take up the examination without e-Admission Certificate and Original valid Identity Proof enumerated in the Instructions. All the candidates are, therefore, requested to download their e-Admission Certificate without fail. For further queries/clarifications, candidates may contact Southern Regional office helpline numbers(Landline - 044-28251139 & Mobile: 9445195946) said that, P. Karupasamy, Joint Secretary/Regional Director (SR).


    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510264) Visitor Counter : 139