      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot Flags off “WALKATHON” for Older Persons at India Gate to mark ‘International Day of Older Persons’
      Posted On: 02 OCT 2017 11:49PM by PIB Guwahati


      To mark the ‘International day of Older Persons’ on 2 nd October, more than 5000 participants gathered at India Gate for a noble cause to spread the message of caring and giving respect to older persons and senior citizens. This year’s theme was “Stepping into the Future: Tapping the Talents, Contributions and Participation of Older Persons in Society


      Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot Union Minister of Social Justice & Empowerment along with the Minister of State Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar, took the pledge with other dignitaries and 5000 participants. Then the “Walkathon” was flagged off by Shri Thawarchand Gehlot & MOS Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar and they also took part in 1 km Walkathon with all the dignitaries.


      In his address, Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot said that the Government is committed to the welfare of Older Persons and the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment is running two important schemes namely “Vriddh Jan Grah Yojana and Day Care Centres” for Older Persons all over India and Non Government Organizations and Voluntary Organizations are also participating in these schemes. He urged the people especially the young generation to accord due respect to older persons in their families.


      On the International Day of Older Persons, every year since 2005 the mass awareness event “Walkathon” is being held at India Gate. National Institute of Social Defense (NISD) and Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment


      , Government of India have been conducting this event for 14 years since its inception. This Walkathon on IDOP at India Gate is now in its 14 th year.


      14 th Walkathon is organized on 2 nd October in Delhi as the lead mega event in the capital City for Senior Citizens. To convey the message a series of events were done at India Gate. Showcasing of various positive physical activities were done like a RUN, slogan March, Yoga, A Semi classical programme with bhajans, Health Camp for senior citizens and demonstration of composting technology to spread the message of giving care and respect to parents and senior citizens. This event has a great value for awareness about welfare of Senior Citizens and giving a life of dignity to elderly persons all over India and has attracted attention because of its all India reach through its media partners. This mega event becomes colorful with the participation of various organizations from Delhi & NCR, and from other states . The great support from stake holders is coming every year.


      *****


      Sanjay Kumar/MoSJ&E/02.20.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504558) Visitor Counter : 36