      Ministry of Culture

      ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ Observed Successfully by Ministry of Culture
      Posted On: 03 OCT 2017 5:28PM by PIB Guwahati


    Ministry of Culture and its 43 organisations observed Swachhta Pakhwada and Swachhta hi Seva Abhiyaan from 16th September to 2nd October, 2017.
    
    During this campaign close to 400 activities/events were organised by the Ministry and its organizations by dedicating more than 500 effort hours for cleanliness and awareness during Swachhata Pakhwada.
    
    Various autonomous, attached and subordinated organisations under the Ministry of Culture undertook various activities such as Shramdan by staff (cleanliness drive), lectures, seminars, competitions, Nukkad Natak and painting exhibitions with an objective of dissemination of the message of Swachh Bharat widely.
    
    The Minister of State for Culture (I/C) and Environment, Forest & Climate Change,Dr. Mahesh Sharma kick started the campaign for Swachhta Pakhwada by doing shramdaan in various parts of Noida. He participated in Shramdaan with school children at Humayun’s Tomb, in New Delhi on 28 September, 2017 and also took part in walk for cleanliness in Noida marking the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on 2nd October, 2017.
    
    Some of the major activities undertaken during Swachhta Pakhwada are:-
    
    1) North Central Zone Cultural Centre (NCZCC), Allahabad organized various activities - Poster making competition, Painting competition, Street Plays, Essay, Article, Speech competition, Collage making, Rangoli making, Model making competition involving school students for the awareness of cleanliness.
    
    2) Sangeet Natak Academy organised ‘Vimal Pravah Yatra’ from 19-21 September to give message of swachh Bharat through cultural performances.
    
    3) Two Bio Toilets were dedicated to the public by HE Governor of West Bengal besides doing shramdaan in Victoria Memorial, Kolkata.
    
    4) The staff of the Regional Centre of Anthroplogical Survey of India cleaned the approach road of the office premises located in Andaman & Nicobar, Port Blair and took oath to keep their environment clean. Lecture on cleanliness was also organised.
    
    5) Teachers from different schools participated in the Swachhta programme conducted by Gandhi Smriti and Darshan Samiti on September 18, 2017 at Gandhi Darshan during Swachhta Hi Seva Abhiyan .
    
    6) Various activities were organised by Gandhi Smriti and Darshan Samiti to spread awareness for cleanliness – Door to Door campaign was organised in Sewapuri village of Varanasi, Campaign of cleanliness was organised for the residents of Dhaka village, Delhi in cooperation with Harijan Sevak Sangh, Swachhta Mashaal was taken out which was taken in different parts of the city, Shramdaan for cleanliness was done by the staff of Gandhi Smriti and Darshan Samiti.
    
    7) Nukkad Natak as a medium of powerful IEC (Information Education and Communication) was used by North East Zone Cultural Centre, Dimapur at more than 80 places of North Eastern States.
    
    8) Tree plantation, Poster making workshop and road awareness campaign was organised by involving school students to create awareness for cleanliness by Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Institute of Asian Studies, Kolkata.
    
    9) A Free Residential Home - Premasree - for Blind and Visually Impaired Children participated in Swachh Bharat Abhiyan organised by Central Reference Library (CRL), Kolkata, during Swachhta Pakhwada. CRL also organised other activities to spread the message of Cleanliness – an awareness march for cleanliness at Ballygunj Railway Station, Shramdaan and speech competition.
    
    10) Regional Science Centres under the National Council of Science Museums-NCSM organised hand washing and other swachhta activities for the students.
    
    11) Centre for Cultural Resources and Training (CCRT) trained more than 100 students of Guru Ramdas College of Education, Delhi on the occasion of Swachhata Pakhwada. A one day workshop on “Waste Management” was organised in collaboration with CEE for the teachers/volunteers of NGOs in Delhi.
    
    12) Sahitya Akademi participated in the pakhwada by organising various lectures on cleanliness and by tree Plantation Programmes.
    
    13) Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sanghralaya organised a marathon walk as part of awareness programme for ‘Swacch Bharat Abhiyaan’. The walk commenced from museum and continued till Boat Club; during the walk participating employees and officers spread messages of cleanliness through slogans. Everyone collected the garbage spread on the route and disposed it properly. Other activities included tree plantation, lectures on cleanliness and Shramdaan.
    
    14) Massive cleanliness drive was done by Indian Museum, Kolkata during Swachhta Pakhwada. During the campaign, Bank of Ganga river was cleaned followed by message cleanliness drive by more than 100 employees.
    
    15) An exhibition of posters made by school students on cleanliness was displayed in Rampur Raza Library. The staff also took part in Shramdaan.
    
    16) Lecture, Street Play, Painting competition and a cleanliness campaign was organised at Allahabad Museum.
    
    17) Delhi Public Library organised various activities to spread the awareness for cleanliness – street plays, painting competition, Slogan competition, awareness campaign at Old Delhi Railway station-metro station, Tree Plantation program, Swachhta Rally were organised.

    *****


    
    
    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism/03-10-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504712) Visitor Counter : 70