      Ministry of Finance

      The Union Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley to leave on a 2 day Official visit to Dhaka, Bangladesh tomorrow; To deliver a Talk on “Macroeconomic Initiatives of the Govt. of India: Financial inclusion, Demonetization and Cashless Economy”; To Call on the Prime Minister of People’s Republic of Bangladesh during the visit; To launch Cashless Visa Services among others.
      Posted On: 02 OCT 2017 5:35PM by PIB Guwahati


    The Union Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley will arrive at Bangladesh’s capital, Dhaka tomorrow i.e. Tuesday, 3rd October, 2017 on a two day official visit to Bangladesh. After his arrival, the first major engagement of the Indian Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will be to deliver the Inaugural Address at the Business Meeting between Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FBCCI) and Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) tomorrow afternoon. In the evening, a Dinner will be hosted by the High Commissioner of India, Shri HarshVardhan Shringla in honour of the Indian Finance Minister.
    
    Next day i.e. on Wednesday,4th October, 2017, the Union Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley will hold a Bilateral Level Meeting with the Finance Minister of Bangladesh, Mr. Abul Maal A Muhith. During the visit of the Indian Finance Minister, Shri Jaitley, a Dollar Credit Line Agreement between the Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh and Export-Import Bank of India (EXIM Bank) is likely to be signed for 3rd Line of Credit. Besides it, “Joint Interpretative Notes on the Agreement between India and Bangladesh for the Promotion and Protection of Investments” are also likely to be signed during the visit of Indian Finance Minister.
    
    Later, the visiting Indian Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley and Bangladesh Finance Minister Mr. Abul Maal A Muhith will launch the Cashless Visa Services. After that, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will deliver a Talk on the “Macro-economic Initiatives of the Government of India: Financial Inclusion, Demonetization and Cashless Economy”. Later in the afternoon, the visiting Indian Finance Minister, Shri Jaitley is likely to call on the Prime Minister of People’s Republic of Bangladesh.
    
    In the evening on 4th October, 2017, the Bangladesh Finance Minister Mr. Abul Maal A Muhith will host a Dinner in the honour of the visiting Indian Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley. The Finance Minister Shri Jaitley will depart for back home in the morning on 5th October, 2017 after completing his two day official visit to Bangladesh.

    *****


    DSM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504556) Visitor Counter : 175