      Ministry of Finance

      FM: To reduce tax slabs in case of GST, we have to become revenue neutral plus; Inspects the Passing-out Parade of 67th Batch of IRS(C&CE) and delivers Valedictory Address; Calls for fair implementation of tax laws; Releases NACIN Coffee Table Book and Year Book on its Founding Day.
      Posted On: 01 OCT 2017 4:56PM by PIB Guwahati


    The Union Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arun Jaitley said that as far as GST is concerned, we have space for improvement eventually once we become revenue neutral to think in terms of bigger reforms such as lesser slabs, but for that we have to become revenue neutral plus. To ensure this, the Finance Minister said that we have to certainly ensure larger presence. He said that there are no grey areas in implementation of tax laws. The Finance Minister said that the taxes which are payable have to be paid and which are not payable, then the same are not to be paid. He asked the young officers that in case of doubt, move straight.
    
    The Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley was delivering the Valedictory Address at the NACIN Founding Day and Passing-out Ceremony of the 67th Batch of IRS (C&CE) at NACIN in Faridabad, Haryana today.
    
    The Finance Minister told the Officers that they will get the option of choosing the path of working with dignity, self-respect and honesty from the very beginning of their career. The peer group is the best to judge the performance of an officer, the Minister concluded.
    
    National Academy of Customs, Indirect Taxes and Narcotics (NACIN) celebrated its Founding Day today i.e. on Sunday, 1st October at NACIN Complex, Faridabad for the First time. It started as a Training School in 1955 on 1st October. The Founding Day Ceremony was presided by the Union Finance Minister Shri Arun Jaitley.
    
    On the occasion of Founding Day, the Passing -out Ceremony of IRS (C&CE) Probationers of the 2015 batch was also held. The Finance Minister also inspected the Passing-out Parade and took the salute. Ms. Vanaja N. Sarna, Chairperson, CBEC, welcomed Shri Jaitley on behalf of NACIN.
    
    The 2015 batch of Indian Revenue Service (IRS,C&CE) which has passed-out from the Academy after completing their professional training consisted of 147 officer trainees including 32 women officers. These young officers will be at the helm of administering the GST, India’s biggest tax reform since independence.
    
    During the passing-out ceremony, the Finance Minister Shri Jaitley awarded medals to the five officer trainees who have excelled in different areas of training for their exceptional achievement. Young officer Dr. Farah Zachariah was awarded with the Finance Minister’s gold medal for being the overall best officer trainee.
    
    The Finance Minister, Shri Jaitley also unveiled the NACIN Coffee Table Book and Year Book on the occasion. The Coffee Table Book traces the history of the Academy as well as of the Indian Revenue Service. The Finance Minister also felicitated four outstanding Faculty of NACIN for their contribution in the field of training and capacity building. During the ceremony, international capacity building partners of NACIN i.e. WCO, UNEP, UNODC, ADB and others were also felicitated by the Finance Minister.
    
    On this occasion, a Stall on NACIN’s contribution to GST Outreach & Training was also inaugurated by the Finance Minister, Shri Arun Jaitley. The Chief Guest and other dignitaries also walked down an Exhibit showcasing the past, present and future of the Academy, aptly titled “NACIN Heritage Walk”.
    
    The event was attended among others by all senior officers of the Central Board of Customs and Central Excise(CBEC).

    ***********


    
    
    DSM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1504544) Visitor Counter : 35