      Ministry of Tourism

      Participation of Local Communities in Paryatan Parv
      Posted On: 12 OCT 2017 4:51PM by PIB Guwahati


      Local communities have been involved in a major way in the various activities being carried out as part of Paryatan Parv. The event has been showcasing rural life, arts & crafts, textiles, handlooms, culture and heritage of the local communities in different parts of the country. Paryatan Parv will bring benefits both economic and social to local communities by enabling interaction between tourists and the population.


      Ministry of Tourism is focusing on developing tourism infrastructure in tourism circuits spread across the country under its various Schemes including the Swadesh Darshan Scheme. Infrastructure development in the circuits will result in tourism related activities which will in turn lead to up liftment of socio- economic conditions of the local communities. These efforts are being backed by involving the communities through various tourism initiatives such as development of rural tourism, Sensitization regarding Homestays, Bed & Breakfast opportunities as well as promotion and events like Paryatan Parv.


      DAY 8 - PARYATAN PARV


      The highlight of the day eight was inauguration of Tamil Nadu Travel Mart (TTM), a global event for stakeholders from the Tourism fraternity which will showcase the culture, heritage and tourism potentials of the state.


      As Part of the Paryatan Parv, a Cultural Evening at Light House Beach, Kovalam was organized by the State Government of Kerala. Indiatourism Chennai in association with the State Government of Tamilnadu organised a cultural evening at Mammallapuram.


      The Ministry of Rural Development under the National RURBAN Mission launched Tourism Projects in Spituk Rurban Cluster for development of Tourism Infrastructure, Tourist Information Centre, Amusement / Theme Park and Parking Facilities at Spituk Gompa, Leh


      Ministry of DONER conducted Sensitisation Programme for Stakeholders, including Transporters, Tour Operators, Hoteliers, Students, Community Sensitisation Workshop for Homestays and Bed & Breakfast Opportunities at Itanagar.


      Chhattisgarh Tourism Board organised Debate, Painting & Quiz Competitions for School Children at J.N. Pandey School and Kalyan Public School in Raipur.


      State Government of Madhya Pradesh has organised a Food Festival at the Hotel Tana Bana, Chanderi and a seminar on International Year of Sustainable Tourism at the Hotel Kalchuri Residency at Jabalpur.


      As Part of Paryatan Parv , the State Government of Gujarat has conducted various programmes at Siddhpur, District Patan on the theme of Tourism: Youth in Action . The State Government of Rajasthan is organising Diwali Mela at Udaipur which will run till 22 nd October, the State Government of Uttarakhand has organized Yamunotri Mahotsav at Uttarkashi. Coastal Food Festival at Hotel Kalinga Ashok has been organised by ITDC.


      India Tourism Offices in association with IHMs has organised various activities like Sensitization programmes, Nukkad Natak, Heritage walks, Workshops for local public and stakeholders at locations across the country.


      *****


      Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism/12.10.2017


    

    
    (Release ID: 1505916) Visitor Counter : 71