      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NHRC is doing excellent job, says Justice Deepak Misra, Chief Justice of India on the Commission’s 24th Foundation Day
      Posted On: 12 OCT 2017 8:22PM by PIB Guwahati


    Chief Justice of India, Mr. Justice Dipak Misra lauded the National Human Rights Commission’s (NHRC) efforts towards promotion and protection of human rights and said that it is doing an excellent job. He said that it is because of its efforts that awareness about human rights has increased and hence the number of complaints registered with it. He was speaking as the Chief Guest at a function organized here today by the NHRC to celebrate its 24th Foundation Day.
    
    Referring to the Supreme Court’s recent judgment recognizing the right to privacy as a human right, Justice Misra said that the range of human rights has been expanding. The NHRC and State Human Rights Commissions should seek the courts’ intervention if on an issue of human rights violation the public authorities do not comply with their recommendations. He said that mutual respect for each other’s rights should be valued.
    
    Earlier, addressing the gathering, Chairperson, NHRC, Mr. Justice H. L. Dattu said that by adopting human rights as a way of life, a fundamental change can be brought about to eradicate the scourge of poverty, ignorance, prejudices and discrimination based on sex, caste, religion, disability and other forms in society.
    
    Justice Dattu highlighted various activities of the Commission and the new initiatives taken as part of its consistent endeavour to make people aware and engage them towards promotion and protection of human rights. In this context, apart from other activities of the Commission, he also highlighted the NHRC’s Short Film Award Scheme which has generated tremendous response. Justice Dattu also said that in order to strengthen human rights protection mechanism, the Commission has further streamlined the complaint management system and expanded the scope of its activities to maximize its outreach.
    
    Earlier Mr. Ambuj Sharma, Secretary General, NHRC in his welcome address said the Commission has been relentlessly making efforts to create an enabling environment for the promotion and protection of various human rights including socio-political, economic and culture rights, through its broad-based mandate.
    
    On the occasion Justice Misra also gave away awards to the winners of Essay and Painting Competitions on themes related to human rights.

    ***


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1505913) Visitor Counter : 26