      Ministry of Tourism

      Convergence of State Governments & Central Ministries through Paryatan Parv
      9th Day of Paryatan Parv celebrated across The Country

      Posted On: 13 OCT 2017 6:03PM by PIB Guwahati

      While delivering his Inaugural Address on 20 th January 2017 at the National Conference of Central and State/UT Ministers and Secretaries of Tourism, Culture and Sports at Kutch the Prime Minister stated that the Government Departments, Ministries work in silo and there is need for greater coordination among them. Paryatan Parv is one such attempt to bring together various Central Ministries, State Governments, organizations, associations and the general public. The coming together of all under one umbrella to promote Tourism in the country is unprecedented. The Paryatan Parv organized by Ministry of Tourism has support of the following Central Ministries and all the State Governments who have proactively come forward and to be part of the event.


      Ministry of Culture has arranged c cultural programmes of dance, music, theatre, storytelling at identified sites, arranged Artists’ Camps at different venues and undertaken illumination of ASI monuments during the Parv. Ministry of Information & Broadcasting is extending support for generating awareness about Tourism and the event and Doordarshan is organizing competitions to engage with the public. Ministry of Textiles is holding exhibition of handlooms and handicrafts by artisans at the different sites. Ministry of Rural Development, through its National Rurban Missions is arranging local activities focusing on rural tourism at their identified rural clusters.


      Ministry of Human Resource Development is organizing quiz, painting and essay competitions at Kendriya Vidyalayas and excursion trips for students to iconic tourist sites. Ministry of Skill Development is partner in workshops on Skill Development in the Tourism Sector and sensitisation of service providers. Ministry of DONER through North East Tourism Development Council is coordinating tourism events, exhibitions, cultural programmes and sensitisation programmes in the North East Region. Ministry of Ayush is organising Yoga demonstrations / sessions and workshops. Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports through NYKS is organising youth camps, adventure activities and a Tribal Youth Exchange programmes during the Parv. Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology is partnering in the event for public outreach by organizing tourism related quiz / photography / video competitions on MyGov. Ministry of Environment & Forests is conducting sensitization programmes on responsible tourism for stakeholders.


      Key airports have been given a festive look during the Parv by the Ministry of Civil Aviation and sensitization programmes for staff at the airports will also be organized. Similarly, major railway stations have been given a festive look by the Ministry of Railways who are also conducting sensitization programmes for the railway staff. Ministry of Road Transport & Highways is collaborating in launching wayside amenities in identified tourist circuits. Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas is creating tourist wayside amenities at select petrol pumps. Ministry of Finance (Revenue) is conducting sensitization programmes for Customs officials at airports and sea ports. Ministry of Home Affairs is organising sensitization programmes for Immigration and CISF officials and staff. The Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, Ministry of Commerce is arranging a Tourism Investor Round Table Conference with participation of Indian and Global Investors.


      Al the State Governments are actively participating in the Paryatan Parv by way of organizing Cultural Events, Sensitization Programmes, Heritage walks, Programmes for Youth and School Students. Some of the States have planned activities for each of the day of the Paryatan Parv.


      9 th DAY OF PARYATAN PARV


      Highlight of day 9 th of Paryatan Parv was the launch of Tourism Projects in Mawlangwir Rurban Cluster for Construction of Eco-Park & Childrens’ Park, Construction of Heritage Village, Construction of View Points. South West Khasi Hills (Mawkyrwat) by the Ministry of Rural Development.


      Ministry of DONER conducted Community Sensitisation Workshop for Homestays and Bed & Breakfast Opportunities Itanagar and Jote Poma.


      Youth Parliament: Lectures and Discussions on importance of Tourism and youth involvement organized by Ministry of Youth affairs through NYKS in 4 Districts in Jharkhand. Workshop on Rare Traditional (Tribal) Instrument making, Documentation and Preservation of Dhumal Community at Naxalbari, West Bengal was organized by Lalit Kala Academy.


      The State Government of Uttarakhand has organized Gangotri Mahotsav at Uttarkashi. Painting and Essay Competitions for students has been organized by State Government of Kerala at Kollam & Alleppey Districts. Workshop on “Sustainable Tourism for Inclusive Growth of Rural Areas” was organized by Pondicherry University.


      India Tourism Offices in association with IHMs has organised various activities like Sensitization programmes, Nukkad Natak , Heritage walks, Workshops for local public and stakeholders at locations across the country.


      *****


      Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism/13-10-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506061) Visitor Counter : 51