      AYUSH

      The first ever All India Institute of Ayurveda to be dedicated to the Nation by the Prime Minister on Ayurveda Day at New Delhi
      AIIA is the first medical institute under Ministry of AYUSH to hold the coveted status of NABH accreditation

      Posted On: 14 OCT 2017 6:03PM by PIB Guwahati

    The First ever All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA), set up along the lines of AIIMS, will be dedicated to the Nation by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi on Ayurveda Day on 17th October, 2017 at New Delhi. Set up as an apex institute under the Ministry of AYUSH, the AIIA will bring synergy between the traditional wisdom of Ayurveda and modern diagnostic tools and technology. This was disclosed by the Minister of State for AYUSH, Shr Shripad Yesso Naik at a press conferences in New Delhi today. Within the short duration of its establishment, AIIA has gained a wide national and International recognition. It has started working to facilitate quality patient care, research and bridging the gaps in the scientific information about quality, safety and efficacy of Ayurveda products and developing benchmarks of Ayurvedic education, research and healthcare, the AYUSH Minister explained.


    Shri Shripad Naik said that in the first phase, the AIIA has been set up within a total campus area of 10.015 acres with a budget of Rs.157 Crores. It has an NABH Accredited Hospital and an Academic Block. Out Patient Services are being provided in the hospital block of AIIA and medicines are given free of cost. Currently, the clinical specialties running in the hospital block are Neurological & Degenerative Disease Care Unit, Rheumatology & Musculoskeletal Care Unit, Diabetes & Metabolic/Allergic Disorders Care Unit, Yoga, Panchakarma Clinic, Kriya Kalpa, Diabetic Retinopathy Clinic, Kshara Evum Anushastra Karma and Infertility Clinic. It also has pathology, biochemistry, microbiology and Radiology laboratories/Diagonosis facilities. The indoor patient department has provision for 200 beds.


    Giving more details, the AYUSH Minister said that the Post Graduate programme (MD/MS) in Ayurveda at AIIA started from the academic session 2016-17 and the Ph.D courses started from the session 2017-18. The AIIA has been awarded with NABH Accreditation, therefore becoming the first medical institute under the Ministry of AYUSH to hold the coveted status provided for its clinical services. The AIIA has already signed MoU with NICPR- Noida (ICMR), AIIMS New Delhi, MDNIY and EAA (Germany). It has developed standard treatment guidelines for diabetes and SOP for various procedures.


    To mark the 2nd Ayurveda Day, several events have been organized by the Ministry of AYUSH.


    The main function will be held at the All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA), Sarita Vihar, New Delhi. The Prime Minister of India will be the chief Guest of the function and will dedicate the AIIA to the Nation. The “Ayurvedic Standard Treatment Guidelines” developed by the Ministry shall also be released on this occasion. Nearly 1500 participants from across the country are expected to participate in the program.


    A national seminar on the theme “Ayurveda for Pain management” will be held on 16th October, 2017 at New Delhi. An AYUSH CII industry conclave shall also be held at New Delhi on the theme “Vision 2022: Widening horizons of Ayurveda for three-fold growth of market size”.


    “National Dhanwantari Ayurveda Award” comprising of Citation, Trophy (Dhanwantari Statue) and Cash reward of Rupees five lakh will be conferred on this day to 3 to 4 eminent Vaidyas and Ayurveda experts. On this occasion, the Prime Minister will also give away the Yoga Award to the Ramamani Iyengar Memorial Yoga Institute, Pune, which was announced earlier this year on the occasion of International Day of Yoga.


    The Ministry of AYUSH has requested All the State Governments, State AYUSH Directorates, all Ayurveda colleges/ teaching institutions, AYUSH/Health Universities, Associations of Ayurveda Practitioners, Ayurveda Drug Industries and all supporters/ well-wishers and stakeholders of Ayurveda in India and abroad to observe the Ayurveda Day on 17th October, 2017 for this year and undertake various activities like organizing Public lectures / Seminars / Exhibition / Radio Talks etc. as a part of Ayurveda Day celebrations.


    The first Ayurveda Day was celebrated last year.


    *****


    NB/SK/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506113) Visitor Counter : 125