      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Mantri Made her Maiden Visit to CVRDE, Chennai
      Posted On: 15 OCT 2017 9:30AM by PIB Guwahati


    The Raksha Mantri Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman made her maiden visit to Combat Vehicles Research & Development Establishment (CVRDE), Avadi, Chennai, yesterday. Chairman DRDO & Secretary Department of Defence R&D Dr S. Christopher and Distinguished Scientist & Director, CVRDE Dr. P Sivakumar, made a brief presentation on the achievements and on-going national programs of CVRDE in Combat Vehicles & Technologies.


    The dignitaries were taken to various technology centres by Director, CVRDE to witness the products and systems/technologies developed by CVRDE. The Raksha Mantri has evinced keen interest in the advanced systems like Arjun MBT Mk-II, Arjun Armoured Recovery and Repair Vehicle (ARRV), Arjun Catapult, Unmanned Ground Vehicles, Sub-systems of Light Combat Aircraft –Tejas, Landing Gear, 180 hp engine for Rustom-II, 1000 hp Engine for T-72, 400 hp for BMP-II, besides Armoured Ambulance Tracked, Carrier Command Post Tracked, Bridge Laying Tank (BLT-72). The respective project leaders highlighted the uniqueness and specialities of their systems to the dignitaries.


    The dignitaries assembled at CVRDE-Arjun Auditorium after the showcase of Tanks/ technologies. During this occasion, Raksha Mantri released a book namely ‘Arjun MBT – an Indian Success Story’ that describes the entire project of Arjun MBT Mk-I. In the august presence of the Raksha Mantri , Smt Nirmala Sitharaman and the Chairman, DRDO, the first prototype of Arjun ARRV was handed over by Chairman & Managing Director, BEML, Mr. Deepak Kumar Hota to Director, CVRDE; Director, CVRDE handed over one set of Landing Gear along with CEMILAC certification to Director, ADE; One set of Power Take Off Shaft to Director, GTRE; and Director, VRDE handed over 180 hp engine to Director, ADE.


    Smt Nirmala Sitharaman launched the website, ‘DRDO Robotics & Unmanned Systems Exposition’ ( https://rac.gov.in/druse ) for inviting the young & talented minds of engineering community from all parts of the country to take part in Defence Challenging applications. She has also released a book titled ‘Achievements of CVRDE’ during the ceremony.


    The Raksha Mantri congratulated DRDO fraternity, in particular CVRDE, for its unstinted efforts and contributions for the defence self-reliance of the nation and expressed her confidence that DRDO will strive hard to empower the nation further with ‘Make in India’ concept.


    MJPS/TS/NR/GN/RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506149) Visitor Counter : 118