      Ministry of Culture

      Dr Mahesh Sharma Inaugurates ‘Deep Dharohar’
      Posted On: 13 OCT 2017 8:15PM by PIB Guwahati


      Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State (Independent charge) for Culture inaugurated “Deep Dharohar” organized by the Ministry of Culture here today. The festival was inaugurated by the lighting of 1000 diyas by the participating artists and artisans and children from organisations like the CCRT, SAPNA Prayas and Kailash Satyarthi’s foundation, to the beat of pakhawajs, nagadas, dhols etc. The Minister released a book entitled ‘Living Traditions, Tribal and Folk Paintings of India’ published under the matrix of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ by the Cultural Mapping team of M/o Culture and Centre for Cultural Resources and Training (CCRT). This book celebrates the rich living traditions of tribal and folk art of India and the seminal role they play in the day-to-day lives of tribal and rural people.


      To reclaim the lost classical and folk traditions of Deepawali and with objective of transmitting, promoting and conserving India’s diverse heritage, Ministry of Culture has organized this festival at the Matighar grounds at the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts at Janpath, New Delhi between October 13-17 October 2017. The festival is drawing upon the rich repository of red, grey and black ware potters, reed (sikki) artisans, rural sculptors, weavers, Madhubani, Gond, Phad and Pattachitra artists, lacquer workers, bell-metal and bamboo artisans is also being projected as part of Paryatan Parv being organised by Ministry of Tourism.


      A group of 100 artisans chosen by the Zonal Cultural Centres and knowledge partners from seven regions of the country are interfacing with organisations like the Asian Heritage Foundation, INTACH’s Intangible Cultural Heritage team, Dastkaari Haat Samiti, Centre for New Perspectives, TRIFED etc. for creative collaboration in creating sustainable livelihood hubs/clusters. The diyas and other traditional Deepawali-linked products created by them are being sold at the venue.


      In addition to the above, several performances, art and craft workshops and artist’s corners have been planned between 11 am – 8.30 pm every evening.


      Ø A performing arts stage is being shared by reputed artists and artisans selected during the talent hunt carried out under culture mapping.


      Ø Khulla Manch for performances of the Kavadiya Bhats of Rajasthan, Bhand Pather and Ladishah of Kashmir, Maniharo Ras and Siddhi Dhamal from Gujarat, Gotipua from Odisha, Tamang Shello from Sikkim and Dilli ka Bioscope , a production representing 10 traditional performing arts skill from Delhi.A writer’s and artist’s corner, a space where artists, artisans and writers are narrating their life stories and Deepawali related anecdotes.


      Ø Children’s corner with interactive sessions on the potter’s wheel, rangoli-making, Deepawali jewellery making with terracotta beads and flowers, sikki-toy making and papier-mache crafts. Art and theatre workshops on clean-swachh Deepawali are being held every day. A 2 days workshop on film making will be held on October 14 th and 15 th , 2017.


      Ø Screening of films on India’s tangible and intangible cultural heritage every evening.


      Ø Celebration of different Deepawali traditions like the Dev-Deepawali of Varanasi, Govardhan Puja of Mathura and Nathdwara.


      *****


      Sanjay Kumar/jk/Culture/13.10.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506058) Visitor Counter : 36