      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President asks Governors to keep out of controversies
      Shri Venkaiah Naidu suggests promotion of austere living
      
      Addresses 48th Conference of Governors
      Posted On: 13 OCT 2017 6:10PM by PIB Guwahati


      The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has asked the Governors to avoid controversies by adhering to the provision of Constitution and also to promote simple living habits through regular interaction with the people. He was addressing the 48th Conference of Governors, in Rashtrapati Bhawan, here today.


      The Vice President said that the Governors have an important role in this national mission ‘The Constitution of India’ enjoin the Governors to “preserve, protect and defend the Constitution and the law” and also to devote themselves “to the service and well being of the people”. He further said that we are not parallel power centres and democratically elected governments are supreme. We are representatives of centre and constitution, he added.


      The Vice President said that we must ensure that our vision becomes a shared vision and that this agenda becomes a people’s agenda. We need to reform governance and create a new paradigm of results based management, he added.


      The Vice President said that the Governors should take on the role of a guide, philosopher and mentor and they should act as ‘catalysts’ and ‘facilitators’ of this change process. He further said that they can be the ‘motivators’ and ‘mentors’ to bring in positive change in the mindset of the population. They can be thought leaders to give a fresh impetus to better delivery of services, he added.


      The Vice President outlined ten national programmes that need focused action:


      1. Make our democracy really meaningful and inclusive. Strive to strengthen local bodies as per the 73 rd and 74 th constitutional amendment;


      2. Make Swach Bharat a people’s movement and sanitation, hygiene and cleanliness a way of life;


      3. Focus on tree plantation and increase the green cove;


      4. Rejuvenate traditional water bodies like the village ponds and tanks and also the rivers;


      5. Ensure effective implementation of Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao programme;


      6. Take concerted action to root out the social evils that continue to plague our society like casteism, untouchability, atrocities against weaker sections, and restricted temple entry;


      7. Ancient system of Yoga, the most affordable, effective and integrated system needs to be popularized for better physical and mental health;


      8. Aim at inclusive growth by promoting organic agriculture, making agriculture more economically viable and see whether Banks are adhering to priority lending of 18% for agriculture;


      9. Create awareness and motivate all the stakeholders to join the fight against corruption and black money;


      10. Strengthen the democratic system to make it more functional and effective.


      The Vice President also put forth these points also before the Governors:


      1. Popularizing Khadi – Handlooms.


      2. Encouraging simple marriages, no extravaganza.


      3. Facilitate the achievers in every sphere of life – hold ‘At Home’ for such people.


      4. Encouraging Matru Bhasha and Bharatiya Bhashas.


      5. Attend cultural programmes depicting our culture, local culture and traditions.


      6. Attending agriculture related fairs, functions, honouring achievers and organic farmers.


      7. Visiting government hospitals and hostels to inspect their facilites.


      8. No Raj Bhawan should be in news for wrong reasons.


      9. Spending time in Dalit, Adivasi Bastis


      10. Visit as many as educational institutions and motivate younger generations regarding discipline, hard work, patriotism, social consciousness.


      11. Encourage native sports.


      12. Encourage Ex-Army personnel and good NGOs.


      13. Motivate industry, business to join social responsibility.


      14. Motivate NRI and encourage them to contribute for the development of janma bhoomi .


      Following is the text of Vice President’s address :


      “ Respected Rashtrapati Ji, Hon’ble Prime Minister Ji, Hon’ble Ministers, Hon’ble Governors and Lieutenant Governors.


      I am also convinced that if we can join our heads, hearts and hands together, as Team India, it is not an impossible mission.


      The Governors have an important role in this national mission The Constitution of India enjoins the Governors to “preserve, protect and defend the Constitution and the law” and also to devote themselves “to the service and well being of the people”. We are not parallel power centres. Democratic elected governments are supreme. We are representatives of centre and constitution.


      I suggest we should start off with a firm conviction that this is a societal mission, which is desirable and something we should have embarked upon much earlier. We should also have the courage and confidence that we can make it happen.


      The question is: how do we make this happen?


      First, we must ensure that our vision becomes a shared vision and that this agenda becomes a people’s agenda. We should co-opt as many stakeholders as possible in the process.


      Second, we need to reform governance and create a new paradigm of results based management that focuses on outcomes and impact and create a culture of constant reflection and innovation.


      Governors should take on the role of a guide, philosopher and mentor. They should act as ‘catalysts’ and ‘facilitators’ of this change process. They can be the ‘motivators’ and ‘mentors’ to bring in positive change in the mindset of the population. They can be thought leaders to give a fresh impetus to better delivery of services. They can be the fountainheads of wise counsel and guidance to accelerate the pace and improve the quality of programme implementation.


      Our ultimate aim is to serve the people of our country and enable them to lead fulfilling lives.


      We still have a long way to go.


      Let me outline ten national programmes that need focused action.


      First, to make our democracy really meaningful and inclusive, we need to focus on universal literacy and high quality education at all levels. Strive to strengthen local bodies as per the 73rd and 74th constitutional amendment;


      Second, we should make Swach Bharat a people’s movement and sanitation, hygiene and cleanliness a way of life.


      Third , we should focus on tree plantation and increase the green cover.


      Fourth , we should rejuvenate traditional water bodies like the village ponds and tanks and also the rivers.


      Fifth , we should ensure effective implementation of Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao programme. At the same time, we should periodically review cases of atrocities on women and work with stakeholder groups to inculcate respect for women as a social norm.


      Sixth , we should take concerted action to root out the social evils that continue to plague our society like casteism, untouchability, atrocities against weaker sections, and restricted temple entry.


      Seventh , the ancient system of Yoga, the most affordable, effective and integrated system needs to be popularized for better physical and mental health.


      Eighth , we should aim at inclusive growth by promoting organic agriculture, making agriculture more economically viable, by enhancing the employability of youth through skill development and providing credit support through Mudra loans to establish start up ventures. See whether Banks are adhering to priority lending of 18% for agriculture.


      Ninth, we have to create awareness and motivate all the stakeholders to join the fight against corruption and black money. The benefits of Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT), Janadhan, Adhar and Mobile (JAM) and Goods and Services Tax (GST) should reach the intended beneficiaries. Digital literacy programme would also empower the citizens and bring in greater transparency.


      Tenth, we need to strengthen the democratic system to make it more functional and effective. Legislatures should be forums of enlightened debate on people’s issues, for seeking solutions and enacting relevant laws. We must deepen democratic roots to the as envisaged under the 73 rd And 74 th amendment devolving, funds, functions and functionaries to local bodies.


      I would like to put forth these points also before you:


      1. Popularizing Khadi – Handlooms.


      2. Encouraging simple marriages.


      3. Facilitate the achievers in every sphere of life – hold ‘At Home’ such people.


      4. Encouraging Matru Bhasha and Bharatiya Bhashas.


      5. Attend cultural programmes depicting our culture, local culture and traditions.


      6. Attending agriculture related fairs, functions, honouring achievers and organic farmers.


      7. Visiting government hospitals and hostels.


      8. No Raj Bhawan should be in news for wrong reasons.


      9. Spending time with Dalit, Adivasi Bastis


      10. Visit as many as educational institutions and motivate younger generations regarding discipline, hard work, patriotism, social consciousness.


      11. Encourage native sports.


      12. Encourage Ex-Army personnel and good NGOs.


      13. Motivate industry, business.


      14. Motivate NRI and encourage them to come to janma bhoomi.


      We are at the threshold of a movement that aims to bring about economic and social transformation in our society. The Constitutional mandate gives each one of you the unique opportunity to provide pro-active, dynamic and enlightened leadership, guidance and mentorship. You can shape this people’s movement towards an India we are collectively aspiring for, an India that cares for each citizen in the spirit of ‘Sabka Saath-Sabka Vikas’.


      As another member of our Team India, I wish you all the very best in your efforts and hope we move from ‘Sankalp’ to ‘Siddhi’ together drawing inspiration from the ancient verse:


      Sam’gacchadhvam


      Sam’vadadhvam
      Sam’ vo manám’si jánatám


      “May you move in harmony, speak in one voice


      Let your minds be in agreement”


      Jai Hind!”


      ***


      KSD/BK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1506051) Visitor Counter : 40