      Ministry of Tourism

      12TH Day of Prayatan Parv Celebrations Include Yoga Session and Community and Stakeholder Sensitization Programme for Home Stay Owners
      Posted On: 16 OCT 2017 7:49PM by PIB Guwahati


      The Month of October becomes ‘Tourism Month’ as the Paryatan Parv entered into 3 rd week of celebrations today. The highlights of the country wide celebrations included Yoga session and community and stakeholder sensitization programme for home stay owners in Jaipur, for street food vendors in Goa, for shopkeepers, rickshaw pullers and auto rickshaw drivers in Nellore, Andhra Pradesh. The cleanliness drives were undertaken today in Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh, Gwalior, Trivandrum and Hyderabad. The Institute of Hotel Management across the country also distributed specially designed Trash Bags as part of this drive to tourists at various locations in the country.


      The Nehru Yuvak Kendras organized youth Parliament with lectures and discussions on importance of tourism and youth involvement at Gaya and Sitamarhi, district level cultural programmes in East Champaran, Nalanda, walks along river Course, Water Bodies in 5 districts of Odisha.


      The Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (MoDONER) organized tourism rally in Itanagar, adventure activities in Shillong, promotion of water sports at Umiam in Meghalaya. The State Govts of Haryana, Assam, Meghalaya, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Maharashtra, Kerala organized cultural evenings, tourism exhibitions, workshops for tourism industry stakeholders, essay & painting competition for students.


      The Ministry of Culture along with Ministry of Tourism organized a grand classical dance titled ‘Krishan Lilla’ by the famous classical danseuse and guru Dr. Sonal Mansingh at Govind Devji Temple in Jaipur.


      State Governments of Kerala, Madhya Pradesh,Rajsthan, Haryana,Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra have organised various programmes like Cultural Evenings, Sensitization programme, Competitions etc.


      Other Central Ministries are also participating in Paryatan Parv by organizing various activities. The Railway Ministry has illuminated some of the major railway stations in the country. Under the Ministry of Civil Aviation, some of the major airports in the country have also been illuminated.


      The Online contests on MyGov platform for Dekho Apna Desh Photo Contest, Incredible India Quiz, Dekho Apna Desh Blog Contest have elicited tremendous response. Smile India Smile a Photographic Competition is underway on Doordarshan. Winners of the contests will receive attractive prizes.


      India Tourism Offices in association with IHMs has organised various activities like Sensitization programmes, Nukkad Natak, Heritage walks, Workshops for local public and stakeholders at locations across the country.


      ****


      Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism/16-10-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1506316) Visitor Counter : 15