      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh delegation meets Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 05 JAN 2017 5:10PM by PIB Delhi


    A delegation of Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh's Industrial Unit, "Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh", held a meeting with Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today and sought his intervention for grant of one-time relaxation from the ceiling of 5% for compassionate appointments in the Ministry of Defence. The delegation also requested the Minister to issue directions to expedite the follow-up pertaining to LTC cases pending in the DoPT.


    The members of the delegation sought to draw Dr Jitendra Singh’s attention to an earlier meeting with him wherein they had brought to his notice that there is 5.85 lakh sanctioned strength of Defence Civilians, but the existing strength is only 3.98 lakh as mentioned in the report of 7th Central Pay Commission (CPC). Thus, there is a deficiency of 1.87 lakh civilian manpower and there are about 20,000 aspirants who are seeking appointment on compassionate grounds. The members of the delegation recalled that Dr Jitendra Singh had given a positive response to them and subsequently also written to the Defence Minister to take cognizance of the issue.

    As per an OM of the Department of Personnel & Training (DoPT), there is a provision to give compassionate appointment to one of the dependants for the survival of the family in case the employee unfortunately dies during the service period leaving the family behind. But the provision for such appointment is limited to 5% of the vacancies, as a result of which, according to the members of delegation, a large number of wards are kept waiting for appointment on compassionate ground because of the ceiling.

    The delegation referred to an earlier letter written by Dr Jitendra Singh to the Minister of Defence, Shri Manohar Parrikar wherein the former had requested for intervention by the Defence Ministry so that the DoPT could accordingly proceed in the matter. They requested Dr Jitendra Singh to take up the issue once again with the Ministry of Defence so that their demand could be addressed. Dr Jitendra Singh assured the members of delegation that he would again seek the views of the Minister of Defence and try to work out whatever feasible.

    ***

    KSD/PK/KM
    
    
    (Release ID: 1480032) Visitor Counter : 51