      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      First meeting of Integrated Monitoring and Advisory Council (IMAC) held on 19th July 2017
      Petroleum Minister chairs meet of apex body on “Roadmap to achieve 10% reduction in import dependency in O&G by 2021-22”
      
      Importance of concerted and coordinated efforts by all Ministries, stressed upon
      
      Energy Conservation and efficiency, Oil demand substitution, tapping Bio-fuels, waste to wealth etc. highlighted at meeting

      Posted On: 20 JUL 2017 9:12PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar

    Minister of State (I/C) for Petroleum and Natural Gas, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan chaired the first meeting of apex body for policy formulation and implementation of ‘Roadmap to achieve target of 10 % reduction in import dependency in oil and gas by 2021-22 under an institutional mechanism ‘Integrated Monitoring and Advisory Council’ (IMAC) which was held on 19th July, 2017.
    
    Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas prepared an elaborate roadmap to achieve the goal of 10% reduction in import dependency set by the Hon’ble Prime Minister during Urja Sangam. IMAC was envisaged to facilitate better coordination and comprehensive strategy for all energy resources by focusing on supply and demand side management.
    
    IMAC is consisted of Secretary, Petroleum & Natural Gas and other Senior Officers from various Ministries such as Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, Urban Development, Road and Transport, Agriculture, Power/Bureau of Energy Efficiency, Rural Development, Finance, Petroleum Planning Analysis Cell, PCRA, DGH etc.
    
    During Meeting, the Ministry highlighted major policy initiatives taken in recent past to enhance domestic production of Oil and Gas. Inter-alia, it includes measures like resource re-assessment, National Data Repository (NDR), Open Acreage Licensing policy (OALP), Hydrocarbon Exploration Licensing Policy (HELP), Discovered Small Field Policy, tapping unconventional sources such as Coal Bed Methane (CBM) and Shale Gas besides enhancing production of bio-diesel and increased use of PNG and LPG.
    
    The representatives of member Ministries, inter-alia, explained policies, schemes and project initiatives taken by them towards augmenting the supply of energy, energy saving and demand substitution / reduction through alternate modes. Ministry of Road, Transport and Highway highlighted measures such as e-tolling, notification of fuel efficiency norms for LCV, bio-diesel etc. Ministry of Rural Development stressed upon their bio-fuel scheme in rural sector. Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) pointed out energy efficiency measures in industrial and transport sectors. MNRE elaborated on energy generation through renewable sources such as solar and wind power and their future strategy in this regard.
    
    Shri Pradhan stressed on the importance of concerted and coordinated efforts by all Ministries to create an enabling environment for accelerated Exploration & Production activities. The Minister highlighted other measures like promoting conservation and energy efficiency, exploring opportunities for oil demand substitution, tapping the potential of bio-fuels (2G bio-ethanol, feedstock for bio-diesel, channelizing other feedstock for bio-diesel), waste to wealth etc. and said that these are also required to be perused in more aggressive and synchronized manner. Energy consuming Ministries and Ministries involved in technology etc. need to be brought under the ambit of IMAC, he added.

    ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496734) Visitor Counter : 43