      Ministry of Steel

      Union Steel Minister Launches dedicated E-portal for online sales of steel products in North Eastern region
      The E-Portal is an excellent example of synergy between ‘Digital India’ and ‘Make in India’ missions initiated by Hon’ble Prime Minister, say Shri Birender Singh

      Posted On: 20 JUL 2017 7:14PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar

    Union Steel Minister Shri Birender Singh today launched a dedicated e-portal for online sales of steel products by RINL through MSTC Metal Mandi, in North Eastern Region of the country. Minister of State for Steel, Shri Vishnu Deo Sai, Secretary, Steel, Dr. Aruna Sharma, CMD, RINL, Shri P.Madhusudan and CMD, MSTC Shri B.B.Singh were among those present on the occasion.
    
    In his address Shri Birender Singh remarked that the E-Portal is an excellent example of synergy between ‘Digital India’ and ‘Make in India’ missions initiated by Hon’ble Prime Minister. He further added, “In February this year, when we set up a coordination committee for pooling of resources between PSUs, we had potential for projects like this in mind. I am happy that this project is being started and it should serve as an example for more such innovative and out-of-the-box projects. The Ministry had organized first regional conference for enhancing steel consumption in North-East. The region is being given top priority by our Government and lot of new projects are being started and executed there. Our steel companies must tap this market and serve their steel needs. Let us try to find out more such areas where our PSUs can work together for achieving economies of scale, reaching new markets and sharing of best practices.”
    
    The portal provides information regarding the different products available, their specifications, pricing, etc. Delivery at the doorstep is one of the attractive features of this initiative. The entire process is transparent and the interaction is enabled by a user-friendly interface. Sale through the web is enquiry based system, where the registered buyer shall be sending the enquiry for its requirement of steel (mainly TMT Rebars & Structural products) through the portal. On receipt of the enquiry RINL shall take further action to execute the sale.
    
    Pooling of resources under the Ministry of Steel for mutual benefit, by utilizing the web services of MSTC shall be both a cost saving measure and an opportunity to develop new markets, to RINL.
    
    It is noteworthy that the rapid development of infrastructure in North East region is taking place with improvements in road, rail and air connectivity, telecommunication network. This, in turn, would boost the demand for steel and the present initiative would go a long way in meeting such demand apart from bringing Vizag Steel to the doorstep of other consumers. With broad-gauge works having been implemented in the major rail network in this region, the North Eastern Region boasts of better connectivity. A massive investment of Rs.10,000 crores has been sanctioned by the Govt., of India for two projects for power transmission across the eight states in this region.
    
    The Comprehensive Telecom Development Plan with a budget of approx. Rs.5000 crore has enabled better mobile connectivity with new nodes at district, block and gram panchayat levels. Internet services got a boost with the recent launch of international internet gateway from Cox’s Bazar in Bangladesh to Agartala, making it the third in the country after Mumbai and Chennai. The Govt., has also taken several steps to introduce policies and programs directed towards development of entrepreneurship skills, markets and for the providing of flow of credit to the entrepreneur.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1496712) Visitor Counter : 41