      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Vijay Goel urges schools to motivate students for Sports, Slum Adoption and Heritage Conservation
      Posted On: 22 JUL 2017 6:15PM by PIB Bhubaneshwar


    The Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports shri Vijay Goel has said that his ministry is writing to CBSE affiliated schools, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan and Navodaya Vidyalayas to give Pan India directive to open at least one unit of Scouts and Guides, NSS and NCC in their respective institution so as to make the school curriculum holistic and comprehensive for personality development of the Youth. Addressing a brain storming session on Youth Development here today, he said, Scouting and Guiding organizations is also being requested to modify their fee structure in such a way that all sections of society can afford. Rather they may fix their fee structure institution wise instead of individual.
    
    He said, the Government of India, under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has embarked on the mission of building a united, strong and modern India – “Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat”, following the principle of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas”. A number of initiatives such as Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao, Jan Dhan Yojana and ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’. He said special focus is on save rich heritage of India and development of Slums.
    
    Shri Goel said, his Ministry is engaged in the noble task of providing opportunity for developing the personality and leadership qualities of the youth by involving them in community service and various nation-building activities. This is being done, inter-alia, through two youth volunteering organisations, namely, National Service Scheme (NSS) and Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS).
    
    Shri Goel urged the participants in the brain storming session to motivate youth and engage actively in programmes such as heritage promotion, monuments and slum adoption. He said his ministry is organizing 14 Slum Yuva Daud all over Delhi to motivate children from slums to actively participate in Sports.
    
    He said his ministry has plans to utilize stadiums in Delhi by inviting schools to organize Inter school tournaments and other sports activities for their students.
    
    Referring to FIFA world cup U-17 to be held in October this year, Shri Vijay Goel said school students in Delhi will be encourage to watch matches for free in Delhi to promote football and sports culture. He said earmarked free seats will be provided to school students on the first come first serve basis.
    
    Shri Goel also urged the public schools to encourage for donation of Toys for under privileged children.
    
    About 1000 representatives of Public Schools, Archeological Survey of India, Local bodies representatives, Secretary Youth Affairs Dr. A. K. Dubey and Senior Officials of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports attended the session to discuss ways on involving youth in NCC, NSS, Scouts & Guides, Social Service and promotion of sports.

    ****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1497278) Visitor Counter : 52