      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Distribution of AIDS and Assistive devices on The Birthday of Sir Louie Braille
      Posted On: 04 JAN 2017 6:12PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot graced the event organized on the occasion of Sir Louie Braille’s birthday here today. On the occasion,270 Smart Phones and 40 Daisy Players distributedto students with visual impairment under ADIP scheme of the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan), Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment . Scholarships cheques worth Rs. 5.00 lakhs also distributed to each of 66 Students with visual impairment under National Scholarship Scheme of National Federation of the Blind.


    During the event,the Minister said that the government is dedicated for holistic development of every section of the society with the motto of “Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas”. He expressed his happiness that the Department has successfully created four world records so far which shows the commitment of the government towards the Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities.


    During the event, Shri Awanish Kumar Awasthi, Joint Secretary, DEPwD said that recently passed RPWD Act, 2016 will add a new dimension for the empowerment of Divyangjans. He encouraged students getting Smart Phones under ADIP scheme to use the Speech to Text feature for educating themselves for their further empowerment.


    Chairman of National Federation of Blind Shri Santosh Kumar Rungta thanked the Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment and the Department for supporting wholeheartedly in welfare schemes for Divyan gjans.


    Before this programme various All India competitions including Braille Reading and Writing, Debate competitions, Essay writing and Music competitions were organized by National Federation of Blind at its headquarter at Pushp Vihar, New Delhi on 3 rd and 4 th January 2016. Around 500 contest ants from various states participated in the competitions. Among which 30 Prizes were distributed to the winners of Braille Reading and Writing competitions for senior and junior level, Debate competitions for junior and senior level, Essay writing and Music competitions.


    The Purpose of National Federation of the Blind is to act as a vehicle for collective self-expression by the blind. Since its beginning in 1940, the NFB has been providing public education about blindness, information and referral services, scholarships, literature and publication about blind, advocacy services and protection of civil rights, employment assistance and support services.The Department has also granted Rs. 49.5 lakhs to NFB for modernization of Braille Press in their organization under “Central Sector Scheme of Support for establishment, modernization, capacity augmentation of Braille Presses” scheme.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/MoSJ&E/04.01.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1479962) Visitor Counter : 115