      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Launch of IPR Enforcement Toolkit for Police and IPR Awareness Campaign for Children
      Posted On: 04 JAN 2017 5:52PM by PIB Delhi


    The Commerce & Industry Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman launched an IPR Enforcement Toolkit for Police today. The toolkit has been jointly prepared by Cell for IPR Promotion and Management (CIPAM) and Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI). This toolkit will be a ready reckoner for police officials across the country in dealing with IP crimes, specifically Trade Marks counterfeiting and Copyrights piracy. In addition to details of offences under various laws, it provides for checklists for registering a complaint and conducting search and seizures. It also lays dow n general guidelines for search and seizure in case of IP crimes. This toolkit will be provided to all state police departments across the nation and will assist them in dealing with the cases relating to Trademarks and Copyrights infringements.

    The Cell for IPR Promotion and Management (CIPAM) under the aegis of the Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP), Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Government of India is working to ensure effective implementation of the National IPR Policy 2016. Several measures have been taken by CIPAM to strengthen the IP ecosystem in the country. The National IPR Policy recognizes that awareness about IPRs and respecting IPRs is very crucial in a healthy IP ecosystem. Children are the future of a country, and we should inculcate respect for IPRs amongst them from an early age, so that they become responsible users of IPRs in the future. CIPAM is collaborating with the International Trademark Association (INTA) to launch an IPR Awareness campaign for schoolchildren, which would spread the message on IPRs in a creative and engaging manner, through the use of presentations and creatively illustrated posters and pamphlets which cover the basics on IPRs and the need to protect IPRs.


    In order to strengthen the Enforcement mechanism , CIPAM has also organized seven batches of training programmes for Police officials in State of Andhra Pradesh and a three day training programme for APOs and Police Officials in State of Uttar Pradesh. Trainees enacted plays and participated in quizzes and other activities based on IPRs. CIPAM has also written to all the state police and judicial academies to undertake training of police and judicial officers on Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights.


    CIPAM is actively facilitating International engagements in the field of Intellectual Property Rights. Two MoU on IPRs were recently signed with UK and Singapore. India-USA Workshop on Protection of Trade Secrets was successfully organized by CIPAM to discuss various aspects related to Trade Secrets and its impact on Industry.


    CIPAM is looking forward to work with various stakeholders in its journey of making Creative India; Innovative India.


    MJPS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1479954) Visitor Counter : 80