      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Dr. Harsh Vardhan took a tour of his Parliamentary constituency along with Union Minister for Tourism Dr. Mahesh Sharma to survey the historical places and monuments.
      Posted On: 13 JAN 2017 7:54PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of Science and Technology, Govt. of India Dr. Harsh Vardhan along with Union Minister for Tourism Dr. Mahesh Sharma took a tour of his parliamentary constituency Chandani Chowk in order to survey the historical places and monuments under it.

    In addition to officials from Tourism and Archaeological Departments, he was accompanied by Commissioner of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Public Works Division, Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation, Water Board, NDPL, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board and senior officials from the Police Department.

    The visit started from the historic Red Fort of Delhi. Dr. Harsh Vardhan has made immense efforts for re-development of Shahjahanabad and Jama Mosques. Thereafter both ministers visited the Hardayal Municipal Library and Delhi Public Library. Dr. Harsh Vardhan requested Dr. Mahesh to equip them with facilities as per contemporary standards.

    The Nation is observing the birth Centenary of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay - a person who wanted welfare of all the sections of the society and conceived the philosophy of 'Integral Humanism'.

    Dr. Harsh Vardhan informed the Dr Mahesh Sharma that the historic Town Hall of Delhi may be developed as a memorial for Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay so that everyone can take inspiration from his great life.

    The Union Tourism Minister also agreed to consider the development plans for Kudesia Garden and Roshanara Bagh. The plan for their beautification, upkeep of monuments there, redevelopment of Roshanara Bagh with spaces like cafeteria, playgrounds, separate utilities area for women with various facilities, modern benches, dustbins and garbage recycling system etc. The estimated cost for both these plans is estimated at around ₹ 10 Crore and ₹ 4 Crore. The Union Tourism Minister also instructed officials to prepare development plans for Naini Lake in Model Town with boating, Laser lights etc.

    RDS/AK

    

    
    (Release ID: 1480514) Visitor Counter : 43