      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Rajnath Singh lays the Foundation Stone of New NDRF Campus in Andhra Pradesh
      Posted On: 09 JAN 2017 7:16PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh laid the foundation stone of the new NDRF campus at Konda Pavuluru, Andhra Pradesh, today. The Union Minister for Urban Development, Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation and Information & Broadcasting, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu, the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Shri Chandrababu Naidu and senior officers were also present on the occasion.


    This campus will c ome up in 50 acres land provided by the Andhra Pradesh Government and the expenditure for construction will be borne by the Central government. The campus will be completed in two years. 10th Battalion of NDRF is responsible for looking after the areas of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka for disaster response.


    On this occasion Shri Rajnath Singh applauded the NDRF for combating disasters within the country and beyond and asserted to modernization of Force. He said that the personnel of this unique Force will be provided with world class accommodation and thanked to the Government of Andhra Pradesh for providing land to NDRF.


    The Union Minister Shri Venkaiah Naidu, the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Shri N. Chandra Babu Naidu also appreciated the NDRF for its prompt and effective response during disasters.


    
    On this occasion Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh announced that the new NDRF campus will be connected to Vijayawada bypass (4KM) with a metal road very soon and water supply for the campus will be provided from Pollavaram canal.


    The NDRF which has completed over a decade in the field of disaster response has responded to numerous calamities across the country and beyond and proved its worth in the field of disaster response by rescuing over half a million precious lives and sensitized over 47 lakhs people through its capacity building programmes.


    *****


    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1480228) Visitor Counter : 20