      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      3-day Conference of Central and State Ministers and Secretaries of Sports & Youth Affairs, tourism and culture Begins in Kutch, Gujarat
      Posted On: 20 JAN 2017 7:49PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Youth Affairs & Sports, Shri Vijay Goel, has stressed the need for promotion of sports for all round development of the society. He was addressing the inaugural session of a 3-day Conference of Central and State Ministers and Secretaries of Sports & Youth Affairs, tourism and culture in Kutch, Gujarat today. He said that promotion of sports and games among youth will improve their fitness level which may reduce our health expenditure. Similarly, sports can lead to promotion of tourism. If youth are involved in sports and games related activities, they will not be inclined towards crimes. Hence, Shri Vijay Goel, stressed upon the need for giving maximum encouragement to sports and games in coming years. He said that various skills need to be developed in the field of sports. For this purpose, he has spoken to the Minister for Skill Development.


    Shri Goel said that a “Sports Talent Hunt Portal” will be launched in next fifteen days in which videos and particulars of budding and emerging players could be uploaded so that they could be trained properly.


    Shri Goel stated that Khelo India has been launched with the organization of National level competitions, which are still being conducted. Process of selection of players for Olympics and other events has already started so that their training could begin at the earliest. Coordination meetings with schools and such other institutions, which are responsible for holding sports events are being held to ensure the best possible ways for identifying talent.

    Shri Goel agreed with State Ministers of States that sports should be included in the Concurrent List for which a Note will soon be submitted to the Cabinet.

    Shri Goel said that as there is a shortage of playfields in our country, the State Governments should make special arrangements for developing playfields on the available land. States should also formulate a policy regarding the use of playfields existing in the schools, colleges and institutions in the afternoon.

    Shri Goel said that maximum attention will be paid to sports in schools and universities and sports should be made an integral part of the school education. For this purpose, three meetings have been held with the Human Resource Development Minister. He said, ten universities will be short-listed where ‘Centres of Excellence’ for different sports disciplines will be established.

    Shri Goel said that more Centres of the youth organization namely, ‘Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan’ will be established and slum areas and villages will be developed. It will be our endeavour that the youth should participate in some cultural, social or sports related activities. Programmes will be developed in collaboration with Tourism and Culture Ministries. ‘National Service Scheme’ will be broad-based and strengthened.

    Maximum playfields will be developed and for this purpose, assistance will be provided by the Centre. Coaches will be made available to develop sports. Special training will be imparted to Ex-International and National players to appoint them as Coaches.

    ***


    AD/


    

    
    (Release ID: 1480927) Visitor Counter : 24