      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Dated 15th January, 2016 Adoption Regulations, 2017 to become operational from tomorrow
      
      The Adoption Regulations to further strengthen the adoption programme in the country

      Posted On: 15 JAN 2017 4:06PM by PIB Delhi

      Adoption Regulations, 2017 framed by ‘Central Adoption Resource Authority’ (CARA) as mandated under section 68 (c) of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 has been notified on 4 th January 2017 by the Government Press and the Regulations shall be effective from 16 January 2017. The Adoption Regulations, 2017 replace the Adoption Guidelines, 2015.

      The Adoption Regulations have been framed keeping in mind the issues and challenges faced by CARA and other stake holders including the Adoption Agencies & Prospective Adoptive Parents (PAPs). This will further strengthen adoption programme in the country by streamlining the adoption process. Transparency, early deinstitutionalisation of children, informed choice for the parents, ethical practices and strictly defined timelines in the adoption process are the salient aspects of the Adoption Regulations.

      Salient features of the Adoption Regulations, 2017:-

      a) Procedures related to adoption by relatives both within the country and abroad have been defined in the Regulations.
      b) Validity of Home Study Report has been increased from two to three years.
      c) The time period available to the domestic PAPs for matching and acceptance, after reserving the child referred, has been increased to twenty days from the existing fifteen days.
      d) District Child protection Unit (DCPU) shall maintain a panel of professionally qualified or trained social workers.
      e) There are 32 Schedules annexed to the Regulations including model adoption applications to be filed in the Court and this would considerably addr ess delays prevalent in obtaining the Court order.
      f) CARA shall be facilitating all adoptions under the JJ Act, 2015 through Child Adoption Resource Information & Guidance System (CARINGS) and all kinds of adoptions, including adoptions by relatives shall be reported to CARA which would enable safeguards for all adopted children by maintaining their record and ensuring post adoption follow up.

      The new Adoption Regulations, 2017 are on the website of the Ministry of Women and Child Development “ www.wcd.nic.in ” and website of CARA “ www.cara.nic.in ”.

      ****


      NB/SK/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1480532) Visitor Counter : 104