      Ministry of Defence

      Seventeen States and Six Central Ministries to showcase their tableaux in Republic Day Parade – 2017
      Posted On: 22 JAN 2017 6:49PM by PIB Delhi

    This year Republic Day Parade on Rajpath will witness tableaux from 17 States and Six Ministries of the Central Government. These tableaux will showcase varied themes starting from country’s rich cultural heritage and socio-economic development to nation’s progress in key areas like IT, Women, Empowerment and Environment Protection. A brief write-up on each tableaux highlighting its significance is given below:
    ODISHA
    Dola Jatra
    The tableau of Odisha depicts ‘Dola Jatra’ – a popular festival celebrated in the state. This festival signifies the journey of Goddess Radha & Lord Krishna for ultimate union in the tradition of Bhakti cult.
    ‘Dola Jatra’ coincides with the Holi festival that takes place on Falguna Dashami before full moon day in the midst of February-March. The worship of Goddess Radha and Lord Krishna is the pivotal event during this six-day long festival. On Falguna Dashami, the idols of village deities, especially that of Lord Krishna, are carried on a small decorated wooden temple called Bimana in a procession to all houses in the village. The procession of people, smeared with Abira (violet coloured powder), moves from one house to another while rejoicing and dancing with the traditional music and songs.
    ARUNACHAL PRADESH
    Yak Dance
    The tableau depicts the Yak Dance, one of the most famous pantomimes of the Mahayana sect of Buddhist Tribes of Arunachal Pradesh. The masked dancer represents the members of a family who are said to have discovered the Yak with the help of a magical bird hundreds of years ago. The Yak is the most useful animal of these tribes owing its multipurpose uses. The discovery of the Yak resolved the family’s internal property disputes and provided a permanent source of prosperity to the entire community. This dance portrays the joy of the people upon finding the Yak and it signifies the presence of health, wealth and happiness of the Mahayana Buddhist tribes, who believe that performing this dance would relieve them of all their complications and anxieties.
    MAHARASHTRA
    Lokmanya Balgangadhar Tilak
    This year is being commemorated as the 160th birth anniversary of the honoured freedom fighter, Lokmanya Balgangadhar Tilak. Known popularly as Lokmanaya, meaning revered by the people, Tilak was one of the first leaders of the Indian Independence movement. A freedom activist and a social reformer, he was also a mathematician, news reporter, editor, writer and orator. He committed himself to bring about awakening in the society and nation building so as to liberate India from the oppressive rule of the British. He started publishing his newspapers, the ‘Mahratta’ and ‘Kesari’. With a view to bring about social awakening and unity in the fight against the foreign rule, he initiated the celebrations of ‘Ganeshotsav’ and also the ‘Shivjayanti Utsav’. This year the tradition of celebrating Ganeshotsav as begun by him would be completing 125 successful years.
    Lokmanya Tilak understood the importance of physical education and hence, encouraged it alongwith other social reforms. He was one of the strongest advocates of ‘Swaraj’ or Self Rule for India. His famous slogan ‘SWARAJ IS MY BIRTH RIGHT AND I SHALL HAVE IT’ served as an inspiration for future revolutionaries of India’s struggle for freedom. The Maharashtra tableau depicts the commemoration of the 160th birth anniversary of this great man of India.
    MANIPUR
    Lai Haraoba
    Lai Haraoba is one of the oldest ritualistic theatres of the world jealously preserved by the Meitei community of Manipur with utmost awe and sanctity. The entire community participates in it with complete devotion.
    Lai Haraoba, translated as ‘Happiness of the Gods’ is celebrated to worship local deities to bring prosperity and well-being of the land and its inhabitants. These divinities are referred to as Umag Lais or Sylvan Gods as their abodes are located in a wooded area. The sacred ceremonies are conducted by Maibis or priestesses who are adept in dance and sacred rituals. The common people also dance as an act of worship to the accompaniment of the traditional stringed instruments (pena) and drums (langdeng pung).
    The Manipur tableau is an effort to recreate the ambience of this quaint and rich cultural tradition with a replica of the deities, elaborate traditional paraphernalia and live dancing by the devotees as well as a Maibi (priestess) performing the sacred dance to awaken the God from his slumber.
    GUJARAT
    The Art and Lifestyle of Kutch
    Gujarat’s Kutch district is renowned all over the world for its art and lifestyle. 16 different types of embroidery is done here. The Rogan art, Mud work and the art of making Bhunga gives Kutch a unique identity across the globe.
    The main subject of Tableau is the ‘The Art and Lifestyle of Kutch’. Hence the woman doing the embroidery work is shown on the front part of the tableau in symbolic form. On the back side of the tableau people using Motchi (Cobbler) embroidery art and Dabda, Kutchi camel covered with embroidery work fabric, Rogan art work and the residence of Kutch people Bhunga is shown.
    LAKSHADWEEP
    An Unexplored Tourist Destination
    Lakshadweep or “Laksha – Dweep” – A Hundred Thousand Islands – as defined in Sanskrit, consists of 36 islands un-evenly spread in the Arabian Sea. The tiniest Union Territory of India formed in 1956 is located 220-440 Km off the Kerala coast. Kavaratti is its Administrative Headquarter. Lakshadweep is the best of its kind “Adventure Sport – Nature Tourism” location that owns world’s premier diving spots, rich eco-system, marine wealth, coral reefs, silver sandy beaches, virgin environment, & pristine waters.
    KARNATAKA
    Folk Dances
    Famous for its traditional arts and folk dances, the state of Karnataka presents traditional folk dances of the state in this year’s Republic Day Parade tableau. The tableau showcases the Goravas, the worshippers of Lord Shiva engaged in the traditional ritualistic dance. They are adorned with unique caps made of bear’s hair, who dance to the beats of drums and blowing flute. It is followed by the sword wielding warriors who are seen performing a dance while others carrying cymbals follow in circles. With those beating drums, a dancer attired in attractive mask forms the ensemble of Somas dancers to make the visual presentation complete.
    NCT OF DELHI
    Model Government School of Delhi
    The tableau of Delhi portrays the transformation of School Education in the Nation, particularly the recent initiatives taken for quality enhancement in the field. A good education lays the foundation of a good future. In its bid to improve the quality of education, the Government of Delhi has been transforming Government Schools into Model Schools. The infrastructure of the schools have been upgraded and quality of education improved. Both teachers and students, have responded well to these changes. Under a special programme, students are also taught music, theatre, fine arts, creative writing and photography by experts. These Model Schools are now at par with the private schools as is reflected in the enthusiasm of the teachers and students alike.
    The tableau of Delhi demonstrates the evolution of the concept of ‘Model Schools’.
    HIMACHAL PRADESH
    Chamba Rumal
    Chamba Rumal is the finest specimen of Pahari art flourishing in Chamba town of Himachal Pradesh during late 18th century. Hand woven satin cloth is embroidered with untwisted silken thread in double stitch that comes the same on both sides known as do-rukha. Rasleela, Astanayika and scenes from ancient legends and myths are generally depicted on Rumal.The Himachal tableau represents the essence of this wonderful craft.
    HARYANA
    Beti Bachao – Beti Padhao
    Beti Bachao – Beti Padhao is a relevant issue of our country. In earlier days girls were mostly denied higher education and pushed into early marriage. Even today, women have to suffer a lot as a consequence of girls discrimination against them. In many villages, the girls are neither treated at par with the boys, nor allowed education beyond primary level. They are killed in the womb. Even if they survive foetal death, they are exposed to numerous threats such as physical assaults, exploitation and dowry deaths to name a few.
    Prime Minister of India has laid stress on the need of educating and evaluating the girl child. On this front Haryana has been spearheading this moment. It has seen immense development in women empowerment in various spheres of life like education, sports, services sector etc.
    WEST BENGAL
    Sharod Utsav
    The appearance of pristine-white “Kashphool” in the backdrop of the greenery of rural Bengal in autumn (sharad), signals the advent of the festive season of Durga Puja, also known as “Sharod Utsav”.
    Sharod Utsav in Bengal is no longer a mere religious festival but has ascended a higher plane, embracing the entire community in the state and across India and the world. It has also become one of the largest outdoor art carnivals in the world. The art motif extends to elaborate interior and exteriors of Puja pandals, executed by trained artists, with stylized elements and carefully executed presentation of crafts and culture.
    PUNJAB
    Jago Aaiya
    “JAGO” literally means “Wake Up”. Centuries ago invitations were not sent to invite people to wedding ceremony. Jago is a festive dance full of energy and celebrations which would take place the night before a Punjabi Wedding. A pot (Gaagar) decorated with oil lamps and carried on the head is used while dancing and singing Jago songs. Relatives of the bride or groom would go around the village so also encourage people to wake-up and join in the festivities. The tableau is based on the theme of “JAGO”.
    TAMIL NADU
    Karakattam
    ‘Karakattam’, a popular folk dance of Tamil Nadu forms an important event in temple festival celebrations especially in Amman Temple festivals in the rural areas of Tamil Nadu.
    ‘Karakattam’ is one of the old folk dances, in which the dancers hold, balance and dance with a brass pot decorated in cone shape with colourful flowers and adorned with a parrot made of light wood on the top of it. The Karagam dancers perform entertaining dance movements to the beat of drums balancing with the Karagam on their head.
    GOA
    Musical Heritage of Goa
    Sangodd is the larger platform formed by combining two or more canoes. Like the Sangodd, the musical heritage of Goa has different influences from the various regimes. The tableau depicts this rich musical heritage through various musical instruments and dance. The front tractor carries a peacock fronted Sangodd. On it are fibre figurines of a lady playing a ghumat – a percussion instrument made from an earthern pot.
    TRIPURA
    Hojagiri
    Hojagiri – A Magnificent Reang Tribal Dance of Tripura is presented as the theme of the Tripura State Tableau.
    It is performed by women and young girls, about 4 to 6 members in a team, singing, balancing on an earthen pitcher and managing other props such as a bottle on the head and earthen lamp on the hand while only the lower half of the body is moved. The dance is performed on the occasion of the Hojagiri festivals and is accompanied by bamboo-made flute, cymbal and khamb.
    JAMMU & KASHMIR
    Winter Sports at Gulmarg
    The tableau of Jammu & Kashmir showcases Winter Sports at Gulmarg, a world famous tourist destination of the state Jammu & Kashmir. During the chilling winter season, the snow-clad hill station of Gulmarg situated at high altitude of 2650 m becomes an attractive winter sports destination that draws tourists from all over the world.
    ASSAM
    Kamakhya Temple
    The tableau of Assam portrays the holy shrine of Kamakhya that renders prominence to its capital metropolis – Guwahati.
    Established atop Nilachal hills in Guwahati, the Kamakhya shrine is considered as one of the greatest Shaktipeeths of the country. During the Ambubachi festival, the temple draws worshippers from the whole of India and abroad. Kamakhya temple is different from other temples as it has no image or idol for worship. Instead, there is a natural fissure, conical in shape and reddish pink in colour – resembling the genitals of woman. The fissure remains moist due to the natural flow of water from a spring that emanates inside the cave. It is believed that Mother Earth menstruates through this fissure at the time of cultivation. The place is therefore, name Ka-Mai-Kha, meaning – the mother progenitor.
    CENTRAL BOARD OF EXCISE & CUSTOMS (CBEC)
    Goods and Service Tax
    Goods & Services Tax which aims to subsume a multitude of taxes is the single biggest tax reform initiative undertaken since independence. With the enactment of the 122nd Constitutional Amendment Act on 8th of September, 2016, this reform has been given momentum. The Government intends to introduce GST very soon all over the country. GST has the potential of significantly altering not only the taxation landscape but the economic ecosystem as well.
    MINISTRY OF MICRO, SMALL & MEDIUM ENTERPRISES (MSME)
    Khadi India
    The tableau coming next is of the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises based on Khadi & Village Industries Commission. Khadi for many is just a fabric, but it is a fabric that is instrumental in freeing us from the oppression of buying British mill-made cotton while Indian weavers starved. Mahatma Gandhi rediscovered the Charkha and made it not only a symbol of self-reliance for Indians but at the same time providing a source of employment in rural India, a tradition which continues even today.
    Khadi & Village Industries Commission in April 1957 took over the responsibility of building the Khadi brand and today Khadi is not just a fabric, it is a way of life.
    MINISTRY OF HOUSING & URBAN POVERTY ALLEVIATION
    Housing for All
    The next tableau of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation and National Housing Bank depicts Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) launched by the ministry on 25th June 2015. The mission envisages a pucca house to every Indian by the year 2022, in partnership with the States/UT.
    There are four verticals in the PMAY (U) mission through which the urban housing shortage in the States/UT are being addressed. These are: In-Situ Slum Rehabilitation, Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme (CLSS), Affordable Housing in Partnership and Beneficiary led individual house construction. The mission also envisages use of new and eco- friendly construction technologies to be adopted by the States/UTs.
    COUNCIL OF SCIENTIFIC & INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH
    The next tableau is of Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) highlighting the major CSIR outcomes, depicted as decade wise sparks from the CSIR wheel with its 38 national laboratories, highlighting its global standing. CSIR in its journey of 75 years, while playing a stellar role in scientific and technological growth in the country, has also played a catalytic role in improving the quality of lives of millions as a result of its technological interventions.
    CPWD
    Green India – Clean India
    The next tableau is of CPWD which is depicts the concept of “Green India – Clean India”. It is prepared with different colourful and fragment flowers with message for the clean and green nation. Environment is the most precious element of life. People of India have joined the mission with zeal and are putting their efforts enthusiastically for maintaining the cleanness and also contributing for improvement of the environment by planting of trees. Message is for all, right from metros to rural areas. These kinds of awareness have enhanced the quality of human life at every level.
    MINISTRY OF SKILL DEVELOPMENT
    Transforming India through Skill Development
    The next tableau of the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship is based on the theme “Transforming India through Skill Development”, highlights the achievement of the Ministry and its programs. The Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship aims to coordinate skill development efforts across the country and build a vocational and technical training framework. In order to achieve its vision of a ‘Skilled India’ the Ministry aims to skill on a large scale – with a combination of both speed and high standards.
    NAo/Nampi/DM/RAJ
    
    
    (Release ID: 1480970) Visitor Counter : 99