      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Shri Radha Mohan Singh inaugurates National Workshop on Skill Development in Agriculture
      Employment opportunities generated for the skilled youth in the fields of agri-warehousing, cold chains, supply chains, dairy, poultry, meat, fisheries, horticulture, agricultural mechanization as well as micro-irrigation: Agriculture Minister
      
      Hon’ble Prime Minister called for farmer focused agriculture, apart from production focused agriculture: Shri Radha Mohan Singh
      
      Such a tremendous growth scenario has never been seen earlier – Shri Radha Mohan Singh.

      Posted On: 05 JAN 2017 5:42PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Radha Mohan Singh has said that due to the sophisticated development in agriculture sector, employment opportunities have been generated for the skilled youth in the fields of agri-warehousing in agriculture, cold chains, supply chains, dairy, poultry, meat, fisheries, horticulture, agricultural mechanization as well as micro-irrigation. The youth are benefitting from these opportunities. Shri Singh further said that self-employment opportunities also have been enhanced in these fields which require skilled youth. Shri Singh added that such a unique scenario has never been observed before in respect of overall development in the various fields of agriculture. Union Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Minister stated this on the occasion of National Workshop on Skill Development in Agriculture and the theme is “Kausal Vikas se Krishi Vikas” here today. In this workshop, the Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, the representatives of agriculture science centers, ICAR, Ministry of Agriculture as well as trained youth entrepreneurs are participating.


    Shri Radha Mohan Singh said that Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare is working with fast pace to give reality to the motto raised by Hon’ble Prime Minister, Sh. Narendra Modi, as Kaushal Bharat - Kushal Bharat. Agriculture Minister said that Hon’ble Prime Minister has called for farmer focused agriculture, apart from production focused agriculture. The government realizes that the youth of the country are required to be linked with agriculture in the form of enterprise. Shri Singh further added that, in this respect operations are being conducted on four stages in Ministry of Agriculture. The Minister briefed that particular emphasis is being laid on enhancement of productivity, post harvest management, better return of farmers produce, decrease in agriculture related risks. Shri Singh further emphasized that a fourth stage is being created so as to enhance the income of the farmers through the resources like those of horticulture, livestock, fisheries, bee-keeping etc.


    Shri Singh briefed that the Ministry of Agriculture is opening ways while formulating well planned strategy for the development of farmers as well as youth and initiatives like Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, e-NAM, Soil Health Card, Prampragat Krishi Vikas Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana, Skill Development will prove important in this endeavour. Shri Singh said that the Ministry of Agriculture has made a budget provision of Rs.3.52 crore for the year 2016-17 for implementation of the work of skill development so that training programmes may be organized through 100 Krishi Vigyan Kendras and distinguished training institutes of the Ministry.


    Agriculture Minister said that various schemes have been launched to increase the income of the farmers i.e. Prampragat Krishi Vikas Yojana for bringing more area under organic farming, National Agriculture Market (e-NAM) for providing remunerative price for the farmers. The government is emphasizing on increase in milk production through White Revolution and fish production through Blue Revolution. Shri Singh said that food security is ensured through various schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana, per drop more crop for water conservation, Water Management, Water Harvesting and Micro-irrigation. Rashtriya Gokul Mission has been launched for the first time for the development and protection of bovine breeds so that bovine breed can be protected and developed. In ‘Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav’, Agriculture Specialists of Agricultural Universities and ICAR are making effective interventions towards scientific farming for villages. Agriculture Minister has said that sowing of Rabi this year is more than 6 per cent than the previous year. Under Soil Health Card a total of 2 crore 30 lakh soil samples have been collected in the country and from which 12 crore 65 lakh farmers will be issued Soil Health Cards. On this occasion, the Shri Singh has requested Sector Skill Council established at State level to cooperate with the Central Government.


    Speaking on the concluding session, The Minister of States for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Shri Sudarshan Bhagat said that the National Workshop on skill development in Agriculture is an important and commendable effort. Shri Bhagat said that Centre is fully committed for skill development training for the youth of rural areas. The Minister of State hoped that states will extend their full support to centre in this effort.


    ****


    SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1480035) Visitor Counter : 82