      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Meeting of Minister of State for Minority Affairs (Independent Charge) Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi with representatives of Anglo-Indian community
      Posted On: 13 JAN 2017 5:06PM by PIB Delhi


      Minister of State for Minority Affairs (Independent Charge) & Parliamentary Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi has said that the central government is committed for the inclusive growth of every section of the society. Addressing a meeting of Anglo-Indian community in New Delhi today, he said that the Government is working with an aim of socio-economic-educational empowerment of all sections.

      Shri Naqvi said that the Ministry of Minority Affairs has been effectively and successfully implementing various welfare schemes aimed at empowerment of all the Minorities. “Empowerment without appeasement” is our mantra. He emphasized that there was no dearth of funds for welfare of the poor and weaker sections of the society.

      Shri Naqvi said that despite of the fact that Anglo-Indian community has a small population, the community has played a vital role in nation building. The community should take maximum benefits from the schemes related to the welfare schemes meant for Minorities. The Ministry of Minority Affairs is establishing 5 world-class educational institutions and Anglo-Indian community will also be benefitted from this decision.

      While terming the suggestions made by Anglo-Indian community representatives for socio-economic-educational empowerment of the community as “positive, constructive and fruitful”, Shri Naqvi assured the members that the Ministry of Minority Affairs will discuss their suggestions seriously.

      The members of the community praised Shri Naqvi’s initiative to convene a meeting of Anglo-Indian community. Shri Naqvi also assured that his Ministry will continue the communication with the Anglo-Indian community members regularly. The meeting was also attended by Nominated Anglo-Indian MPs Prof Richard Hay and George Baker, nominated MLAs Shri Elvis Stephenson (Telagana); Ms Vinisha Nero (Karnataka); Shri Philip Tocher (Andhra Pradesh); Shri Glen Joseph (Jharkhand), president of All India Anglo-Indian Association Barry O’ Brien and other renowned people from the community.

      ****

      BCK/AK

    
    

    
    (Release ID: 1480481) Visitor Counter : 54