      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      National Youth Festival with the theme Youth for Digital India to be held at Rhotak from 12th to 16th January 2017
      Posted On: 10 JAN 2017 4:11PM by PIB Delhi

      Department of Youth Affairs of Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, organizes every year the National Youth Festival on the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, the greatest Youth Icon from 12th to 16thJanuary.
      Union Minister for Youth Affairs & Sports Shri Vijay Goel, in a statement said that this year the 21st National Youth Festival is being organised in Rohtak, Haryana from 12th to 16th January, 2017. He further informed that Prime Minister will address the participants of the Festival through video conference on the occasion of opening ceremony. Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh will grace the occasion as Chief Guest in the august presence of Shri Mahohar Lal, Chief Minister, Haryana.
      Shri Goel further informed that this year the theme of the Festival ‘Youth for Digital India’ has been decided keeping in view the most critical and crucial importance of the thrust accorded to the area of Digitalisation and Skill Development by Government of India and realise the proclaimed national goal for ‘Make in India Campaign’ and the PM’s vision of ‘Youth Led Development’. Further to achieve the proclaimed national goal, it has been decided to project the various widely acclaimed initiatives of Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, NSDA, NSDC, DGET & MoMSME etc. through Skill Development Exhibition, Lectures & Workshops for the benefit of thousands of participants of the Festival and local youth. Similarly the Mascot of the festival was decided in view of the long standing skewed sex ratio especially in a state like Haryana. Selection of ‘Lado’ reflect the sensitivity of the state government towards the gender inequality in the state and to bring women at par with men which both the government is committed to combat. The Festival will also witness a Defence exhibition where various aspects and initiatives of the defence forces, display of equipment and avenues for recruitment into Armed Forces will be projected for the benefits of thousands of young participant.
      A performance by renowned artist on the life and ideology of Swami Vivekanand on the opening ceremony will be the highlight of the festival. During 13th to 16th January, 2017 the Festival will have a variety of cultural programmes (both competitive and non-competitive), Youth Convention, Suvichar (a lecture series), Exhibitions and adventure programmes, Hasya Kavi Sammelan, Haryanavi Nights etc. followed by Cultural Evening by Hansraj Hans and Raftaar.
      India being one of the youngest nations in the world with about 65% of its population under the age of 35, Shri Goel expects that this demographic dividend’ offers a great opportunity for the country to revolutionize itself and achieve the vision of a clean India, a skilled India and most importantly an incredible India . He urges the Youth of the Nation to strive and work endlessly in the process of nation building following the paths shown by Swami Vivekanada.
      The delegates from the different states have already started arriving for the event. It is expected that about 5000 youth delegates from different States/UTs will enrich their knowledge and experience in the festival and will take with them the rich culture and heritage of the Nation.
      ****
      AD/MB
    
    
    (Release ID: 1480269) Visitor Counter : 35