      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Good Governance is Minimum Government and Maximum Governance: Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu
      
      
      E- Governance enables good governance in India: Dr. Jitendra Singh

      Posted On: 09 JAN 2017 8:11PM by PIB Delhi

      


    The 20 th National Conference on e-Governance began in Visakhapatnam today. Addressing the gathering at the inaugural function, the Union Minister for Urban Development, Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation and Information & Broadcasting, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu said that Good Governance is Fundamental, but e-Governance is Instrumental. The mantra for our Government from first day has been Minimum Government and Maximum Governance. The idea was to reduce human interface in delivering services to the people. He further said that e- Governance is playing an important role in empowering citizens. The Union government is trying to improve the delivery systems enabling to reach the benefits of the welfare schemes of the government to the poorest of the poor.

    The Prime Minister’s vision of Jan Dhan Yojana, Aadhar and Mobile are helping for Direct Benefit Transfer to the common man for improving the quality of life and standard of living. The Union government stands for Accountability, Transparency, and provides responsive administration to the people of this country. Referring to the demonetization, the Union Minister opined that this is the historic decision taken by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and a revolutionary measure for transformation of India. Information Technology is useful to eradicate corruption and unearth the black money. He further said that the Nation has highly talented young people and India can grow by using best technology. The government is striving hard to remove economic disparities among the people and implementation of Information Technology will bring in more transparency and accountability.

    Speaking on the occasion, the Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra singh said that e-Governance enables good governance in India. Dr. Singh also said that Andhra Pradesh is a role model in the country in the development of Information technology and promoted the e-governance. Digital India is initiative of government of India to ensure that government services are made available to citizens electronically by improving online infrastructure and by increasing internet connectivity. He further said that it is an elaborate and ambitious plan centered on three key areas namely providing digital infrastructure as a utility to every citizen, providing governance and services on demand and finally to digitally empower the citizens of the country. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister of State for Science & Technology and Earth Sciences, Shri Y.S. Chowdary said that technology is the growth engine not only for the development of the nation, but also improving the civic amenities and catering to the needs of the people in a fastest way.

    While delivering the inaugural address the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Shri. N. Chandrababu Naidu said that Andhra Pradesh government has been promoting Information Technology in a big way. Union ministers released the books on e-governance. A film on e- governance “Transforming India” was screened on the occasion. Secretary, Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, Government of India, Shri C. Viswanath; Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Smt. Aruna Sundararajan; Additional Secretary, DARPG, Smt. Usha Sharma, several State Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, local MPs and MLAs and more than 1000 delegates from central government, state governments, industry, and academia as well as experts from the private sector are participating in the conference.

    *****


    KSD/NK/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1480233) Visitor Counter : 38