      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NCB stops big consignments of drugs and intercepts two swallowers
      Posted On: 06 JAN 2017 7:32PM by PIB Delhi

      

    The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had put all its machinery on action on the eve of New Year when drugs are widely used in rave parties. Acting on this task, Delhi Zonal Unit of Narcotics Control Bureau had put its focus on the foreigners coming to Delhi through IGI Airport to supply drugs in Delhi NCR. On the intervening night of December 30-31, 2016, Delhi Zonal Unit of Narcotics Control Bureau intercepted a Brazilian woman namely, Joseane Da Silva Antunes age-38 years old at IGI, Airport travelling by Etihad Airways from Sao Paulo to New Delhi via Abu Dhabi on specific information of bearing swallowed cocaine capsules. The woman was taken to Safdarjung Hospital for medical examination. During medical examination, it was confirmed that some foreign objects are concealed inside her stomach. The woman was admitted in the hospital and since then she has extracted total 65 capsules of drugs so far.


    Acting further on intelligence source, on January 4, 2017, Delhi Zonal Unit of NCB intercepted an Afghan national namely Mohammad Qasem age-50 years at IGI, Airport travelling by Kam Air from Herat to New Delhi via Kabul with information of having swallowed Heroin capsules. The suspect was taken to Safdarjung Hospital for medical examination. During medical examination, the accused has since then extracted 90 capsules of drugs.


    Both the accused are still under medical supervision. Necessary legal proceedings would be carried out only after their discharge. They are likely to extract more such capsules.


    The agency is still on the lookout for more such swallowers coming to Delhi. This is a big jolt to the drug traffickers and the users of the drugs. All persons involved in the racket are being identified and action is being planned accordingly. The swallow method is not easy to detect as there is no mechanism to identify any concealment inside body. Only after applying profiling techniques, the suspects are identified.


    ***

    KSD/PK/KM
    
    
    (Release ID: 1480124) Visitor Counter : 56