      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot Inaugurates Silver Jubilee Celebrations of NBCFDC
      Posted On: 13 JAN 2017 3:18PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri ThaawarchandGehlot, Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment inaugurated the Silver Jubilee celebrations of National Backward Classes Finance & Development Corporation (NBCFDC), a Govt. of India Undertaking under the aegis of Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, here today. Shri RamdasAthawale, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment, Smt. Latha Krishna Rao, Secretary, M/o SJ&E and many dignitaries were present.


    Shri Gehlot distributedthe performance Awards to the Channel Training partners of NBCFDC and launchedthe pilot of Loan & Employee InformationAutomation Project (LEAP) system. He released a short film “HamariKahani” based on the experiences of beneficiaries of NBCFDC and a book entitled “Safalata Ki Kahaniyan” brought out by NBCFDC on the success stories of the beneficiaries on the occasion.


    In his address, Shri Gehlot said that the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment is working through channelizing agencies and banking institutions in all States for the welfare of Backward classes. He said that all Corporations under his ministry are working very effectively in the service of needy persons. M/o Social Justice and Empowerment organizes Job Fairs regularly through its Corporations for providing Jobs to the youths of these classes. He opined that Training improves the personality. He said that without “People’s participation”, such schemes can’t succeed. He called upon people to take advantage of various schemes of these corporations of Ministry of social Justice and empowerment.


    NBCFDC was incorporated under Section 25 of the Companies Act 1956 on 13th January 1992 as a Company not for profit with an objective to promote economic and developmental activities for the benefit of Backward Classes and to assist the poorer section of these classes in skill development and self employment ventures. NBCFDC provides financial assistance through State Channelising Agencies (SCAs) nominated by the State Governments/ UTs. It also provides Micro Financing through SCAs/ Self Help Groups (SHGs). The Corporation can assist a wide range of income generating activities to assist the poorer section of these classes in skill development and self-employment ventures under the broad sectors viz.: (1) Agriculture and Allied Activities ; (2) Small Business : (3) Artisan and Traditional Occupation ; (4) Technical and Professional Trades/Courses ; and (5) Transport and Service Sector etc.

    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/MoSJ&E/13.01.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1480474) Visitor Counter : 96