      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Curtain Raiser: 20th National Conference on e-Governance
      Posted On: 08 JAN 2017 12:13PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), Government of India, in association with the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India and Government of Andhra Pradesh is organizing the 20th National Conference on e-Governance on January 9-10, 2017 in Vishakhapatnam. Senior Government Officers, technical experts, academicians and representatives of the industry and NGOs will participate in the event.


    Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, Shri Nara Chandrababu Naidu; Union Minister of Urban Development, Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation and Information & Broadcasting, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu, Union Minister of Civil Aviation, Shri Ashok Gajapathi Raju Pusapati, Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region, Minister of State, Prime Minister’s Office, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Department of Atomic Energy & Department of Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh, Union Minister of State for Electronics & Information Technology, Law and Justice, Shri P.P. Chaudhary and Union Minister of State for Science and Technology & Earth Sciences, Shri Y.S. Chowdary will be present during the inaugural session on January 9, 2017 at 10.00 AM. Also present on the occasion will be Minister of Information & PR, IT &Communications, NRI Empowerment & Relations, Telugu Language & Culture, Minority Welfare & Empowerment, Government of Andhra Pradesh, Shri Palle Raghunatha Reddy, Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha), Dr. T. Subbarami Reddy, Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha), Dr. Kambhampati Hari Babu, Secretary, DARPG, Shri C. Viswanath, Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Govt. of India, Smt. Aruna Sundararajan, Secretary, Department of Telecommunications, Govt. of India, Shri J.S. Deepak, Additional Secretary, DARPG, Smt Usha Sharma and other Senior Officers from the Government of India and various State/Union Territory Governments.

    National e-Governance Awards for the year 2016-17 will be presented in twelve categories concerning various aspects of e-Governance during the event comprising of Gold and Silver in each category. The National e-Governance Awards recognise some of the best Government to Government (G2G), Government to Citizen (G2C), Government to Business (G2B) initiatives taken by various Government Departments and also initiatives of Public Sector Units and Non- Government Institutions. The Conference along with the Exhibition is a forum to showcase Best Practices, Innovative Technologies and ICT solutions. The Conference will be of two days’ duration which includes sessions on selected themes and sub-themes, exhibition, cultural function and other related activities.

    The inaugural session will be followed by a session on the core theme of the Conference which is “Digital Transformation” with specific sub-themes for the plenary sessions as (i) Internet of Things (IoT) and Data Analytics: Discussion on the usage of IoT and Data Analytics in transforming Government processes and service delivery (ii) Cyber Security policy for the future: Building up India's capabilities in terms of Cyber Security Governance, Monetary Transactions and Defence (iii) Digital Connectivity to the last mile: Focus on assuring last mile digital connectivity through a fibre grid and alternative technologies (iv) Technology -led monetary transactions leading to financial inclusion: Focus on active involvement of technology in monetary transactions, phase out cash and enable cashless payments through Aadhaar. The discussion on these domains shall lead to recommendations for the Digital Transformation of the country. The Conference is expected to be attended by more than 1,000 Delegates from Government of India, State Governments, Industry, Academia and Private Sector as well.

    ***

    KSD/PK/KM
    
    
    (Release ID: 1480155) Visitor Counter : 65