      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      24th Conference of Central and State Statistical Organisations(COCSSO) meets tomorrow at Nagpur
      Posted On: 18 JAN 2017 6:23PM by PIB Delhi

      

    Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MoSPI), Government of India, is organizing a two day Conference of Central and State Statistical Organizations (COCSSO) at Nagpur, Maharashtra during 19 -20th January, 2017. This Conference is being conducted in collaboration with the Directorate of Economics and Statistics(DES), Government of Maharashtra.
    
    The Conference will be inaugurated by Shri D.V. Sadananda Gowda, Union Minister for Statistics and Programme Implementation. The participants of 24th COCSSO include Chairman and Members of the National Statistical Commission, Senior officers from MoSPI and other Central Ministries, NITI Aayog, ISI, ICAR, NABARD, RBI and Principal Secretaries / Heads of the Directorates of Economics and Statistics (DESs) from the States and UTs
    
    The theme of this year’s Conference is “Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare”. A number of papers by premier institutions such as NITI Aayog, NABARD, RBI, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Environment and Climate Change, FAO, ISI, etc. will be presented and discussed in the Conference. The Conference will review the Action Taken on the Recommendations of 23rd COCSSO as well as the progress of the State Statistical Strengthening Project.
    
    As per the recommendations of the National Statistical Commission, Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation organizes a COCSSO every year, which provides a platform for the Central and State Statisticians to exchange views and discuss common issues relating to statistical activities. This is a major national forum for coordination between the Central and State Statistical Agencies with the objective of putting in coordinated efforts for making available reliable and timely statistics to planners and policy makers, not only in Government but also in private corporate sector for evidence based decision making and good governance. In addition, various states DESs will also share their experiences of new initiatives/innovations.

    *****
    
    (Release ID: 1480707) Visitor Counter : 49