      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Regional conference of Labour Minister of Southern States held at Chennai
      Posted On: 11 JAN 2017 5:08PM by PIB Delhi


    Regional Conference of State Labour Ministers and Principal Secretaries/Secretaries, Department of Labour of Southern States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Teln gana, Lashadweep and Puducherry was held under the chairmanship of Hon’ble Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Labour & Em ployment, Government of India, Shri Bandaru Dattatreyaji today at Chennai.


    Shri Dattatreya said that Central Government is committed to inclusive growth where everyone, be it youth, women, rural poor, or minority backward class, should be made a stake holder and partner.


    The Minister said that flagship programmes Make in India, Sk illed India, Digital India have made the world to look at India positively. Indian Labour market is becoming more vibrant and sought after Globally. Whi le tapping the resources, this Government is committed to Emp loyment Generation and also to upgrade the status of work force of the country to make them more dignified, valued, financially sound with their safety as a priority.


    He elaborated the initiatives and reforms taken up by his government including the technology based initiatives such as Shram Suvidha Portal, NCS and UAN. He expressed his happiness that the Southern States were willing and ready to join these initiatives.


    Shri Dattatreya highlighted the recent initiatives/Schemes by Government such as PMRPY, the Ordinance for payment of wages, initiatives by MoLE in collaboration with States and Banks on financial inclusion of workers.


    The day long conference consisted of four technical sessions on various legislative, administrative and technology based initiatives by the Ministry. The States welcomed the Central Government initiatives on Labour law reforms, technological interventions as well as the incentives related to the social security of the working class. The sessions on Shram Suvidha Portal and NCS were very interactive with States showing keen interest to join these platforms. The discussions on Labour law reforms and Industrial relations and social security brought out specific area where States can collaborate with Central machinery for better results. Sharing of good practices by States was done on this occasion.


    Shri Dattatreya in his concluding remarks, emphasised that Co-operative Federalism is a key vehicle to achieve rapid development in India. Strong states are the foundation of a strong India. He Congratulated States for their welfare measures and assured of every cooperation by the Central Government.

    ****


    AT/BCK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1480338) Visitor Counter : 109