      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      4 Day National Youth Festival with the theme Youth for Digital India begins at Rohtak, Haryana
      Posted On: 12 JAN 2017 7:00PM by PIB Delhi


    21 st National Youth Festival with the theme “Youth for Digital India” begins in Rohtak, Haryana today. At the inaugural ceremony of the 4 day festival, the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi addressed the Youths from across country who have come to Rohtak to participate in the event through video conference. The ceremony was inaugurated by Union Minister of state (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel along with Chief Minister of Haryana Shri Manohar Lal. Sports Minister of Haryana Shri Anil Vij and several other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Vijay Goel paid glowing tributes to Swami Vivekanand and said since 1985 government of India is commemorating his birthday as National Youth Day as the life and teachings of Vivekananda is an inspiration for millions of Youth of this country. He said this year the theme of the Festival ‘Youth for Digital India’ reflects the most critical and crucial importance of the thrust accorded to the area of Digitalisation and Skill Development by Government of India and realise the proclaimed national goal for the PM’s vision of ‘Youth Led Development’.


    He said that the Government under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has embarked on the mission of building a united, strong and modern India. ‘Digital India’ and skill India initiative seeks to transform India into a digitally empowered society and knowledge economy. Referring to the ban of currency notes of rupees 500 and 1000, the minister said that the decision was taken to eliminate black money, terror financing and fake currency. He said youth will play a crucial role in making India a less cash society by using digital mode of money transactions.


    Shri Goel said the youth are indeed the most dynamic and vibrant segment of the population in any country. India is one of the youngest nations in the world, with about 28% population between 15 – 29 years of age group. He said, the Indian Youth have always been highly talented, hard-working and enterprising and therefore, the government wants participation of Youth in every aspect of country’s development through education and skill development. He urged the Youth of the Nation to strive and work endlessly in the process of nation building by following the path shown by Swami Vivekanand.


    About 5000 participating youth delegates from different States/UTs will enrich their knowledge and exchange their experiences during the festival.


    A Defence exhibition with various aspects and initiatives of the defence forces, display of equipment and avenues for recruitment into Armed Forces is installed for the benefits of thousands of young participants in the festival. A performance on the life and ideology of Swami Vivekanand was highlight of the opening ceremony.

    During 13 th to 16 th January, 2017 the Festival will have a variety of cultural programmes (both competitive and non-competitive), Youth Convention, Suvichar (a lecture series), Exhibitions and adventure programmes, Hasya Kavi Sammelan, Haryanavi Nights etc. followed by Cultural Evening by Hansraj Hans and Raftaar.

    ***


    AD/MB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1480431) Visitor Counter : 34