      Ministry of Defence

      Minister of State for Defence visits Republic Day NCC Camp-2017
      Posted On: 19 JAN 2017 6:57PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State for Defence Dr. Subhash Bhamre has highly commended the role of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) in propagating the ideals of secularism, national integration, selfless service and generating patriotic values amongst the youth of the nation. He also lauded the efforts of the cadets to make the organisation a cohesive, disciplined and vibrant one synonymous with ‘unity in diversity and the spirit of a secular and united India.’

    Speaking on the occasion of NCC Republic Day Camp-2017 at Cariappa Parade Ground, Delhi Cantt, today, the Minister appreciated the NCC in carving a niche for itself as a unique organisation in nation building and grooming future leaders. He said the recent initiatives undertaken by the Director General NCC (DGNCC) in making the NCC an elective subject in schools and colleges, are progressive steps in the right direction. Complimenting the achievements made by the NCC cadets, he specially mentioned the successful scaling of Mt Everest by the Girl Cadets. Dr. Bhamre also noted with pride the efforts of the NCC cadets to spread awareness on the benefits and modalities of cashless transactions in society.
    Earlier on arrival, the Minister was received by DGNCC Lt. Gen. Vinod Vashisht and other senior officers. He was given a Guard of Honour by the three wings of the Army, Navy and Air Force contingents, and thereafter was presented a fine band display.
    Dr. Bhamre also visited the ‘Hall of Fame’, which has an archival collection of alumni photographs, models and other achievements of the NCC. The versatile NCC cadets then presented a colourful cultural programme comprising group dances and ballet, showcasing the rich cultural heritage of the nation.
    The Republic Day Camp is being attended by 2068 cadets including 696 girl cadets specially selected from 17 Directorates covering all the States and Union Territories and foreign cadets from 10 friendly foreign countries under the NCC Youth Exchange Programme.
    ***

    NW/NAo/Nampi/DM/RAJ

    

    
    (Release ID: 1480791) Visitor Counter : 16