      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      J P Nadda dedicates “Dharamshala Complex” at Dr RM L Hospital to the Public
      Posted On: 05 JAN 2017 5:53PM by PIB Delhi

      

    With the aim of providing free residential facilities to attendants of the poor patient who do not belong to Delhi, the Union Minister for Health & Family Welfare, Shri J P Nadda inaugurated the ‘Dharamshala complex’ at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital (RML) Hospital, here today. The complex is a 35 bedded facility having single, twin and dormitory rooms with a floor reserved for women. The complex has been constructed with a total outlay of approx. ₹ 6.15 cr and offers free communication facilities for the attendants. Care taker, Security and Sanitation services are available round the clock. Shri Faggan Singh Kulaste, Hon’ble MoS (Health & Family Welfare) was also present on the occasion.


    Speaking at the function, Shri Nadda said that this hospital attracts patients from the city and from neighboring states with unwavering belief that they will get best of services available in the country. “RML has been successful in balancing the quality and quantity while delivering services to the poor people,” Shri Nadda added.


    Laying emphasis on services to be delivered at the complex, Shri Nadda said that the services at the complex should be regularly inspected and monitored. “We erect the hardware but not pay much attention to the software part. The hospital should look at ways and means of making the facilities at the complex self-sustaining,’ Shri Nadda said. The Health Minister further stated that the facility should ensure proper sanitation and directed the officials to personally monitor this aspect at the facility.


    Referring to the ICT based application ‘Mera Aspataal (My Hospital)’ that captures patients’ feedback about their experience in the health facilities on the services that they received or sought to receive, Shri Nadda said that the Ministry is seeking the feedback of people digitally to improve the quality of services at the health centres. “Patient satisfaction is the ultimate test for assessing quality of services provided by a healthcare facility and we are now making a paradigm shift by seeking their views on quality of experience in a public healthcare facility. This will help us improving the experience of people at a health facility,” Shri Nadda elaborated.


    Earlier, Shri Nadda reviewed the preparedness of Dr RML Hospital to deal with the cases of H1N1 influenza. The Health Minister added, “In winter season, the H1N1 influenza cases generally show a rise. Today visit is to review the preparation of the hospital for this. Adequate stocks of medicines, testing kits and medical equipment are in place and we are fully geared up to handle H1N1 influenza.” During the visit the Health Minister expressed satisfaction over the preparation and availability of designated beds, medical equipment, medicines, testing kits, personal protective equipment and masks.


    Also present at the function were Dr. Jagdish Prasad, DGHS, Dr B D Athani, Special DGHS, Sanjeeva Kumar, Addl. Secy (Health), Dr R.K Vats, AS & DG (CGHS), Dr (Prof) A K Gadpayle, Additional DG and Medical Superintendent, Dr RML Hospital, Delhi and senior officers of the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and faculty of Dr RML Hospital.


    ***


    

    MV/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1480040) Visitor Counter : 38