      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr. Jitendra Singh chairs 29th meeting of SCOVA
      88 percent of pension accounts have been linked to Aadhaar: Dr Jitendra Singh
      
      Make Pensioners part of nation building process, says Minister

      Posted On: 12 JAN 2017 6:18PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh chaired the 29th meeting of the Standing Committee of Voluntary Agencies (SCOVA) here today. The SCOVA meeting is organised by the Department of Pensions & Pensioners’ Welfare (DoP&PW), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions and the last such meeting was held on June 27, 2016.

    During the meeting, Dr. Jitendra Singh said that today’s interaction was very meaningful and stimulating, thus reflecting on the working of DoP&PW. The Minister said that there are about 50-55 lakh pensioners in the country and almost 88 percent of pension accounts have been seeded to Aadhaar. He further said that minimum pension has been increased to Rs. 9000 per person and ex-gratia amount has been increased from Rs. 10-15 lakh to Rs. 25-35 lakh.

    Dr. Jitendra Singh said that we need to put in place an institutionalized mechanism to make good use of the knowledge, experience and efforts of the retired employees which can help in the value addition to the current scenario. Dr. Jitendra Singh said the retired employees are a healthy and productive workforce for India and we need to streamline and channelize their energies in a productive direction. We should learn from the pensioners’ experience, he added. The Minister also said that the DoP&PW should be reoriented in such a way that pensioners become a part of nation building process.

    In the meeting, discussions were held on the action taken report of the 28 th SCOVA meeting. Further many issues related to pensioners were discussed threadbare, such as revision of PPOs of pre-2006 pensioners, Health Insurance Scheme for pensioners including those residing in non-CGHS area, Special "Higher" Family Pension for widows of the war disabled invalidated out of service, Extension of CGHS facilities to P&T pensioners, issue relating to CGHS Wellness Centre, Dehradun etc. The Minister directed for the prompt and time bound redressal of the grievances of the pensioners and said that we should have sympathetic attitude towards them.

    The Secretary, DoP&PW, Shri C. Viswanath and other senior officers of the department were also present on the occasion. The meeting was also attended by the member Pensioners Associations and senior officers of the important Ministries/Departments of Government of India.

    *****

    
    KSD/NK/PK/KM
    
    
    (Release ID: 1480423) Visitor Counter : 31