      President's Secretariat

      Remain foremost emissaries of the unfolding Indian Story, says President to Indian Diaspora
      Posted On: 09 JAN 2017 7:04PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee delivered the Valedictory Address at the 14 th Edition of the Pravasi Bhartiya Divas Convention and conferred the Pravasi Bhartiya Samman Awards today (January 9, 2017) in Bengaluru.




    Speaking on the occasion, the President expressed hope that the Indian Diaspora spread across the world will remain foremost emissaries of the unfolding Indian story. He said as people exposed to the best of western technology and yet having their civilisational moorings in the ageless and eternal ethos of India, they are doubly blessed. The synergy of the west and the east that they represent, provides them with a unique position and opportunity that involves sharing knowledge between their home land and their adopted countries. While they showcase India to their host countries, they also bring along the cultural heritage of their adopted lands to India. To his mind, nothing could exemplify our belief of ‘ Vasudhaiva Kutumbkam’ more than this.



    The President said as we continue to strive successfully in achieving our due and deserving place amongst the comity of nations, our ancient strengths in the realm of the sublime and the subtle should continue to remain in focus. Attention should be paid to the need for skill up-gradation of temporary migrants going abroad in search of employment. Establishing linkages between the Government of India’s skilling programmes and the skill gap that exists amongst the migrant workforce will go a long way in enhancing their employability as well as earnings.



    The President also flagged the concerns of women and girls in India marrying into NRI families. He said even as the government and its agencies deal with this issue, the concerns of this particular section can be most effectively addressed by the local Community Organisations. He called upon Indian Community Organisations abroad to continue to compliment the government’s efforts in the above regard.



    The President released a compilation of Selected Speeches by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on foreign policy on the occasion.



    *****


    AKT/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1480223) Visitor Counter : 52