      Ministry of Tourism

      National Conference to Promote and Develop Tourism, Culture, Youth Affairs and Sports Begins in Rann of Kutch Today
      Posted On: 20 JAN 2017 6:44PM by PIB Delhi


    A Three day National Conference to promote and develop Tourism, Culture, Youth Affaiors and Sports organized by the Ministries of Tourism, Culture, Youth Affairs and Sports in cooperation with the Government of Gujarat begins today at Rann of Kutch in Gujarat today. The theme of the Conference is “Converging Tourism, Culture, Youth Affairs and Sports and Creating Synergy with States and UTs towards building a Resurgent Young India and strengthening Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat”. The Chief Guest Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi delivered the inaugural address through a live video conference. Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State (I/C) for Culture and Tourism, Shri Vijay Goel, Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports, Shri Vijaybhai R. Rupani, Chief Minister of Gujarat, Shri Rajendra Trivedi, Minister of State for Sports, Youth and Culture, Govt. Of Gujarat, Shri Ganpatsinh Vasava, Minister for Tribal Development and Tourism, Govt of Gujarat , Ministers, Secretaries, Senior officers from States and many dignities were present. Shri Vijaybhai R. Rupani, Chief Minister of Gujarat launched a “Quiz Competition under Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat” on the occasion. A Film entitled “The Making of Rann Utsav” was also screened.


    The major aim of this conference is to devise a strategic plan between the three important sectors i.e. Tourism, Culture, Youth Affairs and Sports through a planned engagement between Centre and States/Union Territories with the prime motto being, “Ek Bharat Shreshta Bharat”. This three day dialogue and discussion will focus on key areas like encouraging and promoting Rural Tourism, Tribal Odyssey, the local fairs and festivals, inter-state sharing of India’s culture, tourism and sports heritage and many other applied areas of opportunities..


    At the heart of this conference also lies the aim to promote mutual understanding and cooperation among the state and governments under the “Ek Bharat Shreshta Bharat” under the vision of the Prime Minister so that they can work together hand in hand for better results in the days to come. The deliberations will lead to new ways of uplifting the status of Tourism, Culture, Youth Affairs and Sports in the country so that India can be represented to the world through the eyes of this sector as well.


    Tomorrow on the second day, a Plenary session on the subject “Converging Tourism, Culture, Youth Affairs and Sports and Creating Synergy with States and UTs towards building a Resurgent Young India and – Ideas for Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat and Beyond” will be held with the Theme presentations by Secretary, Tourism & Culture, Secretary, Sports, Secretary, Youth Affairs and Secretary, HRD (Higher Education) and the the interventions by Ministers and Secretaries of States and UTs. The Plenary Session will be followed by a “Workshop on Synergy between Tourism, Culture, Youth Affairs and Sports and the participants will be divided in to 8 Working groups comprising of 4 States/UTs who are paired States under Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat. On the third day, there will be Open House for discussions on the Presentations by the Working Groups.


    The Workshop envisions to : Create Synergy and promote a deep and structured engagement between three important sectors i.e. Tourism, Culture, Youth Affairs and Sports through a planned engagement between Centre and States/UTs. ; Draw an Action Plan for effective implantation of “Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat” for the year 2017 between the paired States/UTs. ; Share Best Practices and experiences amongst Sectors. ; and Formulate a Road Map for Sectoral Development in Tourism, Culture, Youth Affairs and Sports.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Tourism-I/20-01-2017


    

    
    (Release ID: 1480906) Visitor Counter : 80