      Ministry of Defence

      DRDO at 104th Indian Science Congress-2017 in Tirupati
      Posted On: 07 JAN 2017 7:24PM by PIB Delhi


    The Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) is participating in “Pride of India-Science Expo-2017” being held from 3-7 January at the Sri Venkateswara University Campus, Tirupati. The five-day event has been organized as part of 104th Indian Science Congress (ISC-2017) inaugurated by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


    The DRDO Pavillion at the mega science expo was inaugurated by the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh, Shri N. Chandrababu Naidu on 3 January 2017. He also visited various DRDO stalls and took keen interest in the DRDO products and technologies displayed there.

    A special plenary session titled “Frontiers of Defense Research” was organized on 04 January 2017 at the venue. Scientific Advisor to Raksha Mantri and Director General (MSS) at DRDO Dr G. Satheesh Reddy was the Convener of the session, in which eminent scientists from DRDO delivered their lectures. This included the Chief Controller R&D (Human Resources & Technology Management) Shri M.D. Hafizur Rahaman, Director General (Micro Electronic Devices & Computational Systems) Dr. G. Athithan, Director General - Life Sciences Dr. Shashi Bala Singh and Dr. B.S. Subhash Chandran of DRDL, Hyderabad.

    40 DRDO laboratories are participating at the expo to showcase state-of-the-art military systems and technologies at the DRDO Pavilion which narrate the saga of Self-reliance & National Pride with the “Make in India” spirit. Star attractions of the outdoor exhibits include the Long Range Surface-to-Surface Ballistic Missile Agni-5, Akash Weapon System, Shaurya Missile, the model of the Brahmos missile, Remotely Operated Vehicle Daksh Robot etc. Indoor exhibits include models of AEW&C, LCA Tejas, Rustom UAV, the Advanced light-weight Torpedo (TAL), Multi-mode Hand Grenade, NBC Suit, Anti-mine Boots, Micro Wave Power Module, S-Band MSS Terminal, Integrated Multi Function Sight (IMFS), Preemptor System, various Life Sciences Products including Bukhari-the heating system, Alocal Cream, Ready-to-Eat Packaged Foods, Juices etc. DRDO pavilion has been a major attraction at the Pride of India Expo amongst visitors & students.

    NW/RAJ

    

    
    (Release ID: 1480149) Visitor Counter : 61