      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      38th Meeting of Tripartite Committee on Convention (COC)
      Posted On: 12 JAN 2017 12:34PM by PIB Delhi

      38th Meeting of Tripartite Committee on Convention (COC)

    The 38 th meeting of the Tripartite Committee on Convention (COC) was held, on 10 th January, 2017, at New Delhi, under the chairpersonship of Smt. M. Sathiyavathi, Secretary, Union Ministry of Labour and Employment. Representatives of Central Trade Unions, Employers’ Organizations, State Governments, Central Ministries, ILO and officers from the Ministry of Labour & Employment participated in the meeting.


    Secretary (Labour & Employment) informed the Committee that Tripartism has been integral to labour policy processes in India. COC has a specific mandate of discussing the progress made so far in ratification of International Labour Standards and recommending the future road map.


    COC took stock of the progress made in respect of ILO Convention No. 138 regarding Minimum Age for Entry to Employment and Work, Convention No. 182, concerning Worst Forms of Child Labour, Convention No. 87 regarding Freedom of Association and protection of Rights, Convention No. 98 regarding Right to Organize and Collective Bargaining, Maritime Labour Convention 2006, Convention No. 185 regarding Seafarers’ Identify Document, Convention No. 187 regarding promotional Framework for Occupational Safety and Health, Convention No. 153 regarding Hours of work and Rest Periods in Road Transport and Report on the Working Group on Standard Review Mechanism.


    The Committee expressed satisfaction on the progress made in respect C 187, C 153 and India’s contribution to ILO’s work in the Standard Review Mechanism and also on the decision of the Government of India to ratify the Maritime Labour Convention 2006 and C 185.


    The Committee lauded the efforts taken by the Union Ministry of Labour & Employment relating to the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2016 , which was passed by the Parliament in July, 2016. This Amendment Bill clearly stipulates total and complete prohibition on employment of children below 14 years and proposed more stringent punishments for violations. Amendment bill seeks to ensure the Right of Children to schooling and learning. Amendment also prohibits Adolescents in the age group of 14-18 years of their employment in hazardous occupations and permits their engagement in only certain occupations to be specified in due course. With this amendment, India is now close to ratifying the ILO Conventions C 138 and C 182, for which steps are already being taken by the Ministry of Labour & Employment.


    COC also decided to constitute a committee comprising of representatives from Union Ministry of Labour & Employment, Department of Personnel & Training and ILO, New Delhi Office to examine issues relating to ratification of C 87 regarding Freedom of Association and protection of rights, C 98 regarding Right to Organize and collective bargaining.


    ******


    BCK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1480381) Visitor Counter : 48