      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      IRS (Income Tax) officers seek MoS Dr Jitendra Singh's intervention
      Posted On: 10 JAN 2017 5:15PM by PIB Delhi


    A delegation of Indian Revenue Service/IRS (Income Tax) officers of 2008 batch called on the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today. The delegation sought Dr Jitendra Singh’s intervention for their promotion.


    In a memorandum submitted to the Minister, the members of the delegation claimed that, as per the existing IRS Recruitment Rules 2015, the only method of recruitment to the JAG (Junior Administrative Grade) level posts in IRS (Income Tax) is by promotion. The 2008 batch officers were placed in STS (Senior Time-Scale) on 1st January 2013, whereby they would be completing 5 years of regular service on 1st January 2018. The memorandum sought relaxation for promotion so that they could achieve the higher grade w.e.f. 1st April 2017.


    In this regard, the memorandum sought to bring to the notice that the Department of Personnel & Training (DoPT) has been granting relaxation to eligible service officers of IRS in STS scale from 2002 to 2007 batches for promotion to higher JAG level. Therefore, the same precedence can be followed in their case also.

    The members of the delegation conveyed to the Minister that initially, a proposal for them was sent by the Department of Revenue to DoPT, but it was returned with certain queries. However, now, when the proposal has been re-submitted after addressing the queries, they requested the DoPT to take a kind view and agree to the proposal.

    Dr Jitendra Singh said that the DoPT will try to work out as to what can be done in the case, under rules and referred their case to the concerned officers in the Ministry.

    *****


    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1480276) Visitor Counter : 34