      Ministry of Steel

      Steel Minister Chaudhary Birender Singh lauds the celebration of ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ in Ministry of Steel and its PSUs (January 1-15, 2017)
      Posted On: 20 JAN 2017 5:16PM by PIB Delhi

      

      ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ was observed in the Ministry of Steel from January 1-15, 2017. During this period, as per action plan the office premises of the Ministry were cleaned and spruced up. Two participatory events, viz. (i) poster competition and (ii) essay competition on the topic of Swachhta have been organized in the Ministry during this period. The Steel Minister Chaudhary Birender Singh reviewed the ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’ activities and praised the Ministry officials and the PSUs management for the Green Environment and Cleanliness activities undertaken during the fortnight and advised them to keep up the momentum ongoing throughout the year.


      All the CPSEs in the Ministry of Steel have also undertaken Swachhta Activities in their plants, mines, factories and campuses including residential areas. In addition, they have been specifically requested to undertake work relating to-


      (i) Removal/ reduction of slag;


      (ii) Removal/ reduction of iron ore fines; and


      (iii) Recycling of gaseous waste in power generation.


      These activities will constitute their Swachhta Action Plan for the years 2017-18 and 2018-19. The Steel Ministry is planning to study and encourage innovative ways to dispose above-mentioned wastes in productive and environment friendly manner, as per ‘Waste to Wealth’ concept by seeking necessary budgetary allocation for this purpose.


      During the ‘Swachhta Pakhwada’, various plants of SAIL, RINL and FSNL have undertaken the work relating to disposal of above mentioned wastes. They have removed/ utilized 323782 tonnes of slag, 402793 tonnes of iron ore fines and recycle gaseous waste to the tune of 127266400 NM 3 / hour.


      Photos of some of the activities undertaken at MOIL Ltd., Munsar Mine during the fortnight:


      Photos of some of the activities undertaken at NMDC Limited plants/Units during the fortnight:


      Cleanliness drive & Plantation was undertaken in the Project Area by the Employees of the NMDC Ltd.


      ****


      YSK/Uma

    
    
    (Release ID: 1480891) Visitor Counter : 120