      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Carry out maximum work in Hindi regarding implementation of the policies/schemes concerned with Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare: Shri Radha Mohan Singh.
      National Food Security Mission has been successful as it crossed the production targets by 42 million tonnes of food grains

      Posted On: 17 JAN 2017 5:49PM by PIB Delhi

    The meeting of Joint Hindi Advisory Committee of the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare was organized today under the chairmanship of Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Shri Radha Mohan Singh today here. Apart from the members of the committee, the Minister of State for Agriculture and farmers Welfare Shri Parashottam Rupala was also participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Joint Hindi Advisory Committee of the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare was constituted on 24 August 2016. It was the first meeting after the committee was constituted.

    During the discussions carried out in the meeting, the members of the committee expressed their satisfaction about the use of official language Hindi in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and its departments. They emphasized that more and more official work should be performed in Hindi, the official language of the Union.


    After the discussion, Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare expressed his views while addressing the gathering that most of policies/schemes as well as activities concerned with Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare relate to farmers and common man. Therefore, it is our duty that we should use Hindi as much as possible while implementing policies/schemes related to the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare in the business of Central Government. Simultaneously, it will be useful to provide knowhow of such schemes to the people in non Hindi speaking states through their vernacular languages. Shri Singh concluded the meeting by extending his gratitude to all the members.


    Shri Radha Mohan Singh also chaired the meeting of 12 th General Council of National Food Security Mission today. In the meeting, the concerned officers briefed the Agriculture Minister in detail through the presentations about the achievement and production targets till date under National Food Security Mission. National Food Security Mission was launched in 11 th Five Year Plan during 2007-08 with the objective to increase food production to 20 million tonne by 2011-12 (rice, wheat and pulses respectively 10, 8 and 2 million tonne). The mission has been successful as it has and achieved the production targets. The production of 42 million tonne of food grains was achieved which was more than the target of the mission. The mission has been continued in 12 th Five Year Plan with new targets of 25 million tonne additional food grain production, including 10 million tonne rice, 8 million tonne wheat, 4 million tonne pulses and 3 million tone coarse cereals. During the 12 th Five Year Plan, there are 5 components of National Food Security Mission which are as follows:


    1. NFSM – Rice,


    2. NFSM – Wheat,


    3. NFSM – Pulses in which coverage is included besides pulses during Rabi/Summer,


    4. NFSM – Coarse Cereals and


    5. NFSM – Commercial crops


    ***


    SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1480633) Visitor Counter : 82