      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Guidelines Prescribing Modalities for Persons With Disabilities to Show Respect to The National Anthem
      Posted On: 25 JAN 2017 11:29AM by PIB Delhi

      

    In pursuance of the order of Hon'ble Supreme Court dated 09.12.2016 in the matter of Writ Petition (Civil) No. 855 of 2016, the Central Government has issued the guidelines on 21.12.2016 prescribing the modalities for the persons with disabilities to show respect to the National Anthem.


    Persons with locomotor disabilities with lower limbs affected and wheel chair user who are not capable of standing shall may position himself/herself to the extent of maximum attentiveness and alertness with or without the help of appropriate aids and appliances. If the person with

    disability is on crutch, he/she should become stable (non-mobile) to the extent
    of maximum alertness.

    Persons with hearing disabilities (deaf or hard of hearing) shall stand with attentiveness. However there must be appropriate indication on the screen that the National Anthem is being played or sung as the person with hearing disability is likely to miss the auditory cues. Suitable instructions can be given in the form of captioning as well as in sign language on the screen so that the
    persons with hearing impairment are well informed that the National Anthem is being played.

    Persons with blindness and low vision shall stand up in respect of National Anthem.

    The Persons with Intellectual Disabilities will have behavioural problem like flapping of the hands, creaming, shouting, abnormal body movements, difficulty in performing practical task etc. The public is required to be sensitised so as to avoid any unwarranted incident against persons with intellectual disabilities and they are not being harassed.

    The escorts of the persons with disabilities should stand-up when National Anthem in played.

    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/M/o-SJ&E/25-01-2017


    

    
    (Release ID: 1481175) Visitor Counter : 109