      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot Distributes free Aids and Assistive Devices Under ADIP Scheme to Divyangjans
      Posted On: 29 JAN 2017 5:43PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment distributed Free Aids and Assistive devices under the ADIP scheme of Government of India to 1544 Divyangjans at an ADIP camp at Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar Sports Complex, Trilokpuri, Delhi today. Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar, MoS, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Shri Mahesh Giri, Member of Parliament, East Delhi Constituency, Shri Awanish Kumar Awasthi, Joint Secretary, DoEPWD, Shri D. R Sarin, CMD, ALIMCO along with many dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    Addressing on the occasion, Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot said that his ministry is committed to help the Divyangjans to live a respectable life and now Universal Identity cards will be made for Divyangjans which will be universally accepted. Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar in his address said that the aim of such ADIP camps is bring Divyangjans in to main stream.


    Standing by the commitment towards empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) for distribution of free aids and assistive devices under the ADIP scheme of Government of India, the Camp was organized by Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India (ALIMCO) under the Department of Empowerment Of Persons With Disabilities (Divyangjan), Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment in close association with District Administration, East Delhi.


    A total of 1544 Persons with different kind of disabilities were provided with 2904 numbers of aids and assistive devices with the value of Rs 180 Lakhs under the ADIP scheme of Government of India in the camp. These beneficiaries were pre-identified during the assessment camps conducted in East Delhi District during the month of June and July last year.


    High quality contemporary Aids and Assistive devices were distributed in the camp manufactured by ALIMCO which includes 186 Motorized Tricycles. Cost of each of these motorized tricycle is Rs.37000/- out of which Rs.12000/- is been funded under MPLAD fund of local Member of Parliament Shri Mahesh Giri and rest of the cost of motorized tricycle’s is covered under ADIP scheme of Government of India.


    Various types of assistive aids and devices were distributed in the camp viz. 584-Tricycles, 135-Wheelchairs, 490-Crutches Axilla, 242-Walking Stick, 08-Rollator for Orthopedically Impaired persons, 156-Behind The Ear - Hearing Aid machines for Hearing Impaired persons, 279-Smart Cane, 150-Smart Phone, 14-Daisy Player, 16- Folding Cane, 26- Braille Kit, 169-Leprosy Kit, 151- MSIED Kit (Multi Sensory Inclusive Educational Kit) and 15-C.P Chair for Children with Special Needs. 125 numbers of Prosthesis and Calipers have also been fitted to the identified beneficiaries in the camp.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/MoSJ&E/29.01.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1481341) Visitor Counter : 42