      Ministry of Defence

      LCA (TEJAS) and AEW&C will Fly-Past for first time at RD Parade -2017
      Posted On: 24 JAN 2017 6:50PM by PIB Delhi


    The Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas and Airborne Early Warning & Control System (AEW&C) developed by DRDO will fly-past for the first time during the Republic Day Parade 2017. Representing India’s stride in indigenous Defence Technologies, the DRDO contingent this year consists of the 155 mm/52 Calibre Advanced Towed Artillery Gun System (ATAGS) and Arudhra- the Medium Power Radar.
    
    Tejas is indigenously developed by Aeronautical Development Agency, an autonomous society of DRDO and produced by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. It is a light-weight and multirole four plus generation tactical fighter aircraft which can carry laser guided bombs and modern missiles to cause extreme damage to the target. Tejas has been inducted into 45th Squadron of Indian Air Force. It is a move towards self-reliance in ‘Air Power’ requirement of the nation. Tejas is the pride of the country and a step towards “Make in India” initiative.
    
    The Airborne Early Warning & Control System (AEW&C) is an ‘Eye in the Sky’. It is a force multiplier, developed by DRDO for IAF with Centre for Air Borne Systems (CABS) as nodal agency. AEW&C system consists of multiple sensors for Surveillance and Signal Intelligence. It helps in Air Defence operations and is capable of communicating using VHF, UHF, C-Band and SATCOM links for Network Centric Operations. Induction of AEW&C into services will make the country self-reliant and position India in top five countries having this capability.
    
    The Advanced Towed Artillery Gun System (ATAGS) is an indigenous weapon system developed by DRDO under Prime Minister’s ‘Make in India’ initiative. Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE); a Pune based premiere R&D establishment of DRDO is the nodal agency for design and development of ATAGS with industry partners namely Bharat Forge Limited and Tata Power SED. ATAGS has excellent accuracy, consistency, mobility, reliability and automation and is capable of achieving 47 plus km range. The armament system of the ATAGS which comprises 52 calibre Gun Barrel with Breech Mechanism, Muzzle Brake and Recoil System has been designed and developed to fire the 155 mm calibre ammunitions held by Army with enhanced range, accuracy and precision as well as greater fire power. The system is configured with All Electric Drive technology for the first time in the world that will ensure maintenance free and reliable operation over longer periods of time.
    
    Medium Power Radar - Arudhra has been indigenously developed by Electronics and Radar Development Establishment (LRDE), Bengaluru, an establishment of DRDO. Arudhra is the first indigenous rotating active phased array multi-function radar with Digital Beam forming technology. The radar covers 360 degree in azimuth and is capable of performing volumetric surveillance to detect and track aerial targets up to 400 km in range and 30 km altitude. This radar can survive intense ECM environment and electromagnetic interference. It is integrated with modern identification of Friend or Foe system to recognize enemy targets and is transportable by road, rail and Air.
    
    DRDO has a mission to empower India with self-reliance in defence technologies. Since its creation in 1958, DRDO’s research, design and development efforts have led to the production of hundreds of products that include state-of-the-art weapons, platforms, equipment and life support systems for the Indian armed forces. Today, the production value of systems (excluding the strategic systems) already inducted or approved for induction, exceeds Rupees Two lakh sixty thousand crores. The strategic systems developed by DRDO have given our country the much needed multi-level strategic deterrence.
    
    NW/NAo/Ranjan

    
    
    (Release ID: 1481157) Visitor Counter : 43