      Ministry of Defence

      Republic Day Parade – 2017 Awards announced
      
      Madras Engineer Group Adjudged Best Marching Contingent amongst Services

      Posted On: 28 JAN 2017 3:37PM by PIB Delhi
      
      

    The results of different competitive presentations in the Republic Day Parade – 2017 have been announced by the Ministry of Defence. Among the Services category, Madras Engineer Group has been adjudged the best marching contingent. In the category of Para-Military Forces and other auxiliary marching contingents, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) contingent has been adjudged the best marching contingent.


    In the tableau category, in total 23 tableau including six from Union Ministries / Departments took part in this year’s Republic Day Parade, out of which first position has gone to Arunachal Pradesh tableau, which depicted the Yak dance, one of the most famous pantomimes of the Mahayana sect of Buddhist tribes of Arunachal Pradesh. Tripura’s tableau based on ‘Hojagiri’ dance, depicting the magnificent Reang tribal dance was adjudged the second best, while the third position was shared by Maharashtra and Tamilnadu. The tableau of Maharashtra depicted the commemoration of 160th birth anniversary of the honoured freedom fighter, Lokmanya Balgangadhar Tilak. The Tamilnadu tableau portrayed the popular folk dance ‘Karagattam’ which forms an important event in temple festival celebrations, especially in Amman temple festivals in the rural areas of Tamilnadu.


    In the category of tableaux representing Union Ministries/Departments, the first prize has been awarded to the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship which depicted the theme ‘Transforming India through Skill Development’, and highlighted the achievements of the Ministry and its programmes. The tableau presented by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) depicting the concept of ‘Green India-Clean India’ was selected for a special prize by the jury.


    In the competitive category of school children items, the dance presented by Kendriya Vidyalaya, Pitampura, Delhi has been adjudged the best children item for their performance to express how our National Flag has been a witness to the glorious tales of our freedom fighters, establishment of Indian democracy, the endless affection of Indians, women’s empowerment and such countless achievements. A Consolation Prize has also been awarded to South Central Zone Cultural Centre, Nagpur for their performance of the ‘Saila Karma’ dance which is a popular dance of the Gond Tribe of Dindori district in Madhya Pradesh.


    As in previous years, this year also Ministry of Defence had appointed three panels of judges for assessing the marching contingents from three Services, Para-Military Forces and Tableau from various States/Ministries/Departments and School Children items from Schools of Delhi as well as outside Delhi. The panels of judges today announced their results here.

    ****
    NAo/DM/Ranjan

    
    
    (Release ID: 1481310) Visitor Counter : 61