      Ministry of Urban Development

      UD Ministry takes serious views of delays in execution of NCRPB aided projects
      Directs review of loan for Kakardooma Multi-story Office complex in Delhi for cancellation due to delay
      
      Haryana asked to resolve issues relating to ADB funded road projects before new projects are considered
      
      Rajasthan gets Rs.1,664 cr loan assistance for infrastructure projects in Jaipur
      
      Pink city asked to promote cycling and walking

      Posted On: 27 JAN 2017 5:06PM by PIB Delhi
      

      Ministry of Urban Development has taken a serious view of delay in execution of projects in the National Capital Region that were extended financial support by the NCR Planning Board. Conveying this to the member States, Shri Rajiv Gauba, Secretary(Urban Development) made it clear that further sanction of loan support would be based on progress on projects extended such support in the past.


      Chairing a meeting of the Project Sanctioning and Monitoring Group here today, Shri Gauba directed review of the loan sanctioned for the Rs.100 cr ‘Construction of Multi-storied office building at Kakardooma institutional area’ in East Delhi for cancellation on account of lack of any progress since the sanction of first instalment of Rs.20 cr loan in 2013.


      Haryana Government was also told that NCRPB support for various infrastructure projects would be considered only after the long pending issues relating to ADB funded road projects sanctioned in the past were resolved.


      The Project Sanctioning and Monitoring Group informed the Haryana Government that loan assistance of Rs.168 cr sanctioned for the Rs.223 cr Manesar Water Supply Project would be reviewed if project works were not started at the earliest. The first instalment of Rs.31.13 cr was released for this project in March last year and the Haryana State Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation has not submitted any progress report so far. The Group also declined to consider loan of Rs.270 cr as sought by the Haryana Metro Rail Transport Corporation for extension of Metro Link from Mudka to Bahadurgarh stating that it was not in conformity with the original financing plan.


      The Project Sanctioning & Monitoring Group of NCR Planning Board today approved financial assistance of Rs.1,664 cr for various infrastructure projects costing a total of Rs. 2,377 cr.


      Approvals include Rs.1,098 cr for Rejuvenation of Amanishah Nallah (Dravyavati River) including area development in Jaipur city based on the concept of watershed rehabilitation, flood prevention, pollution treatment and landscaping. Another Rs.379 cr was sanctioned for six Road Over Bridges at level crossings at Goner Road, Jhotwara, Sitapura, Bassi, Jahota and Road Under Bridge on Jaipur –Sikar line at Bridge No.107 to address traffic congestion issues at railway level crossings.


      Rs. 187 cr has been approved for the Elevated Road from Sodala Tri-junction to LIC Office near Ambedkar Circle. This 3 km long elevated stretch is a part of NH-11 which will facilitate vehicular movement in the East-West direction of Jaipur and provides a high capacity corridor helping in decongestion of the central areas.


      Shri Gauba has asked Rajasthan and Jaipur City Governments to ensure promotion of non-motorised transport including cycling and pedestrianisation under Comprehensive Mobility Plan of the pink city which is being developed as a smart city.


      With today’s approvals, NCR Planning Board has sanctioned over Rs.4,500 cr of financial assistance for infrastructure development in NCR during the last two years.


      AAR/MK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1481284) Visitor Counter : 79