      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      ‘India Pharma 2017’ & ‘India Medical Device 2017’: for responsible Healthcare
      Aim to Project India as an Attractive Investment Destination and Global Hub for Pharma and Medical Devices Sector: Shri Ananth Kumar
      
      Online Media Registrations open till 31st January 2017

      Posted On: 28 JAN 2017 2:44PM by PIB Delhi

      The Department of Pharmaceuticals (DoP), Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, along with Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry ( FICCI ) , is organising ‘ India Pharma & India Medical Device 2017 ’ , with the Vision - ‘ For Responsible Healthcare ’ , the 2 nd International exhibition and conference on Pharmaceutical & Medical Device sector from 11 th - 13 th February, 2017 in Bengaluru .


      Addressing the media during the Curtain Raiser for the event in Bengaluru today , Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers and Parliamentary Affairs, Shri Ananth Kumar, informed that t he International event would not only provide a platform to tap global potential for the Indian Pharmaceutical and Medical Device sector , but also provide an opportunity to project India as an attractive investment destination for this sector and bring in foreign investment to new areas such as Research & Developments, Clinical Trials by promoting Joint Ventures with the Indian Manufacturers and bringing in best practices in the sector from around the world .


      Further, the Minister informed that this year the ‘India Pharma & Medical Device 2017’ Conference is based around the Themes : Medical Devices - 'Shaping the Future - Making the Right Choices' and Pharma - 'Shaping the future of India Pharma' . This initiative will be a platform to give a push to the Indian Pharma & Medical Devices sector in becoming globally competitive. It would play the role of a meeting point for International Drug Regulators, International Buyers, Investors and CEOs from the Global Pharma & Medical Devices sector that will provide ample opportunities to the participating stakeholders to network and learn amongst themselves. The Conference will be a Pharma Kumbh and the highlight would be the International Drug Regulators meet, Shri Kumar added .


      The initiatives in this three day programme are designed to focus on contemporary Policy Interventions, Ease of Doing Business, sharing best practices & fostering collaborations with the global Regulatory Framework and to deliberate on sectoral reforms which shall bring India on forefront of global attractiveness for Investments in Manufacturing and R&D in the sector .


      Shri Ananth Kumar stressed upon the need for India to have a lion’s share in manufacturing of Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients ( API ) and bulk drug formulations with special emphasis on indigenous manufacturing of Medical devices. Further, he said that there is a need to have more researchers in this sector and hence the Government is constantly working in this direction by setting up National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPERs) across the country. Also, there is a need to increase collaboration with the Industry in the field of Pharma & Medical Devices Innovation. In this direction, the Department of Pharmaceuticals is working on a scheme to establish Pharma parks & clusters in various States that will help bringing down the production costs significantly, he added.


      The Minister stressed upon the need to encourage the Small & Medium Enterprise ( SME ) sector to increase exports in the Pharmaceuticals & Medical Device sector . He also invited the Karnataka based Pharmaceutical & Medical device manufacturers to participate at the event and get benefited by the possibilities to collaborate with their prospective clients .

      
      Shri Ananth Kumar was pleased to note that with the joint efforts made by Department of Pharmaceuticals and FICCI, the 2 nd edition of the event will witness a 25% growth in number of Exhibitors, number of Delegates & Business Visitors and International Delegations participation . Over 250 exhibitors from the Pharmaceuticals & Medical Device sector, Buyers from over 24 countries, International Regulators from 6 countries ( USFDA - USA, PMDA - Japan, MoH - Malaysia etc ) , over 29 Embassy officials and over 10,000 Business Visitors will participate during the three days of the event . Karnataka will be participating as the Host State of the event while Chhattisgarh will be the Partner State .


      The India Pharma exhibition will cover all the segments of the pharmaceutical industry starting from finished formulations, APIs, bio - pharmaceuticals, fine chemicals & intermediates, natural extracts and excipients . India Medical Device exhibition will showcase med - tech innovations in India across segments from preventive to therapeutic care . Leading Pharmaceutical & Medical Device companies will showcase their expertise and products to Indian and International Healthcare community at the exhibition that will result in creating new business opportunities . Sessions on Biopharmaceuticals will include The New Engine of Growth, Scaling Med - Tech Manufacturing and the Investors Meet, which will be a step forward to the ‘ Make in India ’ mission of the Government of India .


      Other dignitaries present on the occasion were Shri Jai Priye Prakash, Secretary, DoP, Shri Sudhansh Pant, JS, DoP, Shri Vinay Mathur, Dy. Secretary General, FICCI along with senior officials of the Ministry, FICCI and Industry Stalwarts.


      Online Media Registration for covering the ‘ India Pharma 2017 ’ & ‘ India Medical Device 2017 ’ have been opened on the following links ( Last Date for Online Registration is 31st JANUARY 2017 ) :


      http :// indiapharmaexpo . in / media - registration . php &


      http :// www . indiamediexpo . in / media - registration . php


      The Social Media Pages for ‘India Medical Device 2017’ are as follows :


      https :// www . facebook . com / indiamedicaldevice /

      https :// twitter . com / Indiamedical17

      https :// www . linkedin . com / company / india - medical - expo

      #indiamedicaldevice

      The Social Media Pages for ‘India Pharma 2017’ are as follows :


      https :// www . facebook . com / indiapharma2017 /
      https :// twitter . com / indiapharma2017


      https :// www . linkedin . com / company / indiapharmaexpo


      #indiapharma2017

      For more information about the event kindly visit the Webpages : www . indiamediexpo . in & www . indiapharmaexpo . in


      

      *****


      VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1481307) Visitor Counter : 105