      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Regional Conference of Labour Minister of North and Central States held at Bhopal
      Posted On: 24 JAN 2017 7:09PM by PIB Delhi


    One-day Regional Conference of State Labour and Employment Ministers and Principal Secretaries/Secretaries, Labour Department of North and Central States (Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chandigarh, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh) was held today at Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. The Conference was inaugurated by Hon’ble Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Labour & Employment Shri Bandaru Dattatreya. The meeting was attended by Hon’ble Ministers and senior officers from the participating states. He emphatically stressed the significance of cooperative federalism in a democracy and called upon the States to join hands in the interest of the workers of the country.


    Shri Dattatreya said that the NDA Government headed by Hon’ble Prime Minster Shri Narendra Modi is committed to Inclusive growth where everyone, be it youth, women, rural poor, minority or backward class, to be made a stake holder and partner in this walk towards sustainable and inclusive development. He said that Indian Labour market is becoming more vibrant and sought after Globally. While tapping the resources, his Government is committed to Employment Generation and also to upgrade the status of work force of the country to make them more dignified, valued, and financially sound with their safety as a priority. Shri Dattatreya spoke about the initiatives and reforms taken up by his government including the technology based initiatives such as Shram Suvidha Portal, NCS and UAN. He expressed his happiness that States like Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, other Central and North States were willing and ready to join these initiatives.


    The Minister also focused on the various labours reforms taken up by Labour Ministry for simplification and amalgamation of 43 labour laws into 4 labour codes like code on wages , code on industrial relations, code on social security and code on safety and working conditions. The labour reforms also includes the simplification of registers and forms i.e. reducing of 56 registers into 5 registers. Shri Dattatreya drew every one’s attention on the recent Initiatives/Schemes by Government such as PMRPY (Pradhan Mantri Rozgar Protsahan Yojana). This Scheme provides for the government to bear the employers’ share of 8.33% of EPS Contribution. In apparel sector the entire 12% of employer’s contribution will be borne by government of India and 1000 crores has been earmarked for this purpose.


    To ease the difficulties arisen after demonetization, initiatives have been taken by Ministry of Labour and Employment in collaboration with States and Banks on financial inclusion of workers. The response has been amazing with 1,44,623 camps held nationwide and 44.53 lakh bank account opened he said. The minister drew attention to legislative achievements of the Ministry of labour and employment in amending Bonus Act, Child Labour Act, Maternity Benefit Act and Model Shops and Establishment bill. He stressed that the central government is committed for Job Security Wage Security and Social Security of workers especially workers in the unorganized sector.


    . Shri Dattatreya also spoke about the Amnesty Schemes launched by EPFO & ESIC. The schemes are to promote the enrolment of uncovered Establishments and workers. ESIC has covered 7037 Establishments and enrolled 8.17 Lakh new workers. While EPFO has covered 1050 Establishments and enrolled one Lakh new workers. He also highlighted that wages ceiling for coverage in ESIC has been increased from RS 15000 to 21000. The ESIC has increased expenditure per insured person from Rs. 2150/- to 3000/-


    The day long conference consisted of four technical sessions on various legislative, administrative and technology based initiatives by the Ministry. The States welcomed the Central Government initiatives on Labour law reforms, technological interventions as well as the incentives related to the social security of the working class.


    BCK/AT/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1481158) Visitor Counter : 56