      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Union Govt has taken decisive steps against Pak sponsored terrorism: Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 28 JAN 2017 8:39PM by PIB Delhi

      

    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh has said that the Union Government led by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has taken decisive steps against Pakistan sponsored terrorism and the two most recent examples are the decision of Remonetization which has drastically reduced terror related transactions, preceded by the military strike inside the Pakistan Occupied Kashmir.


    Addressing the 2nd Round-Table Conference on the subject of “Countering Pakistan State Terror” organized by Global Counter Terrorism Council (GCTC) here today, Dr Jitendra Singh said Pak sponsored terrorism in the context of Jammu & Kashmir is a cumulative effect of a series of misdoings of the past six decades. He said, if only the first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had allowed the then Home Minister Sardar Patel to handle J&K, the history of the Indian subcontinent would have been different.


    When the NDA Government took over on May 26, 2014, Dr Jitendra Singh said, it bequeathed a huge baggage of cumulative liabilities from the past. There was a feeling of pessimism all over the country, but within two years, he said, not only the common man in India is feeling proud to be an Indian, but the Indians settled abroad are also looking forward for an opportunity to return to their motherland. This itself is a vindication of the kind of redemption which the government under the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has succeeded in bringing about in just two-and-a-half years, he added.


    As per the reports, Dr Jitendra Singh said, following Remonetization, there is a 60% dip in terror related activities and 50% reduction in terror-related Hawala transactions being funded by Pakistan. Not only this, at least two printing press units in Pakistan which were printing fake Indian currency and pumping into India have been compelled to shut down, he added. Similarly, the incidents of stone-pelting in J&K have also gone down drastically, he said.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said, decisions like the surgical strike and Remonetization have hit the “Achilles’ heel” of Pakistan and these are some of the decisive steps which no government in the past dared to take. He also referred to the Government’s stand on Baluchistan and said, for the first time, the Indian forces have had the opportunity to give befitting retaliatory response to every act of mischief from Pakistan.


    Dr Jitendra Singh reiterated that the Union Government follows a policy of zero tolerance to Pakistan-sponsored terrorism and will never compromise with the honour and dignity of the security forces of India or the sovereignty of the Republic of India.


    Among the eminent panelists at the Round-Table Conference were noted analyst Shri Sushil Pandita, former Foreign Secretary Shri Kanwal Sibal, retired Vice-Chief of Army Staff Gen Phillip Campose, the Head Imam, Imam Illiyasi and well known activist Shri Tarek Fatah.

    ****
    KSD/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1481325) Visitor Counter : 22