      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Govt lays down specific 'timeline' for completing enquiry against officers and members of All India Services
      Posted On: 23 JAN 2017 6:59PM by PIB Delhi


    

    Government has laid down specific timeline for completing enquiry against officers and members of All India Services (AIS) within a given deadline, in a time-bound manner. Giving details about the DoPT (Department of Personnel & Training) decision, Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh said that the AIS (D&A) Rules, 1969 have been amended to provide specific timelines at different stages of the enquiry, with a view to complete the disciplinary proceedings against the members of All India Services in a time-bound manner.


    
    As per the amended rules, a time limit of six months has been fixed for completion of departmental enquiry and submission of report. In case it is not possible to complete the enquiry within six months for justifiable reasons to be recorded in writing, additional time limit not exceeding six months at one time can be granted by the Disciplinary Authority, thereby ensuring accountability for completion of enquiry. Further, 30 days’ timeline has been fixed for the delinquent officers to give his representation to the charge-sheet which can be extended to not more than 30 days by the Disciplinary Authority and, in any case, no extension will be provided beyond 90 days. Similarly, a period of 15 days has been provided to send a representation on the advice of UPSC regarding the penalty to be imposed on the delinquent officer and for such representation also, no extension will be provided beyond 45 days.

    
    Dr Jitendra Singh said, this amendment in the All India Service Rules has been brought, in keeping with the spirit of the Union Government led by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, to bring in more accountability and time-bound completion of every exercise in the course of governance. The new amendment in the Rules, he said, will certainly strengthen the culture of working within deadlines and timelines without showing any slackness.

    
    Meanwhile, Chairperson, Uttar Pradesh State Social Welfare Board (UPSSWB), Dr (Ms) Rupal Agarwal today called on Dr Jitendra Singh and provided her assessment about the performance of the various functionaries in the Board. She also brought to the notice of the Minister acts of omission or commission by certain officials. Dr Jitendra Singh took a note of the different issues raised by Dr Rupal Agarwal. He said, the Central Government accords high priority to programmes relating to upliftment of women, children and poor sections of the society. He also assured her that the issues raised by her will be brought to the notice of the concerned quarters.

    ***

    KSD/PK/KM

    

    
    (Release ID: 1481052) Visitor Counter : 57