      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Uma Bharti calls for active involvement of NPCC in Namami Gange Programme inaugurates new office complex of the company in Gurugram
      Posted On: 24 JAN 2017 6:03PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Sushri Uma Bharti has called for active involvement of NPCC into Namami Gange programme. Inaugurating the new office complex of National Projects Construction Corporation Limited (NPCC) in Gurugram today the Minister said that our government wants to strengthen PSUs. She said “There was a proposal for the merger of NPCC. But we were not in its favour because we believe in strengthening every PSU”.


    The Minister said her Ministry is committed to ensure purity and unrestricted flow of Ganga. She said under Namami Gange programme it will be ensured that waste from the cities does not flow into Ganga and sufficient number of sewage treatment plants are installed. At the same time, the Minister said that people should come forward for the construction of Ghats and repair of stairs at Ganga. She said saints and religious leader should also come forward for this.


    Complimenting NPCC, Dr Amarjeet Singh, Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources said that company successfully carried out projects in such far flung areas where no one dares to enter. He said so far the quality of work of NPCC has been excellent and hoped that this will increase in the years to come.


    Earlier welcoming the dignitaries CMD, NPCC Shri HL Chaudhary briefly narrated the achievements of the corporation and stated that during the year 2016, the Institute of Economic Studies felicitated the corporation with Excellence Award, keeping in view the achievements gained by the corporation during last 4-5 years. He said all this could be achieved only due to collective efforts of the employees of the Corporation, cooperation of shareholders, clients and stake holders.


    NPCC was established on January 09, 1957 as a premier construction company to create necessary infrastructure for economic development of the country in the core sectors of irrigation and water resources, power and heavy industries under Ministry Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation. NPCC comply with quality management requirements of ISO 9001-2008 for execution of civil works for Thermal & Hydro Electric Projects’, River valley projects, Industrial structures, Project Management consultancy services for buildings, Housings, Roads, Bridges and Infrastructure projects. The corporation is making profit for the last five years and now has a positive net worth. NPCC is gearing up to achieve greater heights for “Mini Ratna” status. The corporation has also been awarded credit rating as A+ company by ICRA.


    During the year 2015-16, company has secured new works valuing Rs.1510 crore against the target of Rs.1500 crore. During the year NPCC has achieved turnover of Rs.1002 crore. Company has earned the profit before tax of Rs. 21.10 crore as against Rs.12.89 crore in previous year and Profit after tax is Rs.10.81crore. During the year, Company has paid a dividend of Rs.11/- per equity share


    Samir/JKD/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1481143) Visitor Counter : 42