      Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

      National Review Meeting of RE Sector with the State Governments held
      “ARUN” Mobile Application Launched

      Posted On: 24 JAN 2017 7:20PM by PIB Delhi
      

    Ministry of New & Renewable Energy (MNRE) organized a two days National Review Meeting with the State Government officials of Renewable Energy sector from 23rd to 24th January 2017. Mobile App for Solar Rooftop Systems “ARUN- Atal Rooftop Solar User Navigator and Information Guide on Rooftop Systems was also launched on the occasion.
    
    Speaking at the concluding session of review meeting here today, Shri Rajeev Kapoor Secretary, MNRE emphasized on the need to comply with Renewable Purchase Obligations (RPOs) and facilitate the renewable energy installations through conducive policies and timely payments for RE power purchased. He also urged upon the States to see the RE power in the backdrop of India’s commitment of raising 40% of electric installed capacity from non-fossil fuel by 2030 under INDC. It was observed that in general the compliance of RPOs needs to be ensured. The Secretary urged upon the States to formulate and modify their policies and prepare a conducive policy regime for RE.
    
    Shri Rajeev Kapoor gave away awards in Off-grid Solar PV Programme in 12 categories namely Solar Lantern, Solar Home Lighting Systems, Solar Power Packs, Solar Street Light, Solar Power Plant, Solar Pumps (Irrigation), Solar Mini/Micro Grid, Solar Pumps (Drinking), Bank Scheme - Solar Home Systems, Bank Scheme - Solar Pumps, Cold Storage and R.O. Systems. Secretary, MNRE also presented the Annual Day Awards of Association of Renewable Energy Agencies of States (AREAS) to various State Nodal Agencies for best performance in different sectors of renewable energy during 2015-16.
    
    The progress of each State was reviewed, next financial year plan were discussed and the issues raised by the States were deliberated upon in detail and efforts were made to find their solutions in this review meeting. Presentations were made by the senior officers of the Ministry on each Programme and the State-wise issues were flagged.
    
    State Power / Energy Secretaries in charge of Renewable Energy, Heads of State Nodal Agencies and other concerned senior officials of States attended the Review Meeting. Senior officers of MNRE, CERC, NTPC, IREDA, SECI, NISE, NIWE, NIBE, etc. also participated in the meeting.

    *****
    

    
    RM/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1481159) Visitor Counter : 80