      Ministry of Home Affairs

      12th Raising Day Celebration of National Disaster Response Force to be held tomorrow
      
      
      Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh to be the Chief Guest

      Posted On: 30 JAN 2017 4:05PM by PIB Delhi

    The 12th Raising Day celebration of National Disaster Response Force is going to be held here tomorrow.


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh will grace the occasion as the Chief Guest. On the occasion, Shri Rajnath Singh will present the Jeevan Raksha Padak awards and Distinguished Service Medals to the NDRF personnel. He will also release the NDRF pictorial book and souvenir to mark the occasion.


    The NDRF raised on January 19, 2006, is a specialised force capable of responding to any type of disaster in the country and abroad. It is strategically deployed across the nation as per the vulnerability profile of the country. The Ministry of Home Affairs has sanctioned 23 field locations for deployment of NDRF teams as Regional Resource Centres to ensure quick response in the event of a disaster. NDRF provided relief and rescue operations in a number of disasters including floods, train accidents, building collapse incidents, landslides in various parts of the country during the last year.


    NDRF has established itself as multi-skilled, dedicated Force during various rescue and relief operations across the country, more so in extremely challenging situations. Broad experiences of operational challenges and close working with the masses over the years has made NDRF a sharp and efficient response unit. This experience enables NDRF to face challenges with confidence. Over the years NDRF has proved itself a vibrant Force in the country which provides prompt assistance in search and rescue, mass evacuation and immediate relief to victims in case of natural or man-made disasters. So far, NDRF has responded to 1,121 operations and rescued 4,73,594 victims.


    To upgrade its Disaster Management capabilities for timely response to disaster, NDRF has collaborated with specialized agencies in the country for upgrading information & data, its skill, training and preparedness for potential disasters.

    ****
    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1481363) Visitor Counter : 30