      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship’s maiden tableau entry at the Republic Day parade adjudged the best Tableau amongst Ministerial representations
      Posted On: 28 JAN 2017 8:55PM by PIB Delhi

      

    The best of Skill Development & Entrepreneurial efforts were on display at the Republic Day parade. The 68th Republic Day was the first outing for a MSDE tableau. And the outstanding efforts by its creators helped it being adjudged the best tableau amongst Ministerial representations. From imparting skill to drivers, technicians, beauticians, to photographers, carpenters and chefs showcasing the best state of the art ITI classrooms, the MSDE tableau was created to highlight efforts in imparting the best of skill development to the people of India.


    The credit for this novel idea to represent MSDE at the Republic Day parade goes to the Minister of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri Rajiv Pratap Rudy. The Skill India Tableau was an effort to showcase Skill India program’s initiatives. The Minister had taken the regulation and the monitoring of the tableau as his personal onus and was monitoring its making on a daily basis. He had been personally visiting the Rashtriya Rangshala in the Delhi Cantonment area giving his inputs for the tableau.


    According to Shri Rudy tableau was an attempt to portray skill initiatives by the Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship to make Indians ready for job opportunities. MSDE made an effort to display flagship programs like Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna (PKKVY), Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendra (PMKK) and ITIs. Since the inception of MSDE, there has been a constant effort in trying to reach out to the masses and let skilling be aspirational. It has been observed that since last two years many youngsters have been associated with our skilling and training initiatives.


    While inspecting the tableau, the Minister had given a vision that through this tableau Ministry would try and give an overall view of the different opportunities which MSDE has to offer to the youngsters of this country. There is an attempt to make skilling aspirational and create an ecosystem which would provide quality skill education in the country. MSDE is trying to cater to the aspiration of a modern vibrant competitive workforce. The Ministry tried to exhibit a skill ecosystem that will be strengthened and modernised in line with the current scientific and industrial development in the country.


    Minister Shri Rajiv Pratap Rudy congratulated that entire team which worked hard to make their Republic Day outing a memorable and proud moment.

    ****
    AD/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1481332) Visitor Counter : 219