      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Year End review: Ministry of Home Affairs
      Posted On: 03 JAN 2017 1:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Following are the highlights of the activities of Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) during the year 2016:


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi chaired the Inter-State Council meeting in New Delhi (16.7.2016). The Union Ministers participated in the meeting along with the Chief Ministers and Administrators of States and Union Territories. For the first time a meeting of the Inter-State Council had covered wide ranging topics of common interest to the Centre and the States. Previously Inter-State Council meetings focused on just one or two sectors. It is also important to add here that this meeting had been held after a gap of 10 years.


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi addressed the DGPs Conference in Hyderabad. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi inaugurated the three-day conclave of DGPs at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA) in Hyderabad from November 25-27, 2016 and discussed issues ranging from terrorism to cyber crime.


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi inaugurated the Asian Ministerial Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction (AMCDRR) 2016, held in New Delhi (3.11.16). This is the first major inter-governmental event after the adoption of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction (SFDRR). This Conference paved the way towards implementation of this Framework in the Asian region. It also devised a mechanism for monitoring its progress.


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi released National Disaster Management Plan, 2016 in New Delhi (1.6.2016). This is the first ever national plan prepared in the country. The NDMP has been aligned broadly with the goals and priorities set out in the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction. The Vision of the Plan is to “Make India disaster resilient, achieve substantial disaster risk reduction, and significantly decrease the losses of life, livelihoods, and assets – economic, physical, social, cultural and environmental – by maximizing the ability to cope with disasters at all levels of administration as well as among communities.


    Civilian victims of cross border firing gets a compensation of Rs 5 lakh. (12.7.2016). The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh approved that the civilian victims of cross border firing along the border will be given a compensation of Rs 5 lakh. Any civilian who dies anywhere in the country due to terror attack, naxal violence, firing from across the border, shelling or IED explosion, will be given Rs 5 lakh as compensation uniformly.


    Union Home Minister approved New Prison Manual 2016 (21.1.2016). The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh has approved the new Model Prison Manual, which aims at bringing in basic uniformity in laws, rules and regulations governing the administration of prisons and the management of prisoners all over the country.


    Enhancement of representation of women in CAPFs (5.1.2016). Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh had approved the 33% posts at Constable level for being filled up by women.


    Enhancement of Honorarium in respect of SPOs of Jammu & Kashmir to Rs. 6000 per month (1.1.2016). The Ministry of Home Affairs has enhanced the honorarium of Special Police Officers (SPOs) of Jammu and Kashmir upto Rs. 6000 per month from Rs. 3000 per month. The enhancement of honorarium is effective from 1.1.2016


    Cabinet approved the facilities being extended to persons residing in India on Long Term Visa (13.7.2016). The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi had approved the following facilities being extended to persons from Minority communities of Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, namely Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians staying on Long Term Visa (LTV) in India. The move is aimed at easing out the difficulties being faced by them and includes the following benefits:- opening of bank account, permission for purchase of property for self-occupation and suitable accommodation for carrying out self-employment, permission to take self-employment, issue of driving licence, PAN card and Aadhaar number, allowing free movement within the State /UT where they are staying, transfer of LTV papers from one state to other etc.


    MHA constituted Committee to strengthen border protection. The Ministry of Home Affairs has constituted a Committee under the Chairmanship of Shri Madhukar Gupta, Retd. Home Secretary, in order to strengthen border protection and address the issue of gaps and vulnerability in border fencing along Indo-Pakistan border. The Committee presented its report to the Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh on 29.8.2016.


    Union Home Minister chaired meeting for sealing Indo-Pak border, held in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan (7.10.2016). Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh chaired a meeting of Chief Ministers/ Home Ministers of Rajasthan, Punjab, Gujarat and Jammu & Kashmir for sealing of Indo-Pak border in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan. Inaugurating the meeting, Shri Rajnath Singh sought the active participation of the states to secure the International Border with Pakistan by putting physical and non- physical barriers by December, 2018.


    Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh reviewed Border Management (2.6.2016). The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh along with Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Kiren Rijiju reviewed the Border Management. Shri Rajnath Singh directed that complete Indo-Bangladesh border in Assam should be sealed.


    Home Minister level bilateral talks between India and Bangladesh, held in New Delhi (28.7.2016). The Bangladesh delegation was led by the Home Minister Mr. Asaduzzaman Khan and Indian delegation by Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh. Speedy operationalisation of three bilateral MoUs; Effective implementation of coordinated border management plan; Bilateral Extradition Treaty amended to make it more effective


    Signing and Ratification of the BIMSTEC Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters (10.3.2016). The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi approved the signing and ratification of the Bay of Bengal Initiative on Multi Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters. The Ministry of Home Affairs has been designated as the Central Authority under Article 15 of the Convention. The BIMSTEC comprises of seven countries viz., Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Myanmar, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Thailand.


    Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh addressed the 7th Meeting of SAARC Ministers of Interior/Home, held in Islamabad, Pakistan (4.8.2016). The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh addressed the 7th Meeting of SAARC Ministers of Interior/Home, in Islamabad, Pakistan. The prominent items on the Agenda were terrorism, smuggling of narcotic drugs, cyber crime and human trafficking. Most of the participating nations strongly condemned terrorism in all its manifestations.


    “On India’s behalf, I laid special emphasis on the scourge of terrorism. I am sure all the members of this august house would agree with me that the biggest challenge to the peace and prosperity of South Asia is terrorism. I called for hardening our resolve to eradicate this menace of terrorism. I also stressed on the need to ensure that terrorism is not glorified and is not patronized by any State.” (HM’s statement in Parliament on 5.8.2016)


    2nd Anti-Drug Working Group meeting of Heads of Drug Control Agencies of BRICS countries, held in New Delhi (8.7.2016). The Union Home Minister, Shri Rajnath Singh inaugurated the 2nd Anti-Drug Working Group meeting. The Narcotics Control Bureau, Ministry of Home Affairs organized the 2nd anti-drug Working Group meeting of Heads of Drug Control Agencies of BRICS countries. Delegates resolved to enhance capacity building to prevent and counter illicit drug trafficking. The meeting assumed significance as India hosted the eighth BRICS summit in Goa in October, 2016.


    Union Home Minister addressed the 4th Ministerial Meeting of SAIEVAC, held in New Delhi (11.5.2016). The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh addressed the 4th Ministerial Meeting of the South Asia Initiative to End Violence Against Children (SAIEVAC). Chairing the meeting Shri Rajnath Singh said that the safety, security, dignity and wellbeing of our children and young people will determine the wellbeing and strength of our countries.


    Inter State Council (ISC) and Standing Committee of ISC Reconstituted (28.10.2016). The Government has reconstituted the Inter State Council (ISC) and the Standing Committee of the Inter State Council.


    Union Home Minister chaired 22nd meeting of Eastern Zonal Council at Ranchi (27.6.2016). The Eastern Zonal Council, consisting of the states of Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal, discussed the issues like modernisation of State Police Forces, measures to curb communal tension and Left Wing Extremism (LWE), curbing of drug trafficking, measures for bringing Green Revolution to Eastern India, issues relating to fisheries, productivity of livestock and poultry to usher Blue Revolution.


    22nd meeting of Western Zonal Council held in Mumbai (21.10.2016). The 22nd meeting of the Western Zonal Council consisting of the States of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Goa and Union Territories of Daman & Diu and Dadra & Nagar Haveli was held at Mumbai, under the chairmanship of Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh. The Council took up issues related to coastal security, internal security, issuance of bio-metric identity cards to fishermen & issue of card readers, formulation of plans for countering terrorism, modernization of police force etc. Other important issues discussed were Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (Urban) Mission, surplus lands of Central Government for ‘Housing for All : 2022’ and providing shelters to the urban homeless.


    Constant monitoring of situation in Manipur following blockade in December, 2016. Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh on December 22, 2016 wrote separate letters to Manipur Chief Minister Shri Okram Ibobi Singh and Nagaland Chief Minister Shri T R Zeliang to bring the security situation in Manipur under control and ensure that there was no disturbance in movement of vehicles going through Nagaland. MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju on December 23, 2016 met Manipur Chief Minister shri Okram Ibobi Singh in Imphal over the economic blockade by Naga groups, and said the Centre will extend all assistance to restore normalcy in the state. Shri Rijiju visited the state with senior MHA officials to review the law and order situation in the wake of the economic blockade by the Nagas, who are opposing the creation of new districts from areas inhabited by Naga people.


    Government of India and NSCN issue Joint Communique (12.8.2016). The political initiative of the Government of India and NSCN to amicably resolve the Naga political issue has received a new urgency and impetus during the last two years. The talks have become more purposeful, less ritualistic, more forthright and far more frequent.


    Suspension of Operations Agreement with NDFB (P) Extended. (23.6.2016). A meeting of Joint Monitoring Group consisting of representatives of Government of India, Government of Assam and National Democratic Front of Bodoland (Progressive) was held. After discussions, it was agreed to extend Suspension of Operations for a period of six months upto December 31, 2016.


    MHA held first round of tripartite talks with Govt. of Manipur and Kuki National Organisation (KNO) and United People’s Front (UPF) of Manipur in New Delhi (15.6.2016).


    Union Home Minister chaired Southern Zonal Council meeting at Thiruvananthapuram (28.12.2016). The Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh said that all possible steps will be taken to preserve and strengthen the integrity and safety of our country, be it either from external or internal threat.


    Shri Rajnath Singh chaired a review meeting on NATGRID (31.8.2016). The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh emphasized the importance of NATGRID in assisting the Intelligence and Law Enforcement Agencies in countering national and transnational crimes.


    The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet had approved the appointment of Shri A.K. Patnaik, Additional Director, Intelligence Bureau as Chief Executive Officer, National Intelligence Grid, the first to head the agency. (13.8.2016)


    The NATGRID framework is to be hosted on the infrastructure being constructed at New Delhi and Bengaluru. The NATGRID framework is expected to be implemented by September 30, 2018.


    Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir assumed charge as the Minister of State for Home Affairs (11.7.2016).


    MoS (Home) Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir reviewed the developmental projects in Daman & Diu during his visit to the Union Territory on December 17, 2016. During the visit, MoS (Home) Shri Ahir inaugurated the Coastal Police Station at Kadaiya. He directed the officials to expedite work on setting up the Coastal Police Station at Diu. Shri Ahir called upon the UT Administration to fill up the vacancies immediately so that the Coastal Police Station can operate at its full capacity at the earliest.


    MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju inaugurated the BRICS meeting on Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR), held in Udaipur (22.8.2016). Shri Kiren Rijiju said India was willing to stand shoulder to shoulder with other BRICS nations and explore all possible areas of collaboration. He added that DRR is a high priority area for the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


    Cabinet approved Rehabilitation Package for Displaced Families from Pakistan occupied Jammu &Kashmir and Chhamb under the Prime Minister's Development Package for Jammu & Kashmir, 2015 (30.11.2016). The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi had approved Central Assistance of Rs. 2000 crore for 36,384 displaced families from Pakistan occupied areas of Jammu & Kashmir (POJK) and Chhamb following an announcement of Prime Minister's Development Package for Jammu & Kashmir-2015 in November, 2015. As per the package, Rs. 5.5 lakh cash benefit per family will be disbursed to the displaced families to enable them to earn an income and subsist their livelihood. The amount will be released to the State Government of J&K to be disbursed to eligible families through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT).


    MHA sanctioned additional 10,000 SPOs for J&K (21.9.2016). Union Ministry of Home Affairs has sanctioned the engagement of additional 10,000 Special Police Officers (SPOs) in the Police Department of Jammu and Kashmir. The additional SPOs will be utilized especially for the security related requirements.


    Cabinet approved raising of 17 Indian Reserve Battalions by J&K and LWE States. (27.1.2016). The Union Cabinet under the Chairmanship of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi approved the raising of 17 India Reserve Battalions (IR Bns) by Jammu & Kashmir and Left Wing Extremism (LWE) affected States. Local youths will be recruited. To achieve this, the States will relax the age and educational criteria, if required. In respect of the 05 IR Bns to be raised by J&K, 60% of the vacancies will be filled from the border districts of J&K for the posts of constables and class IV. For LWE states, 75% of the vacancies of constables will be filled up from 27 core districts under Security Related Expenditure (SRE) Scheme.


    Rs.1000 crores allocated to LWE affected states (6.1.2016). The Union Home Minister, Shri Rajnath Singh approved the State wise allocation of Additional Central Assistance of Rs.1000 crores to 35 worst LWE affected districts in seven states.


    Enemy Property Ordinance, 2016 promulgated (8.1.2016). The President of India promulgated the Enemy Property (Amendment and Validation) Ordinance, 2016 on January 07, 2016 to make amendments to the Enemy Property Act, 1968. The amendments will plug the loopholes in the Act to ensure that the enemy properties that have been vested in the Custodian remain so and they do not revert back to the enemy subject or enemy firm.


    Cabinet approved grant of Permanent Residency Status to Foreign Investors (31.8.2016). The Union Cabinet under the Chairmanship of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the scheme for grant of Permanent Residency Status (PRS) to foreign investors subject to the relevant conditions as specified in the FDI Policy notified by the Government from time to time. The scheme is expected to encourage foreign investment in India and facilitate Make in India Programme. Under the Scheme, suitable provisions will be incorporated in the Visa Manual to provide for the grant of PRS to foreign investors.


    Short term Yoga programmes included in Tourist Visa and e-Tourist Visa (2.6.2016). The Ministry of Home Affairs has taken a decision to include short term yoga programmes in Tourist Visa and e-Tourist Visa. Realizing the spread and importance of yoga world over, the Government has decided to include “attending a short term yoga programme” in the list of permissible activities under Tourist Visa. Besides, the Government has decided to include “attending a short term yoga programme” and “short duration medical treatment under Indian systems of medicine” in the list of permissible activities under e-Tourist Visa.


    Visa on Arrival for Japanese nationals from March 1, 2016 (29.2.2016). As announced by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, the Visa on Arrival for Japanese nationals launched from 1st March, 2016. This facility can be availed for the purposes of business, tourism, conference and medical. Validity of this visa after entry will be for a period of 30 days. About 1.80 lakh Japanese nationals visit India every year on various kinds of visas. Business and Tourist Visas constitute around 78% of these.


    Tourist Visa norms eased for people of Bangladesh above 65 years of age (19.8.2016). The Government of India has decided to increase the duration of tourist visa from one year to five years having multiple entry facility for the people of Bangladesh above 65 years of age.


    Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh chaired high-level meeting in Srinagar on strategic issues (1.7.2016). A High Level meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh was held in Srinagar. The meeting was also attended by the Jammu and Kashmir Governor Shri NN Vohra and Chief Minister Ms. Mehbooba Mufti and several Senior Officers from the Centre and the State. The meeting deliberated upon the strategic issues pertaining to situation in the state with particular reference to development projects of the state.


    Union Home Minister concluded visit to Srinagar (24.7.2016) The Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh concluded his 2 day visit to Srinagar on July 24, 2016. During the visit about 30 delegates including 8 from different political parties met the Home Minister. He also visited Anantnag and met civil society delegations. This wide ranging consultations has given the Union Home Minister an on-the-spot assessment of the situation and the views of a cross section of society.


    Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh met wide spectrum of political parties in Srinagar on August 24, 2016 (24.8.2016). Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh held a series of meetings with a wide spectrum of political parties in Srinagar. Shri Rajnath Singh also chaired a meeting of Senior Officers of Security Agencies and State Government to review the security situation in the Kashmir Valley. He appealed to the J&K people to help maintain law & order and restore peace.


    All Party delegation led by Shri Rajnath Singh concluded its visit to J&K (5.9.2016). An All Party delegation visiting Jammu and Kashmir concluded its 2-day visit on September 5, 2016. The Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh had said that the delegation’s talks with the various sections in J&K had been fruitful.


    Expert Committee for exploring other possible alternatives to Pellet Guns as Non-lethal Weapons constituted (26.7.2016). The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh approved the constitution of a seven-member Expert Committee under the chairmanship of Shri T V S N Prasad, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs for exploring the other possible alternatives to Pellet Guns as Non-lethal Weapons. The Committee submitted its report to the Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Mehrishi on August 29, 2016.


    Union Home Minister met different delegations at Leh (3.10.2016). The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh met over 15 political parties, religious communities and civil society groups at Leh on October 3, 2016. They presented a joint memorandum for grant of UT status with legislature to Leh-Ladakh region.


    Creation of a cell in MHA to address grievances of Jammu & Kashmir people (30.8.2016). The Ministry of Home Affairs nominated Director in J&K Division as the Nodal Officer for grievances relating to J&K persons, particularly students residing outside the State.

    Text of the Joint Statement issued after the conclusion of Union Home Minister’s 3-day visit to Bahrain (25.10.2016). The two sides agreed that the exchange of high level visits has contributed to the implementation of important agreements between the two countries. The two sides agreed to actively implement the counterterrorism agreement, for which a joint committee was formed that held its first meeting in the sideline of the visit.


    Cabinet gives ex-post facto approval to India-Bahrain Agreement on Cooperation in Combating International Terrorism, Transnational Organized Crime and Trafficking in Illicit Drugs, Narcotic and Psychotropic Substances and Precursors Chemicals, and ratification of the same (6.1.2016). The MoU shall come into force from the date of exchange of the instruments of ratification.


    MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju addressed the First Asian S&T Conference for Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR), held in Bangkok, Thailand (24.8.2016). Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Kiren Rijiju, a UN designated Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) Champion for the Asia Region, attended the First Asian Science and Technology Conference for Disaster Risk Reduction held at Bangkok in Thailand.


    Second Meeting of the High Level Group of Eminent Experts to strengthen the SAARC Anti-Terrorism Mechanism, held in New Delhi (22.9.2016). The Director, Intelligence Bureau, Shri Dineshwar Sharma has asked the SAARC nations to strictly enforce internationally mandated sanctions against terrorist entities and individuals. Shri Sharma also called upon the eight member States to ratify and enable various Conventions enacted by the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) grouping, including the Convention on Suppression of Terrorism and Additional Protocols and the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters. Meeting concluded on 23.9.2016.


    Exchange of terrorist screening information Arrangement between India and USA signed in New Delhi (2.6.2016). An Arrangement between the authorized Governmental agencies of the Government of India and the Government of the United States of America for exchange of terrorist screening information was signed. As per this Arrangement, both sides shall provide each other access to terrorism screening information through the designated contact points, subject to domestic laws and regulations.


    Three agreements between India and Switzerland on Mutual Visa Exemption, Return of Illegal Migrants and Arrangement for Dependent Persons of Diplomatic and Consular Mission to Perform Gainful Employment signed in New Delhi (6.10.2016). The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh met the visiting Minister for Justice and Police of Swiss Confederation, Ms. Simonetta Sommaruga. Shri Rajnath Singh stated that the two countries have made significant contributions to strengthen peace and prosperity based on their shared vision of a peaceful and progressive future.


    MoU between India and United Arab Emirates on cooperation in preventing and combating of Human Trafficking (13.4.2016). The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and United Arab Emirates on cooperation in preventing and combating of Human Trafficking. The MoU will strengthen the bonds of friendship between the two countries and increase the bilateral cooperation on the issues of prevention, rescue, recovery and repatriation related to human trafficking especially women and children expeditiously.


    Indo-Maldives talks on Terrorism (11.4.2016). During the visit of the President of Maldives to India, the Government of Maldives highlighted the need for capacity building in view of their concerns on counter terrorism. Both sides reiterated their commitment to coordinate efforts to counter terrorism and radicalization and enhance cooperation in counter terrorism operations, intelligence sharing and capacity building.


    Shri Kiren Rijiju participated in the Symposium on ‘Shared Values and Democracy in Asia’ in Tokyo (19.1. 2016). The Minister of State (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju underlined that Samvad/dialogue holds the key to good relations and that for the 21st Century to be the Asian century, democratic societies must work together to preserve and promote non-conflicting traditions and democratic values.


    Union Home Minister reviewed relief operation in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu (13.12.2016). The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh held a high level meeting to take stock of the situation of the relief operations following the landfall of cyclone Vardah in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. NDRF had deployed its 19 flood and rescue teams in various parts of Andhra Pradesh, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu affected by cyclone Vardah.


    NDMA coordinated response and relief after Manipur Earthquake (4.1.2016). An earthquake of 6.7 magnitude occurred in District Tamernglong, Manipur state on 4.12016. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) immediately took action and started coordinating with the State Governments, Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Defence, NDRF, Ministry of Telecom and other concerned Government departments and agencies for search & rescue and relief. On 5.1.2016, the Cabinet Secretary Shri P. K. Sinha chaired a meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee to take stock of ongoing Relief operations in Manipur.


    Flood rescue and relief operation by NDRF (22.8.2016). The rescue and relief operations by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in the flood affected various districts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh were in full swing. 56 flood rescue teams of NDRF were operational in various flood prone areas of the different states to assist the respective state administration in rescue and relief work. NDRF teams had evacuated/rescued more than 53,000 persons and provided medical assistance to 12,200 needy persons in this monsoon season.


    Flood rescue and evacuation operation by NDRF in Maharashtra's Raigad District (5.8.2016). Massive search operations were carried out by NDRF and other agencies in Maharashtra's Raigad District. Four NDRF teams had been pressed into action to trace the missing victims in the Savitri River and its surroundings.


    NDRF deployed in rain affected areas of Hyderabad, Karnataka and Telengana (25.9.2016). Continuous heavy rains lashed several districts of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telengana where normal life had been thrown out of gear due to flood-like situation. NDRF teams were in touch with the local administration and monitored the situation round the clock.


    NDRF rescued 54 injured from the mangled bogies in Kanpur (20.11.2016). 05 search and rescue teams of NDRF were relentlessly engaged to extricate victims, trapped in the mangled bogies of Patna-Indore Express. Due to prompt response by NDRF, 54 passengers including 16 critically injured had been rescued and 31 bodies retrieved from the mangled bogies of derailed train.


    Government approved subsidized helicopter services in J&K and Himachal Pradesh (9.9.2016). The Government accorded its approval for operation of helicopter services in the State of Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh on a pilot basis in 10 sectors, as per the stipulation that the most inaccessible destination points should be chosen.


    7th National Conference on Women in Police (6.1.2016). Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh inaugurated the 7th National Conference on Women in Police. The Home Minister said that the women’s representation is not adequate and the Government is committed to give adequate representation to them.


    Enhancement of Pension for Freedom Fighters under the Swatantrata Sainik Samman Pension Scheme (18.8.2016). The existing pension scheme for Central freedom fighter pensioners and their eligible dependents has been restructured. The revised scale introduced with effect from 15.8.2016.


    Outcome of probe by JIT on Pathankot (27.4.2016). A Five member Joint Investigation Team (JIT) from Pakistan had visited India to collect, review and document physical evidences and to interview key witnesses and victims through the NIA in connection with the Pathankot Airbase terror attack. The Pakistan JIT shared with NIA the results of investigations carried out by them in Pakistan. The case is under investigation in both the countries. The Government is in touch with the relevant Pakistani Authorities in the matter.


    ***


    KSD/NK/PK/KM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1485675) Visitor Counter : 161