      Ministry of Defence

      Defence Minister visits DG NCC Republic Day Camp-2017
      Posted On: 25 JAN 2017 8:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Defence Minister Shri Manohar Parrikar during his visit to NCC Republic Day Camp 2017 here today, conferred “Raksha Mantri Padak” and Commendation Cards to NCC Cadets for their exemplary performance and devotion to duty at an impressive ‘Investiture Ceremony’ held at NCC Republic Day Camp 2017 at Delhi Cantt. He was received by the Director General National Cadet Corps(DGNCC) Lt Gen Vinod Vashisht. A contingent of smartly turned out NCC cadets drawn from the three wings namely Army, Navy and Air Force presented an impressive Guard of Honour to the Defence Minister.
    
    Raksha Mantri Padak was instituted in 1989 and since then it is awarded to the most deserving Cadets every year for bravery or exceptional service of highest order. This year the Raksha Mantri Padak has been awarded to Company Under Officer Priyanka Mishra of Rajasthan Directorate, Raksha Mantri Commendation Cards have been awarded to Cadet Kushagra Misra (Madhya Pradesh & Chhattisgarh Directorate), Senior Under Officer Rajlaxmi Baral (Odisha Directorate) and Girls Cadets Instructor (GCI) III E Gomathi (Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Andaman & Nicobar Directorate).
    
    The Raksha Mantri Padak was also awarded to ten girl cadets and one GCI. The Cadets and GCI who received the Raksha Mantri Padak are Cadet Rigzen Dolker and Cadet Baljeet Kaur (Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh & Chandigarh Directorate), Cadet Tashi Laskit, Cadet Stanzin Laskit and Cadet Tsering Angmo (Jammu & Kashmir Directorate), Cadet Pooja Mehra (Uttarakhand Directorate), Cadet Lalrintluangi (North Eastern Region Directorate), Cadet Sulaxchana and Cadet Trishal Gurung (West Bengal & Sikkim Directorate), Cadet Kumari Nutan (Rajasthan Directorate) & Girl Cadet Instructor III Dolyne Kharbhih (North Eastern Region Directorate), who successfully summitted Mt Everest in May 2016 and created world record for maximum number of women from a single team and single country. Raksha Mantri Commendation Card was also awarded to Girl Cadet Instructor II Saroj Boriwal of Madhya Pradesh & Chhattishgarh Directorate who was part of the support team for Mt Everest.
    
    The Defence Minister also inspected the well laid out flag area prepared by the cadets from all 17 NCC Directorates depicting various Social Awareness themes. He was given a crisp brief by the cadets on their respective models.
    
    The Minister along with other distinguished guests later witnessed a spectacular cultural programme by the cadets in the NCC auditorium.
    
    NW/NAMPI/Ranjan

    
    
    (Release ID: 1485390) Visitor Counter : 15