      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Sh. Ravi Shankar Prasad to inaugurate National Meet on Grassroot Informatics
      Posted On: 18 JAN 2017 7:56PM by PIB Delhi


      National Informatics Centre (NIC) is organizing a three-day National Meet on Grassroot Informatics from Thursday, 19 th January to Saturday, 21 st January, 2017 at the India Habitat Centre, New Delhi.


      The three-day event will be inaugurated by Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, Hon’ble Union Minister of Electronics & Information Technology and Law & Justice, GoI in the presence of Shri P. P. Chaudhary, Hon’ble MoS for Electronics & Information Technology and Law & Justice, GoI and Ms Aruna Sundararajan, Secretary, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology .


      The National Meet on Grassroot Informatics is aimed at showcasing the various initiatives of NIC in creating and enhancing the Digital Infrastructure in the country. Some of these are - setting up of ICT infrastructure, developing state of the art products to enable the government and empower the citizens, its initiatives at state and district level along the lines of Digital India initiatives along with the various awareness campaign on Digital Payment Systems encompassing DBT, PFMS, Cashless Payment, Aadhaar etc.


      The meet will also be attended by the few IT Secretary and District Collectors. They will be sharing their experience in the implementation of the eGovernance programme at their State/District. Nearly 400 officers from all over India will participate in this meet at Stein Auditorium, India Habitat Centre, New Delhi.


      The individual sessions during these three days will also throw lights on NIC’s journey so far, the best practices it follows, the Digital India programme, Digital India initiatives from NIC State Units, success stories from the districts, Financial Inclusion, its technology awareness programmes and ICT Infrastructure being provided by NIC.


      NNK/MD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517749) Visitor Counter : 38