      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      More than 5 lakh Mumbaikars have visited the Hunar Haat at Marine Lines, Mumbai : Shri Naqvi
      ‘Hunar Haat’ will encourage craftsman’

      Posted On: 08 JAN 2018 5:54PM by PIB Mumbai

    The craftsmela ‘Hunar Haat’ which is organised at Islam Gymkhana Marine lines in Mumbai was visited by the Union Minister of Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today. Speaking on the occasion he said that the mela provides a platform to craftsmen form various parts of the country to display their wares and increase their sales. The government encourages them by giving them facilities like travelling allowance, free stay and space for their stalls. He informed that more than five lakh persons have visited the fair and have purchased and ordered goods. A single craftsman provides employment to more than hundred persons, he added. The government plans to organise at least six ‘Hunar Haats’ in a year in different parts of the country to encourage craftsmen.


    Ministry of Minority Affairs has organised an exhibition titled “Hunar Haat” with the theme of ‘Craft Aur Cuisine Ka Sangam’ from 4 th to 10 th January, 2018 at the Islam Gymkhana, Marine Lines, Mumbai. It was inaugurated by Shri Vinod Tawde, Minister for Minority Development & waqf, Maharashtra and Shri Amesing Luikham, Secretary, Ministry of Minority Affairs, Government of India on January 05, 2018.


    *****


    PIB/ Mum/ IJ


    Highlights of Hunar Haat


    The exhibition is being organised through National Minorities Development & Finance Corporation (NMDFC) under USTTAD (Upgrading the Skills & Training in Traditional Arts/Crafts for Development) scheme of Ministry of Minority Affairs.


    The USTTAD Scheme aims at preserving & promoting the rich heritage of the traditional arts & crafts of the Minority communities. These crafts have gradually lost their employability in the light of globalisation & competitive market. This has demotivated the younger generation including the wards of Master Craft-persons to look for different avenues for livelihood. This Ministry is trying to preserve such art forms through inputs such as better marketing linkage, new designs, better packaging, training & credit linkage.


    Organizing Hunar Haat is part of the initiative of Ministry of Minority Affairs to provide marketing linkages. As part of the USTTAD scheme, the Ministry has already organised four exhibitions successfully during the last two years. Starting with Hunar Haat at IITF, 2016 followed by Craft Aur Cuisine Ka Sangam at Baba Kharak Singh Marg in February 2017, Crafts & Cuisine Ka Sangam at Puducherry during September, 2017 and recently Hunar Haat IITF during November, 2017.


    During this exhibition, 100 artisans including State/National Awardees/Shilp-guru from 21States & one UT from across the country, representing Minority Communities, are expected to participate.


    The Hunar Haat at Mumbai is being organized with a theme of “Craft Aur Cuisine Ka Sangam”. A total of 21 stalls of cuisines & sweets are being setup which would serve the famous cuisines like Mughlai Food, Kashmir Wazwan, Bengali Sweets, Nagaland Cuisines, Kerala Jackfruit, South-Indian Food, Mithai from Bihar, Biryani, & Kababs, Rajasthani Thali, Gujarati Thali, Punjabi Food, Dilli ki Chaat, Mukhwas, Maharashtra fast food & Dilli ka famous Pan and many other delicacies.


    The artisans will be bringing very exquisite pieces of Handicraft & Handloom work like Cane & Bamboo & Jute Products of Assam; Tussar, Geeja, Matka Silk of Bhagalpur; Traditional Jewellery, Lac Bangles & Jewellery from Rajasthan & Telangana; Kantha Products of West Bengal; Brocades of Varanasi; Lucknawi Chikan Work, Zari Zardozi from U.P; Khurja Ceramic Products; Clay items, Blackstone Pottery, Dry Flowers and Traditional Handicrafts of North-East; Shawls, Carpets & Papier-machie of Kashmir; Ajrakh Print, Mutva, Kutch Embroidery &Bandhej of Gujarat; Batik/Bagh/Maheshwari of Madhya Pradesh; Aplique&Ajrakh of Barmer; Leather Products, Brassware of Moradabad; Kalamkari of Telangana; to name a few.


    For the first time artisans of Parsi Gara Embroidery, calligraphy in Wood and Rogan Art (which is a dying craft) are participating in the Exhibition.


    About 26 women artisans would be showcasing & selling their products.


    Hunar Haat proves to be a successful & memorable event for the artisans & they are encouraged by the good response of the domestic & international visitors. This will be part of the effort of the Ministry to contribute in realisation of the vision of our Prime Minister of “Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas”.


    *****


    Source by Ministry of Minority Affairs

    
    
    (Release ID: 1515947) Visitor Counter : 788
    
    

      Background release reference

      ‘Hunar Haat’ will encourage craftsman’