      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Foundation stone laying ceremony of International Cruise Terminal by Union Minister Shri Nitin Gadkari
      Posted On: 11 JAN 2018 5:15PM by PIB Mumbai


    The Arabian sea and sea front is a speciality and strength of Mumbai and Maharashtra. 80 cruise ships came to Mumbai this year and 950 cruise ships will come in the next 5 years said Union Minister for Shipping, Shri Nitin Gadkari. He addressed all stakeholders at foundation stone laying ceremony of International cruise terminal at Mumbai Port in Mumbai today.


    The Union Minister said that there is a huge tourist potential in Mumbai. He informed about various projects of MbPT worth Rs. 6500 crore. Of these projects, 27 projects are in pipeline and will be inaugurated in upcoming year. Sagar Mala project for Maharashtra is worth of 2.41 lakh crore he added.


    The Union Minister also informed that 24 applications have been received for Special Economic Zones (SEZ). Of which, only in JNPT SEZ around 1.5 lakh youth will get employment in the next 3 years, they all should be from Raigad and Kokan areas.


    The Union Minister expressed concerns over pollution of Mithi river and drainage in the sea. These are two negative points of Mumbai he said.


    Shri Gadkari appealed to the Chief Minister of Maharashtra for a new reclamation plan of 350 acres garden for Mumbaikars.


    Chief Minister of Maharashtra Shri Devendra Fadnavis said that the biggest challenge is employment for youth. When we invest in Infrastructure sector then only we will achieve our goal. He accepted shri Gadkari’s suggestion for new reclamation and assured for needful action. BPT’s officer will be included In Special Planning Authority (SPA) he added.


    On the occasion of foundation stone laying ceremony of new International Terminal, shri Jaykumar Raval, Minister of Tourism, Govt. of Maharashtra, Cabinet Minister Shri Raj Purohit, Govt. of Maharashtra, Member of Parliament shri Arvind Sawant, Member of Parliament shri Anil Desai and other dignitaries were present.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1516414) Visitor Counter : 1000