      President's Secretariat

      Vipassana leads to self realisation through awareness and insight - President of India Ram Nath Kovind
      Gratitude Day observed at Global Vipassana Pagoda Mumbai

      Posted On: 14 JAN 2018 3:10PM by PIB Mumbai

    Vipassana purifies the mind and it's practise leads to increased concentration. It has a beneficial effect on the body, the mind and spirituality. Stating this at the Global Vipassana Pagoda on the Gratitude Day President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind affirmed that the propagation of the Vipassana practice is beneficial for society.


    President Kovind said that he was pleased to note that the Vipassana Kendra in Igatpuri, the Dengan Palace in Nagpur and the biggest Pagoda in the world in Mumbai are popularising the Vipassana practice and attracting people in large numbers not only from Maharashtra but from various parts of India and abroad.


    The President informed that in 1972 shri. Vinoba Bhave had told shri Satya Narayan Goenka to teach Vipassana to school children. In 1975 prisoners in jails were also taught Vipassana. The Government of Maharashtra is also providing facilities to learn Vipassana practise to its employees and officers. Other state Governments are also doing so.


    Shri Kovind said that the Global Vipassana foundation is doing great work in promoting Vipassana - a meditation technique taught by Lord Buddha. This practice includes three simple precepts - Morality, Concentration of mind and Self realisation through awareness and insight. It is a non -sectarain meditation technique that applies equally on all human beings irrespective of caste, religion, language, gender or age.


    President Kovind wished the Global Vipassana foundation all success in its endeavors on the occasion of Gratitude Day. He also laid the foundation of Dhammalaya - 2 at Global Vipassana Pagoda in Mumbai.


    The Gratitude Day observes the 46th death anniversary of Sayali U Ba Khun and 2nd death anniversary of Mrs. Illaichi Devi Goenka (Mataji).


    Maharashtra Governor shri. C. Vidya sagar Rao, Chief Minister of Maharashtra Shri. Devendra Fadanvis and other dignitaries were present on this occasion.


    ****


    PIB MUMBAI/APS/NS/ST


    

    
    (Release ID: 1516651) Visitor Counter : 942