      Ministry of Railways

      E-Drishti Software
      Posted On: 19 DEC 2018 5:57PM by PIB Delhi


    An ‘e-Drishti’ interface has been unveiled for the Union Railway Minister, Minister of State and Board Members. This software includes an interface which provides summary information on punctuality of trains for the previous day. There is also an interface which provides information on current train running on the Indian Railway network. In addition, there are interfaces providing details of freight earning, freight loading and passenger earnings for the previous day & month and cumulative for the year, in comparison to the corresponding period of the previous year.


    Punctuality of passenger carrying trains is being also monitored rigorously to improve punctuality performance on a daily basis at Divisional, Zonal and Railway Board levels by Divisional Railway Managers (DRMs), General Managers (GMs) and Railway Board Members and senior officers. To ensure running of trains right time when pairing trains are running late, scratch rakes are inducted and rakes are standardized to the extent operationally feasible. Also various steps have been initiated to improve punctuality such as prioritization of preventive maintenance of assets to minimize asset failures, capacity enhancement projects by construction of additional loop lines at stations, doubling, construction of third line corridors, automatic signalling, construction of limited height subways to replace level crossings, Road Under Bridges (RUB) and Road Over Bridges (ROB) etc. Besides, punctuality drives are launched from time to time and staff involved in train operations is sensitized. In addition, Zonal Railways have also been advised to have better coordination with Civil and Police authorities of states to deal with situations arising out of law and order problems.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Railways, Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SVS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556676) Visitor Counter : 1456