      Ministry of Rural Development

      Gram Parivahan Yojana
      Posted On: 27 DEC 2018 5:14PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry is implementing Aajeevika Grameen Express Yojana (AGEY), the sub-scheme under Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM) to facilitate transport facilities in the rural areas and also provide job opportunities to members of Self Help Groups (SHGs) under DAY-NRLM. The scheme was launched in August, 2017. However, the Ministry does not have a scheme called Gram ParivahanYojana.


    AGEY has the following two objectives:


    1. To provide safe, affordable and community monitored rural transport services to connect remote villages with key services and amenities (including access to markets, education and health) for the overall economic development of the area by making use of the supports available within the framework of DAY-NRLM.


    2. To provide an alternative source of livelihoods to members of Self Help Groups (SHGs) and their families under DAY-NRLM by facilitating them to operate public transport services in backward rural areas, as identified by the States.


    The scheme is currently being implemented in 18 States and 624 vehicles are operational under the scheme as on 30th November, 2018.


    AGEY was to be implemented in 250 blocks across the country on a pilot basis. Rajasthan was allocated 9 blocks under AGEY. The responsibility of identifying the blocks lies with the State government.


    There is no separate budgetary allocation under AGEY. Under the programme, the Community Investment Fund (CIF) provided to Community Based Organisations (CBOs) under the existing provisions of DAY-NRLM are utilised for providing interest free loans to the SHG members.


    AGEY is already under implementation in 18 States.


    AGEY aims to provide connectivity to rural areas through vehicles operated by SHG members. State Rural Livelihoods Missions (SRLMs) in consultation with Community Based Organisations (CBOs) under DAY – NRLM identify routes where roads have been constructed under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) but has poor transport services. SHG members are then provided interest free loans by the CBOs for operating vehicles on the identified routes based on financial viability.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Rural Development, Shri Ram Kripal Yadav in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/SNC/AS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1557474) Visitor Counter : 1515