      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah hails approval of Mission Karmayogi, the National Programme for Civil Services Capacity Building (NPCSCB), by the Cabinet
      
      Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah thanked Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for this visionary reform
      
      “Mission Karmayogi is aimed at bringing about a transformational change in Civil Services”
      
      “This holistic & comprehensive scheme will focus on individual as well as institutional capacity building”
      
      “It is a landmark reform for the 21st century which will end the culture of working in silos and bring out a new work culture”
      
      “Goal driven and constant training will empower and sensitize the civil servants to ensure accountability and transparency in the system”
      
      “This reform will not only provide a mechanism for Govt functionaries to improve their own performance but also enable them to fulfill and live upto the aspirations of New India”
      
      “Modi Government is fully committed towards building of a future ready civil service, ‘Civil Service for a New India’”
      Posted On: 02 SEP 2020 7:31PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah has hailed the approval of the Mission Karmayogi, the National Programme for Civil Services Capacity Building (NPCSCB), by the Cabinet today, terming it as aimed at bringing about a “transformational change in Civil Services”.


    Shri Amit Shah expressed gratitude to the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, “for this visionary reform”. “This holistic & comprehensive scheme will focus on individual aswell as institutional capacity building”, he said.


    The Union Home Minister said, “ It is a landmark reform for the 21 st century which will end the culture of working in silos and bring out a new work culture. Goal driven and constant training will empower and sensitize the civil servants to ensure accountability and transparency in the system”.


    Shri Amit Shah said, “This reform will not only provide a mechanism for Government functionaries to improve their own performance but also enable them to fulfill and live upto the aspirations of NewIndia.”


    “Modi Government is fully committed towards building of a future ready civil service, ‘ Civil Service for a New India’,” he said.


    NPCSCB has been carefully designed to lay the foundations for capacity building for Civil Servants so that they remain entrenched in Indian Culture and sensibilities and remain connected, with their roots, while they learn from the best institutions and practices across the world. The Programme will be delivered by setting up an Integrated Government Online Training Platform, “iGOTKarmayogi”. To cover around 46 lakh Central employees, a sum of Rs.510.86 crore will be spent over a period of 5 years from 2020-21 to 2024-25.


    To bring a transformational change in civil services, cabinet today approved #MissionKarmayogi. I thank PM @NarendraModi ji for this visionary reform. This holistic & comprehensive scheme will focus on individual aswell as institutional capacity building. #CivilService4NewIndia

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) September 2, 2020

    This reform will not only provide a mechanism for Govt functionaries to improve their own performance but also enable them to fulfill and live upto the aspirations of #NewIndia.
    
    Modi govt is fully committed towards building of a future ready civil service. #CivilService4NewIndia

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) September 2, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/AD/SS/DDD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1650748) Visitor Counter : 275
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada