      Ministry of Jal Shakti

      Summary of Rainfall and Flood Situation
      Posted On: 01 SEP 2020 3:59PM by PIB Delhi


    Heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with extremely heavy falls at isolated places observed over Gujarat & West Rajasthan. 19 Stations (7 in Bihar, 3 in Uttar Pradesh, 2 each in Gujrat & Maharashtra and 1 each in Assam, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha & West Bengal) are flowing in Severe Flood Situation and 30 stations (14 in Bihar, 7 in Uttar Pradesh, 5 in Assam, 2 in Odisha and 1 each in Gujarat & Rajasthan) are flowing in Above Normal Flood Situation.


    Inflow Forecast has been issued for 24 Barrages & Dams (6 in Madhya Pradesh, 3 in Uttar Pradesh, 2 each in Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, West Bengal &Tamilnadu, 1 each in Odisha, Rajasthan & Telangana). Details can be seen in link http://cwc.gov.in/sites/default/files/cfcr-cwcdfb31082020_5.pdf


    Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely over West Rajasthan and over Kutch. It is very likely to decrease significantly thereafter. Fairly widespread rainfall with Isolated heavy falls very likely over Northwest India and Western Himalayan Region during 02nd & 03rd September, 2020. Rainfall intensity over peninsular India is very likely to increase from 01st September. South Interior Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu are very likely to receive Isolated Heavy to Very Heavy falls on 02nd & 03rd September, 2020.


    Rengali Dam on River Brahmani in Angul District in Odisha continues to flow above its FRL. There is forecast of heavy rainfall (65.5 to 115.5 mm) in Kendujar district of Odisha during the next 4 days. Close watch has to be maintained for any abrupt increase in inflows due to such heavy rainfall in the reservoir area.


    Due to significant reduction in rainfall, River Wainganga has started falling at Bhandara&Pauni in Bhandara District of Maharashtra but continues to flow in Severe Flood Situation. Inflows are reducing in Gosikhurd Project on river Wainganga in Bhandara District. Excess flow is released from Gosikhurd Project due to which river Wainganga is rising in Gadchiroli District of Maharashtra. River Wardha is also contributing to flow in river Wainganga and the combined flow is increasing the inflow into Laxmi Barrage on river Godavari in JayasankarBhupalpalle District of Telangana.


    Due to significant reduction in rainfall, River Narmada has started falling in its upper reaches. It continues to flow in severe flood situation in Hoshangabad Districts of Madhya Pradesh. Heavy inflows are still continuing in Indirasagar, Omkareshwar and SardarSarovar Dam. Releases from SardarSarovar Dam gave rise to Severe Flooding Situation in Garudeshwar in Narmada District, Bharuch in Bharuch District of Gujarat.


    Due to reduction in rainfall Rivers Mahanadi & its tributaries in Chhattisgarh & Odisha are expected to slowly fall with reduction in inflows into major reservoirs. However, close watch is to be maintained in Districts Sambalpur, Bhadrak, Jajapur, Cuttack, Angul, Mayurbhanj, Kendujar in Odisha and Raipur &Champa in Chhattisgarh.


    River Chambal and its Tributaries are getting slow inflows in its Reservoir systems such as Gandhisagar in Mandsaur District of Madhya Pradesh, Rana PratapSagar in Chittorgarh District and Kalisindh Dam in Jhalawar District of Rajasthan. Due to releases from these dams River Chambal is rising rapidly at Dholpur, in Dholpur District of Rajasthan and is expected to rise above Danger Level.


    Forecasted Heavy to Very Heavy Rainfall in the next 3 days in South Interior Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, increase in inflows into reservoirs in Upper Cauvery Basin is expected. Since most of the dams are having storage in excess of 90% close watch is to be maintained for any abrupt increase in inflows due to such heavy rainfall in the reservoir area.


    Strict vigil is to be maintained in all the above States & Districts for next 3-4 days. It is advised that close watch has to be maintained for increased inflows in dams. Releases from any of these reservoirs may be done as per rule curve and standard operating procedure with advance intimation to downstream areas. Maximum vigil has to be maintained along the rail and road tracks and bridges on these rivers and regulate traffic suitably to avoid any incident. Submergence of low-level cause ways along rivers and railway tracks along flashy rivers is to be monitored closely. All district administrations can take effective measures taking into account the prevailing Covid-19 situation in relief camps being set up in these districts.


    ***


    APS/SG/MG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1650355) Visitor Counter : 324
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Tamil