      Ministry of Railways

      Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry holds meeting with Senior officials of States to review the progress of Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation India Limited (DFCCIL)
      
      Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh attend the meeting and assure resolution of all issues
      
      States asked to expedite the process of arbitration and enforce law if there were issues like obstruction of work in any patch of work
      
      Resolution of all issues to be done on a Mission mode
      
      The Ministry had already written letters to all the concerned States to fast track the project
      
      Constant monitoring the weekly progress of the project

      Posted On: 01 SEP 2020 6:36PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Piyush Goyal, Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry held meeting with the too officials of all the states through which the dedicated freight corridor would pass. The meeting was was attended by all the top officials of Railways Board , DFCCIL including CRB and MD/DFCCIL,


    Shri Goyal directed the DFFCIL management team and the States to take all possible steps to speed up the pace of works on all the sections of the Western DFC (1504 Route km) and Eastern DFC (1856 route km) . In the review meeting , progress of each individual state was discussed in detail and instructions were given to ensure smooth progress by resolving all hindrances.


    During the review meeting, progress made about acquisition of land and construction of road over bridges ( ROBs )in the states were discussed and resolved. State officials were asked to expedite the process of arbitration and enforce law if there were issues like obstruction of work in any patch of work.


    In order to fast track the project, it was decided to hold regular meetings with all State officials on a daily basis if need be.


    During the meeting, it was decided that strict monitoring of work in all sections to be done.


    Dedicated Freight Corridors (DFC) is one of the largest rail infrastructure projects a (total length of 3360 route km) undertaken by the Government of India. The overall cost is pegged at Rs 81,459 crores. DFCCIL has been set up as a special purpose vehicle to undertake planning, development, mobilization of financial resources, construction, maintenance and operation of Dedicated Freight Corridors.


    *****


    DJN/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1650426) Visitor Counter : 244
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Punjabi , Tamil