      Ministry of Power

      Team NTPC beats 112 organisations to emerge winner at AIMA - Chanakya (Business Simulation Game) National Management Games 2020
      Posted On: 03 SEP 2020 3:47PM by PIB Delhi


    Team NTPC overcame a stiff challenge to emerge as winner at the recently concluded All India Management Association (AIMA) - Chanakya (Business Simulation Game) National Management Games (NMG) 2020. The victory was also significant since NTPC won the prestigious National Management Games for the first time in five years. NTPC Limited, the Central PSU under Ministry of Power mentioned in a statement that the team from NTPC Vallur, Tamil Nadu achieved the feat of being crowned the national champion after competing against teams from 112 organisations from different parts of the country.


    The team comprised Shri Chinnathambi G, Manager, C&I Maintenance; Shri Senkguttuvan P J, Manager, Operations (Main Plant); Shri Yoginderkumar J, Manager, Operation from NTPC Vallur. Team NTPC Vallur qualified for the regional rounds, which was held online and subsequently qualified for the Finals.


    Located in Tamil Nadu's Tiruvallur District, the 1500 MW Vallur Thermal Power Station is operated by NTPC Tamil Nadu Energy Company Limited (NTECL), a joint venture between NTPC Limited and Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Company (TANGEDCO).


    More teams from NTPC brought laurels for India's largest power generating company with combined team of NTPC Talcher Kaniha and SSC-ER II (Shared Services Center-Eastern Region II) from Odisha emerging as runner-up in the southern regional round of AIMA Chanakya NMG 2020.


    Shri Deepak Ranjan Sahoo, Shri Khageshwar Pradhan & Shri Ramani Kanta Jena from NTPC Talcher Kaniha & SSC-ER II were part of the team.


    16 winning teams of NTPC Business Minds 2020 were nominated for the event and subsequently 2 teams qualified for the national finals. NTPC won the competition earlier in 2015 while the power major had emerged as runner-up in 2016 and 2017.


    AIMA Chanakya National Management Games, an online Business Simulation Game conducted every year is aimed at ensuring that participating executives from various industries get an introduction to the complexities of running an organisation and gain expertise and skills from this event.


    National Management Games (NMG) is one of its kind platform for Corporate Managers to face the thrill of Managing Business in a competitive mode. It is one of the most anticipated and reputable annual events based on Business Management Simulation, conducted by AIMA (All India Management Association).


    The participants experience the complexities of running a company by focusing on resource management, market trends, cost analysis, product positioning, production planning, and inventory control. NMG is conducted in 2 levels; one at the Regional round (includes two sub-levels: Preliminary and Regional Final), and the second is the Final round.


    RCJ/M

    
    
    (Release ID: 1650986) Visitor Counter : 339
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Tamil , Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Assamese , Punjabi