      Ministry of Finance

      ECONOMY INSTRUCTIONS RELATED TO PRINTED ACTIVITIES
      
      All calendars, diaries, schedulers and similar other materials, which were earlier printed in physical format, will now be done digitally by Ministries/Departments/PSUs/PSBs
      
      Ministries/Departments/PSUs/PSBs and all other organs of the government to adopt innovative means to use digital or online methods
      
      Posted On: 02 SEP 2020 3:56PM by PIB Delhi


    Given the prevailing circumstances in which the world is increasingly moving towards adopting digital force-multipliers for productivity, the Government of India has decided to follow this best practice.


    
    There is to be no activity towards printing wall calendars, desktop calendars, diaries and other such material for use in the coming year by any Ministries/Departments/PSUs/PSBs and all other organs of the government.


    All such activity shall go digital and online .


    There is to be a concerted effort towards incorporating innovative methods in such matters. Using technological innovations for planning, scheduling and forecasting is well known to be economical, efficient and effective.


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and his governance model have always seen technology as an enabler. Integrating technology into our work is in line with his vision.


    Therefore all calendars, diaries, schedulers and similar other materials, which were earlier printed in physical format, will now be done digitally. Publication of Coffee Table books will also be stopped and appropriate use of E-Books is encouraged. All Ministries/Departments/PSUs/PSBs and all other organs of the government are to adopt innovative means to use digital or online methods for the same. Innovative digital and online solutions which will achieve the same result as physical calendars or diaries are to be prioritized and to be put into practice.


    Necessary order has been issued to all concerned.( Please See)


    RM/KMN


    

    
    (Release ID: 1650627) Visitor Counter : 995
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada