      Ministry of Education

      President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind to virtually confer the National Award to Teachers to 47 awardees on Teachers Day
      Posted On: 04 SEP 2020 5:50PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind will virtually confer National Award to Teachers in New Delhi tomorrow. Union Minister of Education Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ and MoS for Education Shri Sanjay Dhotre will also be present on the occasion. The national level awards are given to teachers on Teachers' Day to celebrate the unique contribution of some of the finest teachers in the country and to honour those teachers who through their commitment have not only improved the quality of school education but also enriched the lives of their students.


    #OurTeachersOurHeroes
    Join us for the National Awards to Teachers 2020 felicitation programme on 📅5 Sept;🕚11 AM
    Hon'ble President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind Ji will grace the event with his presence as the Chief Guest. @rashtrapatibhvn #TeachersFromIndia #NAT2020 pic.twitter.com/6fNtIfp4vf

    — Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank (@DrRPNishank) September 4, 2020

    T he guidelines National Award to Teachers were revised in the year 2018 making the process online, transparent and three stage with inclusion of National level Jury .

     1. Online self-nomination from teachers on mhrd.gov.in
     2. All regular teachers eligible. No minimum years of service required.
     3. No State/UT/Organization quota for final selection.
     4. Final selection by Independent National Jury from amongst shortlisted candidates’ list received from States/UTs/Organizations.
     5. Number of awards rationalized to 45 (in addition, the Jury may select 2 teachers under Special Category for differently abled teachers etc.).

    Self-nomination by teachers through online portal on www.mhrd.gov.in were invited. First level scrutiny was done by District Selection Committee (DSC) headed by the District Education Officer. Based on prescribed selection criteria, DSC shortlisted 3 names and the same were forwarded to State Selection Committee through online portal.


    Second level of scrutiny was to be done by State Selection Committee (SSC) headed by Principal Secretary/Secretary of State Education Department. The SSC evaluated all the nominations and recommended names of shortlisted candidates subject to the maximum number allotted to the States/UTs and forwarded them to Independent National Jury through online portal.


    Final selection for National Awards to Teachers 2020 was made by Independent Jury at National level headed by retired Secretary, Department of School Education & Literacy, MHRD. Jury reviewed the list of candidates as forwarded by States and Organisations and carries out fresh assessment. This year, the candidates appeared before the Jury through Video Conference and made presentations before the Jury. Jury selected 47 teachers.


    The selected awardees with their commitment and industry have not only improved the quality of school education but also enriched the lives of their students and community through various activities like improving enrolment and reducing dropouts, adopting joyful and experiential teaching-learning practices, development and use of cost effective TLMs, organizing extra-curricular & co-curricular activities, spreading social awareness among children, encouraging community participation, appropriate and effective use of ICT in teaching, promotion of nation building and national integration.


    National Awards to Teachers will be streamed live on 5 th September, 2020 at 11 am on the link below:


    https://webcast.gov.in/mhrd


    *****


    MC/AKJ/Ak

    
    
    (Release ID: 1651346) Visitor Counter : 246
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Kannada
    
    
    

   
   
   
5.