      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Union Minister Dr.Jitendra Singh, to address a workshop tomorrow on Good Governance Practices in a Pandemic for District Collectors of Aspirational Districts
      
      The One Day Workshop on COVID-19 is jointly organized by the National Centre for Good Governance (NCGG), Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances and National Institute for Transforming India (NITI)

      Posted On: 03 SEP 2020 4:42PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State for Personnel, PG and PensionsDr.Jitendra Singhwill deliver the valedictory address at the NCGG-NITI one-day Workshop on COVID-19 – Good Governance Practices in Aspirational Districts a Pandemic through a webinar on September 4, 2020. The one-day conference includes chairmen and speakers from the Ministries/ Departments of Government of India, State Governments and District Collectors. The participants of the workshop comprise of Senior Officers of DARPG, NITI, Central Ministries, Senior Civil Servants of Government of India serving as Central Prabhari Officers under the Aspirational Districts Program, Senior Officials from State Governments, District Collectors and District Level Officers handling the Aspirational Districts Program. In the valedictory session Shri Amitabh Kanth CEO NITI Aayog, Government of India and Dr.K.Shivaji Secretary DARPG and DPPW will address the delegates. This Workshop was jointly conceptualized by the National Centre for Good Governance, Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances and NITI with the objective of knowledge dissemination of district level good governance practices in fighting the COVID - 19 pandemic.


    The technical sessions, would cover Best Practices in Health Sector Governance, e-governance, Agriculture and Water Resource Management, North Eastern States and Educational Governance. The session chairs include Shri Indevar Pandey, Special Secretary DONER, Shri Anil Swarup, former Secretary Education and Literacy, Smt. Shalini Rajneesh, Additional Chief Secretary Government of Karnataka, Shri Bharat Lal Additional Secretary (Water) Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation, Ministry of Jal Shakti and Dr. Santosh Mishra CEO, Tamil Nadu e-Governance Authority and Commissioner e-Governance. 20 District Collectors of the Aspirational Districts will be making presentation in the technical sessions.


    Shri V. Srinivas, Additional Secretary, DARPG and Director General, National Centre for Good Governance said that this will be the 3 rd virtual workshop that the NCGG will be hosting on the subject, and the 1 st workshop in the series with a domestic focus with an expected attendance of 500 officials. The first ITEC-NCGG workshop on Good Governance Practices in a Pandemic was attended by 162 Civil Servants from 19 countries of Asia, the 2 nd ITEC-NCGG workshop on Good Governance Practices in a Pandemic was attended by 266 Civil Servants from Africa and India.


    <><><><><>


    SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1651022) Visitor Counter : 202
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Manipuri , Assamese , Punjabi , Tamil