      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Agreement Signed Between MoTA And IIPA for Setting UP National Institute of Tribal Research at IIPA Campus, New Delhi
      
      Tribal Research Institutes Require Capacity Building to Enable Impact Assessment of Development Schemes in Tribal Areas- Shri Arjun Munda
      
      Branding & Marketing of Tribal Ethnic Products Should be Given Due Importance – Arjun Munda
      Posted On: 04 SEP 2020 4:52PM by PIB Delhi


    In the presence of Union Minister for Tribal Affairs Shri Arjun Munda, an agreement was signed today between Ministry of Tribal Affairs (MoTA) and Indian Institute of Public Administration (IIPA), New Delhi for setting up of National Institute of Tribal Research (NITR) at the IIPA campus, New Delhi. The proposed National Institute will be functional in a few months and will be engaged in quality tribal research in collaboration with reputed government and non governments NGOs spread over the country. The agreement was signed by Shri Deepak Khandekar, Secretary Ministry of Tribal Affairs and Shri S.N. Tripathi, DG, IIPA at the valedictory session of “National Tribal Research Conclave” organized by Centre of Excellence (CoE) for Tribal Affairs, (M/o Tribal Affairs), Indian Institute of Public Administration (IIPA), New Delhi here today.


    Addressing at the valedictory session of Two Days National Tribal Research Conclave being held virtually through webinar, Shri Arjun Munda said that the Ministry of Tribal Affairs designed workable models which provide end to end solution as part of action research to be implemented by policy initiatives. He said that the Tribal Research Institutes (TRIs) have a very important role to play and their research should focus on drawing road map for future development. The Ministry is funding Tribal Research Institutions for research on various aspects of tribal life and culture but now intervention of research with policy should be emphasized in their research. He also suggested that the new National Institute of Tribal Research should also have an educational wing to educate students on tribal development and tribal art & culture.


    He said that we have to make life of tribalseasier and livable in their original tribal habitat. Indigenous seeds and products should be protected. He emphasized that the Biodiversity Management is very important for the ecological balance of the earth and we should always take care of it.


    आज नई दिल्ली के आईआईपीए परिसर में राष्ट्रीय जनजातीय अनुसंधान संस्थान (एनआईटीआर) की स्थापना के लिए मंत्रालय और भारतीय लोक प्रशासन संस्थान (आईआईपीए) के बीच एक समझौते पर हस्ताक्षर हुआ । प्रस्तावित राष्ट्रीय संस्थान कुछ महीनों में कार्यशील हो जाएगा। pic.twitter.com/5tTbloWyDB

    — Arjun Munda (@MundaArjun) September 4, 2020

    जनजातीय मामलों के मंत्रालय ने व्यावहारिक मॉडल तैयार किए हैं जो नीतिगत पहलों द्वारा लागू किए जाने वाले कार्य अनुसंधान के हिस्से के रूप में अंतिम समाधान प्रदान करते हैं।टीआरआई की बहुत महत्वपूर्ण भूमिका है, उनके शोध में भविष्य के लिए रोड मैप तैयार करने पर ध्यान केंद्रित करना चाहिए । pic.twitter.com/jMImZWuNWq

    — Arjun Munda (@MundaArjun) September 4, 2020

    Shri Munda said that the Branding and Marketing of ethnic tribal products should be given due importance because these persuade customers to buy the products.We should also try to find those products which have an international demand and develop those too for international standards, the Minister added. Referring to Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) he said that there is a need to develop creative leadership in the Panchayats to ensure all round development.


    The Two Days National Tribal Conclave held virtually through webinar concluded today. The representatives from various organizations and institutions working in collaboration with Ministry of


    Tribal Affairs for Tribal Research and Development viz.- Bharat Rural Livelihood Foundation (An autonomous organization under M/o Road Development; Piramal Foundation; Himmotthan Society TATA Foundations, art of living; CII; FICCI; ASSOCHAM; SECMOL- LADAKH; BAIF; NIRTH; JNU; Jamai Milia Islamia, Bhasa;; and UNDP etc. took part in this virtual conclave.


    *****


    NB/SK/MoTA/04.09.2020

    
    
    (Release ID: 1651310) Visitor Counter : 392
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi