      Prime Minister's Office

      Hon. President and Prime Minister to address the Governors’ Conference on NEP-2020
      Posted On: 06 SEP 2020 8:00AM by PIB Delhi


    Hon President of India Shri Ram NathKovind and Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi shall address the inaugural session of the Governors’ Conference on National Education Policy on at 1030 AM on 7 th September 2020, through video conference.


    The Conference titled “Role of NEP-2020 in Transforming Higher Education” is being organized by the Ministry of Education, Govt of India.


    NEP-2020 is the first education policy of the twenty-first century which was announced after 34 years of the previous National Policy on Education 1986. NEP-2020 is directed towards major reforms in both school and higher education level.


    The new National Education Policy strives for making India into an equitable and vibrant knowledge society. It envisions an India-centred education system that contributes directly to transforming India into a Global Superpower.


    The comprehensive transformation aimed the NEP will bring about a paradigm shift in the country’s education system and create an enabling and reinvigorated educational ecosystem for a new Atmanirbhar Bharat envisaged by Hon’ble Prime Minister of India.


    Various Webinars, Virtual Conferences, and Conclaves on various aspects of National Education Policy 2020 are being organised across the country.


    The Ministry of Education and University Grants Commission earlier organized a “Conclave on Transformational Reforms in Higher Education under National Education Policy-2020” which was addressed by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


    The Governors’ Conference on 7 th September is also being attended by Education Ministers of all States, Vice-Chancellors of State Universities and other senior officials.


    The address of the Hon. President and Prime Minister shall be live telecast on DD News.


    *******


    VRRK/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1651707) Visitor Counter : 808
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi , Bengali , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Assamese , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam