      Ministry of Railways

      Delhi set to receive Kisan Rail
      
      South India’s First “Kisan Rail” flagged off from Anantapur (Andhra Pradesh) to Adarsh Nagar (New Delhi)
      
      Agriculture produce needs best possible distribution and returns. Indian farmers have proved that they would never be deterred by any calamity or challenge. Kisan Rail will ensure that agro products reach from one corner to another corner of the country”- Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Minister of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Government of India
      
      "Indian Railways is committed to the facilitation of marketing the farmer’s produce”- Shri Suresh C. Angadi, Minister of State for Railways
      
      Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Minister of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Government of India and Shri Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh flagged off the Inaugural Run of Anantapur – New Delhi Kisan Rail through Video Link today i.e. 9th September, 2020
      
      The Program was presided over by Shri Suresh C. Angadi, Minister of State for Railways, Government of India
      Posted On: 09 SEP 2020 3:09PM by PIB Delhi


    South India’s First “Kisan Rail” was flagged off from Anantapur (Andhra Pradesh) to Adarsh Nagar (New Delhi) today i.e. 9th September, 2020.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar said that, it is the first Kisan Rail from South India connecting to National capital for the benefit of the farmers. It was the guidance and inspiration by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi ji that Indian Railways have started Kisan Rail with a motive to encourage the villages and farmers. “It is a great day for farmers. Kisan Rail was announced in the budget. Agriculture produce needs best possible distribution and returns. Indian farmers have proved that they would never be deterred by any calamity or challenge. Kisan Rail will ensure that agro products reach from one corner to another corner of the country”.


    Shri Suresh C. Angadi stated that Hon’ble Prime Minister’s vision and the pronouncement made in the budget materialized in introduction of Kisan Rail with the aim of doubling the income of farmers. As “lifeline of the nation Indian Railways is committed to the facilitation of marketing the farmer’s produce”. He also said that electrification of railway lines has been taken up in a big way in the state of Andhra Pradesh and its benefits will be enjoyed by the people of Andhra Pradesh.


    Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Minister of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Government of India and Shri Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh flagged off the Inaugural Run of Anantapur – New Delhi Kisan Rail.


    The Program was presided over by Shri Suresh C. Angadi, Minister of State for Railways, Government of India.


    The first Kisan Rail of South India:


    • The newly introduced Kisan Rail starts from Anantapur Railway Station in Andhra Pradesh and reaches Adarsh Nagar Station, New Delhi.


    • The rake is loaded with 14 parcel vans – 04 vans load meant for Nagpur and another 10 Vans load for Adarsh Nagar – totalling 332 tonnes.


    • The inaugural Kisan Rail loaded with Tomato, Bananas, Sweet Orange, Papaya, Muskmelons and Mangoes.


    • The train provides fast transport connectivity between Anantapur to New Delhi with the distance of 2150 Km being covered in approximately 40 hours.


    • Anantapur is fast becoming the Fruit Bowl of Andhra Pradesh. More than 80% of the 58 lakh MT of fruits & vegetables in the district is marketed out of the state, particularly to the north Indian States of Delhi, UP, Punjab and Haryana among others. Earlier this was being transported by roadways which was not only time taking but also leading to reduction in price realisation of the farmers due to enroute damages. Transportation by railway provides a safe, reliable and fast transportation which will aid in better price realisation for the farmers and thereby helping in better incomes for the farmers and traders.


    • The Railway team at Guntakal (particularly the newly set up Business Development Unit) along with the cooperation of the District Administration and State Government Officials have played a crucial role in making the farmers/traders aware of the benefits in loading by railways, which led to today’s inaugural rail.


    ****


    DJN/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1652611) Visitor Counter : 501
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Odia , Tamil , Kannada