      Ministry of Defence

      Induction Ceremony of Rafale Aircraft into Indian Air Force
      Posted On: 09 SEP 2020 1:14PM by PIB Delhi


    The Indian Air Force will formally induct the Rafale aircraft on 10 th September 2020 at Air Force Station, Ambala. The aircraft will be part of 17 Squadron, the “Golden Arrows”. The first five Indian Air Force Rafale aircraft arrived at Air Force Station, Ambala from France on 27th July 2020.


    Hon’ble Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh and Mrs Florence Parly Minister of the Armed Forces of France will be the Chief Guest for the event. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Chief of the Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, Defence Secretary Dr Ajay Kumar, Dr G Satheesh Reddy, Secretary Department of Defence R&D and Chairman DRDO along with other senior officers of Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces will be present to mark a very important milestone in the history of the IAF. The French delegation will be represented by Mr Emmanuel Lenain Ambassador of France to India, Air General Eric Autellet, Vice Chief of the Air Staff of the French Air Force and other senior officials. A large delegation of senior functionaries of French Defence Industries which includes Mr Eric Trappier Chairman and Chief Executive of Dassault Aviation and Mr Eric Beranger, CEO, MBDA will be present during the ceremony.


    Mrs Florence Parly Minister of the Armed Forces of France will be given a ceremonial Guard of Honour on arrival at Delhi. At Ambala the program will include ceremonial unveiling of the Rafale aircraft, a traditional ‘Sarva Dharma Puja’, Air Display by Rafale and Tejas aircraft as well as by ‘Sarang Aerobatic Team’. Afterwards, a traditional water cannon salute will be given to the Rafale aircraft. The programme will culminate with the ceremonial induction of Rafale aircraft to 17 Squadron. After the ceremonial events the Indian and French delegation will have a bilateral meeting.


    ***


    IN/BSK/JP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1652563) Visitor Counter : 505
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Punjabi , Odia , Tamil , Malayalam