      Vice President's Secretariat

      Protecting mother tongue, culture and nature will be a real tribute to Telugu litterateur, Shri Viswanatha Satyanarayana : Vice President
      
      Viswanatha Satyanarayana was an embodiment of Indian culture and traditions.
      
      Kavi Samrat's literary canvas was large: Vice President
      
      Vice President inaugurates 125th birth anniversary celebrations of Sri Viswanatha Satyanarayana

      Posted On: 10 SEP 2020 12:12PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu today said that preserving and protecting the mother tongue, Indian culture, values and the environment will be real tribute one could pay to the Telugu literary legend, Shri Viswanatha Satyanarayana.


    Virtually inaugurating the 125 th birth anniversary celebrations of the Kavi Samrat, Shri Viswanatha Satyanarayana organized by Viswanatha Sahitya Peetham, Shri Naidu described the literary genius as an embodiment of Indian culture and traditions.


    Stating that Viswanatha Satyanarayana remains the first writer to impart a true Teluguness to the Ramayana, he recalled that Ramayana Kalpavruksham, the seminal work of Shri Viswanatha had fetched him the prestigious Jnanpith Award.


    Through his works, he had highlighted the importance of imparting learning in the mother tongue, preserving culture and protecting the nature, the Vice President said.


    Shri Naidu also called making nature’s protection a people’s movement.


    Observing that imparting primary education in mother tongue would help in emotional and intellectual development of children, he asserted that children can learn education in a holistic manner when culture, language and traditions are integrated.


    Pointing out that the New Education Policy-2020 has given priority to integrated education, Shri Naidu stressed that the NEP-2020, at the same time, is designed to equip the students with skills and knowledge of international standards to meet the challenges of 21 st century.


    The Vice President also quoted Shri Viswanatha as saying that with the maturity one gets from education in mother tongue, one can learn any language.


    ShrI Naidu said Sri Viswanatha’s literary canvas was large comprising novels, critical works, poems, epics, plays, songs and verses, among others. Many leading Telugu literary personalities drew their inspiration from Shri Viswanatha Satyanarayana, he added.


    He said that Shri Viswanatha’s works probably attracted the maximum research and study by young writers.


    Shri Mandali Budha Prasad, AP Assembly former Deputy Speaker, noted spiritual preacher, Shri Samavedam Shanmukha Sharma, Shri Viswanatha Satyanarayana, president Viswanatha Sahitya Peetham and other noted personalities attended the webinar.


    ****


    VRRK/MS/MSY/DP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1652912) Visitor Counter : 207
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu