      Election Commission

      Timelines for Publicity of Criminal Antecedents
      Posted On: 11 SEP 2020 6:09PM by PIB Delhi


    In continuation of the detailed instructions dated 10.10.2018 and 6.3.2020 issued by ECI in the matter of publicity of criminal antecedents by the contesting candidates as well as by the political parties nominating such candidates, it was discussed at length in the Commission’s meeting today. Commission decided to further streamline the instructions concerning publicity of criminal antecedents by candidates concerned and by the political parties, who nominate them for elections. Commission has always emphasised on this moral yardstick for overall betterment of electoral democracy.


    Highlights of the modified instructions are as follows:


    A. Revised Timeline for Publicity


    As per the revised guideline, the candidates as well as the political parties, regarding candidates nominated by them, will publish the details of criminal antecedents, if any, in newspapers and television in following manner:

     1. First publicity : Within first 4 days of last date of withdrawal.
     2. Second publicity : Within 5 th to 8 th day of last date of withdrawal
     3. Third publicity : From 9 th day till the last day of campaign, i.e. two days prior to date of poll)

    This timeline will help the voters in exercising their choices in more informed manner.


    B. Regarding the publicity by uncontested winning candidates as well as the political parties who nominate them, it is clarified that uncontested winner candidates as well as the political parties who nominate them shall also publicise the criminal antecedents, if any, as prescribed for other contesting candidates and political parties.


    As decided by Commission, a Compendium of all instructions and formats issued so far, in this matter, is being published for the benefit of stakeholders. This will help in creating more awareness amongst the voters and other stakeholders. All instructions, in this regard, must be complied by the contesting candidates with criminal antecedents and the political parties regarding their nominated candidates. These modified instructions shall apply with immediate effect.


    ******


    SBS/MR

    
    
    (Release ID: 1653379) Visitor Counter : 327
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu
    
    
    

3.