      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      India will be self-reliant in the production of fertilizers by 2023 : Shri Gowda
      
      New Fertilizer units being setup with an investment of 40,000 crore rupees : Shri Gowda
      
      Shri Gowda Asks farmers to use Urea judiciously to sustain soil health
      
      The Minister lauds IFFCO’s Nano experiment and called it a game changer
      
      Nano Fertilizers 25-30 % cheaper; results in 18-36% higher agricultural produce maintaining soil health : Shri Gowda

      Posted On: 13 SEP 2020 3:55PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers Shri D.V. Sadananda Gowda said, by 2023 India will be self-reliant in the production of fertilizers as under “Atma Nirbhar Bharat” programme new fertilizer manufacturing units are being setup with an investment of Rs 40,000 crore in the country to reduce dependency on import.


    

    Shri Gowda was addressing a webinar on “Self-Reliant India and Sustainable Agriculture ”organized by IFFCO for the farmers of Karnataka. He said, “As per Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atma Nirbhar Bharat vision to promote indigenous industries, we are converting all fertilizer companies to gas based technology. Recently we have revived four urea plants (Ramagundam, Sindhri, Barouni and Gorkhpur) in India. By 2023 we should become self –sufficient in the production of Fertilizers."


    Union Minister informed that Government is encouraging the production of organic and Nano fertilizers in the country as they are 25 to 30 per cent cheaper and give 18 to 35 per cent higher yield and keep the soil in good health. He lauded the IFFCO’s Nano experiment and called it a game changer. He informed that Nano fertilizers distributed freely to 12,000 farmers and agriculture universities across the country have given positive feedback.


    Shri Gowda asked farmers to use Urea judiciously as excessive use of Urea may spoil the soil health. He advised farmers to use fertilizers according to their soil health cards.


    He praised the efforts of IFFCO, during the COVID pandemic period for not only keeping regular supply of fertilizers but also organising campaigns by distributing masks, sanitizers and hand gloves to mitigate the spread of COVID . He also thanked other fertilizers companies and Railway department for playing important role in timely supply of fertilizer during the COVID pandemic period.


    More than 1500 farmers from Karnataka took part in the Webinar through zoom. Managing Director IFFCO, Dr. U S Awasthi, Marketing Director Yogendra Kumar, IFFCO Karnataka marketing manager Dr. Narayanaswamy , agriculture scientists from University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore and other eminent dignitaries also participated in the Webinar. .


    *****


    RCJ/RKM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1653770) Visitor Counter : 557
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Tamil , Bengali , Manipuri , Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Punjabi