      Prime Minister's Office

      PM to inaugurate and lay foundation stone of seven projects related to urban infrastructure in Bihar on 15 September
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2020 2:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of seven projects related to urban infrastructure in Bihar on 15 September via video conferencing. Out of these, four projects are related to water supply, two to sewerage treatment and one to riverfront development. The total cost of these projects is Rs 541 crore. The implementation of these projects has been undertaken by BUIDCO under Urban Development and Housing Department of Bihar. Chief Minister of Bihar will also be present on the occasion.


    Details


    Sewerage treatment plants built under Namami Gange, at Beur and Karmalichak, in Patna Municipal Corporation, will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister.


    Water supply projects built under AMRUT Mission in Siwan Municipal Council and Chapra Municipal Corporation will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister. Both these projects will help local residents get pure drinking water 24 hours a day.


    The foundation stone of Munger water supply scheme under AMRUT Mission will be laid by the Prime Minister. The scheme will help residents of Munger Municipal Corporation get pure water through pipelines. Foundation stone of Jamalpur water supply scheme under AMRUT Mission, in Jamalpur Municipal Council, will also be laid.


    The foundation stone of Muzaffarpur Riverfront Development Scheme, being built under Namami Gange, will be laid by the Prime Minister. Under the project, three ghats of Muzaffarpur (Poorvi Akhada Ghat, Seedhi Ghat and Chandwara Ghat) will be developed. Basic facilities like toilets, information kiosk, changing room, pathway, watch tower etc will be made available at the riverfront. Proper security arrangements, signage and adequate lighting will be arranged for at these Ghats. The development of the riverfront will also boost tourism and make it the centre of attraction in future.


    ***


    AP/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1653973) Visitor Counter : 451
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Kannada , Malayalam