      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2020 6:19PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    On a steep rising curve, India’s Recovery Rate touches 78%; there are 28 lakh more Recoveries than Active Cases, 60% of Total Active Cases in 5 Most Affected States


    On a continuous upward trajectory, the Recovery Rate has touched 78.00% reflecting the increasing number of high recoveries per day. 77,512 patients have been discharged in the last 24 hours. The total recovered cases are 37,80,107 . The gap between Recovered cases and Active cases is consistently increasing. This has touched nearly 28 lakh toda y (27,93,509). The total number of active cases in the country stands at 9,86,598 as on date. More than 60% of the Active Cases are concentrated in 5 States viz Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.These States are also reporting 60% of the total recovered cases. 92,071 new cases have been reported in the last 24 hours in the country. Maharashtra continues to contribute a high number. In the last 24 hours it has reported more than 22,000 new cases. Andhra Pradesh has contributed more than 9,800 new cases. Nearly 60% of the total cases are being contributed by five States viz. Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. 1,136 deaths have been logged in the past 24 hours. Of the new deaths, nearly 53% are concentrated in three States of Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh. These are followed by Tamil Nadu, Punjab and Andhra Pradesh. More than 36% of deaths reported yesterday are from Maharashtra (416 deaths).


    For details:


    Text of the Suo-Moto statement by Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Minister for Health & Family Welfare in LokSabha/RajyaSabha regarding COVID pandemic and the steps taken by the Government of India


    For details:


    AYUSH practices inducted into the Management Protocol for COVID - 19 recovered patients


    Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has issued a protocol on Post COVID Management which provides an integrated holistic approach for patients of COVID to care at home and is not meant to be used as preventive/curative therapy. It also states that the recovery period is likely to be longer for patients who suffered from more severe form of the disease and those with pre-existing illness. The protocol is also notable for the induction of various AYUSH practices of healthcare to facilitate faster recuperation of health of recovered Covid 19 patients. The Post- COVID follow up protocol, on individual level, advices continued appropriate use of mask, hand and respiratory hygiene, physical distancing etc. Adequate consumption of hot water and immunity promoting AYUSH medicine is advised after prescribed by a qualified practitioner of AYUSH. Mild / moderate exercises like Yogasana, Pranayama, Meditation is to be practiced daily as prescribed while daily morning or evening walk at a comfortable pace as tolerated. Apart from this, the protocol advices to consume a balanced nutritious diet that is easy to digest and is freshly prepared. These include common or easy preparations like the AyushKwath, the Samshamanivati, Giloy powder with luke warm water, Ashwagandha and Chyawanprash. Other recommendations include Amla fruit, Mulethi powder and Haldi milk.


    For details:


    English rendering of PM's remarks at the start of Monsoon Session of Parliament


    “…. The Parliament session commences today under special circumstances. There is a corona pandemic on one hand while our obligation towards fulfilling our duties on the other; and all the MPs have chosen the path of duty. I congratulate and thank all the MPs for this initiative……


    Several important decisions will be taken in this session, various topics will be discussed, and our experience tells us that the more we discuss in the LokSabha, the more diverse the discussion is in the House, the more beneficial it is for the country and solving the issues at hand.


    I believe that this time too, following that great tradition, all the MPs will come together and add value to it. Under the present situation created by corona, we have to follow the rules and move ahead with great precautions. And it is also clear that we cannot afford any laxity in our approach unless there is a medicine. We are hoping that the vaccines should come up from any corner of the world as soon as possible, our scientists become successful in this direction as soon as possible and we can succeed in getting everyone out of this crisis…….”


    For details:


    Union Health Secretary, Industries & Internal Trade Secretary and Secretary Pharmaceuticals urge 7 Big States to ensure adequate Oxygen availability in all Healthcare Facilities


    The Union Health Ministry held a virtual meeting yesterday where Union Health Secretary, Secretary DPIIT and Secretary Pharmaceuticals participated. State Health Secretaries and Industries Secretaries of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh also participated in the meeting. The aim of the meeting was to ensure adequate Oxygen availability in all healthcare facilities in these States & unrestricted intra as well as inter State movement of oxygen. Union Minister for Commerce & Industry, and Railways Shri PiyushGoyal.also addressed the participants. The States were specifically advised to ensure: facility wise/hospital wise oxygen inventory management and advance planning for timely replenishment so that there are no stockout, no restriction is imposed on the movement of Medical Oxygen between States/UTs and Provision of “Green Corridor” for Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) Tankers within the cities. It was also advised to ensure timely payment of the due bills to the manufacturers and supplier to maintain uninterrupted supply of oxygen.


    For details :


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan interacts with his Social Media followers through 'Sunday Samvad’


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare yesterday interacted and answered questions posed by his social media followers on the Sunday Samvad platform. These questions covered a multitude of queries concerning not only the current situation of COVID but also the government’s approach to it, the likely changes one expects to see in the post-COVID world and the steps taken by government in its facilitation. The Minister informed that while no date has been fixed for the vaccine launch, it may be ready by the first quarter of 2021. Dr Harsh Vardhan stated that the Government is taking full precautions in conducting the human trials of the vaccine. “Issues like vaccine security, cost, equity, cold-chain requirements, production timelines etc. are also being discussed intensely”, he stated. He assured the vaccine will be first made available to those who need it the most, irrespective of their paying capacity. Further, he said that the Government is considering emergency authorization of COVID-19 vaccination especially in the case of senior citizens & people working in high-risk settings. To allay fears regarding the safety aspect of the vaccines, the minister said he will be happy to take the first dosage of vaccine if some people have a trust deficit.


    For details :


    Principal Secretary to Prime Minister Comprehensively Reviews COVID-19, Appreciates the good work done by different Ministries and Departments


    Principal Secretary to Prime Minister Dr. P.K. Mishra chaired a high level review meeting on Saturday to comprehensively review the COVID-19 preparedness and response. The meeting focused on evidence based learning on management of cases across the Districts and States. The meeting also discussed the stage of vaccine development and vaccine distribution plan. The need for District Health Action Plans for long term management of various aspects of COVID was also discussed at the meeting. The meeting was attended by the Cabinet Secretary, Member, NITI Aayog Dr. Vinod Paul, Principal Scientific Adviser and all concerned Empowered Action Group Convenors and Secretaries of concerned Departments. It was noted with satisfaction that all Empowered Groups have worked very hard to achieve benchmarks in COVID management. Principal Secretary to Prime Minister directed all concerned for an evidence based preparedness of all aspects of COVID-19 with active participation of Districts and States for effectiveness.


    For Details:


    Centre exhorts the North Eastern States to actively break the Chain of Transmission


    Union Health Secretary held a video conference (VC) on Friday to review the COVID management strategies and actions taken in the eight North Eastern States. The VC was attended by the Principal Secretaries, Health Secretaries and other State representatives from Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Tripura and Sikkim . These 8 North Eastern States together account for less than 5% of the total active cases in the country. The States were advised to limit the spread of the infection by implementing stringent containment measures and following social distancing measures and ensure strict peri-meter control, and active house-to-house case search.Early identification by ramping up testing across the states and districts, judicious and full utilization of RT-PCR testing capacityand effective monitoring of home isolation cases and early hospitalization in case of disease progression was also stressed upon.


    For Details:


    Covid-19 Effect on Import of Oil


    Oil and gas sector PSUs have informed that COVID 19 pandemic has resulted in unprecedented fall in demand which in-turn has reduced revenue consequent to lockdown imposed in the country. Consumption of all petroleum products has increased as the country is going towards unlock process. Due to the Covid-19 Outbreak throughout and world and nationwide lockdown imposed in the country, Indian refineries were operating with reduced capacity. This information was given by the Union Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas Shri Dharmendra Pradhan in the LokSabha today in a written reply.


    For Details:


    Amount released to States to combat COVID-19


    Keeping in view the Covid-19 Pandemic, the Government of India released the 1 st instalment of State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) amounting to Rs. 11,092 crore to State Governments on 3 rd April, 2020 in advance to strengthen the States to deal with the pandemic. This was stated by Shri Anurag Singh Thakur, Union Minister of State for Finance & Corporate Affairs in response to a written question asked in the LokSabha today.Giving more details, Shri Thakur said that State Governments have been allowed additional borrowing limit of up to 2 per cent of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) for the year 2020-21. As against the additional borrowing limit of 2% of GSDP, consent for borrowing of 0.50 per cent of GSDP amounting to Rs.1,06,830 crore has already been issued to the States to raise Open Market Borrowing (OMB) during the year 2020-21.


    For Details:


    Relaxation/concession provided to Companies/LLPs during Lockdown period to combat COVID-19


    The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has taken steps to provide several incentives/ relaxation/concession during Lockdown period so as to reduce the burden of companies/LLPs during COVID-19. This was stated by Shri Anurag Singh Thakur, Union Minister of State for Finance & Corporate Affairs, in response to a written question in the LokSabha today.These included Introducing Companies Fresh Start Scheme 2020 (CFSS) to enable companies to file documents without additional fees, grating immunity from prosecutions proceeding, etc., Introducing LLP Settlement Scheme, 2020 providing similar benefits as CFSS 2020 for the benefits of LLPs, Introducing Special Provisions for enabling conduct of Board and General Meetings through Video conferences by Corporates, Introducing Special Relaxation in holding of General Meeting by Companies whose Financial Year ended on 31st December 2019, and Allowing corporates for spending CSR funds for various activities which includes Healthcare, sanitation and disaster management.


    For Details:


    PM dedicates to the nation three key projects related to the Petroleum sector in Bihar


    The Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi dedicated to the nation three key projects related to the Petroleum sector in Bihar via video conferencing on Sunday. The projects include the Durgapur-Banka section of the Paradip-Haldia-Durgapur Pipeline Augmentation Project and two LPG Bottling Plants. Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister said Gas-based industry and petro-connectivity have a direct impact on people's lives, on their standard of living and also create millions of new employment opportunities. The Prime Minister said migrant labourers have returned back and new employment opportunities have also been created. Even during such a huge global epidemic the country has not stopped especially Bihar has not stopped. He added the National Infrastructure Pipeline Project worth more than Rs 100 lakh crore is also going to help in increasing economic activity. He urged everyone to keep working fast to make Bihar, Eastern India an important center of development.


    For details :


    Health Ministry in a virtual Conclave with Private Hospitals emphasises compliance of National Clinical Treatment Protocols and Best Practices


    The Union Health Ministry, in collaboration with FICCI and AIIMS, New Delhi, organized a virtual conclave for private hospitals providing COVID-19 treatment in the country on Saturday. This provided a platform for discussion of clinical protocols and best practices in COVID-19 management towards reducing avoidable deaths.The Conclave was organised to share the best practices and effective treatment modules being implemented by the public and private sector hospitals in the country. The Ministry also encouraged the hospital representatives to share their key concerns and challenges being faced while managing COVID-19 in their facilities.Union Health Secretary reiterated the resolve of the Government to ensure that patient of COVID-19 must not be denied beds and must be provided prompt treatment. The collective goal must be to have a health system that available, affordable and accessible to all. He highlighted that the aim of the Centre along with the State/ UT governments is to achieve a mortality rate of less than 1%.The best practices included discussion of the tele-consultation sessions conducted by AIIMS, New Delhi through the e-ICU, Centers of Excellence (CoE) and Clinical Grand Rounds to enhance the clinical management capacities of the ICU doctors in various States/UTs. This, supplemented by various other focussed strategies of containment, prevention, early identification, has resulted in higher recoveries and steadily declining mortality.


    For details:


    IPFT develops new “Disinfectant Sprays” to prevent microbial infections and to decontaminate vegetables and fruits


    Institute of Pesticide Formulation Technology- IPFT an autonomous Institution under the Department of Chemicals & Petrochemicals, has successfully developed two new technologies namely “Disinfectant spray for surface application” and “Disinfectant spray for Vegetables & fruits.” According to a statement provided by IPFT, the variety of surfaces like door handles, chair armrest, computer keyboard & mouse taps etc. may transmit microbes to the individuals through direct or indirect contact. Keeping this in view IPFT has developed; alcohol based “Disinfectant Spray” for the surface applications containing botanical anti-microbial which may be effective in prevention from various diseases caused by microbes, bacteria and virus.


    For details


    Indian scientists prepare a web-based COVID predictor to predict the sequence of viruses online


    A group of scientists in India is working on genomic sequences of SARS-CoV-2 around the World, including India, to identify genetic variability and potential molecular targets in virus and human to find the best possible answer to combat the COVID 19 virus.Breaking down the novel coronavirus challenge into many pieces to get to its root and see it from multiple directions, Dr. IndrajitSaha, Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering of National Institute of Technical Teachers’ Training and Research, Kolkata and his team have developed a web-based COVID- Predictor to predict the sequence of viruses online on the basis of machine learning and analysed 566 Indian SARS-CoV-2 genomes to find the genetic variability in terms of point mutation and Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNP).


    For details:


    IN PUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES


      * Chandigarh:The Administrator, UT Chandigarh, directed that 10,000 additional Antigen kits may be procured for enhancing testing in UT. He also decided to hand over Infosys Sarai to PGIMER, so that they can utilize it for creating 200 additional beds for Covid patients. The Infosys Sarai will now be utilized as Infectious Disease Hospital, till further orders.

      * Haryana:Haryana Health Minister, Mr. Anil Vij said that the State Government has spent an amount of Rs 169.4 crore on the treatment of about 1.44 lakh people under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana. Under this scheme, the people of the state are provided free treatment facilities up to Rs 5 lakh in quality hospitals. He further mentioned that government has also included Covid-19 patients under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana.
      * Arunachal Pradesh: Arunachal Pradesh CM condoles the sad demise of SmtiSalmiSangdigouria(38), a healthworker of RK Mission Hospital, Itanagar due to COVID-19 while on duty.
      * Assam: In Assam, 1292 more people tested positive for COVID-19 and 2251 people discharged yesterday. Total cases rise to 1,41,736, discharged 1,13,133, active 28,158 and death 469.
      * Manipur: In Manipur, 144 more people tested positive for COVID-19, active 1638, 89 recoveries with 78 percent recovery rate and 1 patient expired during the last 24 hours.
      * Meghalaya: In Meghalaya, total active cases 1623 and total recovered 2075.
      * Mizoram: In Mizoram, 14 fresh cases of COVID-19 confirmed yesterday, total tally rises to 1428, active cases 598.
      * Nagaland: Nagaland records 19 new cases of COVID-19 out of 563 samples tested on Sunday. A total of 61 persons recovered.
      * Kerala: State Public Administration Department has recommended cancelling the holiday on Saturdays in State government offices which was implemented as part of lockdown restrictions. It has also instructed all offices to be fully functional from September 22. A final decision in this regard will be taken at the Covid evaluation meet to be held by Chief Minister. 3,139 new positive cases of Covid-19 were detected in Kerala yesterday. At present, there are 30,072 patients under treatment and 2,04,489 people are under observation across the state. With one more fatality today, the death toll has risen to 440.
      * Tamil Nadu: Covid-19 cases in Puducherry has crossed 20,000 with 414 fresh cases and nine deaths reported in the last 24 hours on Monday, taking the total cases to 20,226, active cases to 4805, recovered cases to 15027, and 394 deaths. Amid increasing cases of COVID-19 infections in TN, the Directorate of Medical Education has written to the deans and heads of government medical colleges in the State, instructing them to immediately recall all paramedical students and engage them in Covid related duties in hospitals. Over one lakh aspirants write NEET-2020 exam in Tamil Nadu despite Covid-19 hurdles.
      * Karnataka: Mysuru district administration is converting the existing Basappa Memorial Hospital (BMH) on Hunsur Road into an exclusive Covid hospital for senior citizens after the elderly population is found to be the most affected in the district. 1.2 lakh write NEET exams in Karnataka which was conducted with preventive measures in place. The State on Sunday reported 9,894 new cases, the highest so far on a single day, breaking its previous record of 9,860 cases recorded on September 2. Media reports that critical Covid-19 patients are finding it hard to get ICU beds with ventilators under government quota in Bengaluru.
      * Andhra Pradesh: Supreme Court stays AP High Court orders in Swarna Palace Covid care centre’s fire accident case, gives nod allowing the government to investigate the case. The court said that Dr. Ramesh Babu can be tried without being taken into custody and urged Dr. Ramesh to co-operate in the investigation. On August 9, a huge fire broke out at the Swarna Palace in Vijayawada Covid Center run by Ramesh Hospitals where as many as 10 covid patients died and 20 others injured. The hearing on a petition filed in the High Court alleging that private hospitals are charging exorbitant fees for Covid treatment has been adjourned to next week after the government asked for time to file the counter.
      * Telangana: 1417 new cases, 2479 recoveries & 13 deaths reported in the last 24 hours; out of 1417 cases, 264 cases reported from GHMC. Total cases: 1,58,513 ; Active cases: 30,532; Deaths: 974; Discharges: 1,27,007. As Corona virus continues to remain active in the State, infecting new persons in its wake, the recoveries have also continued to rise exponentially. Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy has said that Telangana is not acknowledging the role played by Centre in helping the State to fight Covid.
      * Maharashtra: In Mumbai, with the spurt in the number of cases of Covid-19, the MCGM has attributed the surge to scaling up of testing in the city. The Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai said that with the easing of restrictions under phase 4 of 'Mission Begin Again' and 10-day Ganesh festival that concluded earlier this month, the infection rate grew steadily. At present the recovery rate of Mumbai district is 77 per cent and there has been 1.24 per cent rise in cases since over a week. With 30,316 active cases of Covid-19 and around 2 thousand cases reported on a daily basis since the last few days, Mumbai continues to be one of the worst hit cities in the country.
      * Gujarat: Ahmedabad police has launched drives against violators of compulsory mask rule. Despite an increase in fine from Rs.500 to Rs.1000 last month, many people in Ahmedabad are not following compulsory mask rules. Police have launched the drive against such rule breakers since last one week. Gujarat has 16,439 active cases.
      * Rajasthan: With more Covid-19 patients getting admitted to hospitals complaining breathlessness and requiring oxygen support, the Rajasthan state government is setting up 38 oxygen generation plants in hospitals attached to government medical colleges and district hospitals. Among 38 oxygen generation plants, 17 will have the capacity of filling 90 oxygen cylinders daily, 14 have the capacity of producing 35 to 40 cylinders daily and seven will have the capacity of producing 24 cylinders.
      * Madhya Pradesh: Centre has agreed to supply 50 tonnes of oxygen per day to Madhya Pradesh, which is facing oxygen shortage amid a rise in COVID-19 cases. State Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said. He also thanked Prime Minister NarendraModi and Union minister PiyushGoyal for their support to the state during this difficult time of COVID-19 outbreak. Number of active cases in the state is 20,487
      * Goa: Chief Minister PramodSawant has said that an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh has been extended to all health workers who are at the forefront of the battle against COVID-19. The insurance cover is provided under the central governments flagship Pradhan Mantri GaribKalyanYojana. As of now, COVID-19 patients in the state are being treated at the ESI Hospital in Margao (South Goa), the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) near Panaji (North Goa) and the Sub-District Hospital in Ponda (South Goa).

    FACT CHECK


    ********


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654144) Visitor Counter : 631
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Telugu , Malayalam
    
    
    

*