      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports , Shri Kiren Rijiju lays Foundation Stones for various sports facilities costing over 12 crore rupees in Leh, Ladakh today
      
      Foundation for a Synthetic Track & Astroturf for football laid atLeh Open Stadium; Gymnasium Hall to be constructed at NDS Indoor Stadium
      
      Ladakh UT Administration should constitute awards and incentives for local sports persons to encourage them to excel in sports: Shri Kiren Rijiju
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2020 3:48PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports , Shri Kiren Rijiju laid Foundation Stones for various sports facilities costing over 12 crore rupees in Leh, Ladakh today in thepresence of Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh,Shri RK Mathur. The Minister laid foundation for a Synthetic Track & Astroturf for football in Lehat OpenStadium. The estimated project cost is 10.68 crore and scheduled to be completed by January, 2021. Similarly, construction of Gymnasium Hall in NDS indoor stadium would cost about 1.52 crore rupees and construction will be completed by March 2021.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Kiren Rijiju said that under the leadership of PM Modi, the Union Government is inculcating a sporting culture in the country which in turn is keeping the people healthy and fit. He said that his ministry is contemplating to put sporting culture into a policy frame work. The Minister said that Khelo India, University Games and Winter Games at various places of the country are encouraging the students, youth and people to participate in sporting activities. The Sports Minister emphasized the importance of Sports and highlighted the efforts of Government to establish the predominance of India in the world sports events.


    Shri Rijiju suggested Ladakh UT Administration to constitute awards and incentives like jobs for local sports persons to encourage them to excel in the sporting field. He also asked the Ice Hockey Associations across the country to come together to get the recognition for the sport, by following the laid down procedures. He reminded the federations that in principle his ministry has recognized Ice Hockey as national sport.


    (The Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs and Sports , Shri Kiren Rijiju laid foundation stones for various sports facilities in Leh, today )


    Shri Kiren Rijiju (@KirenRijiju) laying the foundation stone for works relating to Synthetic Track and Astro Turf for football in open stadium in Leh.@lg_ladakh RK Mathur is also present on the occasion.
    The project is to be completed by January 2021 with a cost of 10.68 crore. pic.twitter.com/hE6l7zOtOt

    — PIB in Jammu and Kashmir (@PIBSrinagar) September 14, 2020

    For sports infrastructure and development in Ladakh, Shri Kiren Rijiju announced relaxations at the function. He asked the UT administration to send proposals to develop sporting infrastructure in places with a thousand population in Ladakh. Under Khelo India programme, his ministry would relax the norms and provide funds and the facilities meant for Districts in the places suggested by the Administration as Khelo India district sub centres. Similarly, sportspersons excelled in local events would get training in 23 centres of excellence across the country, depending on their sporting disciplines.


    Speaking on the occasion, Ladakh Lieutenant Governor Shri RK Mathur appealed to the Sports Minister to tap the potential in Ladakh for sports development. He suggested that during the winters, people from other parts of the country should come to Ladakh to experience and learn winter sports.


    As part of month and half long Fit India Freedom Run from 15th August to 2nd October, the Sports Minister Shri Kiren Rijiju personally participated in Cyclothon earlier in the day along with MP Shri Jamyang Namgyal and local cyclists.


    (The Sports Minister Shri Kiren Rijijuparticipated in Cyclothon)


    Fit Ladakh - Fit India!
    Today, we had an amazing Fit India Cyclothon in Ladakh joined by the local cycling association, people's representatives and the administration. #FitIndiaMovement 🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/YMar4tO9It

    — Kiren Rijiju (@KirenRijiju) September 14, 2020

    Ladakh MP Shri JamyangTsering Namgyal, LAHDC CEC Shri Gyal P Wangyal, senior officials from Ladakh UT and Sports Authority of India were also present at various programmes held today.


    *****


    NB/OJA/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654029) Visitor Counter : 164
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Tamil , Kannada