      Ministry of Culture

      An expert committee has been set up for conducting holistic study of origin and evolution of Indian culture-Culture Minister
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2020 6:36PM by PIB Delhi


    An expert committee has been set up for conducting holistic study of origin and evolution of Indian culture to since 12000 years before present and its interface with other cultures of the world.


    The members of the committee are:

     1. Shri K.N. Dikshit, Chairman, Indian Archaeological Society, New Delhi and former Joint Director General, Archaeological Survey of India;
     2. Dr. R.S. Bisht, former Joint Director General, Archaeological Survey of India;
     3. Dr B.R. Mani, former Director General, National Museum, New Delhi and former Additional Director General, Archaeological Survey of India;
     4. Prof. SantoshShukla, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi;
     5. Dr. Ramesh Kumar Pandey, Vice Chancellor, ShriLal Bahadur Shastri Rashtriya Sanskrit Vidyapeeth, New Delhi;
     6. Prof. MakkhanLal, Director, Delhi Institute of Heritage Management,, Vivekananda International Foundation, New Delhi;
     7. Dr. G.N. Srivastava, former Additional Director General, GSI;
     8. Justice Dr. Mukundkam Sharma, Chancellor, Lal Bahadur Shastri Sanskrit Vidyapeeth, Delhi and former Judge of Supreme Court of India;
     9. Prof. P.N. Shastri, Vice Chancellor, Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan, New Delhi;
    10. Prof. R.C. Sharma, Head, Department of Linguistics, University of Delhi;
    11. Prof. K.K. Mishra, Dean, Anthropology, University of Hyderabad and former Director, Anthropological Survey of India;
    12. Dr. BalramShukla, Department of Sanskrit, University of Delhi;
    13. Prof. Azad Kaushik, Scientist and International Thinker, Canada;
    14. Pt. M.R. Sharma, Chairman, “Sangmarg” World Brahmin Federation, India, New Delhi;
    15. Representative from Ministry of Culture; and
    16. Representative from Archaeological Survey of India.

    This information was given by the Minister of State (I/c) of Culture and Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel in a written reply in the LokSabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654152) Visitor Counter : 456
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

16.