      Ministry of Tourism

      Ministry of Tourism has taken various steps to develop and promote Buddhist sites in India: Shri Prahlad Singh Patel
      
      Ministry of Tourism has developed a dedicated website www.indiathelandofbuddha.in to promote Buddhist sites as a tourist destination: Tourism Minister

      Posted On: 14 SEP 2020 6:35PM by PIB Delhi

    Ministry of Tourism has undertaken development of tourism related infrastructure and facilities at various Buddhist Sites in the country under its flagships schemes of Swadesh Darshan & PRASHAD. Buddhist sites has been identified as one of the 15 thematic circuits under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme. A total number of 5 projects for an amount of Rs. 353.73 crore have been sanctioned for the development of Buddhist Sites under the Swadesh Darsha Scheme. In addition, projects for development of infrastructure have also been undertaken under the PRASHAD Scheme. A total number of 30 projects for an amount of Rs.918.92 crore have been sanctioned under the PRASHAD Scheme. Ministry of Tourism has also identified Buddhist Sites at Bodhgaya, Ajanta & Ellora to be developed as Iconic Tourist Sites.


    In addition to the development of tourism related infrastructure under the various schemes of the Ministry of Tourism, emphasis is also being put on promoting the various Buddhist Sites within India and overseas markets. As part of the above, India Tourism Offices in overseas markets regularly participate in a number of travel and tourism fairs as well as exhibitions wherein India’s Buddhist Sites are promoted. Ministry of Tourism has showcased the Buddhist Sites on the Incredible India Website and has also developed a dedicated website www.indiathelandofbuddha.in . Ministry of Tourism organises Buddhist Conclave every alternate year with the objective of promoting India as a Buddhist Destination and major markets around the globe. List of projects sanctioned under Swadesh Darshan in Buddhist circuits are attached at Annexure II .


    Further as per the information received from ASI ,CNBs Signage have been installed in Chinese language at 5 below monuments in Uttar Pradesh:


    (i) Site and Stupa and monastery of the Sakyas Piprahwa- Lucknow Circle


    (ii) Sravasti – Lucknow Circle


    (iii) Ancient Buddhist site of Sarnath- Sarnath Circle


    (iv) Chaukhandi Stupa – Sarnath Circle


    (v) Buddhist relics and Mahaparinirvana temple located at Kushinagar- Sarnath Circle.


    The CNBs signage in Sinhali language at Sanchi monuments in Madhya Pradesh has also been installed.


    Ministry of Tourism under its flagships schemes of Swadesh Darshan & PRASHAD is promoting spiritual tourism. Spiritual Circuit has been identified as one of the 15 thematic circuits under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme. A total number of 13 projects for an amount of Rs.764.85 crore have been sanctioned for the development of Spiritual Circuit under the Swadesh Darsha Scheme. In addition, projects for development of infrastructure at religious and spiritual sites have also been undertaken under the PRASHAD Scheme. A total number of 30 projects for an amount of Rs.918.92 crore have been sanctioned under the PRASHAD Scheme.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (I/c) of Culture and Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654149) Visitor Counter : 172
    
    
      Read this release in: Punjabi