      Ministry of Education

      Ministry of Education organizes a webinar on Reimagining Vocational Education under Shikshak Parv Initiative
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2020 8:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Education organized a webinar on Reimagining Vocational Education under Shikshak Parv Initiative today with a focus on the process of implementation of New Education Policy 2020. Prof. Rajesh P. Khambayat, Joint Director ,PSSCIVE, NCERT; Prof. Sitansu S. Jena Former Chairman NIOS; Shri Biswajit Saha, Director Skill Education & Training, CBSE ;Smt. Sapana Soni Lecturer, Govt. Higher Sec School, Jeora Sirsa Durg, Chhattisgarh, (Winner of National Awards for Teachers 2020) were the key speakers in the session.


    Prof. Rajesh Khambayat, session coordinator made a brief presentation sharing the significant highlights and major recommendations made in the National Policy on Education 2020 related to vocational education. He stated that much impetus has been given to the need for reimagining Vocational Education in the National Education Policy 2020. Broadly, it envisages introducing vocational education in the early stage of education - taking up fun courses in Classes 6–8, and giving opportunities to students to develop further through vocational courses in Classes 9–12 and higher vocational education.


    The National Education Policy 2020 foresees a bold new future in Vocational Education for skilling the future generation. There are a number of issues in vocational education at the implementation level, which will need to be addressed. Detailed plans are being worked out for each of these to ensure smooth implementation of VE in schools and higher education institutions.


    Prof. Sitansu S. Jena , in his presentation on the theme, discussed the major issues and challenges in the vocational education system in India. Some of the critical concern in vocational education includes mismatch between demand and supply and limited scope for vertical mobility. He stated that there is a need to increase the avenues for vertical mobility. He emphasised the need for developing industry alignment for vocational education through experiential learning, and VET research. Further, he stated that integration of Vocational Education with mainstream education through multidisciplinary approaches has been emphasized in the NEP 2020.


    Shri Biswajit Saha, shared the recent initiatives taken by Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) for introducing skilling through vocational education in CBSE affiliated schools. He also emphasized on the multidisciplinary approach to be followed in the schools .


    Mrs. Soni shared the practitioner's perspective and how she overcame the challenges in teaching. She mentioned the use of innovative approaches and methods for promoting vocational education. Some of the methods advocated include activity-based methods such as project method, seminar, experimental method, real-life learning, project competitions, learning by doing, awareness rally, learning from the community, etc. She suggested that use of innovative methodologies in teaching help the students in approaching vocational education in a positive way.


    During the second session of the webinar Prof. Raj Nehru, Vice Chancellor, Shri Vishwakarma Skill University, Dr. Swati Mujumdar, Pro-Chancellor, Symbiosis Skills and Professional University, Capt. T.S. Ramanujam, CEO, Logistic Sector Skill Council and Dr. Sandhya Chintala, Executive Director, IT-ITeS Sector Skill Council NASSCOM were the guest speakers. Dr. Manju Singh, Joint Secretary, UGC moderated the session.


    Prof. Raj Nehru emphasised on disrupting out thought on where we are today with regard to vocational education. Prof. Nehru also insisted on enhancing the infrastructural capability and strengthening interaction with industry not only in developing curriculum, but also in aligning the internship and trainer development capability. Dr. Sandhya Chintala gave a detailed presentation on future skill talent pool with special emphasis on digital talent. She underscored the widening demand-supply gap and asserted that India has the opportunity to capture a larger portion of the global future skill talent market. Dr. Swati highlighted the three main issues i.e, Equivalency, Teacher Training and Qualification and higher education in integration of skill development with secondary and higher education. She also discussed the features of a successful skill development university model. Capt. T.S. Ramanujan gave a detailed presentation on Logistic Sector Skill Council with special emphasis on educational initiatives, support and its presence in higher education sector. The Webinar was joined by industry, academia, Sector Skill Councils and Higher Education Institutions including the Institutions running skill courses. Few of the participants also made their observations on the presentations by expert panellists.


    ******


    MC/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654366) Visitor Counter : 55