      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Inadequate Number of Forensic Science Laboratories
      Posted On: 16 SEP 2020 3:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Disposal of case depends on several factors such as category of the case (Civil or Criminal), complexity of the facts involved, nature of evidence and co-operation of the stakeholder. 'Police' and 'Public order' are State subjects under the Seventh schedule to the Constitution of India including strengthening of State Forensic Science Laboratories.


    However, in order to assist strengthening in State Forensic Science Laboratories, Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has taken the following initiatives:


    (i) Projects approved for strengthening DNA analysis, Cyber-forensics and related facilities in 16 States/UT at a total cost of Rs.157.98 crore under Nirbhaya Fund.


    (ii) Total of Rs.195.97 crore has been approved to the States for strengthening Forensic Science Laboratories in financial years 2019-2021under the scheme for Modernization of Police Forces.


    (iii) To ensure quality and standardization in forensic examination, the Directorate of Forensic Science Services, MHA, has issued the following guidelines:

      * Quality Manuals for accreditation of laboratories as per NABL standards (ISO 17025) and Working Procedure Manuals in nine disciplines of Forensic Sciences.
      * Quality Manuals and Working Procedure Manuals for Biology and DNA Division.
      * Guidelines for collection, preservation & transportation of forensic evidence in sexual assault cases for Investigation Officers and medical Officers. More than 15000 Sexual Assault Evidence Collection kits have been distributed to the States/UTs to ensure that evidence is collected and stored in proper manner.
      * Standard list of Equipment for establishing/upgrading of Forensic Sciences Laboratories.

    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri G. Kishan Reddy in a written reply to question in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    NW/RK/PK/DDD/372

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654995) Visitor Counter : 89
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Bengali , Manipuri , Tamil , Telugu
    
    
    

*