      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Digital India Corporation observes Engineer’s Day
      
      Conducts Online Interaction of Visvesvaraya PhD Fellows working in the area of Artificial Intelligence (AI)& Analytics under Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme

      Posted On: 15 SEP 2020 7:24PM by PIB Delhi

    An Online Interaction of Visvesvaraya PhD Fellows working in the area of Artificial Intelligence (AI)& Analytics under Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme for Electronics & IT, with MD & CEO Digital India Corporation (DIC) and team was conducted on Sep 15, 2020.


    Visvesvaraya PhD Scheme was initiated by Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) with the approval of Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) in 2014 with an objective to enhance number of PhDs in ESDM & IT/ITES sectors. 908 full-time, 304 part-time PhD candidates and 158YFRFs are enrolled at 97 institutions including IITs, NITs, Central & State Universities etc. 170 PhD Candidates have submitted their theses through the PhD portal.


    35 PhD fellows working in the area of AI were selected to present their research work. 11 PhD fellows presented their research work during the said interaction.Mr. Mayank Sharma and Mr. Pranshu Jain from IIT Delhi, Mr. Harsh Bhasin from JNU Delhi, Mr. Sayan Sikdar from NIT Arunachal Pradesh, Mr. Dharamsotu Bheekya from University of Hyderabad, Mr. K Narayana Rao from Andhra University College of Engineering, Visakhapatnam and Mr. Kailash Wamanrao kalare from Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design and Manufacturing, Jabalpur have presented their work in Machines Learning, Deep Learning, parallel computing and wireless sensor network research area.


    Ms. Chamarty Anusha and Mr. D. Venkata Subbaiah from Andhra University College of Engineering Vishakhapatnam have presented their work on Object Detection and recognition of camera images from Machine Intelligent.


    Mr. Narayan Changder from NIT Durgapur has presented his work on Novel Algorithms for Multi-Agents Coalition Structure Generation.


    Ms. Kirti Kumar has presented her work on Automated Detection of Cyberbullying on Social Media.


    The research work was highly appreciated by the MeitY officials.


    The session concluded with encouraging and motivating words from MD & CEO, DIC, Mr. Abhishek Singh who appreciated the work being done in the area of AI & Analytics. Scholars at advance stages of their research were suggested to focus on the ways their results/technologies be applied in practical scenarios. They were also asked to reach out to DIC/MeitY regarding the issues faced by them while pursuing their research work in terms of computational capabilities; collaborations with ministries, departments, researchers & experts; access to right data etc.


    India celebrates Engineer's Day every year on September 15 as a tribute to the greatest Indian Engineer Bharat Ratna Sir Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya on his birthday. He was the engineering pioneer of India.Considering his outstanding contributions to the society, Government of India conferred 'Bharat Ratna' on this legend in the year 1955.


    *******


    RCJ/M

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654675) Visitor Counter : 98
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Telugu