      Ministry of Education

      Steps taken by Ministry of Education to ensure Quality Education to Students across the country
      Posted On: 14 SEP 2020 4:40PM by PIB Delhi


    In order to target Universalisation of Secondary Education, the Department of School Education & Literacy has launched the Integrated Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Samagra Shiksha from 2018-19, which subsumes the erstwhile Centrally Sponsored Schemes of SarvaShikshaAbhiyan, RashtriyaMadhyamikShikshaAbhiyan and Teacher Education. The scheme provides support inter-alia to the States and UTs for upgradation and strengthening of schools, including secondary schools in un-covered areas, and various other initiatives for enhancing the quality of education such as Induction and In-service training of teachers and School Heads, Remedial teaching, conduct of assessment surveys, use of ICT in teaching-learning, innovative pedagogies, composite school grant for providing conducive learning environment, grant for library and sports etc.Further, the Learning Outcomes at the Secondary Stage have been developed by NCERT. It contains the competencies which learners should develop by the end of classes IX and X in all subjects.


    The National Education Policy 2020 states that the Centre & States will work together to increase the public investment in education sector to reach 6% of GDP at the earliest.


    The National Education Policy, 2020 emphasizes on teachers at the heart of the learning process and for enhancing at the earliest the quality of teacher education, recruitment of qualified teachers and their rational deployment so that all schools meet the prescribed PTR norms. Education is a subject in the Concurrent List of the Constitution, the recruitment and service conditions of teachers are in the domain of respective State Government/UT Administrations. The Central Government through the Centrally Sponsored Schemes of SamagraShiksha provides support to the States and UTs as per the approved norms, for additional teachers in order to maintain appropriate Pupil Teacher Ratio at Elementary and Secondary levels of schooling, respectively.


    Under Samagra Shiksha Scheme, support is given for strengthening of infrastructure of government schools at all levels.


    Under Centrally Sponsored Scheme of SamagraShiksha, financial assistance is provided to the States and UTs for various activities to reduce number of dropouts, which include opening/strengthening of new schools upto senior secondary level, construction of school buildings & additional classrooms, setting up, up-gradation and running of Kasturba Gandhi BalikaVidyalayas, setting up of residential schools/hostels, free uniforms, free text books, transport allowance and undertaking enrolment drives, residential as well as non residential trainings etc. Financial assistance is also provided for Inclusive Education of children with special needs. Also, Mid-Day-Meal is provided to students at the elementary level of education.


    The information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    MC/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654056) Visitor Counter : 152
    
    
      Read this release in: Manipuri , Telugu