      Ministry of Science & Technology

      DBT-BIRAC is supporting Covid-19 vaccine development by facilitating establishment of r-VSV vaccine manufacturing platform for first time in India
      
      The government is focussed on creating an ecosystem that nurtures and encourages new product innovation to address the most relevant issues to our society”--Dr Renu Swarup, Secretary, DBT and Chairperson, BIRAC

      Posted On: 15 SEP 2020 7:10PM by PIB Delhi

    Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), set up by Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India is supporting COVID-19 vaccine development by facilitating the establishment of the r-VSV vaccine manufacturing platform for the first time in India under the National Biopharma Mission.


    This support to establishing r-VSV vaccine manufacturing platform is being extended to Aurobindo Pharma Limited which is developing a vaccine for SARS COV-2 (COVID-19). This SARS COV-2 vaccine candidate is based on the company’s proprietary replication-competent, attenuated, recombinant vesicular stomatitis (VSV, VesiculoVax™) vaccine delivery platform.


    Aurobindo is in the process of setting up a state-of-art manufacturing facility for viral vaccines which will be used to produce the COVID-19 vaccine and other viral vaccines.The plant will comply to global standards.


    Commenting on the collaboration with Aurobindo, Dr Renu Swarup, Secretary, DBT and Chairperson, BIRAC said, “The partnership with Aurobindo is to serve the country’s need for a vaccine to fight this pandemic. The government is focussed on creating an ecosystem that nurtures and encourages new product innovation to address the most relevant issues to our society.”


    About BIRAC:


    Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) is a not-for-profit Section 8, Schedule B, Public Sector Enterprise, set up by Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India as an Interface Agency to strengthen and empower the emerging Biotech enterprise to undertake strategic research and innovation, addressing nationally relevant product development needs.


    About National Biopharma Mission:


    The Industry-Academia Collaborative Mission of Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Govt of India for accelerating discovery research to early development for Biopharmaceuticals approved by the Cabinet for a total cost US$ 250 million and 50% co-funded by the World Bank is being implemented at Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC). This program is dedicated to deliver affordable products to the nation with an aim to improve the health standards of India’s population. Vaccines, medical devices and diagnostics and biotherapeutics are few of its most important domains, besides, strengthening the clinical trial capacity and building technology transfer capabilities in the country.

                                                                   
  For Further Information: Contact Communication Cell of DBT /BIRAC
                                                                   
    * @DBTIndia@BIRAC_2012                                         
                                                                   
  www.dbtindia.gov.inwww.birac.nic.in                              
                                                                   
                                                                   

    *****


    NB/KGS/(DBT release)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654667) Visitor Counter : 153
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Manipuri , Punjabi
    
    
    

*