      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah expresses gratitude to the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on inauguration and foundation stone laying of seven urban infrastructure projects worth Rs. 541 crores in Bihar
      
      “Since 2014, Modi govt is dedicatedly working towards the welfare of the people of Bihar and development of the state”
      
      “These developmental projects of Modi Govt will provide the citizens with clean drinking water and better sewerage facilities, which will bring a major improvement in the basic infrastructure in Bihar”
      
      “Muzaffarpur River Front will provide a huge boost & strengthen the tourism sector and environment, it will also will also create job opportunities for the people”
      Posted On: 15 SEP 2020 4:54PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah has expressed his gratitude to the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on the inauguration and foundation stone laying of urban infrastructure projects worth Rs. 541 crores in Bihar.


    Union Home Minister, in a tweet, said, “ Since 2014, Modi government is dedicatedly working towards the welfare of the people of Bihar and development of the state. I express my gratitude to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on the inauguration and foundation stone laying of seven urban infrastructure projects worth Rs. 541 crores in Bihar related to Water Supply, Sewerage Treatment and River Front Development.”


    Shri Amit Shah said, “These developmental projects of Modi Government will provide the citizens with clean drinking water and better sewerage facilities, which will bring a major improvement in the basic infrastructure in Bihar. Muzaffarpur River Front will provide a huge boost & strengthen the tourism sector and environment, it will also will also create job opportunities for the people.”


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of seven key urban infrastructure projects in Bihar via video conferencing. Of these, four projects are related to water supply, two arerelated tosewerage treatment and one for riverfront development. The implementation of all these projects has been undertaken by BUIDCO under the Urban Development and Housing Department of Bihar. Chief Minister of Bihar, Shri Nitish Kumar was present on the occasion.


    मोदी सरकार ग्रामीण भारत के विकास और देश के गरीब वर्ग के कल्याण के प्रति हमेशा से समर्पित रही है।

    
    आज पीएम आवास योजना ग्रामीण के अंतर्गत मध्य प्रदेश में 1.75 लाख परिवारों का गृह प्रवेश @narendramodi जी के गरीब-कल्याण के संकल्प व संवेदनशील नेतृत्व का प्रमाण है।#PMGraminGrihaPravesh

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) September 12, 2020

    पीएम आवास योजना गरीबों को समाज में सम्मान व गरिमापूर्ण जीवन जीने का अधिकार देकर उन्हें सशक्त बनाने में अहम भूमिका निभा रही है।
    
    2022 तक हर व्यक्ति के सर पर छत पीएम मोदी जी का लक्ष्य है, इसी सपने को साकार करने की दिशा में मोदी सरकार दिन-रात प्रयासरत है। #PMGraminGrihaPravesh

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) September 12, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/PK/DDD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654525) Visitor Counter : 104
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Telugu