      AYUSH

      States offered land for setting up of Central Research Institutes of Yoga and Naturopathy
      Posted On: 15 SEP 2020 4:10PM by PIB Delhi


    The State Governments of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Odisha, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, and Haryana have providedand offered land for setting up of Central Research Institutes of Yoga and Naturopathy (CRIYN) in their respective States through Central Council for Research in Yoga & Naturopathy (CCRYN), an Autonomous Body under Ministry of AYUSH.


    So far, the Government has released funds for establishment of three CRIs in Haryana, Karnataka and Odisha. The details of the funds provided by the Government and its utilization in these states are as under:-

                                           
State      Funds Provided   Funds Utilized 
                                           
                                           
                                           
Haryana    Rs. 59.21 Crore  Rs. 56.55 Crore
                                           
                                           
                                           
Karnataka  Rs. 59.67 Crore  Rs. 56.35 Crore
                                           
                                           
                                           
Odisha     Rs. 1.58 Crore   Rs. 0.09 Crore 
                                           
                                           

    The steps taken by the Government to promote Yoga & Naturopathy across the world are as under: -

     1. Under Central Sector Scheme for promotion of International Cooperation, (IC Scheme), the Ministry of AYUSH undertakes various measures to promote & propagate AYUSH systems of medicine including Yoga and Naturopathy globally. Ministry of AYUSH deputes AYUSH experts to foreign countries to participate in international meetings, conferences, training programmes, seminars and on special assignment of the Government of India for promotion and propagation of AYUSH Systems. Financial assistance is also provided for presentation of AYUSH related scientific research papers in international conferences, workshops, seminar etc.
     2. Consequent to unanimous adoption of 21 st June as International Day of Yoga (IDY) in the year 2015, Ministry of AYUSH has been organizing International yoga conference every year. Ministry organized an “International Conference on Yoga for Heart- care” during 15-16 November 2019 in Mysore. Nearly 1000 Indian and foreign delegates including 35 Yoga experts/ enthusiasts from around 17 countries participated in the conference. The event provided the foreign participants the opportunity to capture and understand various dimensions of Yoga and to help them further propagate the same in their respective countries.
     3. Ministry of AYUSH has been providing technical support to Indian Missions abroad every year for celebration of 21 st June as International day of Yoga across the globe. IDY had been celebrated in 189 countries at 820 Global locations other than India in 2019.
     4. As a result of concerted efforts made by the Ministry of AYUSH in collaboration with Ministry of Culture and Ministry of External Affairs, Yoga has been inscribed in the UNESCO's representative list as the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity on 1 st December, 2016, which would further propagate ideas of peace and tolerance with other countries.
     5. Ministry of AYUSH though Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) offers scholarships every year to the eligible foreign nationals from 98 countries for pursuing undergraduate (UG), and Ph. D courses in premier Yoga Institutes in India. 33 AYUSH Information Cells have been set up by the Ministry in 30 countries to disseminate authentic information about AYUSH systems of Medicine including Yoga and Naturopathy.

    This information was given by the Minister of Health and Family Welfare Dr. Harsh Vardhan in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654497) Visitor Counter : 166
    
    
      Read this release in: Odia , Urdu , Assamese , Telugu
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
5.