      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Steps to Restore Peace in Kashmir
      Posted On: 16 SEP 2020 3:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The number of civilians killed and security personnel got martyrdom during the period 05.08.2019 to 10.09.2020 in Jammu and Kashmir are as under: -

                                                                              
Description                  Terrorist related incidents  Ceasefire violations
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
Civilians killed             45                           26                  
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                                                              
Security personnel martyred  49                           25                  
                                                                              
                                                                              

    The Government has adopted a policy of zero tolerance towards terrorism and has taken various measures, such as strengthening of security apparatus, strict enforcement of law against anti-national elements, intensified cordon and search operations to effectively deal with the challenges posed by the terrorist organisations. While keeping a close watch on persons who attempt to provide support to terrorists and initiating action against them, other steps by Law enforcing agencies include enhanced interaction between police and public at various levels, sharing of intelligence inputs on real time basis amongst all security forces operating in Jammu and Kashmir, intensified area domination of militancy affected areas by deployment of additional Nakas and patrolling by security forces etc.


    In order to bring about overall development for the benefit of people of Jammu and Kashmir, Prime Minister had also announced a package of Rs. 80,068 Crores under PMDP-2015. This package consists of 63 major development projects in Road sector, Power generation and transmission, health infrastructure, establishment of 2 AIIMS, IITs, IIMs and tourism related projects etc. These projects are at various stages of implementation. Training and employment opportunities for the youth of Jammu and Kashmir are also provided under many schemes such as HIMAYAT and PMKVY.


    In order to mainstream the youth, special emphasis is being given to Watan Ko Jano program, student exchange program, sports as well as civic action program of CAPFs.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri G. Kishan Reddy in a written reply to question in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    NW/RK/PK/DDD/376

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654999) Visitor Counter : 183
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Assamese , Tamil , Telugu