      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      Port Blair Airport to have new Terminal Building
      
      Annual Passenger Handling Capacity to rise to 50 Lakhs
      
      New Building to be fully Air Conditioned

      Posted On: 16 SEP 2020 3:05PM by PIB Delhi

    Veer Savarkar International Airport, Port Blair is soon going to have a new terminal building. The airport currently handles 18 lakh passengers annually. Considering the surge in the passenger traffic, Airports Authority of India has undertaken the work for construction of New Integrated Terminal Building at a cost of Rs. 700 crores.


    With total built up area of 40,837 sq m, the New Terminal Building will be capable to handle 1200 passengers during peak hours and about 50 lakh passengers annually. The new passenger terminal building will have three-levels comprising of lower ground, upper ground and first floor. The lower ground floor will be used as remote arrival, departure and service area, the upper ground floor will have entry gate for departure passengers and exit gate for arrival passengers and the first floor as awaiting lounge for international passengers.


    The world-class building is totally air conditioned and will be equipped with modern passenger’s facilities with 28 check-in counters, three passenger boarding bridges, five conveyor belts with In-line scan system and state-of-the-art Firefighting and Fire Alarm system. City side area of the Airport will also be developed with adequate parking facilities for car, taxi and buses along with the landscaping.


    Inspired from nature, the design of the terminal is a shell shaped structure depicting sea and islands. The New Terminal Building with a span of 240 mtrs having two 120 mtr column less spans supported through periphery steel columns, will facilitate columns less large span arrival and departure hall. New terminal building is a structural steel framed building provided with aluminum sheet roofing and cable net glazing all around. The entire terminal will also have 100 per cent natural lighting through skylights provided at roof level. Curved shaped Cable Net Glazing will be provided all around the terminal building. This is first time introduced at such a large magnitude at Port Blair Airport.


    More than 65% of project work is completed and the new terminal building of Port Blair is scheduled to be ready by the middle of the next year i.e. 2021.


    Work in progress –Terminal Building


    Work in progress –Terminal Building


    Perspective of City Side Elevation


    ***


    RJ/NG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654979) Visitor Counter : 383
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Assamese , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu