      AYUSH

      Ministry of AYUSH taking various initiatives to integrate the modern and traditional systems of Medicine
      Posted On: 15 SEP 2020 4:11PM by PIB Delhi


    No conflict exists between modern medicine and AYUSH systems with regard to efficacy of medicines, treatments and procedures.


    The Ministry of AYUSH is taking various initiatives to integrate the modern and traditional systems so as to facilitate a meaningful, cross learning and collaboration between two systems. The highlights of such initiatives have been the following: -

     1. Ministry of AYUSH under Centrally Sponsored Scheme of National AYUSH Mission (NAM) co-locates AYUSH facilities at Primary Health Centres (PHCs), Community Health Centres (CHCs) and District Hospitals (DHs), thus enabling choice to the patients for different systems of medicine under single window. The engagement of AYUSH Doctors/paramedics and their training are supported by the Department of Health & Family Welfare, while the support for AYUSH infrastructure, equipment/ furniture and medicines are provided by Ministry of AYUSH under shared responsibilities.
     1. Three Research Councils of the Ministry of AYUSH namely Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences(CCRAS), Central Council of Research in Homoeopathy (CCRH) and Central Council for Research in Unani Medicines (CCRUM) have jointly taken up a project on National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer Diabetes Cardiovascular Diseases and Stroke (NPCDCS) through integration of Allopathy and AYUSH system on pilot basis in different districts in collaboration with Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS), Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.
     1. CCRH has co-location of homoeopathy treatment centre in allopathic hospitals for providing treatment on various clinical conditions at the following places:
         1. Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi.
         2. Homoeopathic Research Institute for Disabilities, Chennai.
         3. Lady Hardinge Medical College & Hospital, New Delhi.
         4. Delhi Cantonment General Hospital, New Delhi.
         5. Delhi State Cancer Hospital, New Delhi.
         6. Clinical trial Unit, at BRD Medical College and Hospital, Gorakhpur, U.P.
         7. Extension centre at Princess DurruSevar Children and General Hospital, Hyderabad, Telangana.
         8. Civil Hospital, Aizwal, Mizoram
         9. District hospital, Dimapur, Nagaland
     1. CCRUM has undertaken several collaborative projects with modern allopathic hospitals like AIIMS, New Delhi; JN Medical College, Aligarh and Vallabh Bhai Patel Chest Institute, Delhi.
     1. Central Council for Research in Siddha, a Research Council of the Ministry has initiated various collaborative clinical studies with modern allopathic hospitals like Government Stanley Medical College, Chennai; Govt. Theni Medical College, Tamil Nadu; Govt. Institute of Medical Sciences, Greater Noida; Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education & Research, Chennai and Govt. Medical College & ESI Hospital, Coimbatore.
     1. To integrate Yoga in the mainstream medical care, Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY), an Autonomous body under the Ministry of AYUSH is running 4 Yoga Therapy Centres at modern medicine Govt. Hospitals in Delhi. MDNIY is also running 20 Preventive Health Care Units of Yoga in CGHS Dispensaries in Delhi & NCR.

    This information was given by the Minister of Health and Family Welfare Dr. Harsh Vardhan in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1654499) Visitor Counter : 255
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Telugu
    
    
    

1.