      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Measures taken by Government for athletes and coaches during Covid-19 pandemic
      Posted On: 17 SEP 2020 4:32PM by PIB Delhi


    As far as players and coaches supported by Sport Authority of India (SAI), no financial curtailment has been done. Further, during the lockdown period, players have been provided with the following facilities to continue their training:

     1. Regular Online Training / Class conducted for athletes by the coaches to keep them motivated and fit during lock down period. Athletes were provided with online training module for daily practice.
     2. Regular interaction with the athletes was done in order to boost their morale and keep them motivated in these tough times. Seminars and workshops by experts in sports psychology, sports science/medicating, nutrition in COVID 19, strength & conditioning, high performance sports environment, anti-doping have been organized via, video conferencing, social media like Facebook Live, Instagram Live etc., to educate athletes about how to cope with stress and depression during tough times and focusing on their objectives so that the training is not hampered.
     3. Athletes & Coach Education Programme and Coach Development Programme (ACEP/CDP) was conducted and lecture was delivered by the Foreign Coaches and Sports Experts in different sports discipline. Total 10483 coaches in various sports discipline session and 3818 coaches sports science session participated.
     4. The athletes were provided with necessary sporting equipment such as (Barbell Rods, weights, Exercise Bicycle etc.), air pellets, target system with the help from SAI Regional Centres, State Governments and voluntary organizations at their homes. Further, those Olympic bound athletes who could not go back to their places due to lock down were given equipments in their rooms for training in SAI Centres.
     5. National Coaching Camps have been resumed for the 2021 Olympic bound athletes.

    This information was given by Union Minister of State (IC) for Youth Affairs and Sports, Shri KirenRijiju in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/OJA/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1655642) Visitor Counter : 62
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu
    
    
    

5.