      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      DGCA Undertakes Special Safety Audit of all Scheduled Airlines in India
      
      Regulatory Audit of Scheduled Airlines Carried Out Every Two Years

      Posted On: 17 SEP 2020 5:31PM by PIB Delhi

    The DGCA is carrying out special safety audit of all the scheduled airlines in the country. For the Airports, spot inspections at 13 licensed airports have been carried out during the monsoon season by the DGCA.


    Regulatory audit of scheduled airlines is carried out every two years as per the Manual of Regulatory Audit. However based on the findings during surveillances, spot checks, complaints, voluntary report and severity of occurrence, risk based audits are carried out in the form of special audits.


    During previous safety audits, DGCA had identified certain deficiencies. These were circulated to the airline operators for taking corrective measures. The deficiencies found include inter-alia:

     1. Delay in taking corrective action in case of outcome of the Flight Operation Quality Assurance (FOQA) exceedance data.
     2. Non-reporting of the incidents/occurrences by the airlines.
     3. The Maintenance Control Centre (MCC) of the airlines were not adequately staffed with technically qualified personnel.
     4. Few of the procedures in practice were not in compliance with manufacturer's recommended procedures.
     5. Non-compliance to workplace manuals, documented procedures and documentation.

    The Action Taken Report has been submitted by each of the organizations. These were reviewed for effective compliance. The latest surveillances and audits have shown improvement in areas which include compliance of procedures, workplace manual, documentation etc.


    This information was given in a written reply by Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State, I/C, Civil Aviation, in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    RJ/NG/BA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1655674) Visitor Counter : 140
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Punjabi , Tamil
    
    
    

5.