      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 16 SEP 2020 6:15PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    India Registers the Highest Single day Recoveries, A Record High of 82,961 cured of COVID in the last 24 hours


    India continues to record a spate of very high recoveries. In the last 24 hours, 82,961 COVID patients were cured, steeply pushing the Recovery Rate to 78.53%. The 7-day moving average of the Recoveries shows a consistent increase in the recoveries.The total recovered cases stand at 39,42,360 . Maharashtra (19423) contributed 23.41% of the new recoveries while the States of Andhra Pradesh (9628), Karnataka (7406), Uttar Pradesh (6680) and Tamil Nadu (5735) contributed 35.5% of the new recoveries in the last 24 hours. Nearly 59% of the new recoveries came from these five States.There are 9,95,933 active cases in the country as on date. The gap between Recovered and Active cases has crossed 29 lakh toda y (29,46,427). Recovered Cases are nearly 4 times (3.96 ) the number of Active Cases. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu compose close to 60% of the Active Cases. 90,123 new cases have been reported in the last 24 hours in the country. With more than 20,000 new cases in the last 24 hours, Maharashtra is leading the tally. This is followed by Andhra Pradesh (8846) and Karnataka (7576).


    For details :


    ‘Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package Insurance Scheme for Health Workers Fighting COVID-19’ extended for another 6 months


    The ‘Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package Insurance Scheme for Health Workers Fighting COVID-19’ was announced on 30 March 2020 for a period of 90 days. This was extended for a further period of 90 days i.e. up to 25 th Sept, 2020.The scheme has now been extended for another 180 days i.e. 6 months . This Central Sector Scheme provides an insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh to healthcare providers, including community health workers, who may have to be in direct contact and care of COVID-19 patients and therefore at risk of being infected. It also includes accidental loss of life on account of contracting COVID-19.


    For details:


    COVID-19 Test for International Passengers


    Ministry of Civil Aviation has allowed RT-PCR testing at the entry airport on pilot basis to facilitate the transfer of international passengers. Under it, Airport Operator will create Sample Collection cum Waiting Lounge facility for RT-PCR testing. If the test result is negative, passenger will be permitted to exit the Waiting Lounge and proceed to the Departures to catch the connecting flight. However, if the result is positive, the passenger will be processed in line with applicable ICMR protocols by the State authorities. No passenger should be able to make an unauthorized exit.This information was given in a written reply by Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State (I/C), Civil Aviation in Rajya Sabha today.


    For details:


    Impact of Coronavirus


    The sudden outbreak of COVID-19 has severely impacted some of the major economies of the world. It has affected countries across the globe including some of the major players like USA, European Union, UK, and India.Both World Bank and IMF estimate contraction in global GDP for FY 2020-21 due to the spillover effects of the lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Various sectors were affected due to the nation-wide lockdown. However, after the lockdown was relaxed, we see significant improvement in several sectors of the economy.Government has implemented several measures for the revival of industries. This information was given by the Minister of Commerce and Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal, in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    For details:


    Conversion of Coaches into Covid Care Units


    Indian Railways had converted 5231 Nos. of Non-AC ICF coaches into isolation coaches temporarily as COVID-19 isolation units during lockdown crisis. As per their requisition, 813 coaches are provided to the State Governments as on 12.09.2020. Subject to their residual codal life, these coaches shall be restored to passenger services when the requirement of these coaches to serve as isolation centres is fulfilled. This information was given by the Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    For details:


    Union Government has taken unprecedented measures for labour welfare and employment generation during Covid-19 pandemic : Shri Gangwar


    Union Labour and Employment Minister Shri Santosh Gangwar said today that a number of unprecedented steps have been taken by the Union Government for labour welfare and employment including for migrant workers across India during COVID-19 pandemic. Elaborating it he said that immediately after the lockdown, directions were sent from Ministry of Labour & Employment to all the State Governments/UTs instructing them to provide financial assistance to construction workers from Building & Other Construction Workers’ Cess Fund. It is estimated that the highest proportion of migrant workers are construction workers. Till date, about two crore migrant workers have been provided Rs. 5000.00 crores directly in their bank accounts from Fund being maintained by various States. He also stated that in order to resolve the grievances of migrant workers during lockdown, Ministry of Labour & Employment had set up 20 Control Rooms all over the country. During lockdown, more than 15000 complaints of the workers were resolved through these Control Rooms and due to the intervention of Ministry of Labour & Employment more than two lakh workers were paid their due wages amounting to about Rs. 295 crores. In order to provide minimum financial assistance to the workers through their EPF Account, Ministry of Labour & Employment under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana has permitted all the EPF members to withdraw 75% of their total provident fund deposited in their EPF Account. Till date, about Rs. 39,000/- crore have been withdrawn by the member of EPFO.


    For details :


    Shri Piyush Goyal says double digit growth in exports last week shows that country is showing rapid recovery


    Minister of Railways and Commerce & industry Shri Piyush Goyal has called for aiming for the target of $500 billion of service exports. Addressing the inaugural session of CII’s India-UK Annual Conference virtually yesterday, he said that this is imminently doable. “We are all confident that under Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi's leadership, India will get back to our 5 trillion economy target, and it is time we leverage on this.” The Minister said that in the week from 8th to 14th September, the value of exports is $6.88 billion, up by 10.73% over the same period of the previous year. “This is indicative that India is in a move to get back, our resilience is showing, our confidence is emerging, our can-do spirit is reflected in all these numbers”, he added. The Minister stated that the confidence that CII has demonstrated in terms of India's ability to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic, has truly been remarkable. “We will rapidly recover, ensure businesses come back on track & we will back to the growth trajectory. We believe our manufacturing ecosystem will grow by $300 billion in the next 5 years. For boosting the domestic consumption & exports, we are focusing on the 24 industry sub-sectors.”


    For details :


    Implementation of MGNREGS during COVID-19 Pandemic


    Mahatma Gandhi NREGS is a demand driven wage employment scheme. Every adult member of a household in a rural area, having job card (as per Mahatma Gandhi NREG Act), is eligible for a demand for a job under the scheme. A job card can be issued to a migrant labour/family as per the provision of the Act against a demand by the migrant labour/family. A total of 86,81,928 new job card during the current FY so far has been issued as compared to 64,95,823 new job card issued during the FY 2019-20. Total fund released/spent under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (Mahatma Gandhi NREGS) to States/UTs from April 2020 to August, 2020 is at 5870600 Lakh (funds released) and 5293764 Lakh (total expenditure). The Central Government, with active support of the State Governments, has so far been able to meet the demands of works with adequate funding. During current financial year, as on 10.09.2020, the Ministry has released Rs. 60,44,098.23 lakh till now to the States & UTs for implementation of Scheme. Total 238976142 personday generated in August, 2020 as against 153052762in August 2019 indicating 56% increase for the month. This information was given in a written reply by the Union Minister of Rural Development & Panchayati Raj Shri Narendra Singh Tomar in Lok Sabha yesterday.


    For details :


    Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan


    Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan (GKRA) is a 125-day Abhiyan launched by Hon’ble Prime Minister on 20th June, 2020 with a mission to address the issues of returnee migrant workers and similarly affected rural population by Covid-19 pandemic through a multi- pronged strategy.GKRA aims at providing immediate employment & livelihood opportunities to the distressed, to saturate the villages with public infrastructure and creation of livelihood assets to boost the income generation activities and enhance long term livelihood opportunities by giving focus on 25 works in 116 selected districts across 6 States with a resource envelope of Rs 50,000 crore. Total mandays employment generated in six States of Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh under Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan is 27,21,17240 with an expenditure of 23559.20 crore . This information was given in a written reply by the Union Minister of Rural Development & Panchayati Raj Shri Narendra Singh Tomar in Lok Sabha today.


    For details :


    Steps taken to ensure safety of healthcare and other health workers of hospitals


    Hospitals and dispensaries being a State subject, no data is maintained in the Union Government about Safai Karmacharis, who have died due to health and safety hazards related cleaning hospitals and medical waste during Covid-19 pandemic.States were asked to constitute Infection Prevention and Control Committees. Hospitals were also to identify a nodal officer who will monitor the healthcare workers and review their exposure status. High risk exposures are placed under quarantine for 7 days. Based on their exposure/clinical profile of such doctors, nursing officers and other health workers, to take a decision by the Nodal Officer/Head of the Department (or his appointed Sub-committee) for further period on one week. An advisory for managing health working in COVID and Non-COVID areas of the hospital was issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on 18 th June, 2020.Ministry of Health & Family Welfare has issued guidelines on Rational use of PPEs for healthcare workers including other field level workers. It has also provided guideline on Infection Prevention and Control practices to the State Governments. States were requested to train the hospital functionaries on infection prevention and control practices. Training on Infection Prevention and Control was also made available for all categories of healthcare workers on the iGoT platform. This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Ramdas Athawale in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    For details :


    M/o Social Justice & Empowerment decides for release of advance grant to implementing agencies to run and maintain old age homes in view of ongoing Pandemic
    In view of the ongoing Pandemic and considering the fact that the Implementing Agencies (IAs) may not have sufficient funds to run and maintain Old Age Homes, the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has decided for release of advance grant to them. A total of Rs. 83.74 crore has already been released to the IAs during 2020-21, till date. The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment is implementing National Action Plan for Senior Citizens which has a component of Integrated Programme for Senior Citizens under which grants in aid is given for running and maintenance of, inter alia, Senior Citizens Homes (Old Age Homes) to Implementing Agencies (IAs) such as State Governments/Union Territory Administrations (through Registered Societies)/Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs)/Local bodies; Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs)/Voluntary Organizations. This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Rattan Lal Kataria in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    For details :


    Cylinders distributed under PMUY during Corona crisis


    Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana(PMUY) commenced w.e.f. 01.05.2016 to provide deposit free LPG connections to adult woman of poor households. The target of the same was achieved on 7th September, 2019. 13.06 crore cylinders have been distributed to PMUY beneficiaries under the PMKKY during Corona crisis. This information was given by the Union Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas Shri Dharmendra Pradhan in the Rajya Sabha today in a written reply.


    For details :


    COVID-19 Cases in Defence Services


    The number of COVID-19 cases in Army, Navy and Air Force are 16758, 1365 and 1716 respectively.The number of deceased due to COVID-19 in Army and Air Force are 32 and 03 respectively and ‘NIL’ in case of Navy. As per the extant Rules, there is no special compensation for deaths occurring due to infectious diseases while in service. However, all deaths while in service are awarded terminal benefits. This information was given by Raksha Rajya Mantri Shri Shripad Naik in a written reply to Shri Anumula Revanth Reddy in Lok Sabha today.


    For details :


    IN PUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Maharashtra: Maharashtra Government has set-up a four member committee to fix the charges for conducting CT-scan tests across all state hospitals. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope has said that following numerous complaints regarding overcharging by various hospitals, the government has decided to bring in price caps for these tests. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackerey has sought the help of all village Sarpanchs in implementing the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ initiative of the State Government. The CM along with Deputy CM Ajit Pawar held a virtual meeting with 28,000 Sarpanchs of the state.
      * Rajasthan: The prescribed rates of COVID-19 tests at private hospitals and laboratories in Rajasthan have been reduced to Rs 1,200. Health Minister Dr Raghu Sharma said that the prices of RT-PCR testing kit, reagents, VTM kit and other consumables have reduced, so it was decided to provide the testing facility to the general public at lower prices. This decision was taken after consultation with Sawai Man Singh Medical College senior doctors and other subject experts. Meanwhile, CM Ashok Gehlot interacted with top doctors and discussed the pros and cons of Covid 19 management strategies in Rajasthan.
      * Madhya Pradesh: The Madhya Pradesh government has banned industrial use of oxygen amongst other steps taken to meet the medical crisis that erupted after suspension of supply from Maharashtra. The state is battling a severe shortage of oxygen cylinders and is busy making alternative arrangements.
      * Chhattisgarh: Chhattisgarh on Tuesday recorded a highest single-day spike of 3,450 coronavirus cases, taking the state's count of infections to 70,777. Government has started a 50 oxygen bed facility in the Durg District Hospital. The Durg administration has issued toll-free numbers for patients in home isolation. The District Administration has ordered that there will a 7-day lockdown in the Mungeli district.
      * Kerala: The state Cabinet has approved an ordinance, allowing Covid-19 patients and bedridden people to use postal votes in the upcoming local body polls. It is also decided to extend voting hours by one more hour. Another decision of the Cabinet today was to invest the salary of government employees in their PF accounts, which was deducted from their basic pay following the financial slump induced by Covid-19. Salary of 6 days was deducted for five months. State Finance Minister Thomas Isaac was today discharged from the hospital after recovering from Covid-19. Meanwhile, 110 workers of a plastic factory in the capital has been tested positive. At present, 31,156 Covid patients are undergoing treatment in the State and 2,08,141 people under observation in various districts. Death toll till now in the State is 466.
      * Tamil Nadu: Puducherry Lt Governor Kiran Bedi said joint mobile teams comprising police, revenue and municipal officials would be constituted to ensure enforcement of COVID-19 safety norms and prevention of violations of the protocols in the union territory. TN CM Edappadi K Palaniswami told the Assembly that the coronavirus infection had started receding in Tamil Nadu owing to the concerted efforts of the State government; responding to a debate in the Assembly on the pandemic, Palaniswami said recovery rate in Tamil Nadu is the highest (89%) in the country while mortality rate is the lowest (1.67%). State government granted permission to 13 universities and the Director of Technical Education (DoTE) to conduct final semester exams this month.
      * Karnataka: State Cabinet on Tuesday approved an amendment to the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act (KFRA) to increase the state’s borrowing limit to 5 per cent of GSDP instead of the existing 3 per cent; in effect, this will allow the State to raise an additional Rs 36,000 crore in loans without violating fiscal discipline under the KFRA. State Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai tests positive for Covid; he is the fourth minister who testing positive in the State. Doctors under the Karnataka Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) to continue the strike till September 18; the doctors have been demanding pay parity with their counterparts in the medical education department, or pay revision as per the Central Government Health Scheme.
      * Andhra Pradesh: Special rooms have been set up by the state for those candidates who are tested positive and still attending the test for the recruitment of Village and Ward Secretariat posts. Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam has decided to conduct the forthcoming Brahmotsavams from September 17-27 at Tirumala hill shrine without participation of devotees following the Government of India Covid-19 protocol. This time devotees could not witness the ‘Vahana Sevas’ in Tirumala. Corona death toll continues to rise in the state as it has crossed the five thousand mark, bringing the total death toll to 5014.
      * Telangana:2273 new cases, 2260 recoveries & 12 deaths reported in the last 24 hours; out of 2273 cases, 325 cases reported from GHMC. Total cases: 1,62,844; Active cases: 30,401; Deaths: 996; Discharges :1,31,447. Telangana assembly session is likely to end today; decision to call off the session has reportedly been taken by the Speaker after a MLA and 50 other assembly staff tested positive on Monday. Telangana is also on the verge of facing a shortage of oxygen cylinders in the near future due to the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases. The prices of oxygen cylinders have also gone up heavily due to transportation and other charges involved in importing them from other states.
      * Arunachal Pradesh: In Arunachal Pradesh two more deaths reported due to Covid-19, total casualty is now 13.170 new Covid cases reported including that of Chief Minister Pema Khandu. Currently there are 1795 active cases in the state.
      * Assam: In Assam 1849 COVID-19 patients discharged after recovery yesterday. Total COVID cases in the state reached to 146575 among them 29180 are active cases.
      * Manipur: In Manipur 239 more persons test Covid19 positive. There were 78 recoveries with 78 percent recovery rate. There are 1745 active cases in the state.One person expired due to Covid19 complications taking the toll in Manipur to 47.
      * Mizoram: Twelve new cases of COVID-19 confirmed in Mizoram yesterday. Total cases reached to 1480 and active cases stands at 588.Asymptomatic patients can now stay in home isolation in Mizoram. The state government has framed guidelines for it.
      * Meghalaya: In Meghalaya the total active COVID-19 cases reached to 1818. Among them 379 are from BSF and Armed Forces.

    FACT CHECK


    ********


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1655200) Visitor Counter : 917
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Telugu , Malayalam
    
    
    

  
  
*