      Ministry of Textiles

      Development of Textile Parks
      Posted On: 17 SEP 2020 1:43PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government is implementing Scheme for Integrated Textile Park (SITP) which is demand driven and it provides support for creation of world-class infrastructure facilities for setting up of textile units, with a Government of India grant upto 40% of the project cost and Government of India grant upto 90% of the project cost for first two projects (each) in the States of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir and Union Territory of Ladakh; with ceiling limit of Rs. 40.00 crores for each textile park. The Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) formed by the representatives of local industry, Financial Institutions, State Industrial and Infrastructural Corporations and other agencies of State and Central Governments registered as a Corporate Body under Companies Act would submit their proposal directly to the Ministry for consideration. SITP is thus a demand driven scheme. No representation is pending from Textile ‘Industry’ Federation from any State for development of textile industry and textile parks in their State.


    Further, the proposal to set up Mega Textile Parks by the Ministry of Textiles is at the stage of discussion.


    The details of programmes initiated by Government to boost the textile industry and the incentives given for textile workers are placed below:-


    (i) Knitting and Knitwear Sector: In order to boost production in knitting and knitwear clusters, Government has launched a separate scheme for development of Knitting and Knitwear Sectorto boost production in knitting and knitwear cluster at Ludhiana, Kolkata and Tirupur.


    (ii) Government is implementing Amended Technology Up-gradation Fund Scheme (ATUFS) for technology up-gradation of the textile industry to incentivize production with an outlay of Rs.17,822 crore during 2016-2022. It is expected to attract investment of Rs.1 lakh crore and generate 35.62 lakhs employment in the textile sector by 2022.


    (iii) Government has launched a special package of Rs.6000 crore in 2016 to boost investment, employment and exports in the garmenting and made-ups sector with the following components viz., (i) full refund is provided under Remission of State Levies (ROSL) to the exporters for the State level taxes; (ii) production linked additional incentive of 10% is provided under the Amended Technology Up-gradation Fund Scheme (ATUFS).


    (iv) Scheme for Integrated Textile Park (SITP): Government of India grant with a ceiling limit of Rs. 40 crore for setting up textiles parks for creation of world class infrastructure facilities for setting up of textile units.


    (v) National Handloom Development Programme, Comprehensive Handloom Cluster Development Scheme, Handloom Weaver Comprehensive Welfare Scheme and Yarn Supply Schemes under which financial assistance is provided for raw material purchase, looms and accessories, design innovation, product diversification, infrastructure development, skill upgradation, marketing of handloom products & loans at concessional rate etc. for enhancing production and boost the textile sector.


    (vi) National Handicrafts Development Programme (NHDP) and Comprehensive Handicraft Cluster Development Schemes aims at holistic development of handicrafts clusters through integrated approach by providing support on design, technology up-gradation, infrastructure development, market support etc.


    (vii) PowerTex India: A comprehensive scheme for Powerloom sector with components relating to Powerloom up-gradation, infrastructure creation, concessional access to credit, etc.


    (viii) Silk Samagra – An integrated Scheme for development of silk industry with components of research & development, transfer of technology, seed organization and coordination, market development, quality certification and export.


    (ix) Jute ICARE for increasing the income of farmers by at least 50% through promotion of certified seeds, better agronomic practices, use of microbial reusing of Jute plant, retting to produce quality of jute, increase productivity and to reduce the cost of jute production for the jute farmers.


    (x) North East Region Textile Promotion Scheme (NERTPS) for promoting textiles industry in the NER by providing infrastructure, capacity building and marketing support to all segments of textile industry.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Union Minister of Textiles Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/SG/RC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1655530) Visitor Counter : 226
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Marathi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil