      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Steps taken by Government to enhance popularity of Kabaddi asa sport
      Posted On: 17 SEP 2020 4:31PM by PIB Delhi


    For making Kabaddi popular, the Government has taken following initiatives / measures:

     1. The sports facilities of Sports Authority of India (SAI) and Lakshmibai National Institute of Physical Education, Gwalior and Guwahati have been made available free of cost for sports including Kabaddi for organising training programmes and sporting events.
     2. Inclusion of Kabaddi in Khelo India Youth Games and Khelo India University Games.

    (iii) 126 athletes of Kabaddi have been selected under Talent Search and Development vertical of Khelo India Scheme for Long Term Athlete Development Programme.


    (iv) Coaching of sportspersons of Kabaddi discipline in SAI facilities.


    Further, for promotion and development of Kabaddi, the Ministry is supplementing the efforts of the Amateur Kabaddi Federation of India by providing support for training and competitive exposure within country and abroad.


    Inclusion of any sport discipline in the Olympic Games is decided by the InternationalOlympic Committee (IOC). Among other things, IOC has prescribed that a sport disciplinemust be governed by an International Federation which undertakes to follow the rules of theOlympic Charter and it must also be practised widely across the world and meet variouscriteria. It is for the International Kabaddi Federation to take required steps to promote Kabaddi at international level. However, the efforts of the Amateur Kabaddi Federation of India towards promotion and increase of spread of Kabaddi world-wide are supported by the Government by providing competitive exposure to Indian Kabaddi player abroad and for conduct of international Kabaddi events in India.


    This information was given by Union Minister of State (IC) for Youth Affairs and Sports, Shri Kiren Rijiju in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/OJA/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1655640) Visitor Counter : 71
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu
    
    
    

2.