      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Ministry is promoting rural and indigenous/tribal games under the ‘Khelo India Scheme’ and through the ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ programme: Shri Kiren Rijiju
      Posted On: 17 SEP 2020 4:31PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports is running schemes for promotion of sports as well as attaining excellence in sports. These schemes include:-


     1. Khelo India Scheme

     2. Assistance to National Sports Federations;
     3. Special Awards to Winners in International sports events and their Coaches;
     4. National Sports Awards, Pension to Meritorious Sports Persons;
     5. National Sports Development Fund; and
     6. Sports Training Centres run through Sports Authority of India.

    The Ministry is also promoting rural and indigenous/tribal games under the ‘Khelo India Scheme’ and through the ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ programme. Most athletes benefitting under these schemes come from rural areas.


    Details of these schemes are available in the public domain on the websites of this Ministry and the Sports Authority of India. The Schemes/policies of the Ministry and Sports Authority of India have resulted in increased mass participation in sports, improved performance of Indian athletes and teams in international sports events, creation/up-gradation of sports infrastructure facilities of international standards across the country, recognizing and incentivizing the achievements of outstanding and meritorious sportspersons.


    Project proposals, when received, are sanctioned according to the parameters of the Scheme subject to their completeness, technical feasibility and availability of funds.


    This information was given by Union Minister of State (IC) for Youth Affairs and Sports, Shri Kiren Rijiju in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/OJA/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1655639) Visitor Counter : 99
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu
    
    
    

6.