      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      New Industrial Policies
      Posted On: 16 SEP 2020 4:25PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government is in the process of bringing out a strategy paper on boosting industrial growth which will be a roadmap for all businesses in the country.


    Scheme for Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs), a sub-scheme under Pradhan MantriAwasYojana – Urabn (PMAY-U), for providing accommodation at affordable rent to urban migrants / poor has been launched on 31.07.2020 after approval of the Union Cabinet. It’soperational guidelines along with implementation framework have been circulated to all States/Union Territories (UTs) for planning and implementation. A draft Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) has been circulated to all States/UTs to sign with Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoUHA). Till date 17 States/UTs have signed the MoA with MoHUA to implement the Scheme.


    As per the Scheme Guidelines of ARHCs, mapping and identification of beneficiaries is the responsibility of selected Concessionaires/ Entities. Concessionaires/ Entities may tie up with local industries/ manufacturers / service providers / educational / health institutions / market associations / others employing urban migrants / poor to provide accommodation in-block and remit rental by deducting directly from their salary / fees / any kind of remuneration, as feasible. The States / UTs / ULBs / Parastatals will facilitate tie up between Entity and Public / Private bodies for migrants in factories, industries / institutions requiring rental accommodation for ensuring occupation and continued revenue.


    Government, inter alia, has taken a number of measures to increaseproductivity and quality including launching of Product Linked Incentive Scheme and Phased Manufacturing Programme for a number of sectors and issuing Quality Control Orders for a number of products. Efforts are on to improve the multi-modal logistic infrastructure in the country. Digitization is also being embraced by industry leading to increase in productivity and quality.


    Government, inter alia, is in the process of rationalizing the existing central labour laws into 4 Labour Codes i.e. the Code on Wages; the Code on Industrial Relations, the Code on Occupational Safety, Health & Working Conditions & the Code on Social Security by simplifying, amalgamating and rationalizing the relevant provisions of the existing Central Labour Laws. Code on Wages has been approved and notified.


    This information was given by the UnionMinister of Commerce and Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal, in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    YB/ AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1655056) Visitor Counter : 362
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Manipuri , Punjabi , Telugu