      Ministry of Education

      In order to enhance multidisciplinary approach in teaching and to sensitize the new generation, CBSE has introduced Artificial Intelligence (AI) as a subject in class IX from the session 2019-20 – Education Minister
      Posted On: 17 SEP 2020 5:52PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has informed that in order to enhance multidisciplinary approach in teaching, learning and to sensitize the new generation, Artificial Intelligence (AI) has been introduced as a subject in class IX from the session 2019-20 in its affiliated Schools.


    CBSE has collaborated with several organizations such as Intel, IBM, Microsoft, Private Schools, etc for designing the curriculum and textbook material of the Subject. Also 41 training programmes on Artificial Intelligence have been conducted in schools affiliated with CBSE at various parts of the country in which 1690 participants (principals and teachers) have been trained. Artificial Intelligence has been introduced in classes VIII, IX, X& XI in schools affiliated with CBSE.


    All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) which is a regulatory body for technical education under Ministry of Education,under its scheme, National Educational Alliance for Technology (NEAT) selected Ed-Tech companies who are providing AI based personalized adaptive learning solutions in various disciplines. AICTE has introduced AI and Data Science as a discipline in Engineering programs in many Institutes. Various IITs and IIITs are running courses on AI.


    AICTE started conducting Faculty Development Programs (FDPs) with the help of Industry and Institute of National repute. So far 250 FDPs have been conducted in thrust areas including AI. Also, with the coordination of CBSE, school teachers were also allowed in some of the FDPs conducted in AI. Ministry of Education - AICTE established an innovation Cell at AICTE. The cell has constituted 1600 innovation councils in Higher Education Institutions. Regular innovation activities are being conducted in these Innovation Councils at Institutes in coordination with Ministry of Education - AICTE Innovation cell. All the IIITs have established incubation centres to promote innovation among its students.


    The Government has been emphasizing the need for promoting research that is socially relevant and is of use to the end users. For this purpose, two schemes, namely Impacting Research Innovation and Technology (IMPRINT) and UchhatarAviskarYojana (UAY) have been launched. IMPRINT focuses on research in higher educational institutions wherein the cost of the project is met to the extent of 50% by the Ministry of Education and the remaining 50% by the Participating Ministry/ Department. UAY promotes industry sponsored, outcome-oriented research projects. The projects cost under UAY is met to the extent of 50% by the Ministry of Education and 25% each by the industry and the participating Ministry/ Department.


    This information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the RajyaSabha today.


    *****


    MC/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1655700) Visitor Counter : 145
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Bengali , Tamil