      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      COVID-19 Test for International Passengers
      
      Testing Allowed at Entry Airport on Pilot Basis

      Posted On: 16 SEP 2020 4:53PM by PIB Delhi

    Ministry of Civil Aviation has allowed RT-PCR testing at the entry airport on pilot basis to facilitate the transfer of international passengers.


    The salient features of the guidelines include the following:


    (i) Airport Operator will create Sample Collection cum Waiting Lounge facility for RT-PCR testing.


    (ii)Waiting Lounge should be located away from the Operational area, should follow all sanitization and social distancing related guidelines issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, should have no unauthorized access, should provide necessary amenities to the passengers like Wifi, F&B options, washrooms etc. and should provide cashless options for making payments with regard to testing and various amenities etc.


    (iii) Airport Operator shall provide option to the passengers to either stay at the Waiting Lounge awaiting the test results or to proceed to designated Hotel(s) in order to isolate themselves till the test results are available.


    (iv)Sample collection to be in strict compliance with the protocols established by ICMR and NABL.


    (v)Passengers to do online booking of the RT-PCR test through respective websites or other appropriate online platforms. A well-defined flow to be laid down by airport operators for smooth conduct of testing at airports.


    (vi)Passport of the passenger to be retained by the State authority at the Sample Collection cum Waiting Lounge till the test results are available.


    (vii)If the test result is negative, passenger will be permitted to exit the Waiting Lounge and proceed to the Departures to catch the connecting flight. However, if the result is positive, the passenger will be processed in line with applicable ICMR protocols by the State authorities.


    (viii) No passenger should be able to make an unauthorized exit.


    This information was given in a written reply by Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State (I/C), Civil Aviation in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    RJ/NG/BA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1655085) Visitor Counter : 234
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Telugu