      PIB Headquarters

      PIB’S DAILY BULLETIN ON COVID-19
      Posted On: 17 SEP 2020 6:29PM by PIB Delhi


    (Contains Press releases concerning Covid-19, issued in last 24 hours, inputs from PIB Field Offices and Fact checks undertaken by PIB)


    India records more than 82,000 Recoveries for two days in a row, Total Recoveries cross 40 lakhs, Recovered Cases exceed Active Cases by more more than 30 lakhs


    India has been registering very high recoveries for two consecutive days. More than 82,000 COVID patients have been cured and discharged in the past two days. 82,961 active cases were found free of COVID in the last 24 hours. Spurred by this number of very high recoveries, the national Recovery Rate continues to follow its rising curve. It stands at 78.64% today. More than 40 lakh ( 40,25,079) patients have recovered so far. Recovered cases have exceeded Active Cases today by more than 3 0 lakhs (30,15,103) today, and are four times the latter. These high levels of recovery have resulted in a 100% increase in the number of recovered cases in the past 30 days. Maharashtra ( 17,559 ) contributed more than one-fifth of the new recoveries ( 21.22% ) while the States of Andhra Pradesh (10,845), Karnataka (6580), Uttar Pradesh (6476) and Tamil Nadu (5768) contributed 35.87% of the new recoveries. These States together account for 57.1% of total new recoveries. The total number of active cases in the country has crossed 10 lakhs ( 10,09,976) as on date. Close to half (48.45%) of the Active Cases are concentrated in 3 States; Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Together with the States of Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, these 5 states contribute nearly 60% of the total active cases. 1132 case fatalities have been reported in the past 24 hours. With 474 new cases of mortality in, Maharashtra accounted for more than 40% of the new deaths. The following four States of Uttar Pradesh (86), Punjab (78), Andhra Pradesh (64), West Bengal (61) contributed 25.5% of the fatalities in the last 24 hours.


    For details:


    Govt. has set a target to increase the number of Janaushadhi Kendras to 10500 by the end of March 2024


    Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers Shri D V SadanandaGowda has said that with a vision to provide quality medicines at affordable rates for the common men especially the poor, Govt. of India has set a target to increase the number of Pradhan Mantri BhartiyaJanaushadhi Kendras (PMBJK) to 10500 by the end of March 2024. The PMBJKs are being set up by Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India under Deptt of Pharmaceuticals (M/o C& F). With this, all the districts in the country will have Janaushadhi kendras. This will ensure easy reach of affordable medicines to the people in every nook and corner of the country. As on 15 September 2020 the number of stores in the country has increased to 6603. With approved budget of Rs. 490 crore for the period 2020-21 to 2024- 25, PMBJP Scheme has drastically brought down the prices of quality medicines and making them available to a large section of population, especially the poor.


    For details:


    To guarantee accessibility of necessary medical devices at genuine cost NPPA extends ceiling prices of Knee Implants till 14th September 2021


    To ensure accessibility of necessary medical devices to the common man at genuine cost ,drug price regulator, National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) under the Department of Pharmaceuticals ,Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers has extended ceiling prices of Knee Implants for another one year, i.e. till 14thSeptember 2021. This will enable to save 1500 crore Rupees of the common men


    For details:


    Measures for welfare of Pensioners during COVID-19


    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge), Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, DrJitendra Singh said in a written reply in RajyaSabha today that several measures have been taken for the benefit of pensioners during COVID-19. The Department of Pension & Pensioners’ Welfare, ever since the lockdown due to unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic, has been taking various initiatives for the pensioners, to ensure the timely credit of pension & retirement benefits and keep them healthy and aware during this time of COVID-19 pandemic.


    For details:


    Impact of Covid-19 Pandemic on Anganwadis across the Country


    As per the directions issued by Ministry of Home Affairs, all the Anganwadi Centres across the country were closed to limit the impact of COVID-19. During the consultation held with States/UTs in the month of July 2020, most of the States had also expressed their inability to open Anganwadi Centres in the light of increasing incidents of COVID-19. However, to ensure continuous nutritional support to Anganwadi beneficiaries, Anganwadi Workers and Helpers have been distributing supplementary Nutrition at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries. Further, WCD Ministry has issued necessary directions to the States/UTs to ensure distribution of food items and nutrition support by Anganwadi workers, once in 15 days, at the doorstep of beneficiaries. In addition, Anganwadi Workers and Anganwadi Helpers have been assisting the local administration in community surveillance, creating awareness or other works assigned to them from time to time. This information was given in a written reply by the Union Minister of Women and Child Development Smt. SmritiZubinIrani in RajyaSabha today.


    For details:


    Ministry of Education has taken several initiatives to ensure studies of school going children during COVID-19 pandemic


    During COVID-19 Pandemic, Ministry of Education has held several consultations with the states and UTs at various levels and taken many initiatives to ensure that the school going students don’t lag behind in their studies during COVID-19 pandemic which include PM eVIDYA unifying all efforts related to digital/online/on-air education to enable multi-mode access to education.A week-wise plan for grades 1 to 12 has been developed in three languages by NCERT. P RAGYATA Guidelines on Digital Education have been developed with a focus on online/blended/digital education for students who are presently at home due to the closure of schools. ‘ MANODARPAN ’ covers a wide range of activities to provide psychosocial support to students, teachers and families for Mental Health and Emotional Wellbeing during the COVID outbreak and beyond.This information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the RajyaSabha today.


    For details:


    Steps taken by Government to support tribal communities during Covid pandemic


    Ministry of Tribal Affairs has constituted a team of officers to prepare the roadmap and take necessary measures for implementation/realization of initiatives to restore growth in the economy after the Covid-19 Pandemic. MoTA also revised the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for Minor Forest Produce (MFP). To provide a fillip to the Income generating activities of tribals through MFP Procurements, revised MSP for MFP guidelines were issued on May 1 2020, which increased the MSP prices of the MFPs and helped in providing higher incomes for the tribal gatherers. Moreover, on May 26, 2020, the MoTA also added 23 new items under the MSP for MFP list taking the total number of MFPs under the scheme to 73. These items include agricultural and horticultural produce collected by tribal gatherers. The COVID response team of the Ministry of Tribal Affairs formulated a COVID-19 Pandemic response plan for Scheduled Tribe livelihood and Health. The same has been circulated among various stakeholders for necessary action. States/UTs have been asked to utilize the funds from State TSP as well as submit a comprehensive proposal on these lines under various schemes of this Ministry. ﻿ This information was given by Union Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Smt. Renuka Singh Saruta in a written reply in RajyaSabha today.


    For details:


    Supply of Meals to Students during the Lockdown


    State Governments and UT Administrations have been advised to provide Food Security Allowance (FSA) comprising of foodgrains, pulses, oil etc (equivalent to cooking cost) to all eligible children till such time as their schools are closed due to the pandemic. The modalities for this purpose are decided by the respective States and UTs, according to the prevailing circumstances. States and UTs have also been advised to take necessary precautionary measures in view of the situation caused by COVID-19. This information was given in a written reply by the Union Minister of Women and Child Development Smt. SmritiZubinIrani in RajyaSabha today.


    For details:


    Domestic Violence against Women during Lockdown Period


    As per the information received from National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) for the period from April 2020 to June 2020, legal aid and assistance has been provided in 2878 domestic violence cases and petition has been filed in 452 cases under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 (PWDVA). 694 cases have been resolved through counselling/ mediation. The Ministry issued its advisory dated 25.03.2020 to ensure that during the nationwide lockdown, its One Stop Centres (OSCs) under One Stop Centre Scheme and Women Helplines (WHL) under the Universalisation of Women Helpline Scheme (through toll free telephonic short code 181) which support women on matters pertaining to safety, remain operational. In the same advisory, Protection Officers under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 and ‘Dowry Prohibition Officers’ under the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 were also directed to continue their services related to providing protection and support to women affected by violence during the lockdown. This information was given in a written reply by the Union Minister of Women and Child Development, Smt. SmritiZubinIrani in RajyaSabha today.


    For details:


    Steps to Revive Aviation Industry amid Covid-19 Pandemic


    All efforts have been made to reduce the impact of the pandemic on the aviation sector. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, domestic air services have been restarted in a calibrated manner. Initially only one third of the summer schedule 2020 was allowed to be operated which was subsequently increased to 45% on 26 Jun 2020 and then to 60% on 02 Sep 2020. Operation of Regional Connectivity Scheme- UDAN flights were allowed without the above-mentioned restrictions. Exclusive air-links or Air Bubbles have been established with countries which include Afghanistan, Bahrain, Canada, France, Germany, Qatar, Maldives, UAE, UK and USA. These are temporary arrangements aimed at restarting international passenger services while regular international flights remain suspended due to COVID-19. Adequate care was taken to ensure that cargo terminals at all major airports were operational, whenever required. This information was given in a written reply by Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State (I/C) Civil Aviation, in LokSabha today.


    For details:


    Details of Indians Repatriated Under Vande Bharat Mission


    Vande Bharat Mission consists of special repatriation flights operated by Indian carriers and chartered flights operated by both Indian and foreign carriers. As per information provided by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), as on 31.08.2020, a total of 5817 flights (inbound to India) were operated to repatriate Indian nationals. This information was given in a written reply by Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State (I/C), Civil Aviation in RajyaSabha yesterday.


    For details:


    Measures taken by Government for athletes and coaches during Covid-19 pandemic
    As far as players and coaches supported by Sport Authority of India (SAI), no financial curtailment has been done. Further, during the lockdown period, players have been provided with the facilities to continue their training. This information was given by Union Minister of State (IC) for Youth Affairs and Sports, Shri KirenRijiju in a written reply in LokSabha today.


    For details:


    36th National Games allotted to Goa postponed due to Covid-19 pandemic


    The 36 th National Games allotted to Goa, which was scheduled from 20.10.2020 to 04.11.2020, had been postponeddue to outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.Central assistance of Rs.97.80 crore has been released to the Government of Goa for creation / development of sports infrastructure for 36 th National Games. This information was given by Union Minister of State (IC) for Youth Affairs and Sports, Shri KirenRijiju in a written reply in LokSabha today.


    For details:


    IN PUTS FROM PIB FIELD OFFICES

      * Chandigarh: The Administrator, UT Chandigarh, expressed satisfaction that the vulnerable senior citizens in Chandigarh have mostly followed the guidelines and stayed indoors. He appealed to the all residents to maintain self-restraint and not to come out, unless absolutely necessary. The Administrator stated that the onus is now on the residents to keep themselves safe by strictly following COVID protocol. He also directed for more IEC activities for making the citizens aware of the hygienic practices and mask wearing.
      * Punjab: To amplify the supply of oxygen in government medical colleges & hospitals, Punjab Medical Education and Research Minister has directed the principals of the three government medical colleges of the state to strengthen the supply chain and make the inventory of 200 cylinders during all times. He instructed the oxygen suppliers on telephone to ensure smooth supply of the gas to the hospitals.
      * Himachal Pradesh: The state government has allowed to open bars in the state from 15 September, 2020 with the conditions that all the norms and Standard Operating Procedure (SOPs) specified by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs have to be followed properly. As per the order, no liquor will be sold without social distancing and they will have to keep sanitizers and provision for thermal scanning. Hand wash and sanitizer would be made at all entry points besides ensuring regular health checkups of all the staff to monitor the ILI symptoms.
      * Arunachal Pradesh: In Arunachal Pradesh, 221 more people tested positive for COVID-19 and 129 persons were discharged. Active 1892 active and total discharged 4787 with 13 death.
      * Assam: In Assam, 2394 more people tested positive for COVID-19 and 2464 people discharged yesterday, active 29091 and total discharged patients 119364. Total cases 148968 and deaths 511.
      * Manipur: In Manipur, 110 more people tested positive for COVID-19 and 103 recoveries with 78 percent recovery rate. There are 1751 active cases. Total death 48.
      * Nagaland: In Nagaland, 43 new positive cases detected today and 111 recoveries reported. District Hospital Dimapur to resume non-COVID services from Sept 21.
      * Maharashtra: Maharashtra’s COVID-19 tally spiked to 11.21 lakhs with the single-day addition of 23,365 new cases on Wednesday according to the bulletin released by the State Health Department. With 474 deaths during the day, the total death count in the state mounted to 30,883. Meanwhile, State Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the spurt in COVID-19 cases was due to the way the unlocking process was undertaken and also people not following stipulated norms. In a related development, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to send three-member squads to check shops and markets, in an effort to crack down on commercial establishments that have not implemented preventive measures against Covid infection on their premises.
      * Gujarat: The Gujarat government has reduced the charges of RT-PCR test for Covid-19 in private laboratories. RT-PCR test will now cost Rs. 1,500 in private laboratories instead of the existing Rs. 2,500. The charges will be Rs. 2,000 if the sample is collected from home. Gujarat has reported record 1,364 new cases of Covid-19 during the last 24 hours. The total cases in the state have gone up past 1.17 lakhs, while the number of active cases is 16,294.
      * Chhattisgarh: 3189 new positive cases have been identified on Wednesday, which takes the state COVID-19 tally to 73,966, while there are 37,470 active cases in Chhattisgarh at present. With the discharge of 689 patients after recovery from various hospitals, the count of total recoveries has gone up to 30,611.
      * Kerala : The state government has decided to correct the notification allowing migrant labourers with Covid-19 to work if they are asymptomatic. The order allowing asymptomatic migrant labourers to work in exclusively marked zones has triggered a controversy following a section of doctors opposing the move. Meanwhile, for the fifth consecutive day today, Covid protocols went for a toss across the state following violent protests by various political outfits demanding Minister KT Jaleel’s resignation. In many places, police resorted to lathicharge and used water cannons to disperse the protesters. Kerala recorded the highest single-day spike of 3,830 Covid cases yesterday. At present, there are 32,709 patients still undergoing treatment and a total of 2,11,037 persons are under observation across the state. The death toll is now 480.
      * Tamil Nadu:High Court orders notice to State in PIL plea challenging e-pass system as Centre’s guidelines said the States must not restrict movement. Media reports that a part of an internal report compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department in Tamil Nadu shows discrepancies in State’s Covid-19 data which is publicly available and those present in the report; State’s Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan attributes it to duplicate entries. State reported 5,652 fresh Covid cases and 57 fatalities yesterday. Case tally climbs to 5,19,860; 5,768 persons discharged; Chennai recorded 983 fresh infections.
      * Karnataka:Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said the State government will give Rs 39,300 crore financial assistance for agricultural and non-agricultural activities under various State and Central government programmes this year. BBMP issued notice to 36 private hospitals which have not provided 50% of beds as per government order.
      * Andhra Pradesh:The State Department of School Education has issued guidelines on opening schools following the Unlock 4.0 directives issued by the Central Government in the wake of Covid-19. With this, the respective departments of government are focusing on opening schools in their area from Sept 21. Only public, private and aided educational institutions outside the 'Containment' zones will be opened. About 50 per cent of the teachers can attend for online teaching, tele-counseling, education, etc. In the state assembly a total of 157 employees have been confirmed corona positive so far, with 18 people contracting the virus on Wednesday.
      * Telangana: 2159 new cases, 2108 recoveries & 09 deaths reported in the last 24 hours in the State; out of 2159 cases, 318 cases reported from GHMC. Total cases: 1,65,003; Active cases: 30,443; Deaths: 1005; Discharges :1,33,555. The monsoon session of Telangana State Legislative Council and the assembly was adjourned sine die on Wednesday to ensure safety of MLCs, MLAs, legislature staff, and police personnel amid the spread of Covid-19.

    *******


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1655741) Visitor Counter : 866
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Telugu , Malayalam
    
    
    

  
  
*