      Ministry of Culture

      The Indian Culture Portal promotes and showcases both tangible and intangible cultural heritage of India : Shri Prahlad Singh Patel
      Posted On: 19 SEP 2020 6:10PM by PIB Delhi


    India is enriched with vast and diverse tangible and intangible cultural heritage in the form of Books, Dance, Music, Monuments, Sculptures, Antiquities, Languages etc. Ministry of Culture had made efforts to bring all these cultural heritage in a single e-platform, namely, Bhartiya Sanskriti Portal, launched on 10.12.2019. The content available on the Indian Culture Portal is collected from the eminent cultural organizations under the Ministry of Culture, to provide a wide public access at local, national and global levels to all the available knowledge resources through open source platform in multilingual environment. The content is being promoted by the following means:


      * Outreach through social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram with a dedicated page for the portal.

      * Through links provided on the websites of all MoC organisations
      * Mobile phone apps
      * Presence on the Umang platform.
      * Direct promotion to over 30,000 schools and colleges.

    The various content items are provided to the people in the form of rare books, e-books, paintings, images, audio-clips, video-clips etc. These are categorised as under:


    1. Intangible Cultural Heritage


    2. Food and Culture


    3. Photo Archives


    4. Rare Books


    5. Manuscripts


    6. Gazetteers


    7. Musical Instruments of India


    8. Archives


    9. Museum Collection


    10. Images


    11. Videos


    12. Audios


    13. Stories


    14. Paintings


    15. UNESCO


    16. Research Papers


    17. E-books


    18. Reports and Processings


    19. Other Collections


    20. Union Catalogues


    21. Indian National Bibliography


    The Indian Culture Portal promotes and showcases both the tangible and intangible cultural heritage of India through various categories mentioned above which include manuscripts, museum artefacts, paintings, archival photographs, food and culture, musical instruments of India, archival documents, social practices, rituals, and festivals, Oral traditions and expressions and rare books, etc. These details are provided for every region of India and from Indus Valley Civilisation to the present.


    The Indian Culture Portal is currently available in two languages i.e. Hindi and English.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (I/c) of Culture and Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1656691) Visitor Counter : 126
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Manipuri , Telugu
    
    
    

*