      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Recruitment of Ayurvedic Medical Officers in AIIMS
      Posted On: 18 SEP 2020 4:28PM by PIB Delhi


    AIIMS Bhubaneswar has conducted recruitment for Ayurvedic Medical Officers in which 01 post of Senior Medical Officer (Ayurveda) and 02 posts of Medical Officer (Ayurveda) were advertised against which 01 post of Senior Medical Officer (Ayurveda) and 02 posts of Medical Officer (Ayurveda) were filled up. However, one candidate resigned from the post of Medical Officer (Ayurveda) and current filled up position stands at 01 post of Senior Medical Officer (Ayurveda) and 01 post of Medical Officer (Ayurveda).


    The notification for the said posts was published vide advertisement dated 22.02.2016 in the News papers, Employment News as well as in the Institute’s website. The applications were sought through ONLINE mode only. The applications received were duly scrutinized by the Screening Committee constituted by the Director, AIIMS Bhubaneswar. After scrutiny, the lists of eligible & non-eligible candidates were uploaded in the Institute’s website. Further, written tests for each post were conducted and on the basis of the performance in the written tests, candidates were called for personal interview, the candidates were recommended by the Selection Committee for appointment to the posts strictly as per the merit. The Governing Body (GB) of the Institute approved their selection, accordingly the offer of appointments were issued to them.


    It has been informed by the Institute that no complaint pertaining to the recruitment exercise has been received in the Institute. However, as per records available with the Ministry, one complaint on irregularities in the said recruitment exercise was received. However, no supporting documents were found with the complaint and the complaint did not bear any address to verify the authenticity. As per DoPT guidelines, such complaints are classified as anonymous complaints


    The criteria adopted for formation of selection panel was as per the MoHFW guidelines dated 01.05.2015. Accordingly, a selection committee was formed with the approval of the competent authority, AIIMS Bhubaneswar.


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Sh Ashwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply in the Lok Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1656195) Visitor Counter : 58
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Punjabi , Telugu