      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      M/o Social Justice and Empowerment is Implementing a National Action Plan for Drug Demand Reduction (NAPDDR) for 2018-2025
      
      Ministry Launched Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan in 272 Most Affected Districts

      Posted On: 20 SEP 2020 4:27PM by PIB Delhi

    The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has formulated and is implementing a National Action Plan for Drug Demand Reduction (NAPDDR) for 2018-2025. The Plan aims at reduction of adverse consequences of drug abuse through a multi-pronged strategy. The activities under the NAPDDR, inter-alia, include awareness generation programmes in schools/colleges/Universities, workshops/seminars/ with parents, community based peer led interactions intervention programmes for vulnerable adolescent and youth in the community, provisioning of treatment facilities and capacity building of service providers.


    The Ministry has also initiated focused intervention programmes in vulnerable districts across the country with an aim to increase community participation and public cooperation in the reduction of demand for dependence-producing substances and promote collective initiatives and self-help endeavour among individuals and groups vulnerable to addiction or found at risk.


    The Ministry has launched Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan in 272 most affected districts with focus on institutional support, community outreach and awareness generation. These districts are identified based on inputs from Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and findings of Comprehensive National Survey done by Ministry. Nasha Mukt Bharat Abhiyaan in 272 districts is from 15th August 2020 to 31st March 2021. Abhiyaan Action Plan has the following components:-

     1. Awareness generation programmes in the community and Youth in particular
     2. Focus on Higher Educational institutions, University Campuses and Schools
     3. Community outreach and identification of dependent population
     4. Focus on Treatment facilities in Hospital settings
     5. Capacity Building Programmes for Service Providers.

    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Rattan Lal Kataria in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    NB/SK/MoSJ&E-LS-1/20.09.2020

    
    
    (Release ID: 1656959) Visitor Counter : 96
    
    
      Read this release in: Telugu , Bengali , Marathi , Tamil
    
    
    

5.