      Ministry of Power

      Union Power Minister lays foundation stone for REC CSR projects worth ₹24.38 Crore in Muzaffarpur (An Aspirational District), Bihar
      
      100 bedded waiting hall for the attendant of patients, multipurpose hall and incubation center to be constructed at Sadar Hospital
      
      50 nos. of Anganwadi Centers (AWCs) to be renovated
      
      200 bedded rest room (Vishram Sadan) for patient’s attendants to be constructed in Sri Krishna Medical College & Hospital, Muzaffarpur
      Posted On: 19 SEP 2020 7:13PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri. R. K. Singh, the Minister of State (IC) for Power & New and Renewable Energy today laid foundation stone for the CSR projects to be undertaken by REC Ltd. (Formerly Rural Electrification Corporation) worth ₹24.38 Crore, in Muzaffarpur (Aspirational District), Bihar, through video conferencing on 19 th September 2020. The projects include following interventions:


     1. Construction of 100 bedded waiting hall for the attendant of patients, multipurpose hall and incubation center at Sadar Hospital and procurement & installation of 25 nos. of incubators at District Hospital and PHCs.

     2. Renovation 50 nos. of Anganwadi Centers (AWCs) and providing containers for storing food grains, LPG gas connection & setting up of Antenatal care corners in 1125 nos. AWCs.
     3. Construction of 200 bedded rest room (Vishram Sadan) for patient’s attendants in Sri Krishna Medical College & Hospital, Muzaffarpur.

    The objective of the project is to improve and provide better health services to the people residing in and around the aspirational district Muzaffarpur, Bihar. Shri S. K. Gupta, CMD, REC Ltd. Shri Ajoy Choudhury, Director (Finance), REC Ltd., Shri R. Lakshmanan, IAS, ED, REC Ltd. shared their thoughts on the occasion. Dr. Chandre Shekhar Singh, District Magistrate, Muzaffarpur and other district officials from the district were present to grace the occasion. The event was also graced by Shri Suresh Kumar Sharma, Hon’ble Minister of Urban Development and Housing Department, Government of Bihar, Smt. Indra Devi District Council President, Shri. Dinesh Prasad Singh, Councilor.


    RCJ/M

    
    
    (Release ID: 1656724) Visitor Counter : 74
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Punjabi
    
    
    

3.