      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Various schemes to bridge the demand-supply gap of skilled workers
      Posted On: 19 SEP 2020 5:40PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government is implementing various sector/group specific schemes for bridging the gap between demand and supply of skilled workers. Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) has been implementing the following schemes/programmesnamely:


    Pradhan Mantri Kaushal VikasYojana (PMKVY) imparts short term skill training to youth and recognition of prior learning of informally trained labour in National Skilled Qualification Framework (NSQF) aligned qualifications through the involvement of private trainingpartners.233 Jan ShikshanSansthan (JSS) to provide vocational training to non-literates, neo-literates, school dropouts, etc by identifying the skills relevant in the local market.Apprenticeship Scheme makes available industry ready workforce by training youth in the industry through apprenticeship. Government of India shares 25% ofthestipend paid to the apprentice, limited to Rs 1500/ pm per candidate for apprenticeship.Craftsmen Training Scheme (CTS) to provide long term training in 137 trades through nearly 15000 Industrial TrainingInstitutes.


    Further, Ministry has launched ‘Aatamanirbhar Skilled Employee Employer Mapping (ASEEM)’ portal, which is a directory of all persons who have been formally skilled, and whose details are made available to the industry for meeting their skilled manpower needs anywhere in the country. This portal seeks to bridge the demand- supply gap in the skilled workforce market by providing real-time data about the demand and supply patterns including - industry requirements, demand per district/ state/cluster, key workforce suppliers, etc.


    Under Skill India Mission, as on 31.08.2020, 98,370 persons have been trained as Yoga Instructors and Trainers.


    The Ministry has taken a number of steps to help the nation to fight against Covid-19. Some of the major steps are asfollow:-

     1. The database of 1,75,000 persons trained by the Ministry’s skilling ecosystem in health sector professionals such as Health Workers, Emergency Medical Technicians, General Duty Assistants, Home Health Aid etc were made available to the States for utilizing their services during thepandemic;

     1. The facilities in National Skill Training Institutes (NSTIs)/IndustrialTraining Institutes (ITI) were made available to the States for use as Quarantine Centres / IsolationWards


     1. About 32 lakhs of face mask were prepared and distributed by Jan ShikshanSansthan (JSS), ITIs andNSTIs.


     1. Skill levels of reverse migrant workers were mapped and process started to train 3 lakh such reverse migrants to ensure availability of local livelihood opportunities to thesemigrants


     1. The data of willing overseas returnee migrants were captured and onboarded on ASEEM so as to provide job opportunities tothem.


     1. Online Training was conducted through Bharat Skills portal covering 29 popular courses, e-learning video content for 71 courses and Question Bank for all the 137 trades under Craftsmen Training Scheme (CTS) for ITIs benefitting 9,38,851trainees;


    As regards filing of patents is concerned, Government ITI Berhampur, Odisha has registered three of its innovative products for patent viz; (i) UVC (Ultraviolet C) Robo Warrior, (ii) Mobile Swab Collection Kiosk and (iii) Smart UVC Disinfection System.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri R.K. Singh in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    YKB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1656681) Visitor Counter : 147
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Telugu
    
    
    

1.