      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Application for Domicile for J&K
      Posted On: 20 SEP 2020 5:09PM by PIB Delhi


    As per the information provided by the Government of Jammu & Kashmir, a total of 21,13,879 persons have applied for Domicile Certificates.


    Rule 5 of the J&K Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules, 2020 mandates certain documents which are to be annexed with the application. Those applications which lack the prescribed documents are rejected. The relevant order of the Govt. of Jammu & Kashmir is available on their web site, https://jkgad.nic.in


    A total of 1,21,630 applications have been rejected so far for not annexing prescribed documents with the application.


    Jammu and Kashmir Administration has issued 16,79,520 domiciles.


    A wide range of measures were undertaken by the Government of India for the relief and rehabilitation of the migrants of East Pakistan, which include the following:


    i) Relief camps were opened by the Government to provide food, shelter and other facilities to the migrants. Rehabilitation assistance was also extended to the non-camp migrants.


    ii) Agriculturists’ families were provided land/loans for purchase of land and agricultural implements etc. Non agriculturists’ families were granted loans for taking up business, small trade and professional occupations.


    iii) A number of vocational and training schemes were introduced.


    iv) Facilities were offered to the displaced persons and private industrialists to set up industries for expanding employment facilities for the displaced persons.


    As per the Registration records maintained with the Provincial Rehabilitation Officer (PRO), Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), a total of 6,565 families were registered as displaced families from Chhamb Niabat area during the Indo-Pak war of 1971. For the displaced families of 1971, agricultural land at the rate of 4 acres (irrigated) or 6 acres (un-irrigated) was allotted. A cash compensation of Rs. 7,500/- per family was also paid. The entire process of rehabilitation of displaced families was overseen by Chhamb Displaced Persons Rehabilitation Authority (CDPRA).


    Due to the Indo-Pak war of 1947, a total of 31,619 families got displaced from the Pakistan Occupied Jammu and Kashmir (POJK), out of which 26,319 families got registered and settled in the erstwhile State of Jammu & Kashmir. A total of 5,300 families who were initially registered with the PRO, J&K subsequently moved to other parts of the country.


    For the displaced families of 1947 which stayed in J&K, the Government of Jammu & Kashmir had allotted agricultural land ranging from 4-8 acres per family. Those who settled in urban areas were provided plots/quarters besides cash ex-gratia of Rs. 3500/- per family. For those families which did not get land allotted as per prescribed scales, cash compensation was sanctioned by Government of India in lieu of land deficiency. Others were allotted land /plot/quarter as per fixed scale for their rehabilitation. The displaced families which did not settle in Jammu & Kashmir were paid an ex-gratia of Rs. 3500/- per family at the time of their registration.


    In order to mitigate the hardships of the displaced families of PoJK and Chhamb, the Government of India under the Prime Minister’s Development Package-2015, approved a rehabilitation package with an outlay of Rs. 2000 crores on 22 nd December, 2016. Under the package, one-time financial assistance of Rs. 5.5 lakhs per family (Central share is Rs.5,49,692/- and the State share is Rs. 308/-) is provided to the displaced families.


    In September, 2019, the Government of India further approved the inclusion of those displaced families of PoJK, out of 5,300 families, who initially moved out of Jammu and Kashmir, but later on returned and settled in Jammu and Kashmir. Such families are also eligible for one-time financial assistance of Rs. 5.5 lakh per family.


    As per the information provided by the Government of Jammu & Kashmir, no Kashmiri Hindu families have migrated from J&K after the abrogation of Article 370 and 35A.


    Kashmiri Pandits have been issued Domiciles under new rules. It is a continuous process.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri G. Kishan Reddy in a written reply to question in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    NW/PK/AK/1608

    
    
    (Release ID: 1656969) Visitor Counter : 78
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Tamil