      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Organic Farming in the Country
      Posted On: 18 SEP 2020 3:12PM by PIB Delhi


    Assistance is provided under different schemes by the Government for promoting organic farming in the country –


    1. Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY ): The scheme promotes cluster based organic farming with PGS certification. Cluster formation, training, certification and marketing are supported under the scheme. Assistance of Rs.50,000 per ha /3 years is provided out of which 62% i.e., Rs. 31,000 is given as incentive to a farmer towards organic inputs.


    2. Mission Organic Value Chain Development for North Eastern Region (MOVCDNER ): The scheme promotes 3 rd party certified organic farming of niche crops of north east region through Farmers Producer organizations (FPOs) with focus on exports. Farmers are given assistance of Rs 25000/ha/3 years for organic inputs including organic manure and biofertilisers etc. Support for formation of FPOs, capacity building, post-harvest infrastructure up to Rs 2 crores are also provided in the scheme.


    3. Capital investment Subsidy Scheme (CISS ) under Soil Health Management Scheme: 100% assistance is provided to State Government / Government agencies for setting up of mechanized fruit/vegetable market waste/ Agro waste compost production unit up to a maximum limit of Rs.190.00 Lakh /unit (3000 Total Per Annum TPA capacity). Similarly, for individuals/ private agencies assistance up to 33% of cost limit to Rs 63 lakh/unit as capital investment is provided.


    4. National Mission on Oilseeds and Oil Palm (NMOOP ): Financial assistance@ 50% subsidy to the tune of Rs. 300/- per ha is being provided for different components including bio-fertilizers, supply of Rhizobium culture/Phosphate Solubilising Bacteria (PSB)/Zinc Solubilising Bacteria (ZSB)/ Azatobacter/ Mycorrhiza and vermi compost.


    5. National Food Security Mission (NFSM): Financial assistance is provided for promotion of Bio-Fertilizer (Rhizobium/PSB) @50% of the cost limited to Rs.300 per ha.


    Cultivable land area under organic farming has more than doubled from 11.83 lakh ha in 2014 to 29.17 lakh ha in 2020 due to the focused efforts of the Government. Over the years, the organic promotion activities led to development of State specific organic brands, increased domestic supply and exports of organic produce from NER. Taking cue from the success of the organic initiatives, a target of 20 lakh ha additional area coverage by 2024 is envisaged in the vision document. Awareness programmes, availability of adequate post- harvest infrastructure, marketing facilities, premium price for the organic produce etc., would certainly motivate farmers towards organic farming thereby increasing organic coverage in the country.


    As per International resource data from Research Institute of Organic Agriculture (FiBL) and the International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements (IFOAM) Statistics 2020, India stands at 9 th position in terms of certified agricultural land with 1.94 million ha(2018-19). The comparative data in regard to organic cultivation with other countries viz. China, Brazil and the US is as:-

                                                        
Sr. No.  State   Position  Area under organic           
                                                        
                                                        
                           certification(in million ha.)
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
1        China   3 rd      3.14                         
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
2        USA     7 th      2.02                         
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
3        India   9 th      1.94                         
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
4        Brazil  12 th     1.18                         
                                                        
                                                        

    Promotion of natural farming under Bharatiya Prakritik Krishi Padhati (BPKP) of PKVY has been initiated to encourage use of natural on-farm inputs for chemical free farming. Andhra Pradesh and Kerala have taken up 1 lakh ha and 0.8 lakh ha area respectively for promotion of natural farming under BPKP. Similarly, continuous area certification and support for individual farmers for certification have also been initiated during 2020-21 to bring in default organic areas and willing individual farmers under the fold of organic farming


    State agencies, Primary Agricultural Credit Societies, Farmer Producer Organisations, entrepreneurs etc., can avail loans for setting up of Post-harvest infrastructure for value addition to organic produce under 1.00 lakh cr Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) of Aatmanirbhar Bharat.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shri Narendra Singh Tomar in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/SG/RC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1656146) Visitor Counter : 300
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Punjabi , Tamil