      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      COVID-19 Update
      
      Centre rushes High Level Central team to Jammu
      
      Central team to assist in strengthening Containment, Surveillance, Testing and efficient Clinical Management

      Posted On: 18 SEP 2020 3:10PM by PIB Delhi

    Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has decided to depute a high level Central team to Jammu. The district has reported a rise in the number of new COVID cases in the recent days.


    The team comprises of Dr. S K Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Dr. Vijay Hadda, Associate Professor, Dept. of Pulmonary Critical Care, AIIMS, New Delhi.


    It may be recalled that a special team had visited the Srinagar valley recently. The two-member high level team was led by Dr V K Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog and Dr S K Singh, Director, NCDC was its member. The team had reviewed the status of preparedness for COVID management with the District Collectors of the valley. The current Central team shall interact with the District Collectors and Health Officers of Jammu. It shall also visit hospitals in Bakshinagar and Gandhinagar.


    The team will support the State efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of the positive cases. The Central team shall also guide in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow up.


    The total number of confirmed COVID cases in Jammu is 9428. Of these, 3196 have recovered. COVID deaths are reported to be 117. There are 6115 Active Cases in the district. The total cases one week ago were 6878. Jammu has been reporting Doubling Time of 15.4 days, Recovery Rate of 33.9% and CFR of 1.24%.


    As an ongoing effort to strengthen efforts of various State/UT Governments for COVID management, the Central Government has been deputing Central teams from time to time to visit various States/UTs. These teams interact with the State/UT authorities and get a first hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them so as to strengthen their ongoing activities and remove bottlenecks, if any.


    ****


    MV


    HFW/COVID Central team-Jammu/18September2020/2

    
    
    (Release ID: 1656139) Visitor Counter : 126
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Assamese , Manipuri , Punjabi , Telugu