      Ministry of Corporate Affairs

      CCI approves acquisition of sole control over Bombardier Transportation’s by Alstom S.A., AND acquisition of approximately 18% and 3% share capital of Alstom S.A. by Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (CDPQ) and Bombardier Inc (Bombardier) respectively
      Posted On: 19 SEP 2020 10:34AM by PIB Delhi


    The Competition Commission of India (CCI) approves acquisition of sole control over Bombardier Transportation’s (Bombardier Transport) by Alstom S.A. (Alstom), and acquisition of approximately 18% and 3% share capital of Alstom S.A. by Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (CDPQ) and Bombardier Inc (Bombardier) respectively, under Section 31(1) of the Competition Act, 2002, today.


    Alstom is a French corporation globally active in the rail transport industry, offering a wide range of transport solutions. In India, it manufactures and supplies, inter alia , signalling solutions, rail electrification, rolling stock (locomotives and metros), track works, maintenance services and it also provides associated construction and engineering services through its subsidiaries, including Alstom Manufacturing India Private Limited, Alstom Systems India Private Limited, Alstom Transport India Limited, and Madhepura Electric Locomotive Private Limited


    Bombardier is a Canadian corporation globally active in the business aircraft and the rail transport industries.


    Bombardier Transportation is the global rail solutions division of Bombardier. It offers a wide range of rail solutions. In India, Bombardier Transportation is engaged in the sale of rail vehicles, propulsion, control equipment and signalling solutions through its subsidiary Bombardier Transportation India Private Limited.


    CDPQ is a global long-term institutional investor. It manages funds primarily for public and para-public pension and insurance plans. It invests in major financial markets, private equity, fixed income, infrastructure and real estate.


    A detailed order of the CCI will follow.


    ****


    RM/KMN


    

    
    (Release ID: 1656565) Visitor Counter : 184
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Assamese , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu