      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) has been laid down to resume sports activities in the SAI training centres under the name of “Khelo India-Firr Se”: Sh. Kiren Rijiju
      Posted On: 19 SEP 2020 5:23PM by PIB Delhi


    Due to outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, all the conventional training programmes being conducted in all Sports Authority of India (SAI)centres across the country, under various SAI Sports Promotional Schemes were temporarily suspended and the foreign training of Indian athletes were also curtailed. However, the training has since resumed in accordance with the guidelines issued by Ministry of Home Affairs.


    In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the following measures were taken to ensure safety of athletes during training at SAI centres:


    Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) was laid down to resume sports activities in the training centres under the name of “Khelo India-Firr Se”. The SOP covers all stakeholders at the training centres including athletes, technical and non-technical support staff, administrative staff, hostel and facility management staff and visitors to the centre.


    A COVID Task Force Committee has been set-up to ensure that the guidelines are strictly implemented at all the training centres. The Committee ensures the effective implementation of the health protocols issued by the Central and respective State/Union Territory Government.


    SAI Training Centres are divided into 3 Zones viz. Red, Blue, and Yellow for safety and security of the Athletes. Also, a Hygiene Officer with supporting staff like Nurses, Physiotherapist, Psychologist, Nutritionist have been deployed as a hygiene task force to interactand assist with the National Campers, Coaches and supporting staff for any health issue related to COVID-19 care.


    A total of Rs. 28.75 crore has been spent on maintenance and upkeep of SAI centres across the country and stadia under SAI during lockdown.


    This information was given by Union Minister of State (IC) for Youth Affairs and Sports, ShriKirenRijiju in a written reply in RajyaSabha today.


    *****


    NB/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1656674) Visitor Counter : 133
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Manipuri , Bengali , Punjabi , Telugu