      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Press Note No. 4 (2020 Series), reviewing Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) Policy in Defence Sector
      Posted On: 18 SEP 2020 1:17PM by PIB Delhi


    Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), Ministry of Commerce and Industry has issued Press Note No. 4 (2020 Series), reviewing Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) Policy in Defence Sector. The decision will take effect from the date of FEMA notification.


    The Present Position is as follows:

                                                                                                
Sector/Activity                               % of Equity/ FDI Cap  Entry Route                 
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
Defence Industry subject to Industrial        100%                  Automatic up to 49%         
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
license under the Industries                                                                    
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
(Development & Regulation) Act,                                                                 
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
1951 and Manufacturing of small                                                                 
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
arms and ammunition under the Arms Act, 1959                                                    
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                    Government route beyond     
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                    49% wherever it is likely to
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                    result in access to modern  
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                    technology or for other     
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                    reasons to be recorded      
                                                                                                
                                                                                                

    Other Conditions


    i. Infusion of fresh foreign investment within the permitted automatic route level, in a company not seeking industrial license, resulting in change in the ownership pattern or transfer of stake by existing investor to new foreign investor, will require Government approval.


    ii. Licence applications will be considered and licences given by the Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion, Ministry of Commerce & Industry, in consultation with Ministry of Defence and Ministry of External Affairs.


    iii. Foreign investment in the sector is subject to security clearance and guidelines of the M/ o Defence.


    iv. Investee company should be structured to be self-sufficient in areas of product design and development. The investee/joint venture company along with manufacturing facility, should also have maintenance and life cycle support facility of the product being manufactured in India.


    The Revised Position will be as follows:


    The Government of India has reviewed the extant FDI policy in Defence sector and the policy will now be read as under:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Sector/Activity                                                      % of Equity/FDI Cap  Entry Route                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Defence Industry subject to                                          100%                 Automatic up to 74%. Government route beyond 74% wherever it is likely to result in access to modern technology or for other reasons to be recorded
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Industrial license under the                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Industries (Development &                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Regulation) Act, 1951 and                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Manufacturing of small arms and ammunition under the Arms Act, 1959                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             

    Other Conditions


    i. FDI up to 74% under automatic route shall be permitted for companies seeking new industrial licenses.


    ii. Infusion of fresh foreign investment up to 49%, in a company not seeking industrial license or which already has Government approval for FDI in Defence, shall require mandatory submission of a declaration with the Ministry of Defence in case change in equity/shareholding pattern or transfer of stake by existing investor to new foreign investor for FDI up to 49%, within 30 days of such change. Proposals for raising FDI beyond 49% from such companies will require Government approval.


    iii. Licence applications will be considered by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce & Industry, in consultation with Ministry of Defence and Ministry of External Affairs.


    iv. Foreign investment in the sector is subject to security clearance by the Ministry of Home Affairs and as per guidelines of the Ministry of Defence.


    v. Investee company should be structured to be self-sufficient in the areas of product design and development. The investee/joint venture company along with the manufacturing facility, should also have maintenance and life cycle support facility of the product being manufactured in India.


    vi. Foreign Investments in the Defence Sector shall be subject to scrutiny on grounds of National Security and Government reserves the right to review any foreign investment in the Defence Sector that affects or may affect national security.


    YB/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1656082) Visitor Counter : 211
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Tamil