      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      One District One Product Concept for Encouraging Domestic Manufacturing
      Posted On: 18 SEP 2020 3:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Based on strengths of a district and National Priorities, One District One Product (ODOP) is seen as a transformational step forward towards realizing the true potential of a district, fuel economic growth and generate employment and rural entrepreneurship, taking us to the goal of Aatma Nirbhar Bharat. In this contest, an interaction with all States and UTs was held on 27 th August, 2020 to discuss the implementation of One District One Product initiative, and Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) is working further on the initiative.


    Further, Department of Commerce through DGFT is engaging with State and Central government agencies to promote the initiative of One District One Product. The objective is to convert each District of the country into an export hub by identifying products with export potential in the District, addressing bottlenecks for exporting these products, supporting local exporters, manufacturers to scale up manufacturing, and find potential buyers outside India with the aim of promoting exports, promoting manufacturing & services industry in the District and generate employment in the District.


    As part of this initiative, an institutional mechanism is being set up in each District in the form of District Export Promotion Committees (DEPCs) that may be headed by DM/ Collector/ DC/ District Development Officer of the District and co-chaired by the designated Regional Authority of DGFT and various other stakeholders as its members. The primary function of the DEPC will be to prepare and act on District specific Export Action Plans in collaboration with all the relevant stakeholders from the Centre, State and the District level.


    DGFT has also developed a portal that may be accessed on the DGFT website to enable the States to upload all information related to the products with export potential of every district. Portal has been developed and is currently being tested.


    Products with export potential are being identified in different districts across the country, and accordingly State Export Strategies are being prepared.


    This information was given by the Union Minister of Commerce and Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal, in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ***


    YB/ AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1656130) Visitor Counter : 213
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali , Manipuri , Punjabi , Tamil , Telugu