      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah expresses gratitude to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on the passage of two crucial Bills on agricultural reforms in the Lok Sabha
      
      “In the form of Modi Govt, for the first time there is a Govt at the centre which is working day & night towards the empowerment of farmers and the passage of landmark agriculture reform Bills in the Lok Sabha is an unprecedented step in this direction”
      
      “These path-breaking legislations of Modi Govt will transform Agriculture sector and set farmers free from clutches of middlemen & help them overcome other obstacles”
      
      “These Bills will provide farmers with new avenues to sell their produce, which will increase their incomes”
      
      “These historic and important agricultural reforms of Modi Govt will bring a positive transformation in the lives of farmers and will make them self-reliant”
      
      “India is proud of its hardworking farmers who shoulder the creation of the nation’s wealth and prosperity”
      
      Posted On: 18 SEP 2020 4:02PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah has expressed gratitude to Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi on the passage of two crucial Bills on agricultural reforms in the Lok Sabha . In a series of tweets, Shri Amit Shah said, “India is proud of its hardworking farmers who shoulder the creation of the nation’s wealth and prosperity. In the form of Modi Govt, for the first time there is a Govt at the centre which is working day & night towards the empowerment of farmers and the passage of landmark agriculture reform Bills in the Lok Sabha yesterday is an unprecedented step in this direction”.


    The Union Home Minister said, “These path-breaking legislations of the Modi Govt will transform Agriculture sector and set farmers free from clutches of middlemen and help them overcome other obstacles These Bills will provide farmers with new avenues to sell their produce, which will increase their incomes”.


    Shri Amit Shah also said, “These historic and important agricultural reforms of Modi Govt will bring a positive transformation in the lives of farmers and will make them self-reliant. I convey my heartfelt gratitude to Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi and Union Agriculture Minister, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar on the passage of these bills”.


    The Lok Sabha passed The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 yesterday.


    The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 seeks to provide for the creation of an ecosystem where the farmers and traders enjoy the freedom of choice relating to sale and purchase of farmers' produce which facilitates remunerative prices through competitive alternative trading channels to promote efficient, transparent and barrier-free inter-State and intra-State trade.


    The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 seeks to provide for a national framework on farming agreements that protects and empowers farmers to engage with agri-business firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters or large retailers for farm services and sale of future farming produce at a mutually agreed remunerative price framework in a fair and transparent manner and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.


    भारत के मेहनती किसान देश की खुशहाली और समृद्धि के वाहक हैं, जिन पर पूरे देश को अभिमान है। मोदी सरकार के रूप में पहली बार कोई सरकार किसानों के सशक्तिकरण के लिए इस तरह दिन रात काम कर रही है और कल लोकसभा में पारित हुए ऐतिहासिक कृषि सुधार विधेयक इसी दिशा में एक अभूतपूर्व कदम है। pic.twitter.com/SmJnC8BUvU

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) September 18, 2020

    मोदी सरकार के यह ऐतिहासिक विधेयक किसानों व कृषि क्षेत्र को बल देंगे और उनको बिचौलियों व अन्य समस्याओं से मुक्त करेंगे। इन विधेयकों से किसानों को उनकी उपज बेचने के लिए नये अवसर प्राप्त होंगे, जिससे उनकी आय में वृद्धि होगी। #JaiKisan

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) September 18, 2020

    यह ऐतिहासिक व महत्वपूर्ण कृषि सुधार किसानों के जीवन में एक सकारात्मक परिवर्तन लाकर उन्हें आत्मनिर्भर बनाने की दिशा में एक अहम भूमिका निभाएंगे।
    
    इन विधेयकों के पारित होने पर मैं प्रधानमंत्री @narendramodi जी और कृषि मंत्री @nstomar जी का हृदय से आभार व्यक्त करता हूँ। #JaiKisan

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) September 18, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/PK/DDD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1656175) Visitor Counter : 101
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Telugu , Malayalam