      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah hails passage of two crucial Bills on agricultural reforms by Parliament as the beginning of an unprecedented era of development in India's agriculture sector
      
      “Passage of these bills reflects PM Modi ji’s unwavering resolve towards the overall development of our farmers and strengthening of the agriculture sector”
      
      “People who kept farmers in darkness and poverty for decades by indulging in vote bank politics are today again trying to provoke & mislead them by opposing this historic decision, which is taken by Modi govt in the interest of the farmers”
      
      “I want to assure my farmer brothers that if anyone thinks of their best interest then it is PM Modi”
      
      “These agriculture reforms of the Modi govt will liberate our farmer brothers from the clutches of middlemen who have deprived them of their dues”
      
      “Through these agriculture reforms, farmers will be able to fetch the right price for their produce by selling it anywhere they want, this will lead to an increase in their income”
      
      “System of MSP will remain in place and govt procurement will also continue”
      Posted On: 20 SEP 2020 8:23PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah has hailed the passage of two crucial Bills on agricultural reforms by Parliament today. Expressing gratitude to Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, Shri Amit Shah, in a series of tweets, said, “The passage of these bills reflects PM Modi ji’s unwavering resolve towards the overall development of our farmers and strengthening of the agriculture sector. This is the beginning of an unprecedented era of development in India's agriculture sector.”


    Shri Amit Shah said, “People who kept farmers in darkness and poverty for decades by indulging in vote bank politics are today again trying to provoke & mislead them by opposing this historic decision, which is taken by Modi govt in the interest of the farmers. I want to assure my farmer brothers that if anyone thinks of their best interest then it is Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji.”


    The Union Home Minister said, “These agriculture reforms of the Modi govt will liberate our farmer brothers from the clutches of middlemen who have deprived them of their dues.”


    "Through these agriculture reforms, farmers will be able to fetch the right price for their produce by selling it anywhere they want, this will lead to an increase in their income,” said Shri Amit Shah.


    “Even after this decision, the system of MSP will remain in place and government procurement will also continue,” he added.


    The Rajya Sabha passed The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 today. Both Bills had already been passed by the Lok Sabha.


    The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 seeks to provide for the creation of an ecosystem where the farmers and traders enjoy the freedom of choice relating to sale and purchase of farmers' produce which facilitates remunerative prices through competitive alternative trading channels to promote efficient, transparent and barrier-free inter-State and intra-State trade.


    The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 seeks to provide for a national framework on farming agreements that protects and empowers farmers to engage with agri-business firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters or large retailers for farm services and sale of future farming produce at a mutually agreed remunerative price framework in a fair and transparent manner and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.


    आज संसद में कृषि से जुड़े दो महत्वपूर्ण विधेयकों का पारित होना प्रधानमंत्री श्री @NarendraModi जी का हमारे किसानों के समग्र विकास एवं कृषि क्षेत्र को मजबूत करने के प्रति उनके अटूट संकल्प को दर्शाता है।
    
    यह भारत के कृषि क्षेत्र में विकास के अभूतपूर्व युग का प्रारंभ है।

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) September 20, 2020

    दशकों तक किसानों के वोट लेकर उन्हें अंधकार और गरीबी में रखने वाले लोग आज फिर किसानों के हित के सबसे बड़े निर्णय का विरोध कर उन्हें भड़काने व गुमराह करने का प्रयास कर रहे हैं।
    
    मैं किसान भाइयों को विश्वास दिलाता हूँ कि आपके हितों के लिए अगर कोई सोचता है तो वो @narendramodi जी हैं।

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) September 20, 2020

    मोदी सरकार के यह कृषि सुधार हमारे किसान भाइयों का हक मारने वाले बिचौलियों से उन्हें मुक्त करेंगे और साथ ही उनकी उपज को कहीं भी बेचने व उसका सही दाम दिलवाकर उनकी आय बढ़ाने में एक सकारात्मक भूमिका निभाएँगे।
    
    इस निर्णय के बाद भी MSP की व्यवस्था बनी रहेगी व सरकारी खरीद भी जारी रहेगी।

    — Amit Shah (@AmitShah) September 20, 2020

    *****


    NW/RK/PK/DDD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1657056) Visitor Counter : 71
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Gujarati , Tamil