      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Indian Panorama-Day 4 at 48th IFFI opens with ‘Manusangada’ & ‘Pimpal’.
      Posted On: 23 NOV 2017 8:57PM by PIB Delhi

      The Indian Panorama section is proud to showcase two brilliant films – ‘Manusangada’ and ‘Pimpal’ from different language industries at the IFFI Goa 2017 and present on the occasion were the movie directors, Amshan Kumar and Gajendra Ahire, respectively to discuss the response received by the audience and the IFFI Goa experience.

        Amshan Kumar is the National award winning filmmaker and had several award winning titles to his credit. Gajendra Ahire has 46 films to his credit and he is one of those rare filmmakers whose films have been shortlisted seven times in the Indian Panorama Section of the International Film Festival of India.


        Amshan Kumar said, “This is my second visit to IFFI as the director of the film featured in the Indian Panorama section. IFFI has been going from strength to strength over the years but the film will be shown twice – once at the Indian Panorama section and once for the general audience. I’ve made documentaries mostly but this is my second feature film born out of the experience born out of the experience in the rural areas. Whenever I go to villages, I ask them the problems they face but I was surprised to know that they wanted a burial site. So Manusangada is a story based on that.”


        Gajendra added, “My association with IFFI goes back a long way. It was in 2004 when my Marathi film Not Only Mrs Raut was showcased at the festival and since then I have been attending the prestigious film festivals. I’ve watched several films and I’ve learnt a lot as a student. I’ve understood new format of cinema also. It’s a growing learning experience.


        
        Manusangada is one on the final list of 26 feature films that have been selected to the Indian Panorama section of the 48th International Film Festival of India, held in Goa from November 20 to 28. It’s the only Tamil film that has been selected for screening at the Indian Panorama.


        The 48th Edition of IFFI will take place from the 20th to 28th of November, 2017 in the beach state of Goa. IFFI is India’s biggest and Asia’s oldest film festival, making it one of the most prestigious in the world.


        **********


        PIB IFFI 2017/No. 21

    
    
    (Release ID: 1510694) Visitor Counter : 151