      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Mantri Inaugurates Ujh and Basantar Bridges in J&K
      Posted On: 20 JUL 2019 7:37PM by PIB Delhi


    Ushering in vast improvement in the connectivity of roads and bridges in border areas, Raksha Mantri ShriRajnath Singh inaugurated the One kilometre long Ujh bridge in Kathua district, 617.40 Metre long Basantarbridge in Samba district of Jammu & Kashmir today and dedicated these to the nation.


    Terming construction of Ujh&Basantpur Bridges a great achievement by BRO, Raksha Mantri ShriRajnath Singh said that the roads and bridges are the lifeline of any nation and play a vital role in the socio-economic development of people in the far flung regions. Raksha Mantri praised BRO personnel for working in the most hostile and the difficult areas away from their families. He added that the BRO has been rendering commendable services through construction and maintenance of roads and bridges in border areas fulfilling the strategic needs of the Defence Forces. Reiterating the Central Government’s commitment to the development of connectivity in Jammu & Kashmir, he said Prime Minister is regularly monitoring the progress of these projects and funds are being made available accordingly.


    One Km long Ujh bridge is the longest bridge constructed by BRO and also has the distinction where technology of Pre Cast Segmental br with 60 m spans was used. It has been constructed at a cost of approxRs 50 crore and was completed within the scheduled time. The bridge is located on Parole-Korepannu-Rajpura road over UjhNallah. Basantar bridge has been constructed at a total cost of approxRs 41.7 crore. The bridge is located on Rajpura–Madwal–Pangadur–Phulpur road over BasantarNallah. Both these bridges have been constructed under 69 RCC/13 BRTF of Project Sampark. These bridges will provide smooth connectivity and are vital for the Army for deployment on border areas. These bridges will be a big relief for the local people of border villages of Kathua and Samba sector as road connectivity used to get disrupted during Monsoon.


    Minister of State for Prime Minister's Office, Department of Atomic Energy & Department of Space Dr Jitendra Singh also highlighted the development program of Central Govt and Prime Minister ShriNagendraModiji's steps for boosting connectivity in Jammu & Kashmir.


    Director General Border Roads Lt Gen HarpalSingh, underlined the contribution of BRO to the nation in far flung areas of the country under extremely difficult and harsh conditions. Admiring the contribution of Project Sampark and congratulating all the employees associated with this project, he offered his sincere thanks to Raksha Mantri, Minister of State, Chief of Army Staff and other dignitaries for their support and guidance.


    The event was attended by Chief of the Army Staff Gen BipinRawat, GOC, 29 Infantry Division Maj Gen YP Khandurialongwith many other Army & Civil administration dignitaries.


    ABB/Nampi/DK/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1579653) Visitor Counter : 775
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi