      PIB Headquarters

      15.6 Kg of Khat leaves worth Rs.40 Lakhs seized by Chennai Air Customs at Foreign Post Office
      Posted On: 06 MAR 2020 2:40PM by PIB Chennai


    Based on information that some narcotics drug is likely to be smuggled through postal parcel arriving from Africa, the Postal Intelligence Unit of Air Customs detained one parcel at Foreign Post Office Chennai which had arrived from Addis Ababa (Ethiopia). As the suspect parcel was not carrying any declaration about the contents it was taken up for examination. On opening the parcel 8 packets wrapped in silver/pink metallic gift wrap paper were found inside. Further, on opening the gift wrap paper pink polythene bags were find inside in which green coloured dried leaves suspected to be ‘Khat leaves’ were present. Total 15.6 Kg of dried leaves suspected to be Khat leaves valued at Rs.40 lakhs were recovered and same were seized under the NDPS Act 1985. Khat (Catha edulis) also known as Miraa is a stimulant drug and is prohibited under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Samples of Khat leaves have been sent to laboratory for confirmatory test.


    The postal parcel which had arrived from Addis Ababa (Ethiopia) was consigned to a Chennai. City based address. Search was carried out at the consignee address but it was found to be fake. Chennai has a sizeable population of African students and some may be addicted to Khat.


    Khat is an evergreen shrub mainly cultivated in East Africa and South Yemen. It contains alkaloids cathinone and Cathine, amphetamine like stimulants, which cause euphoria. Khat is mainly chewed for its soporific effect but some boil it in water and drink it like tea and has a dependence producing ability.


    Earlier in May 2018 we had seized one postal parcel which had arrived from Kenya containing 7.9 Kg of Khat leaves at FPO.


    Further investigation is in progress , according to a press release issued by Commissioner of Customs, Chennai International Airport.


    ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1605516) Visitor Counter : 43