      PIB Headquarters

      Precious gem stones worth Rs. 31.4 lakhs and 1.85 Kgs of Gold worth Rs. 84 lakhs seized by Customs at Chennai Airport - Two Arrested
      Posted On: 12 MAR 2020 11:35AM by PIB Chennai


    On Wednesday based on information one Shabdeen, 66, of Chennai who arrived from Colombo by Srilankan Air Lines flight UL-125 was intercepted at exit on suspicion of carrying precious gem stones as he was trying to get out in a rather hurried manner. On personal search two bundles wrapped with adhesive tape were found concealed in rectum. On cut opening the bundles precious/semi precious gem stones were found concealed inside. Jewellery valuer identified the precious stones as gems as Sapphires both Yellow and Blue, Rubies and Chrysoberyl Cats eye of various cut, size and colours totally weighing 3058.4 carat valued at Rs.31.4 lakhs . Same were seized Customs Act. The gems were to be handed over to some unknown person outside airport. He was taken out but no one approached him. The passenger was arrested.


    In other case today AIU one Arthi Manoharan, 22, of Trichy who was bound for Colombo by Srilankan Airlines Flight UL-126 was apprehended near arrival bay area after having cleared immigration and security check on suspicion of carrying some contraband. On search of her hand bag one bundle wrapped with black adhesive tape was found. On cut opening 4 gold bars weighing 1.496 Kg valued at Rs. 67.50 lakhs were found concealed inside. On questiong she informed that she had collected the same from ladies toilet at the arrival Immigration side and she was to handover to some unknown person in bay area who would take it out of airport. No one came to receive the packet from her. The gold bars were seized under the Customs Act. She was arrested.


    In another case one Seik Abdullah, 54, who arrived from Singapore by Air India Express Airlines Flight AI-687.2020 were intercepted at the exit. On personal search 3 bundles of gold in paste form recovered from rectum. On extraction 358 grams of gold valued Rs. 16.50 lakhs was recovered and seized under Customs Act.


    Further investigation is under progress, according to a press release issued by Commissioner of Customs , Chennai International Airport.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1606058) Visitor Counter : 15
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil