      PIB Headquarters

      “Blue Punisher” MDMA tablets and Crystalline powder seized by Chennai Customs at Foreign Post Office
      Posted On: 20 MAR 2020 6:32PM by PIB Chennai


    Based on information that a parcel containing some narcotics drugs is likely to be smuggled into India from Europe through Foreign Post Office, the Postal Intelligence of Air Customs detained one parcel at Foreign Post Office, Meenambakkam. The detained parcel was unregistered and was sent from France. On examination it was found to contain some blue colour tablets and two plastic pouches containing white crystalline powder. Both tablets and powder were tested with narcotics field testing kit and prima facie tested positive for MDMA (3, 4-methylenedioxy-methamphetamine), a narcotics substance. 158 blue colour tablets totally weighing 77 gmsand 19 grams of white crystalline powder suspected to be MDMA totally valued at Rs. 6.6 Lakhs werere covered and seized under the NDPS Act, 1985. S amples have been sent to the Central Revenue laboratory for confirmatory tests.


    The parcel was destined to a house address in Arumbakkam, Chennai City. On reaching the locality it was noticed that there were no buildings there but only a few hutments. Enquiries were made with a few bystanders who informed that the address pertained to a building which was demolished around 10 years ago by the slum clearance board. The question of how a foreign unregistered parcel could have been delivered to a non existent address is being investigated.


    MDMA commonly known as Ecstasy can alter people’s mood and perception and is chemically similar to both stimulants and hallucinogens. These blue colour tablets are known by name “Punisher Pills” and said to be three times stronger than most of other forms of Ecstasy. The MDMA Crystalline powder is a Premium product and purer than pills. It increase alertness and awareness.


    A week back we had seized MDMA tablets worth Rs. 30 lakhs from foreign post office.


    Further investigation is in progress , according to a press release issued by Commissioner of Customs, Chennai International Airport.


    ********

    
    
    (Release ID: 1607426) Visitor Counter : 33
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil