      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Shehri Samridhi Utsav Launched
      Posted On: 05 FEB 2019 1:42PM by PIB Delhi


      Shehri Samridhi Utsav, an initiative of Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs (MoHUA),aims to extend the outreach of Deendayal Antyodaya Mission – National Urban Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NULM), to the most vulnerable, showcase its initiatives and facilitate access of Self-Help Group (SHG) members to the other government schemes.This was launched across the country earlier this week.


      Day one of Shehri Samriddhi Utsav began with a series of rallies led by women’s’ SHGs, across the length and breadth of the country. These rallies spread awareness about DAY-NULM in urban poor communities. Job melas and fairs to market the products made by women microentrepreneurs were also organized by many states, and will continue over the next two weeks.


      SHG RALLY IN SONEPAT, HARYANA SHG RALLY IN SIHPUI, MIZORAM


      SHG PRODUCTS MELA, SIKKAM SHG PRODUCTS MELA, TAMIL NADU


      Through Shehri Samridhi Utsav, SHG members across cities are being linked to national government schemes viz. Swachchh Bharat Mission (U), Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (U), Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Yojana and National Nutrition Mission.


      Over the next two weeks, several other activities are also being conducted by the states such as adoption of shelters for the homeless by colleges, formation of SHGs of informal sanitation workers, financial inclusion camps, job melas etc. Progress on these activities as well as images and media articles on Shehri Samridhi Utsav events across states can be accessed through a dedicated web portal at shehrisamridhiutsav.com.


      A major highlight of Shehri Samridhi Utsav is the National Exhibition cum sale of SHG products and National Street Food Festival being organized in New Delhi . Over 100 stalls are being set up in Central Delhi with various handlooms, handicrafts, snacks and other local products made by 200 Self Help Groups representing23 states.40 stalls with street food vendors from 20+ states will be serving the local cuisines. In the evenings, a cultural program will be organized, including popular bands to cater to the young crowds. This event will be organized in Rajpath Lawns in Central Delhi, from 8th – 17th Feb 2019 and will be open to the public from 12:00 noon to 10:00 PM .


      RJ/KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562670) Visitor Counter : 1170
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi