      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Union Minister Smt Harsimrat Kaur Badal commissions 1st Aqua Mega Food Park in Andhra Pradesh
      Posted On: 12 FEB 2019 8:06PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister Smt Harsimrat Kaur Badal commissioned Godavari Mega Aqua Food Park at Tundurru Village in Bhimavaram Mandal, West Godavari District, Andhra Pradesh via video conferencing today. The park is promoted by M/s Godavari Mega Aqua Food Park Pvt. Ltd. This is the 1 st Mega Aqua Food Park operationalised exclusively established for fish and marine products processing in the State of Andhra Pradesh.


    Smt. Pushpa Subrahmanyam, Secretary, Ministry of Food Processing Industries commissioned the Park on behalf of the Minister Smt Harsimrat Kaur Badal in her presence through video conferencing.


    Another Mega Food Park sanctioned by the Ministry in Chittoor District of Andhra Pradesh has already been inaugurated on 9th of July 2012. The 3 rd Mega Food Park sanctioned by the Ministry in Andhra Pradesh is under implementation at Krishna District.


    M/s Godavari Mega Aqua Food Park Pvt. Ltd has been set up in 57.81 acre of land at a cost of Rs. 122.60 crores. The facilities created by the developer at Central Processing Centre (CPC) of this Mega Food Park include Pre-processing line for Fish of 1.5 TPH, Pre-processing line for shrimp of 1.5 TPH, Freezing of Fish of 1.5 TPH, Freezing of Shrimp of 1.5 TPH, Cold Storage for Fish of 2000MT, Cold Storage for Shrimp of 1000MT, Ice plant, Food Testing Laboratory besides state of art enabling infrastructure.


    The Park also has a common Administrative building for office and other uses by the entrepreneurs and 2 PPCs at Amalapuram EG-District & Karlapalem, Guntur District having facilities for primary processing and storage near the farmsin the catchment area to benefit farmers. This Mega Food Park will benefit the people of West Godavari-District as well as nearby Districts of East Godavari, Krishna of Andhra Pradesh and nearby districts of Telengana.


    The modern infrastructure for food processing created at Park will benefit the farmers, growers, processors and consumers of Andhra Pradesh and adjoining areas immensely and prove to be a big boost to the growth of the food processing sector in the State of Andhra Pradesh.


    The Minister thanked the State Government for the support extended by them in setting up the Mega Food Park.


    Background:


    To give a major boost to the food processing sector by adding value and reducing food wastage at each stage of the supply chain with particular focus on perishables, Ministry of Food Processing Industries is implementing Mega Food Park Scheme in the country. Mega Food Parks create modern infrastructure facilities for food processing along the value chain from farm to market with strong forward and backward linkages through a cluster based approach. Common facilities and enabling infrastructure is created at Central Processing Centre and facilities for primary processing and storage is created near the farm in the form of Primary Processing Centers (PPCs) and Collection Centers (CCs). Under the Scheme, Government of India provides financial assistance uptoRs. 50.00 Crore per Mega Food Park project.


    SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564156) Visitor Counter : 816
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi