      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      IOCL to host XVI Inter-Unit Billiards and Snooker tournament from December, 3 in Kolkata.
      Posted On: 02 DEC 2019 9:26PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, December 02, 2019


    Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. is going to host the XVI Petroleum Sports Promotion Board (PSPB) inter-unit billiards and snooker championship at Bengal Rowing Club, Kolkata from December, 3 to December 7, 2019, informed, Shri Subodh Dakwale, Executive Director, (Corporate Communication and Branding), IOCL here today. Shri Dakwale mentioned that around seven organizations including Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL), Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (HPCL), Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL), Gas Authority of India Ltd. (GAIL), Oil India Ltd. (OIL) along with Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL) will be participating in the tournament.


    Shri Dakwale stated that IOCL has been promoting sports in a big way for over three decades, recognizing sports as a tool for holistic development. Promotion of sports is an integral part of IOCL’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) philosophy. It is aimed to provide opportunities to outstanding sports persons with a view to facilitate their performance and bring honor to the Nation and the Corporation as well, he added. She Dakwale further mentioned that the corporation has indentified ten games such as Cricket, Hockey, Badminton, Tennis, Table Tennis, Golf, Billiards/Snooker, Athletics, Chess and Carrom as thrust games.


    IOCL has over the years, recruited over 100 sportspersons and has on its rolls, over 80 active sportspersons representing various disciplines at International and National levels. IOCL also offers employment and a sports scholarship to athletes, he mentioned.


    Shri Rabindranath Ghosh, Executive Director, (Regional Service) IOCL; Shri Aditya Mehta and Shri Laxman Singh Rawat, prominent Snooker players among others were also present on the occasion.


    CG/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1594612) Visitor Counter : 28