      Ministry of Education

      IIT KHARAGPUR ANNOUNCES SCHOLARSHIPS FOR AUSTRALIAN DOCTORAL STUDENTS
      Posted On: 10 DEC 2019 3:11PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, December 10, 2019.


    

    In a significant boost to its ongoing academic exchange programme with Australian institutions, IIT Kharagpur has instituted competitive high-value scholarships for students from the University of Melbourne, Australia enrolled under the Dual Doctoral Programme jointly conducted by the two institutions. Prof. Sriman Kumar Bhattacharyya, the Director (Officiating) of IIT Kharagpur made the announcement at the launch of the Melbourne India Partnership Program and Academy Conference at Melbourne earlier today. Each student would receive an annual funding of AUD 30000 (approximately INR 14.6 Lakh) - an amount equal to their home scholarships - which would cover their tuition and other fees, living expenses and travel costs for the programme. The scholarship which will be highly competitive will be offered initially to two inbound foreign students from the prestigious Australian university starting from academic year 2020-21.


    

    IIT Kharagpur conducts joint doctoral programs with several world-class Australian universities such as Curtin, Wollongong and James Cook, designed to build academic and research collaborations from the grounds up. Admission into the joint doctoral programs is highly competitive, and successful progress requires rigorous time-bound adherence to milestones that are acceptable to both institutions. The student carries out his/her research under the joint supervision of faculty members from both institutions and needs to spend a minimum of one year at the partner institution. A single thesis is written and submitted to both institutions who then review it to their own exacting standards. If the thesis is accepted by both institutions, the student is awarded the joint doctoral degree.
    
    
    Since its launch in 2018, nine students from IIT Kharagpur have enrolled in the joint doctoral program with University of Melbourne while one student from the University of Melbourne came to IIT Kharagpur under the DDP.


    
    
    In addition to Australia, IIT Kharagpur is also setting up joint doctoral programmes with University of Auckland in New Zealand and the University of Alberta in Canada. The Institute is further exploring to expand the scope of such dual degree programmes and funding opportunities to other foreign students especially in ASEAN and SAARC regions.


    

    
    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595705) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali