      Ministry of Defence

      Eastern Command To celebrate Vijay Diwas
      Posted On: 07 DEC 2019 10:36PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, December 7, 2019.


    Every year December 16th is celebrated as Vijay Diwas to commemorate the victory of the Indian Armed Forces along with Mukti-Bahini over Pakistan. This historic military victory resulted in Pakistan ceding control of then East-Pakistan thus paving the way for the birth of sovereign nation of Bangladesh. This day marks the culmination of an unparalleled in history when India stood against the tide of times and fought for the principles of freedom and equality that helped millions of Bangldesh is realise their cherished dream of an independent nation.


    

    
    This day is celebrated as a day of remembrance of those who sacrificed their lives during the 1971 liberation war of Bangladesh. Eastern Command of army has traditionally being celebrating this day as a mark of respect to the fallen heroes of the Indian Armed Forces and Mukti-Jodhas who made his victory possible.
    
    
    Today in Press Conference shri N.D.Prasad, Major General Eastern Command, Army HQ , said, This year as is the norm of Bagladeshis delegation of Mukti-Jodhas and their families along with serving senior Bangladesh Armed Forces officers are participating in the celebration of vijay Diwas at Fort William, Kolkata. He also said that on the eve of Vijay Diwas, a Military Band Concert will be held in Princep Ghat on December 13 &14th and Interaction with Mukti-Jodhas and War Veterans program will be held at Albert Ekka Auditorium on December 15th .


    
    
    Md. Bashir Uddin, Counsellor (Consular) Deputy High Commissioner of Bangladesh, Kolkata was also present today in the Press Conference. He said that Bangladesh would’nt forget the Indian contribution in the liberation of Bangladesh in 1971.


    
    
    Shukharanjan Dasgupta , Tarun Ganguly, Manash Ghosh, three veteran Journalists were present in this Press Conference who shared their experiences while reporting the war of liberation of Bangladesh
    in1971.

    

    
    SSS/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595442) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali