      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      Inauguration of Regional Training Camp for 78th Round of NSSO Socio-economic Survey
      
      Surveys to be conducted on Domestic Tourism Expenditure and Multiple Indicators.

      Posted On: 10 DEC 2019 4:20PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, December, 10, 2019

    

    The National Sample Survey office (NSSO) – the premier field survey office under the Union Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, – in collaboration with The Bureau of Applied Economics and Statistics, Government of West Bengal is launching 78 th Round of Socio-Economic Survey on Domestic Tourism Expenditure and Multiple Indicators from January 2020 to December 2020. The Three-day (December, 10 to 12) Regional Training Camp to train the field functionaries was inaugurated by Shri Chandan Bhadra, Dy. Director General, Field Operations Division, NSSO, West Bengal Region here today.


    
    The objective of the survey on Domestic Tourism Expenditure is to collect detailed information on tourism expenditure along with some information on household characteristics, visitor characteristics and trip characteristics relating to domestic overnight trips. The information is required inter-alia for preparation of third Tourism Satellite Account (TSA) by Ministry of Tourism. In addition, some information on trips and expenditure in connection with domestic same-day trips and information on services of tour operators and tour guides etc. availed by the domestic tourists will also be collected in this survey.


    
    Multiple Indicator Survey (MIS) is aimed at collecting information for developing some important indicators of Sustainable Development Goals 2030. Information on Migration and Construction of Houses since 2014-15 will also be collected through MIS. In addition, information on access to mass media, availability of birth registration certificate will also be collected in the MIS.


    
    To train the field functionaries, the the West Bengal Region is holding its Regional Training Camp (RTC) from December 10 to 12, 2019 Kolkata. Around 100 delegates/officials are attending the said RTC. Besides imparting training, the camp will also provide a platform to discuss various intricacies regarding the upcoming survey. It aims also at bringing uniformity in the survey procedures and practices followed by central and state agencies.


    

    
    SSS/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1595726) Visitor Counter : 576