      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      PMKSY is an opportunity to facilitate better income to farmers: MoS FPI. Rameswar Teli emphasizes on organic farming to make India Fit.
      Posted On: 19 DEC 2019 11:00PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, December 19, 2019.


    Union Minister of State for Food Processing Industry (FPI) Shri Rameswar Teli said that the Central government has taken a number of measures and policy initiatives to promote overall growth of Food Processing Sector and generate employment opportunities to facilitate better income for farmers. The Minister was speaking at the inaugural function of a Workshop on Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana (PMKSY) organized by Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) today.


    The Minister while opining that food processing industry has immense potential in the state but is yet to be explored to its optimum level. He further said that Central Government will leave no stone unturned to make it a game-changer. He assured that his Ministry will extend full cooperation to West Bengal for the flourish of food processing industries.


    The Minster also emphasized the need to adopt organic farming in the country and said that workshops on promoting organic farming would be organized by his Ministry. He also urged the entrepreneurs and progressive farmers to be present to take full advantage of the workshop and equip themselves with the prospects and benefits under PMKSY. Under PMKSY, capital subsidy in the form of grants-in-aid ranging from 35% to 75% of the eligible project cost subject to maximum specified limit is provided to investors under the various schemes for undertaking infrastructure, logistic projects and setting up of food processing units in the country - the Minister informed and further added that ST and SC entrepreneurs, who wish to set up industry, will get 50% subsidy.


    PM Kisan SAMPADA Yojana, which is a central flagship programme is a comprehensive package which aims in creation of modern infrastructure with efficient supply chain management from farm gate to retail outlet. Under PMKSY seven schemes are being implemented viz. Mega Food Parks, Integrated Cold Chain and Value Addition Infrastructure, Creation/Expansion of Food Processing/ Preservation Capacities, Infrastructure for Agro-processing Clusters, Creation of Backward and Forward Linkages, Food Safety and Quality Assurance Infrastructure and Human Resources & Institutions. It is expected to leverage an investment of Rs. 31,400 crore for handling of 334 lakh MT agro-produce valued at Rs. 1,04,125 crore, benefiting 20 lakh farmers and generating 5,30,500 direct/indirect employment in the country by 2019-20.


    Shri Subhas Sarkar, MP, Dr. Subrata Mondal, Chief General Manager, NABARD, Kolkata and Shri Shrikant Goenka, Chairman-Agri Business Committee, ICC among others were also present on the occasion.


    CG/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1597005) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali