      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      DEPwD to Organize “National Workshop on Skill Development for PwDs” Tomorrow
      Posted On: 02 JUL 2018 3:56PM by PIB Delhi


    Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD), Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment is organizing a “National Workshop on Skill Development for Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan)” here tomorrow. The workshop is being organized with a view to provide a platform to all stakeholders ranging from training partners to the policy makers as well as employers.


    Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment will inaugurate the workshop and Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship will be the Guest of Honour. Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar, MoS for M/o SJ&E will address at the workshop. Representatives from Corporate Sectors (both in Private and Public), State Governments and Empanelled Training Centres of DEPwD will participate in the day long workshop.


    The Workshop will dwell upon all the issues involved in the skill development for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) and will come out with workable solution in identifying core areas for skill development in the context of PwDs, mechanism for appropriate mapping of categories of Disabilities viz. a viz. industrial requirement and also promoting positive attitude in the private sector to consider PwDs as one of their valuable workforce.


    The workshop will have 5 Sessions:

     1. Inaugural Session - To be attended by the Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment; Minister for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship; and Minister of State for SJ&E.
     2. Session I – Topic: Skill Mapping Viz. a Viz. Categories of PwD - Presentation and Panel Discussion by Directors of National Institutes, Representatives from MSDE & NSDC.
     3. Session II – Topic: Placement Opportunities in Private/Public Sector including Mechanism to regulate Post Training Placement - Presentation and Panel Discussion by Representatives from Industry Body, PSUs & Leading Private Sector Companies.
     4. Session III - Topic: Skill Mapping Viz. a Viz. Categories of PwD - Presentation and Panel Discussion by ETPs and Skill Council for Persons with Disabilities.
     5. Interactive Session - Questions and Replies/Summing Up.

    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E -02.07.2018


    

    
    (Release ID: 1537349) Visitor Counter : 832
    
    
    
    
    

5.