      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir attends the Cyber Safety and Digital awareness programme for senior citizens
      
      First Cyber Forensic van of Delhi Police launched

      Posted On: 05 JUL 2018 8:01PM by PIB Delhi

    The Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir said that Cyber frauds can be curtailed if the citizens are more aware and responsible while making digital transactions. He was speaking at "Cyber Safety and Digital awareness programme for senior citizens” organized by Delhi Police here today.


    Lauding the initiative of Delhi Police to organizing such awareness programme specially for the senior citizens who are the soft targets of cyber crimes, he said that Ministry of Home Affairs is planning to launch an online cyber crime portal where people can file complaint online regarding such crimes.


    He also said that every citizen should also remain vigilant and aware with police being on guard to reduce the rate of cyber crimes. He said that in most of the cases criminals are caught by the police but the priority of the victims is always to recover their lost money. Hence the most important is to recover the money from the accused, he emphasized.


    Talking about the role of the Ministry of Home Affairs he said that the Ministry has earmarked Rs 25,000 crore for Police modernization and to deal with increasing rate of cyber crime in the country.


    Appreciating the efforts made by Delhi Police in organizing this programme for senior citizens he said that he is happy to see such a large number of senior citizens attending the programme which shows their trust in Delhi Police.


    On the occasion, he also launched the first Cyber Forensic van of Delhi Police for on-the-spot police investigations at crime scene. The Van has been developed keeping in mind the need for a portable/mobile system in view of increasing number of digital crimes. It will be available on call in all districts/units on 24x7 basis.


    Delhi Police Chief, Shri Amulya Patnaik while addressing at programme said that Delhi Police has established Cyber Cells in 14 districts of Delhi working under the command of a Special Cyber Unit at Headquarter level. He said that it is our priority area and we have already trained about 800 Police officers specially to deal with cyber crimes.


    About 2,500 senior citizens participated in the programme.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1537936) Visitor Counter : 760