      Ministry of Culture

      In a First, IGNCA introduces Five PG Diploma Courses and 6 new Certificate Courses in Art, Culture and related subjects.
      Posted On: 05 JUL 2018 3:40PM by PIB Delhi


    Country’s premier Arts organization- Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA)- an autonomous institution under the Union Ministry of Culture, Government of India, has decided to introduce five diploma courses and 6 new Certificate Courses in art and culture and related subjects. Basic aim of these courses is to create arts and culture with all its dimension and information technology to design and develop content exploration system to intensify culture learning and visualisation. It employees modern digital tools, techniques, and methodologies to achieve the intended purposes. This initiative attempts to make our ancient knowledge and achievements accessible on a multimedia platform, thus enabling communication between the ancient and modern knowledge.


    The details of 5 one year Post Graduate Diploma evening courses introduced to attract the people towards Indian art and to nurture trained manpower in the related fields, in the academic year 2018-19 are-

     1. PG Diploma in Cultural Informatics
     2. PG Diploma in Preventive Conservation
     3. PG Diploma in Buddhist Studies
     4. PG Diploma in Digital Library and Data Management
     5. PG Diploma in Manuscriptology and Palaeography

    For these 5 diploma, interested candidates can apply before 10 th of July 2018. Course details, fee structure are available on official website http://ignca.gov.in/pg-diploma-course-at-ignca/ .


    In addition to the above courses, IGNCA will be introducing 6 new Certificate Courses shortly:

     1. Academic Integrity and Research Ethics
     2. Open Access for Library and Information Science Professionals
     3. Open Access for Researchers
     4. Digital Library and Information Management
     5. Research Methodology
     6. Cinema Studies and Cultural Documentation

    The above courses will provide an opportunity to scholars, researchers and the students to have a modern management technique and professional approach, so far lacking in the art management field to put forth rich art and cultural heritage of the country on a global platform.


    *****


    NB/PS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1537836) Visitor Counter : 1072
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Malayalam
    
    
    

6.