      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog to organise India’s First Global Mobility Summit
      Posted On: 03 JUL 2018 6:25PM by PIB Delhi


    To be inaugurated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister; To feature global political leaders & CXOs from the Mobility Space


    Steeply falling technology costs and business – model innovation are driving the world’s transition to renewable energy and electric vehicles. Against this background, NITI Aayog, in collaboration with various ministries and industry partners, is organising ‘MOVE: Global Mobility Summit’ in New Delhi on 7th and 8 th September, 2018. This Summit will help drive Government’s goals for vehicle electrification, renewable energy integration and job growth and also speed up India’s transition to a clean energy economy.


    The Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will be inaugurating the Summit, which will be the first Global Mobility Summit of its kind, with over 1,200 expected participants from across the world including Government leadership, Industry leaders, Research Organizations, Academia ,Think Tanks and Civil Society Organisations.


    MOVE Summit aims to bring together and engage with key stakeholders within the rapidly transforming global mobility landscape and to evolve a public interest framework for a shared, connected, zero emission and inclusive mobility agenda for the future. The Summit will constitute three designated components – The Conclave, the Expo and the Featured Events.


    The Summit has been organised along key ‘tracks’ to anchor debate and deliberations on towards preparing a collective mobility agenda. The six tracks or themes for the Summit will focus on:


    (i) Asset Utilization and Services;


    (ii) Comprehensive Electrification ;


    (iii) Alternative Energy;


    (iv) Reinventing Public Transit;


    (v) Logistics and Goods Transport;


    (vi) Data Analytics and Mobility.


    Vice-Chairman, NITI Aayog Shri Rajiv Kumar says, “Nowhere in the world is there greater potential to accelerate the transition to a shared, connected and zero emission society than India. ‘MOVE’ will help catalyse the transition by laying down a futuristic road map”.


    The Conclave would include panel discussions featuring global CEOs and transport ministers from across the world. It will also see participation from countries like Netherlands, Slovakia, USA, UK, Netherlands, China, South Korea, Australia etc. Special Track sessions with Mayors and Governors from various major cities and capitals are also planned to highlight their experiences with future mobility and evolve development paradigms for India.


    ‘MOVEMENTUM’, the Expo will feature exciting future technologies and cutting edge innovations which will shape the mobility paradigm, showcasing India’s push towards transformative mobility solutions.


    To be spread over 50,000 sq. meters of premium space across the beautiful and picturesque India Gate Lawns, New Delhi, the Global Mobility Summit (GMS) Exhibition will offer a first-hand perspective on automotive solutions, upcoming trends in the logistics sector and will see participation from major global players as well as the Indian industry. The exhibition will have sector-specific focus, showcasing global strengths in various dimensions looking to cater the growing demands of the world. The Expo with be set within a futuristic ‘Smart City’, presenting an immersive experience of future mobility.


    The Global Mobility Summit, 2018 also includes Featured Events such as Breakout sessions, Fireside chats, Innovation spotlights, Hackathons, Mobility Pitch Competitions and Networking Sessions. These are planned in collaboration with industry sponsors and partners offering informal insights into what constitutes transformative mobility.


    NITI Aayog has additionally planned a series of uniquely curated ‘NITI Talks’, showcasing successful entrepreneurs from across the country to well-known movers and shakers from the field of mobility, sustainable development, climate change and multimodal transport.


    The global innovation agenda has expanded the creative limits of what future mobility would constitute and India has the potential to be a leader in the ‘global mobility movement’. The Summit, hence, aims to encourage synergies between indigenous industries such as Automobile Manufacturing, Information Technology, Electronics, Telecommunications and others, to integrate with global supply chains and cement India’s position as a progressive, forwarding looking nation.


    The Summit also envisages mobility as a key driver for generating employment, accelerating economic growth & providing innovative solutions to improve efficiency and efficacy of transport sector. As NITI Aayog CEO, Amitabh Kant says “Rapidly evolving technologies and business models are transforming the mobility sector. New pathways are emerging to provide clean, cost effective mobility services that create new jobs, reduce dependence on oil imports and achieve efficient land usage in cities. India has a leapfrog opportunity”.


    NITI Aayog has also been working towards evolving a National Strategy for Transforming Mobility, in the spirit of cooperative and competitive federalism, urging all States and Union territories to formulate state-specific comprehensive strategies by constituting respective State Task Forces. Inputs received from the various States will be integrated with global best practices to come up with a National Strategy, which will also be launched.


    More Information regarding the event can be accessed at http://www.movesummit.in .


    *****


    AKT/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1537500) Visitor Counter : 1734