      Ministry of Railways

      Ministry of Railways approves digital Aadhaar and Driving Licence from Digital Locker as proof of identity of passengers for undertaking journey by Train
      Posted On: 06 JUL 2018 2:47PM by PIB Delhi


    The issue regarding accepting Aadhaar and Driving Licence as valid proof of identity when presented from digital locker account of the passenger has been examined by Ministry of Railways and it has been decided that while undertaking journey in a train, if a passenger shows the Aadhaar/Driving Licence from the ‘Issued Documents’ section by logging into his/her DigiLocker account, the same should be considered as valid proof of identity. It is, however, clarified that the documents uploaded by the user himself/herself (i.e. the documents in ‘Uploaded Documents’ section) will not be considered as a valid proof of identity.


    At present, the following proofs of identity are considered as valid for undertaking journey in any reserved class of Indian Railways:-


    I. Voter Photo identity card issued by Election Commission of India


    II. Passport


    III. PAN Card issued by Income Tax Department


    IV. Driving Licence issued by RTO


    V. Photo identity card having serial number issued by Central/State Government


    VI. Student Identity Card with photograph issued by recognized School/College for their students


    VII. Nationalised Bank Passbook with photograph


    VIII. Credit Cards issued by Banks with laminated photograph


    IX. Unique Identification Card-Aadhaar, m-Aadhaar & e-Aadhaar


    X. Photo Identity cards having serial number issued by Public Sector Undertakings of State/Central Government, District Administrations, Municipal bodies and Panchayat Administrations


    XI. In case of reserved tickets booked through computerized Passenger Reservation System (PRS) counters, for undertaking journey in Sleeper (SL) & Second Reserved Sitting (2S) classes, attested photocopy of Ration Card with photographs and Nationalized Bank Passbook with Photograph are also accepted


    *****


    SVS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1537986) Visitor Counter : 2574
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Gujarati , Malayalam