      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      Four-Year Achievements & Initiatives of the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation
      Posted On: 03 JUL 2018 6:22PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Statistics and Programme Implementation, Shri D.V. Sadananda Gowda today addressed media on the four-year achievements of the Ministry. Shri Vijay Goel, Minister of State for Statistics and Programme Implementation was also present.


    2. The last four years have been very significant years in terms of major policy decisions and adoption of new technology and systems for more efficient and effective data management and dissemination. The major initiatives undertaken during the last four years to further improve statistical system to meet data requirements in emerging socio-economic scenario of the country included the following:


     1. The Government adopted the United Nations Fundamental Principles of Official Statistics in 2016 for promoting good practices and professional ethics in production and dissemination of Official Statistics. In furtherance of these Principles, a National Policy on Official Statistics is being evolved.


     1. The Collection of Statistics (Amendment) Act, 2017 was enacted to extend the jurisdiction of Collection of Statistics Act, 2008 to the State of Jammu & Kashmir.


     1. Base year revision for estimates of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), Index of Industrial Production (IIP) and Consumer Price Index Number (CPI) were carried out. Steps have been initiated for next revision of base years.


     1. Government has recently constituted a Committee for Sub-National Accounts under the Chairmanship of Prof. Ravindra H. Dholakia, ex-IIM, to upgrade existing norms and evolve new ones for computation of economic data at State and District levels for revision of the base year of GDP. The earlier such Committee was set up in the year 1972.


     1. The Ministry notified General Guidelines on Quality Assurance for Official Statistics in April, 2018 for voluntary compliance by Government agencies for improving quality of statistical products as per the Generic National Quality Assurance Framework endorsed by the United Nations Statistical Commission.


     1. The Ministry has also notified General Guidelines on Socio-Economic Indices in April, 2018 to help the Government agencies in improving the quality of indices like the CPI, IIP and WPI.


     1. To address the demand for more frequent data on employment and unemployment, the Ministry launched Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) in April, 2017.


     1. Draft National Indicator Framework has been developed for monitoring progress on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).


     1. As part of Digital India Initiative of the Government, the Minsitry introduced new digital technologies for data collection, compilation and dissemination. The Ministry has developed a web based micro data archive to enable users to access the data of socio-economic surveys and economic census.


     1. The Ministry has participated in Smart India Hackathon 2018 organised at Hubli for promoting innovation in Official Statistics. The prototype solutions developed by teams of engineering students are being considered for refinements.


     1. The National Statistical System Training Academy (NSSTA) of the Ministry has imparted trainings on official statistics to more than 2700 personnel in 132 different courses.


     1. Through its scheme of Support for State Statistical Strengthening Program the Ministry has provided financial assistance of Rs. 276 crore to 14 States/UTs for improving their Statistical Systems and more States/UTs are joining the scheme.


     1. During the last four years, NSSO has conducted all India surveys on diverse topics of relevance such as Land & livestock holdings, Housing conditions, unorganised Enterprises, Domestic Tourism, education, and health.


     1. The results of 6 th Economic Census were released in 2016 to provide a list frame of all enterprises and establishments engaged in various economic activities, and data on nature of activities and employment size.


     1. Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) is an autonomous body under the Ministry. The R.C. Bose Centre for Cryptology and Security was set up in the Indian Statistical Institute for conducting research in the field of cryptology and security and organize training courses in the subject area. The ISI has also established Sampling and Official Statistical Unit (SOSU) at Kolkata for undertaking research in the theoretical, applied statistics and economics. Financial support was provided to ISI for development of infrastructure of Tezpur (Assam) Centre.


     1. Government has taken various steps to strengthen statistical systems in North-Eastern Region. Funding of Rs. 46.76 crore was provided to North-Eastern States of Sikkim, Mizoram and Manipur States for strengthening of their statistical systems and for improved data flow. Financial Assistance of Rs. 14.80 crore has been provided to the Directorates of Economics & Statistics of NE States to carry out various surveys of NSSO and strengthen and extend the reach of surveys in North-Eastern region.The process of opening of two new Regional Offices of NSSO at Aizwal (Mizoram) and Itanagar (Arunachal Pradesh) and upgrading two Sub Regional Offices at Agartala (Tripura) and Imphal (Manipur) in North-East has been initiated.


     1. Consistent to the federal spirit, the Ministry has been conducting annual conferences of Central and State statistical organizations in which common statistical issues are discussed and shorted out.


     1. India has been actively participating at various international statistical forums. India hosted the 8 th Meeting of Heads of National Statistics Offices of BRICS nations in 2016 at Jaipur, and the 8 th Meeting of Heads of SAARC Statistical organizations in 2016 at Delhi. India has also participated in the International Comparison Programme (ICP) of United Nations Statistical Commission over the years.


     1. Government has declared 29 th June, the birth anniversary of Late Prof. P. C. Mahalanobis, as Statistics Day. A theme is announced on each Statistics Day for focusing attention by statistical agencies for a year. The 12 th Statistics Day was celebrated on 29 th June, 2018, which was the 125 th birth anniversary of Late Prof. Mahalanobis. The theme “Quality Assurance in Official Statistics” was announced on this day. A commemorative coin of Rs 125 and circulation coin of Rs 5 denomination were released by Hon’ble Vice President of India.


     1. A number of amendments have been made in the Guidelines for Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) during the last four years to cater to the welfare requirements of the general public, including convergence with flagship schemes of the Government. A new Integrated MPLADS portal has been developed for use of all the stakeholders. It provides a single point of reference for all stakeholders including Hon’ble MPs, District authorities and general public at large, thus brining transparency and accountability in execution of works carried out under the Scheme. All MPLAD fund releases are being made only through this website. An informative dashboard has been developed for the MPLADS which provides information at various levels and time lines.


     1. The Ministry is responsible for monitoring of Central Sector Infrastructure Projects costing Rs. 150 crore or more. As on 01.03.2018, a total of such 1304 projects are being monitored through Online Computerised Monitoring System (OCMS). During last four years, the number of projects under monitoring has increased from 710 to 1304. The monitoring has resulted in reduction of cost overrun with respect to original cost from 19.4% in March, 2014 to 13.4% in February, 2018 and reduction in the time overrun with respect to original schedule from about 30% in 2014 to 20% in 2018.


    ***


    AKT/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1537498) Visitor Counter : 1057
    
    
    
    
    

1.