      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Border population is our strategic asset: Shri Rajnath Singh
      
      Model villages being developed in Border Districts
      
      Union Home Minister launches BADP Online Management System

      Posted On: 12 JUL 2018 3:20PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh had interaction with Field and State Level Officers implementing Border Area Development Programme (BADP), here today. During the interaction, relevant issues regarding implementation of BADP and to make it more effective were discussed in detail. Shri Rajnath Singh stressed that the border population is strategic asset to the country and important element to maintain border security. He emphasised that all out efforts must be made to improve social and economic infrastructure to ensure that these people continue to live in border villages. He mentioned that the government accords utmost priority to social and economic well-being of border population and to provide them all facilities like connectivity, safe drinking water, schools, hospitals and other facilities to ensure sustainable living in these areas. He assured Centre's continued assistance to States to strengthen infrastructure and development activities under the BADP.


    The outlay under this Programme has been increased to Rs. 1,100 crore in 2017-18 from Rs. 990 crore in 2015-16. For comprehensive and all-round development of border villages, it has been decided to develop 61 model villages for which Rs. 126 crores have been released to the State Governments. Additional funds will also be made available as per requirement. Each model village will provide all basic facilities like primary health centre, primary education, community centre, connectivity, drainage, drinking water, etc. to enable sustainable living in border areas.


    On the occasion, Shri Rajnath Singh launched BADP Online Management System for better planning, monitoring and implementation of various projects under BADP. Border States can submit their respective Annual Action Plans online and receive approvals from Ministry of Home Affairs in electronic mode which will bring in transparency in the sanction process and improve quality of planning and implementation.


    BADP covers 111 border districts in 17 States to meet special development needs of border population with focus on people living within 50 kilometers of the International Border. A total of Rs. 13,400 crore has been released since the programme was initiated in 1986-87.


    Senior officers from all 17 States and District Magistrates from 25 border districts attended the programme. Presentations were given by State Governments of Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal highlighting major achievements under the BADP and steps taken by the State Governments to improve quality of life for border population. Shri Rajnath Singh also interacted with around 25 District Magistrates who spoke about the specific issues relevant to their districts.


    During the interaction, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir, MoS (Home), Shri Kiren Rijiju, MoS (Home), Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba and Special Secretary (Border Management), Shri B.R. Sharma were also present.


    ******


    BB/PK/KGS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1538442) Visitor Counter : 525
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali , Gujarati