      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Technology Challenge Launched for Promoting Suitable Techniques for Cleaning of Sewers and Septic Tanks
      
      Elimination of Human Entry into Sewer Drains and Cleaning of Septic Tanks is the Ultimate Goal of this Challenge

      Posted On: 11 JUL 2018 5:07PM by PIB Delhi

    The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has launched a technology challenge for promoting suitable techniques for cleaning of sewers and septic tanks with the objective of eliminating the human entry into septic tanks/manholes etc. This is in line with the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who, in a meeting chaired by him on May 4, 2018 had desired a technology challenge to promote latest technologies to avoid human intervention in cleaning of sewers and septic tanks.


    The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, which was entrusted with the task, has now launched the “ Technology Challenge: Identifying solutions for cleaning of Sewerage Systems and Septic Tanks ”. The said challenge will be a part of the Mahatma Gandhi International Sanitation Convention which is to be held on October 2, 2018 and will remain open up to 17:30 Hrs on 14 August, 2018.


    Technology Challenge – Details


    Elimination of human entry into sewer drains and cleaning of the septic tank is the ultimate goal of this Challenge. Proposals have been invited by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), Govt of India, from interested innovators, individuals, consortium partners, companies, academic institutions, research and development centers, NGOs, Parastatal and municipal bodies, to provide innovative technical solutions which eliminate the need for human entry into septic tanks and sewers.


    Objectives


      * Identify technological as well as business process innovations.

      * Endorse viable business models that are suitable for a different size, geographies, and class of cities.
      * Pilot test and handhold to scale the shortlisted technologies/solutions in select project cities.
      * Bridge the gap between innovators/manufacturers and beneficiaries- i.e. ULBs, citizens

    Evaluation Process and Criteria


    For evaluation and scrutiny of the technological solutions submitted by the participants, a jury shall be constituted from among experts from the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, faculty from IITs/IIMs and representatives of leading civil society groups. The jurors for evaluation of the proposals shall adopt the following broad criteria.


    a) The operational effectiveness of the Technology


    b) Life of machinery/ Durability


    c) Ease of use (automation)


    d) Ease of availability/Economies of scale


    e) Adaptability/Versatility


    f) Made in India


    g) Environmentally Sustainable


    Categories


    The Challenge shall be conducted for two separate categories.


      * Category A-Technological solutions for cleaning and maintenance of sewerage systems that eliminate need for human entry.

      * Category B-Technological solutions for cleaning and maintenance of septic tanks that eliminate need for human entry.

    Further details about the Technology Challenge and application form are available at www.amrut.gov.in and http://smartnet.niua.org/ .


    RJ/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1538331) Visitor Counter : 495
    
    
    
    
    

*