      President's Secretariat

      Rashtrapati Bhavan hosts a one-day meeting of Vice Chancellors, Directors and Heads of 19 Central Institutes of Higher Learning
      
      Knowledge cannot grow in silos, collaborate and learn from each other, President to heads of Central Institutes of Higher Learning

      Posted On: 13 JUL 2018 4:37PM by PIB Delhi

    Rashtrapati Bhavan hosted a one-day meeting of Vice Chancellors, Directors and Heads of 19 Central Institutes of Higher Learning, today (July 13, 2018). This is the part of regular interactions of the President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, with the heads of Central Universities and institutions of higher learning in his capacity as visitor to 146 Central Universities and institutions of higher learning.


    Institutes heads of which participated in this meeting were: Central Agriculture University;Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agriculture University;Rani lakshmi Bai Central Agriculture University;National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Ahmedabad;National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Guwahati;National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Hajipur;National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Hyderabad;National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Kolkata;National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, Rai Bareli;National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, SAS Nagar, Mohali;Rajiv Gandhi National Aviation University,Footwear design & Development Institute;National Institute of Design;Nalanda University;Indian Maritime University;National Institute of Fashion Technology;Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy;Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum and Technology; andRajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development.


    Speaking at the concluding session, the President said that each of these institutes has a rich history. Each of these is instrumental to the realisation of social and economic goals that India has set itself as it strives to eliminate poverty and become a middle-income country.


    The President said that while developing their specialisations, these institutes should collaborate and learn from each other. This is possible for institutes in the same field. It is also possible across categories. He urged the heads of these institutes to make actionable and focused plans for collaboration.


    The President nudged these institutes towards partnering with other universities in the country and outside, in their respective fields and beyond. He stated that knowledge cannot grow in silos and it is essential that each of them participate in the growth of the other.


    *****


    AKT/SH/SBP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1538566) Visitor Counter : 348
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali