      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Smt Maneka Sanjay Gandhi urges the States to ensure effective implementation of Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act (PWDVA), 2005
      
      Sufficient number of Protection Officers should be appointed alongwith details on public domain: WCD Minister

      Posted On: 13 JUL 2018 5:16PM by PIB Delhi

    To provide immediate protection and relief to women facing violence within families, Smt. Maneka Gandhi, Union Minister for Women and Child Development, on Thursday wrote to all Chief Ministers to ensure that the provisions of the ‘Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act (PWDVA), 2005’ are effectively implemented.


    Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi has particularly urged the States that sufficient number of Protection Officers (POs) be appointed with independent charge of the Act and that their details be made available in public domain so that they were accessible to any aggrieved woman. “It has come to my notice that in most states, Officers of other departments are given this responsibility as an additional charge. Considering the practical situation of how feasible it is for a woman to come out of her home to register a complaint, it is important that we appoint more POs.”


    The Minister has also requested that a separate budget be allocated for the smooth functioning of POs, providing support to survivors, capacity building for staff and for generating awareness.

     1. Gandhi has further mentioned that for the convenience of women, Form IV of the Act, which enumerates the rights of the women, be translated into local languages.

    “Every woman has the right to lead a life free from violence. I urge you to personally initiate action to prevent violence against women and ensure protection of the rights of women through effective implementation of the Act,” Smt. Gandhi added.


    *****


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1538579) Visitor Counter : 1219
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali
    
    
    

1.