      Election Commission

      IIIDEM organizes 5 – day Capacity Development programme for Media Officials from Bhutan
      Posted On: 11 JUL 2018 9:49AM by PIB Delhi


    On a special request from Election Commission of Bhutan, India International Institute of Democracy and Election Management (IIIDEM) is organizing a 5 -day Capacity Development programme for Media Officials from Bhutan from July 9-13, 2018 at New Delhi. The participants include media journalists and media officials from Election Management Body of Bhutan. The program is aimed to hold interactive discussionson media in elections.


    Participants from Bhutan at the Programme


    Hon’ble Chief Election Commissioner of India Shri O. P. Rawat inaugurated the programme. He said the role of media is very important in elections as the world is networked to such an extent that events at any place in the world can affect the events at another place. He wished that the programme shall have interactive discussions and sessions.


    Deputy Election Commissioner Mr. Sudeep Jain welcomed the participants and informed that a course on media in elections is the first such course being organized by IIIDEM.


    Director General Mr. Dhirendra Ojha, said that the program will cover all relevant topics and hoped for fruitful discussions.


    Electoral Expert at IIIDEM Dr. Noor Mohammad briefed the participants on the schedule of the 5-day Programme. The key topics of the programme include EMB and Media Relationship, Voter Education and Media Legal/ Institutional Framework, Paid News and Media Regulations, Code of Conduct for Media and issues related to Social Media, Media related Tools and Techniques among others.


    Mr. Vivek Khare, Director (Training), ECI, gave a vote of thanks to the participants from Bhutan , the Commission, and senior officials of ECI and the IIIDEM staff. He looked forward to a fruitful interaction for a greater learning experience.


    …


    SBS/AC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1538298) Visitor Counter : 636
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali