      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Memorandum of Understanding between DGFASLI and GMB for improving working conditions in the ship recycling yards at Alang
      Posted On: 11 JUL 2018 4:55PM by PIB Delhi


    The Directorate General Factory Advice Service & Labour Institutes (DGFASLI) and Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) today in Ministry of Labour & Employment in presence of Minister of State ( Independent Charge) Labour & Employment Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar and Minister of State, Shipping Shri Mansuksh Mandaviya. Secretary, Labour & Employment Shri Heeralal Samariya and Secretary Shipping Shri Gopal Krishna were also present on this occasion.


    Minister of State (Independent Charge) Labour & Employment Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar expressed hope that the activities under the MOU will bring positive changes in working of ship recycling industry and will improve safety and health of the workers and supervisors who are employed in large number in Alang. Minister of State, Shipping Shri Mansuksh Mandaviya highlighted the importance of Ship Recycling Industry which provides employment to more than 25,000 workers and reduces about 80% rollable steel. He emphasized the importance of safety & health of workers and appreciated the activities under MoU.


    Dr. Avneesh Singh, Director General, DG FASLI and Vice Chairman, Shri Ajay Bhandoo from GMB signed the MoU. Economic Advisor Ministry of Labour & Employment Shri Devender Singh presented the Vote of thanks.


    Senior officers of Ministry of Labour & Employment, Ministry of Shipping, Sagarmala, Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB) and DGFASLI were present on the occasion.


    The MOU will augment the activities in the field of OSH, especially in training of workers and supervisors of Ship Recycling Yards in Alang, Gujarat. It will also help in improving the working conditions and quality of work life of workers, thereby improving the image of industry world-over. This will also contribute in prevention of occupational injuries and diseases.


    *****


    JN/FH/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1538327) Visitor Counter : 397