      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Shri J P Nadda inaugurates workshop on Population Stabilisation to mark World Population Day
      
      Population stabilization being taken up within the Lifecycle Framework:
      JP Nadda
      Posted On: 11 JUL 2018 6:45PM by PIB Delhi


    “We are addressing the issue of population stabilization in the country within the lifecycle framework. As part of this strategy, right from the time of conception till the child grows, various programs of the Ministry cater to the needs of immunization of the pregnant mother and the child, carrying on till the adolescent stage and further. Also, it is part of the comprehensive strategy being implemented through various Ministries and Departments.”This was stated by Union Minister of Health & Family Welfare Shri J P Naddaas he inaugurated the workshop with the theme ‘Population stabilization: A right and Responsibility” on the occasion of World Population Day 2018, today at the PravasiBhratiya Kendra, New Delhi. The workshop was jointly organized by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and JansankhyaSthirtaKosh.


    The Union Minister stated that it is a matter of pride for the country that we have been able to achieve steady decline in the Total Fertility Rate (TFR). From a TFR of 2.9 in 2015 to a TFR rate close to 2.2 in 2018, means India is progressing at a good rate of decline, he added. He said that over the last few years, a host of new initiatives have been undertaken under the Family Planning programme such as expanded choice of contraceptives, Mission ParivarVikas in 146 High Priority Districts (HPDs) in the 7 high focus states, Family Planning Logistics Management Information System (FP-LMIS), a comprehensive 360 degree media campaign including a dedicated FP webpage, radio chat shows etc. in an effort to take services down to the last mile. The recent expansion of basket of choices is poised to further impact the contraceptive coverage in the country. The Government is extensively focussing on strengthening post pregnancy contraception (post-partum as well as post-abortion) to meet the unmet need for family planning specifically in the immediate post-partum and post-abortion period.


    ShriNaddastated that the population stabilization efforts have an economic argument attached to it, as the demographic dividend of the country can be harnessed only when the population is healthy. The Lifecycle Framework ensures that the health and wellbeing of the mother and child, carrying in the adolescent stage and further is taken care of. ShriNadda stated that the programs and interventions under the umbrella of National Health Mission have played a very crucial role in this. As part of the Mission ParivarVikas program, the focus is on creating awareness about the expanding choices of family planning and on ensuring that the services are easily accessible by the people, he stated.


    Shri J P Nadda also gave away ‘Prerna Awards’ to BPL couples who have broken the stereotype of early marriage, early childbirth and repeated child birth and have helped change the mindsets of the community.PRERNA, a Responsible Parenthood Strategy is being implemented in seven focus states namely Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, and Rajasthan.


    The Union Minister also conferred awards to the winners of the painting competition organised by JansankhyaSthiritaKosh to create awareness regarding family stabilisation among young children.2000 schools of NCR had participated in the painting competition. The theme was: Small Family, Happy Family.


    Also present at the function were Ms. Preeti Sudan, Secretary (HFW), ShriManojJhalani, AS&MD, Smt. PreetiNath, Executive Director, JansankhyaSthirataKosh and Dr S Venkatesh, Dirctoe (DGHS) along with other senior officers of the Ministry and representatives of development partners.


    ***


    MV/PP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1538372) Visitor Counter : 484
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi