      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh delivers Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Memorial Lecture
      
      Prime Minister’s ‘New India’ will actually redeem Dr APJ Abdul Kalam’s ‘Vision 2020’, says Minister

      Posted On: 16 JUL 2018 7:36PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh said that Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s ‘New India’ will actually redeem Dr APJ Abdul Kalam’s ‘Vision 2020’. He was delivering Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Memorial Lecture here today. On the occasion, the Minister also gave away Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Memorial Awards to the bureaucrats for working in public interest.


    While delivering the lecture, Dr Jitendra Singh said that being associated with Dr APJ Abdul Kalam is a learning and hugely inspiring experience. He said that his public and private image had no contradiction. It requires huge amount of introspection and self-evaluation to be true to yourself, he added. The Minister also spoke about the scientific temper of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam. He said that ‘Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Center for Policy Research and Analysis’ was launched by Ministry DoNER in October 2016 at the Rajiv Gandhi Indian Institute of Management (RGIIM), Shillong.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said that ‘Vision 2020’ is not only a numerical vision, but actually a vision of ‘New India’ also envisaged by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. He said that Prime Minister’s New India will actually redeem Dr APJ Abdul Kalam’s ‘Vision 2020’.


    The members of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam International Foundation and senior bureaucrats were also present on the occasion.


    Other speakers, including S hri D.R. Kathikeyan former Director General, National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and Shri S. M. Khan, then Press Secretary to the President Dr APJ Abdul Kalam, also shared their experiences of working with Dr APJ Abdul Kalam.


    ****


    BB/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1538794) Visitor Counter : 246