      AYUSH

      Shri Javedkar to inaugurate the Conference of Heads of AYUSH National Institutes Tomorrow
      Posted On: 16 JUL 2018 12:35PM by PIB Delhi


    With an aim of upgrading quality of education, research, hospital care facilities in the national AYUSH institutions throughout the country and develop them as light house institutions, All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA) under Ministry of AYUSH is organizing two days Conference of Heads of AYUSH National Institutes on 17 th and 18 th July 2018 at India International Centre, New Delhi.


    Inaugural session of the conference will be graced by Minister of Human Resource Development Shri Prakash Javadekar and Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH Shri Shripad Yesso Naik. Secretary AYUSH Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha will also be present on this occasion.


    During the deliberations, Vice Chancellors of various Health Universities, Directors of reputed research organizations and around 100 accomplished senior professionals from various national institutes including IIT, DST, DBT, UGC etc are expected to take part in the event. It is also planned to join hands together and sign MoUs with Sports Authority of India, Indian Institute of Technology for collaborative ventures.


    In light of the worldwide changing healthcare environment, it has become abundantly clear that there is a need for comprehensive review of traditional systems of medicine in terms of policy, legislation, regulation, research, development, financing, training and professional development, quality control and safety regulations of these systems of medicine. These steps will facilitate in generating competent and skilled healthcare professionals further paving a way in healthy collaborations leading to development of integrated and cost effective healthcare system, which will be more acceptable and beneficial to the ailing population.


    Padma Bhushan Dr BM Hegde, familiar medical scientist and educationist; Padma Shri Dr. Anil Gupta, globally renowned scholar in the area of grassroots innovations; Dr. Vinod Paul, NITI Aayog Member; Dr Ketki Bapat, Scientist F, Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser to the Govt of India; Dr VM Katoch, Ex- Director General, ICMR; Dr Bhushan Patwardhan, Savirtibai Phule Pune University are a few taking part in the event as resource persons.


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1538721) Visitor Counter : 1209
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Tamil , Malayalam