      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Welfare Scheme for Minorities
      Posted On: 18 JUL 2018 2:07PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government has initiated various new welfare schemes for the minority sections of the society during the last four years.


    Nai Manzil is a scheme for formal school education & skilling of school dropouts. USTTAD Scheme is for upgrading the skills and training in Traditional Arts/Crafts for development of Minorities. Hunar Haat is also being organised under this Scheme from 2016-17 to further promote traditional crafts/arts, employment generation and strengthen their market linkages. Till 2017-18, 06 Hunar Haats have been organized successfully. For 2018-19, 07 Hunar Haats are proposed for being organised.


    Implementation of Hamari Dharohar scheme is done to preserve rich heritage of minority communities under the overall concept of Indian Culture. Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Training for Minorities – A scheme to provide short-term job oriented skill development courses to youths belonging to 06 Centrally notified minority communities, namely, Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists, Parsis and Jains {implemented through Maulana Azad Education Foundation (MAEF)}.


    The Ministry started Bridge Course for madarsa students & school dropouts by Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh and Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi under Nai Manzil scheme. (implemented through MAEF). Swachh Vidyalaya scheme is implemented through MAEF.


    The details of the schemes are available on the website of the Ministry ( www.minorityaffairs.gov.in ) and on the website of MAEF ( www.maef.nic.in ). The details of quantum of fund allocated for each of the schemes and the percentage of funds utilized in the last three years till 30 th June, 2018 are also available on the website of the Ministry.


    This information was given by Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    JN/FH/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1538953) Visitor Counter : 1432
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Tamil