      Vice President's Secretariat

      Be disciplined, practice right values, follow rules and respect women: VP tells UNESCO Brave Kids
      
      Children should become good global citizens;
      
      Use technology to gain knowledge, be conscious of negative impact;
      
      Interacts with UNESCO Brave Kids
      
      Posted On: 12 JUL 2018 5:16PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has asked the children to be disciplined and stressed on the need to practice the right values of helping others. He was interacting with students represented India at “The International Movement of Children & Their Friends” at the Brave Kids International Festival held in Ukraine and Poland under the patronage of UNESCO, here today.


    The Vice President said that many of the current challenges emanate from the lack of proper understanding of various cultures. Cultural exchanges of students will help in fostering ties, building bridges and promoting peace between nations, he added.


    The Vice President said that understanding of cultures of different countries enables children to become good global citizens with tolerance and respect for various viewpoints, customs and traditions. He also cautioned children to be conscious of the negative impact of the technology and always use it for gaining knowledge.


    The Vice President advised the students to set a goal and work hard with great passion until they achieve the goal. He recalled the words of Swami Vivekananda on this occasion: “Arise, awake, stop not until the goal is reached”.


    Saying that culture of a region represents its civilization, ethos, wisdom, morals, customs and social norms, the Vice President said that mutual understanding and respect for each other’s culture will enable the children to develop a broader world view and understand the concept of universal brotherhood.


    The Vice President has advised the children to learn as many languages, but asked them not neglect mother tongue. Language embodies the culture, values, mores and traditional knowledge and that’s why preservation of language is essential to conserve the broader cultural aspects of a civilization, he added.


    The Vice President witnessed the performance given by the Students on our cultures and traditions.


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1538467) Visitor Counter : 874