      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      International Round Table Conference on “Data for New India’’ on 9 -10th July 2018.
      Posted On: 07 JUL 2018 12:49PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Statistics &Programme Implementation (MoSPI) is organising a two-day International Round Table Conference at New Delhi during 9-10 th July, 2018. The objective of the Round Table Conference is to identify innovative ideas for improving the statistical system in India, taking cue from the best practices followed in advanced countries like Canada, UK and Australia. Such a Conference is being organized in India for the first time.


    The Conference will be inaugurated by Shri D.V. Sadananda Gowda, Hon’ble Union Minister of Statistics & Programme Implementation in the presence of Shri Vijay Goel, Hon’ble Minister of State and Shri K.V. Eapen, Secretary, Statistics & Programme Implementation. The event will be participated by Shri Anil Arora, Chief Statistician, Statistics Canada, Shri Jonathan Palmer, former Deputy Statistician, Australian Bureau of Statistics, Shri Junaid Ahmad, World Bank Country Director for India, statistical experts and senior officers in the Government. Shri John Pullinger, Chief Statistician of United Kingdom will participate in the conference through video conferencing.


    The eminent experts of Indian Economy, Dr Bibek Debroy, Chairperson of Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council and Member NITI Aayog, Dr. R.B. Barman, Chairperson, National Statistical Commission, Dr. Pronab Sen, former Chairperson, National Statistical Commission, and Prof. T.C.A. Anant, former Chief Statistician of India would also enrich the event by taking part in this Round Table Conference.


    In the Conference, the experts from National and International agencies would deliberate on key statistical issues, such as data governance structure and capabilities, organizational issues, managing data systems in a federal structure and resource mobilization for ensuring quality statistical products to be produced. The conference is expected to suggest measures paving way for initiating the reform process in the Indian Statistical System.


    *****


    AKT/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1538064) Visitor Counter : 1660