      Ministry of Railways

      Steps Taken to Improve Occupancy in Indian Railways
      Posted On: 18 JUL 2018 4:25PM by PIB Delhi


    On Indian Railways, demand is not uniform. It varies during lean and peak periods and this lean and peak period is also not uniform for all parts of the country. However, the overall occupancy of all reserved trains on Indian Railways during the Financial Year 2017-18 was more than 100%.


    The various steps which are being taken as a continuous and ongoing exercise, to improve the occupancy of less patronised trains are as under: -


    1) Introducing fast services and reducing running time of existing trains.


    2) Making the timings of empty trains more convenient.


    3) Reduction in load of poorly patronized trains and using the released coaches to augment the load of well-patronised trains.


    4) Studying the utilisation pattern of trains to make necessary modifications like re-distribution of reservation quota, augmentation/reduction of load of train etc.


    5) Introducing suitable type of trains catering to specific requirements of passengers on road-competitive sectors.


    6) Discounted fare has been offered in Shatabdi trains in last/first leg of journey over the following sections:-


    (i) From Bengaluru to Mysuru


    (ii) From Mysuru to Bengaluru


    (iii) From Ahmedabad to Vadodara


    (iv) From New Jalpaiguri to Malda Town


    7) Declaration of AC-3 tier coach as AC Chair Coach and booking on AC chair car fare in 5 pairs of trains over Bengaluru-Mysuru-Bengaluru section.


    8) 10% rebate in the basic fare is given in all trains on vacant berths/seats after preparation of first Reservation Chart.


    9) Declaration of sleeper class coach as unreserved second class/unreserved sleeper class coach.


    10) Reducing the frequency of such trains and Cancellation of poorly patronized train, if so required.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Railways Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SVS/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1538993) Visitor Counter : 462