      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Shri Ananthkumar to inaugurate CIPET: Centre for Skilling & Technical Support (CSTS) and lay Foundation Stone of new CIPET Building at Doiwala, Dehradun
      
      CIPET trained around 2.42 lakh manpower across India in 2014 -18; CIPET Centre at Doiwala to train around 1000 students in the first year of its operation

      Posted On: 09 JUL 2018 5:06PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers and Parliamentary Affairs, Shri Ananthkumar will be inaugurating the CIPET: Centre for Skilling & Technical Support (CSTS) at ITI Building and laying the foundation stone of new Central Institute of Plastics Engineering &Technology (CIPET) Building at Doiwala, Dehradun tomorrow. Other dignitaries expected to grace the event as guests of honour include Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat, Union Minister of State for Planning (IC) and Chemicals & Fertilizers, Shri Rao Inderjit Singh and Member of Parliament, Haridwar, Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. Today CIPET operates from 31 locations spread across the country and CIPET: CSTS, Dehradun will be the 32nd centre .


    The CIPET Centre at Doiwala will train and develop around 1000 students in the first year of its operation through various skill development training programmes and subsequently Diploma level programmes. The number of students will increase in a gradual manner and may reach around 2000 in the third year. The existing plastics industries in Uttarakhand are located at places such as Roorkee, Dehradun, Rudrapur etc. The budding entrepreneurs will derive immense benefits through the technology support services and skilled manpower offered by upcoming CIPET facility.


    The CIPET: CSTS at Dehradun is being established with a total project cost of Rs. 51.32 crore having funding support of Government and of India and Government of Uttarakhand on 50:50 basis. The centre will start functioning in the existing refurbished building of ITI Doiwala and new building will be constructed on 10 acres of adjacent land which is under process of allotment to CIPET.


    CIPET, under the Department of Chemicals & Petrochemicals, Government of India, offers Diploma, Post Diploma, Post Graduate Diploma, Undergraduate, Post Graduate & Doctoral programmes in the entire gamut of plastics engineering and technology. CIPET has established two Schools for Advanced Research in Polymers (SARP) – Advanced Research School for Technology & Product Simulation (ARSTPS) & Laboratory for Advanced Research in Polymeric Materials (LARPM). These SARPs exclusively focus on application oriented sponsored research projects in the niche area of Polymer Science & Technology.


    As per the industry estimates, around 12 lakh direct technical manpower is employed in the plastics processing industries. Additional manpower requirement in next 8-10 years is estimated around 11 lakh. In line with the Government of India’s vision of ‘Skill India’, CIPET has been contributing significantly in generating skilled manpower for the plastics & allied industries. During the last four years 2014 -18, CIPET has trained around 2.42 lakh manpower through long-term as well as short-term skill development training programs and it has an ambitious target of achieving 6.2 lakhs by the end of the year 2022 with the base year 2010.


    With a strong alumni base of about 1,00,000 Professionals, CIPET has emerged as an Apex plastics technology institution, not only in India but also in Asia. CIPET’s Alumni network spreads across the globe. It is fully devoted to ‘STAR” – Skill Development, Technology Support Services, Academic and Research in all the domains of Plastics Engineering & Technology, which include Design, CAD/CAM/CAE, Tooling, Processing and Testing, and Quality Control for the growth of Plastics & allied industries in the country. To meet the industry demands, 09 more CIPET centres are in process of implementation at Medak, Jaipur, Jammu & Kashmir, Bihar, Varanasi, Agartala, Chandrapur and Mumbai.


    CIPET is contributing towards ‘ Make in India’ , wherein plastics industries spread across the country are utilizing the Technology Support Services provided by CIPET to all key sectors of Indian economy viz., Agriculture, Automobiles, Aerospace, Building & Construction, Information Technology, Electrical & Electronics, Telecommunications, Defence, Medical, FMCG etc.


    CIPET is also contributing towards SWACCH BHARAT ABHIYAN -- one of the foremost initiatives of Government of India -- through organizing awareness programmes and seminars on plastics recycling & waste management, research and developmental activities aimed at cost effective environmental solutions for managing the plastics waste. As a part of CSR initiative, CIPET has constructed 25 toilets across the country for the benefit of the girl children.


    CIPET has taken a lead in implementing DIGITAL INDIA initiative through establishment of Video Conferencing Facilities, Wi-Fi connectivity at CIPET Campus, Digital Library and introduction of e-Learning programs for the benefit of student fraternity and the plastic industries.


    CIPET is contributing towards yet another initiative of Govt. of India – “Start-up India”. Every year around 2-3 % of the students take-up entrepreneurship and they

    in-turn provide employment to thousands of youth.


    On the occasion, Secretary, Chemicals & Petrochemicals, Government of India, Shri P. Raghavendra Rao; JS, Chemicals and Petrochemicals, Ms. Aparna S. Sharma and other senior officers from the Central and State Governments and members from plastics fraternity will be participating in the function.


    *****


    VM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1538156) Visitor Counter : 707
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil