      Ministry of Railways

      Railway line to be constructed along Nagpur-Mumbai Super Express way - Shri Piyush Goyal
      
      Indian Railways signed MoU with Mahametro for introducing Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) in Nagpur
      
      
      First of its kind project in country will connect adjoining towns of Nagpur

      Posted On: 16 JUL 2018 5:41PM by PIB Delhi

    Indian Railways and MahaMetro (Metro Railway Project Company of Maharashtra) today signed an MoU for linking railway line to Metro coaches on broad gauge network & creating a Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) in Nagpur city. The MoU signing ceremony held in Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s Suresh Bhat Auditorium was witnessed by Union Minister of Railways, Finance, Corporate Affairs, and Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal, Union Minister of Road Transport, Highways and Water Resources, Shri. Nitin Gadkari and Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri. Devendra Fadnavis. Chairman Railway Board Shri Ashwani Lohani and Secretary, Ministry of Urban Development Shri Mishra were also present on this occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion Shri Piyush Goyal informed that, the Railway Ministry is also trying to execute a plan for setting up railway line across the national highways. One such proposal is to connect Nagpur –Mumbai Super Express Way ( Samriddhi Mahamarg ) to Railway line connecting Nagpur-Mumbai. The construction of such a Hi speed Railway Corridor will make it feasible to cover distance between Nagpur & Mumbai in just 5 hours. Indian Railways has also allocated a record sum of 67 thousand crore rupees for development of Sub urban railway network in Mumbai which is used by one third of total Railway passengers in India.


    The foundation stone laying ceremony of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s ‘waste to energy project’ was also performed on this occasion. Foundation stone laying ceremony of project of Mahagenco to carry the coal from cluster of Mines of Western Coalfield Limited through pipe conveyor system was also done.


    Union Minister of Road Transport, Highways and Water Resources, Shri Nitin Gadkari while speaking on rising pollution in metro cities, has advocated for ‘public transport on electricity’ on this occasion. He urged people to use public transport instead of private transport. He informed that the speed of air conditioned metro coaches running on broad gauge line of Railway will be 100 km/hr which is much more than ordinary passenger trains. He informed that this MoU signing will pave the way for towns like Bhandara, Wardha distant from Nagpur to come closer and developed into satellite cities.


    Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri Devendra Fadnavis said that these three projects will be hailed as innovative steps and will be followed by nation. He informed that, water acquired from Mines and power plants is being used to irrigate over 10 thousands hectare land in Maharashtra. An MoU between VIDC (Vidarbha Irrigation Industrial Corporation) & WCL has been signed for mine water distribution, he informed on this occasion.


    On the occasion a booklet titled "New Railways New Maharashtra" on Railway's development in Maharashtra was also unveiled in this function.


    The programme was attended by local public representatives, officials of Maha Metro, NMC, Mahagenco, Indian Railways, officials of district administration and general public in large numbers.


    ***


    SVS/MKV/ENS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1538757) Visitor Counter : 797
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi