      Vice President's Secretariat

      Transparency & accountability must become our guiding principles: Vice President
      
      Protect Nature, Culture and Architecture for better Future;
      
      Adopt best practices and management tools to become efficient organization;
      
      Addresses the 164th CPWD Day Celebrations

      Posted On: 12 JUL 2018 1:21PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that transparency and accountability must become guiding principles for organizations that are working for larger public good. He was addressing the 164th Central Public Works Department Day celebrations, here today. The Minister of State for Tourism (I/C), Shri Alphons Kannanthanam and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    The Vice President said that the CPWD has a greater role in urban development and any construction in our cities must keep the nature in mind and must be environmental friendly. He further said that CPWD must make sincere efforts to take up more infrastructure projects and continue to be a major player in the development of the nation. Protect Nature, Culture and Architecture for better Future, he added.


    Saying that India is witnessing urban renaissance, the Vice President said that the entire world is impressed by the transformation of our country because of the reforms undertaken by the Government of India. It is indeed a matter of satisfaction for all of us that our country at present has the distinction of being the fastest growing economy in the world, he added.


    The Vice President stressed on the need to use natural energy sources like Solar and said that every building must have provisions for rainwater harvesting. Climate change is a reality and we must keep the impact of it in mind, he added.


    The Vice President said that CPWD, as an engineering organization, must also focus on innovation and modernization in the infrastructure sector to ensure accelerated economic growth of the country. He further said that the most important aspect is to maintain timelines in the execution of projects. You must continually strive to innovate and improvise your work methodology and be a credible leader in the area of your activities, he added.


    The Vice President asked the employees of CPWD to keep abreast of the latest trends and adopt modern technologies and also adopt the best practices and management tools to make CPWD one of the best and most efficient organizations. He further said that success can be achieved only through hard work, discipline, adopting the right strategy and planning. You should never compromise on quality and always strive to meet the expectations of your clients, he added.


    Following is the text of Vice President’s address :


    “ I am delighted to be amongst the CPWD fraternity on the occasion of the 164th CPWD Day celebrations. I congratulate the entire CPWD family of engineers, architects, technical, non-technical staff and workmen on this occasion.


    I have very good memories of my association with the CPWD when l was Minister for Urban Development. Foremost, CPWD has the core competencies backed by robust institutional mechanism and human resource capability to deliver the construction and maintenance requirement to the satisfaction of the clients. Further, CPWD has an edge in construction domain due to its pan- India presence, financial discipline in execution of works and one-stop service from concept to completion to Government organizations and autonomous bodies.


    Further, CPWD is capable of undertaking different types of work-- whether it is construction of buildings, roads, bridges, flyovers, stadiums, airports, jetties, border infrastructure, electrification, air conditioning, landscaping or any maintenance, renovation or retrofitting work even in the remotest places. It is also encouraging and comforting to note that CPWD despite being such an old organization, is able to maintain itself as quite a strong and healthy organization.


    It is indeed a matter of satisfaction for all of us that our country at present has the distinction of being the fastest growing economy in the world. The country is going through a major phase of industrialization and modernization with huge activity taking place in construction and infrastructure projects. We are on the verge of witnessing a sustained growth in infrastructure. Though, CPWD is contributing to this development process, there is a need for CPWD to play a bigger role in building new infrastructure projects, given its institutional spread and technical prowess. CPWD must make sincere efforts to take up more infrastructure projects and continue to be a major player in the development of the nation. Organizations like CPWD must take it upon themselves to provide a technical platform to launch these efforts. Thus, it will be a golden opportunity for you to showcase your talents and abilities. We expect no less from a department of the caliber and capability as CPWD.


    Further, CPWD as an engineering organization must also focus on innovation and modernization in the infrastructure sector to ensure accelerated economic growth of the country. Particular attention should be paid to last mile connectivity of rural roads and in providing health and educational infrastructure, water supply and sanitation.


    I am sure that the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs will provide the requisite guidance and empowerment to CPWD for attaining its cherished vision and achieve higher goals.


    I am also happy to learn that CPWD has decided to execute major projects in the Engineer-Procure-Construct - EPC mode, thereby utilizing the efficiencies of the private enterprise in the design and project management domains.


    The success of any entity or enterprise depends on continuous scrutiny - internal as well as external. A study on the working of CPWD was undertaken during my tenure in this ministry and I am happy to hear that action is being taken for its implementation. I am sure that the results will benefit the country, the construction sector and the department.


    Success can be achieved only through hard work, discipline, adopting the right strategy and planning. You should never compromise on quality and always strive to meet the expectations of your clients. The most important aspect is to maintain timelines in the execution of projects. You must continually strive to innovate and improvise your work methodology and be a credible leader in the area of your activities. You should always keep abreast of the latest trends and adopt modern technologies. Adopt the best practices and management tools to make CPWD one of the best and most efficient organizations.


    I am sure the department will continue to march ahead and achieve greater heights in years to come with its indomitable spirit, its core values of ethics, integrity and its system-bound work culture.


    While rejoicing over the achievements and successes on your Annual Day, it is also an opportune time for all of you to introspect and rededicate yourselves to your organization’s core values, its Vision and Mission statements and take a pledge to contribute your best in carrying forward the organization’s rich legacy.


    I once again convey my best wishes for all your future endeavors.


    Thank you, Jai Hind!”


    ***


    AKT/BK/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1538429) Visitor Counter : 826
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil