      President's Secretariat

      Probationers of Indian Defence Estates Service, Indian Telecommunication Service and P&T building works service call on the President
      Posted On: 11 JUL 2018 12:36PM by PIB Delhi


    Separate groups of probationers of Indian Defence Estates Service, Indian Telecommunication Service and P&T Building Works Service togethercalled on the President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, today (July 11, 2018) at Rashtrapati Bhavan.


    Addressing the probationers, the President said that their services provide them an enormous platform for serving the nation. They shall be responsible for managing important projects in different domains and serve crucial sectors such as Defence and Telecommunications. Few jobs offer a chance to work in an office where everything that they do, can be an act of service to the nation.


    The President said that our country has the world’s second largest telecom network based on the total number of users. The telecom sector has witnessed rapid growth especially in the wireless segment and is today regarded as basic infrastructure just like electricity, roads, and water. This sector is a critical component for achieving rapid economic progress and socio economic development. Indian Telecommunication Service officers have an important role to play as we seek to connect the unconnected especially in our rural and remote areas. This is essential to make our growth inclusive. It is Indian Telecommunication Service officers’ responsibility to ensure that we have in place an enabling policy paradigm and a conducive licensing and regulatory framework. Equally important is the job of P&T Building Works Service officers who have to ensure quality and efficiency in construction and maintenance of office and residential complexes, electrical and architectural works both in Department of Telecommunication and Department of Posts.


    The President said that the Defence Estate Officers shall be entrusted with key tasks of carrying out Audit of Defence Lands, prevention of encroachment, optimization of land usage, and maintenance of land records. They have to carry out all these functions along with the reality of rapid urbanization in the country. Cantonments which used to be separate enclaves before independence have also become part of the urban landscape in many states and hence are not immune to infrastructure related problems in our cities. They will have to deal with this reality and manage situations that may emerge.


    ***


    AKT/HS/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1538307) Visitor Counter : 653
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Tamil