      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NDRF geared up for Monsoon season -2018
      Posted On: 10 JUL 2018 7:12PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) is fully geared up to face any eventuality arising due to floods and has mobilized its resources to the vulnerable locations across the country.


    To mitigate the impact of the disasters which may be triggered due to heavy rains during the monsoon season, NDRF has deployed its rescue and relief teams in vulnerable areas across the country. The deployment has been made with keeping in view the vulnerability profile of the reason and in consultation with the state/local administration.


    Due to incessant rain in Distt, Palghar, Maharashtra, the water level in low laying areas has raised and some people were reported to be stranded. After getting the information 01 team of NDRF immediately left from the nearest Base RRC- Mumbai to Village Manikpur and 01 more team left to Nalasopara, Palghar where the train No 12928, Vadodra Exp got stranded between Nalasopara to Viror Railway station, to conduct the rescue and relief operation. During the rescue operation NDRF team evacuated 68 people from Manikpur and 411 from Nalasopara to safer places, so far. Operation still continue.


    Besides, 01 team is operational at Vill-Sisowest Distt. Darbhanga in connection with the drowning of three children in Adhawara river.


    In anticipation of heavy rains and floods during the monsoon season, the Force (NDRF) has pre-positioned its 49 teams in 14 states and another 43 teams are permanently placed at 26 RRC for emergency response. Additional teams are also on standby in all NDRF battalions and shall be mobilized as per the demand.


    The Force is in constant touch with Indian Metrological Department (IMD), Centre Water Commission (CWC) and other agency. The battalion commanders are in touch with state authorities to render the all possible assistance in the time of crises. A 24x7, NDRF Control Room in Delhi is closely monitoring the situation round the clock.


    ********


    BB/KG/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1538268) Visitor Counter : 405