      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Rajnath Singh co-chairs the 6th meeting of India-Bangladesh Home Minister level talks with his counterpart, Mr. Asaduzzaman Khan in Dhaka
      
      Liberal visa regime agreement signed
      
      Shri Rajnath Singh paid homage to Bangladesh’s Father of the Nation, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman
      Posted On: 15 JUL 2018 6:21PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh co-chaired the 6 th meeting of the Home Minister level talks with his Bangladesh counterpart, Mr. Asaduzzaman Khan in Dhaka today. During the meeting, all security related matters of interest including counter-terrorism, capacity building and increased cooperation between security agencies, border management, countering illegal activities like fake currency, drug and human trafficking, consular issues etc. were discussed.


    The Home Ministers noted the significant progress made in the bilateral relationship between the two countries under the dynamic leadership of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and Bangladesh Prime Minister Ms. Sheikh Hasina. Both sides reiterated their commitment to further strengthen the bilateral relation on the basis of friendship, trust and understanding for the mutual benefit of the people of India and Bangladesh.


    The two Ministers also witnessed the signing of the Revised Travel Arrangement 2018 (RTA 2018) amending the earlier RTA 2013 for further liberalizing the visa regime between the two countries, including enhanced duration for employment and student visas.


    Earlier in the day, Shri Rajnath Singh paid homage to Bangladesh’s Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman by laying a wreath at Bangabandhu Museum in Dhanmondi, Dhaka. He also offered prayers at the Dhakeshwari temple.


    The Union Home Minister has since returned New Delhi after concluding his 3-day visit to Bangladesh. “I am deeply touched by the warmth and hospitality of the people of Bangladesh. Bharat-Bangladesh Moitree Chirojeebi Hok. ভারত - বাংলাদেশ মৈত্রী চিরজীবী হোক। (India-Bangladesh Friendship Live Forever),” he said in a tweet before leaving Dhaka.


    ***


    BB/PK/KGS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1538682) Visitor Counter : 605
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Tamil