      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      To Spread awareness about Schemes MSME Ministry sends Teams to 117 Aspirational Districts
      Posted On: 23 JUL 2018 1:51PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) will send teams of officials to 117 most backward and naxalite affected Aspirational Districts identified by NITI Aayog to spread awareness about existing schemes of the Ministry and to obtain proposals to set up and strengthen micro and small enterprises . This information was given by Minister of State (I/C) for MSME, Giriraj Singh in the Lok Sabha today.


    The Minister also informed that MSMEs are significantly present in all States and UTs and they are the second largest employer after agriculture in the country. These enterprises have supported inclusive growth and development across the country thereby reducing the regional imbalances. Replying to another query, Giriraj Singh said that the schemes of the Ministry are central sector schemes in which specific percentage of the budgetary allocation are earmarked for SC, ST and North Eastern Region’s population. Most of these schemes are demand driven and expenditure is made in the specific States as per the proposals received. He said that over 40 lakh persons gained employment under the Credit Guarantee Fund Scheme from 2015-16 to 30 th June 2018. Under this scheme, loan guarantees are provided to MSEs which in turn result in employment generation. Recently the loan limit under Credit Guarantee Fund Scheme has been increased to Rs 2 crore.


    Besides, Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme, PMEGP is estimated to have generated employment for over 12.29 lakh people during the same period. PMEGP is a major credit-linked subsidy programme aimed at generating self-employment opportunities through establishment of micro-enterprises in the non-farm sector by helping traditional artisans and unemployed youth. Uttar Pradesh has been the largest beneficiary of the PMEGP scheme with over 1.35 lakh estimated employment generation. Other states like Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Bihar, Karnataka, Assam, Odisha, West Bengal, Jammu and Kashmir generated employment ranging from around 63,000 to 84,000 people.


    The Ministry of MSME has 18 Technology Centres which impart training to help in generating employment. It has been decided to set up 15 new technology centres in various parts of the country. Recently, a job portal called “MSME Sampark” has been launched on 27 June, 2018, on the occasion of UN SME day. The portal is a digital platform where jobseekers who are passed out trainees and students of MSME Technology Centres and recruiters may register for mutually beneficial interaction.


    ***


    MM/KA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1539613) Visitor Counter : 851
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Tamil , Malayalam