      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister to launch Student Police Cadet Programme tomorrow
      
      The programme seeks to build bridge between Police and the larger community
      
      Posted On: 20 JUL 2018 3:51PM by PIB Delhi


    
    The Student Police Cadet (SPC) Programme is scheduled to be launched nationally on the 21 st July, 2018 by the Union Home Minister, Shri Rajnath Singh in the presence of the Union Human Resources Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar, the Chief Minister of Haryana Shri Manohar Lal, the Minister of State for Planning (IC) and Chemicals & Fertilizers Rao Inderjit Singh, the Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir and the Minister in Haryana Government Rao Narbir Singh.


    The programme seeks to build a bridge between the Police and the larger community through school students by inculcating values and ethics in them through classes in school and outside. The programme focuses on students of class 8 & 9 and special care has been taken to ensure that it does not lead to increase in the workload of the students. The programme does not have any prescribed text book nor is any exam envisaged. Only one class in a month is proposed. The programme seeks to cover broadly two kinds of topics:


     1. Crime prevention and control; and


     2. Values and ethics


    Under the first part, the topics covered are – Community Policing, Road Safety, Fight against Social Evils, Safety of Women & Children, Fight against Corruption and Disaster Management. The topics covered under the second part are – Values & Ethics, Respect for Elders, Empathy & Sympathy, Tolerance, Patience, Attitude, Team Spirit and Discipline.


    A Handbook has been prepared by BPR&D for imparting instructions with the support of NCERT. There is greater emphasis on field demonstrations and hands on learning of the functioning of the Police through visits to Women Police stations, Child Protection Homes including NGOs, Traffic Police and Fire Brigade Stations. There will also be learning through group discussions, audio-visual mediums etc.


    The programme shall be steered by a State level committee to be headed by the Principal Secretary, Home Department with the Principal Secretary, Education and Director General of Police as members. There shall be a similar committee at the district level headed by the District Magistrate with the District Inspector of Schools and Superintendent of Police as members.


    An amount of Rs.67 crores has been released to the States for implementation of the programme. An amount of Rs.50,000 shall be earmarked for each school to be spent on educational aids, training and contingency. The Programme shall be at first implemented in Government schools in both urban and rural areas.


    ***


    BB/NK/PK/KGS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1539449) Visitor Counter : 747
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Tamil
    
    
    

   
2.