      Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

      A target of installing 175 GW of renewable energy capacity by the year 2022 has been set
      
      100 GW of solar capacity by 2022 in the country
      
      The Government is promoting development of solar energy in the country by providing various fiscal and promotional incentives
      Posted On: 19 JUL 2018 3:45PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government has set a target of installing 40 GW of grid connected rooftop solar capacity in the country including Delhi and National Capital Region (NCR) by year 2022. As per the Delhi Solar Policy, 2016 notified by Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi, target has been set for installation of 1 GW of solar power by year 2020 and 2 GW of solar power by year 2025 in Delhi.


    The Government has set a target of installing 100 GW of solar capacity by 2022 in the country. A target of installing 175 GW of renewable energy capacity by the year 2022 has been set, which includes 100 GW from solar, 60 GW from wind, 10 GW from bio-power and 5 GW from small hydro-power.


    The Ministry of Urban Development had requested all States & UTs, in 2014 to issue necessary directives to all State Government Departments for using rooftop of buildings under their control for solar power generation on mandatory basis and also to local bodies under their jurisdiction to incorporate the similar provision in their building bye-laws so that installation of Roof Top Systems (RTS) on rooftops of all types of buildings in their jurisdiction may become mandatory. Further, the Ministry of Urban Development also issued Model Building Bye-Laws, 2016, in which suitable provisions for installation of RTS on buildings have been incorporated. Four States/UTs viz. Haryana, Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have already issued mandatory notifications for installation of RTS in different categories of buildings.


    The Capacity Utilization Factor (CUF) of solar power projects is less than thermal, hydro, nuclear, wind and bio-mass power projects. The Government has launched several schemes for promotion and development of renewable energy including solar energy in the country from time to time. The Government is promoting development of solar energy in the country by providing various fiscal and promotional incentives such as accelerated depreciation, waiver of Inter State Transmission System (ISTS) charges and losses, financing solar rooftop systems as part of home loan, and permitting Foreign Direct Investment up to 100 per cent under the automatic route.


    This information was provided by Shri R.K. Singh, Union Minister of State (IC) Power and New & Renewable Energy in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    JN / RP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1539238) Visitor Counter : 1140
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil , Urdu