      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Enhancing Capacity of Government Hospitals in Delhi
      Posted On: 24 JUL 2018 5:03PM by PIB Delhi


    As per information made available by LokNayak Jai Prakash (LNJP), All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi, these hospitals are providing services more than their capacity.


    The number of patients visiting AIIMS and Safdarjung Hospital for surgery and other treatments is much larger as compared to their handling capacity in terms of number of beds, manpower and other resources. Despite availability of huge infrastructure and other services in these hospitals, there is a waiting period for certain procedures which varies from Department to Department, due to the ever increasing pressure on infrastructure and manpower. However, all the patients registered in OPD are given adequate care and attention while providing treatment. Further, serious patients are admitted and treated on ‘priority’ basis.


    Expansion of existing and creation of additional infrastructural facilities in hospitals are on-going process and are undertaken as per the requirement and availability of resources.


    Under the redevelopment plan of Safdarjung Hospital, a 500 bedded new Emergency Block and a Super Speciality Block with 807 beds have recently been made operational, thereby adding to the existing capacity of Safdarjung Hospital.


    In AIIMS, New Delhi, various projects have been sanctioned for increasing the existing bed strength as per details given below;


     1. Surgical Block (200 Beds),


     2. National Cancer Institute (NCI),Jhajjar (710 Beds),


     3. Mother and Child Block (425 Beds),


     4. New Private Ward (113 Beds),


     5. Burn and Plastic Surgery (100 Beds),


     6. Geriatrics Block (200 Beds) and


     7. Emergency cum Diagnostic Block (400 Beds).


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Shri Ashwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1539876) Visitor Counter : 187
    
    
    
    
    

7.