      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Shri J P Nadda addresses 8th BRICS Health Ministers’ Meeting at Durban; highlights the achievements of India in the health sector
      
      India affirms strong support for TB cooperation plan in every aspect: J P Nadda

      Posted On: 20 JUL 2018 4:10PM by PIB Delhi

    “India affirms strong support for TB cooperation plan in every aspect as agreed upon in the 6th BRICS Health Ministers’ meeting held in Delhi in 2016 and in the first High-Level Meeting of the UN General Assembly on Ending Tuberculosis.”This was stated by Shri J P Nadda, Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare during his address at the ‘8th BRICS Health Ministers’ Meeting at Durban, South Africa, today. Shri J P Nadda further said that to improve healthcare, there is a need for increasing accessibility of affordable, quality, effective and safe drugs, vaccines and diagnostics for TB patients. “I would like to state that India is committed to eliminating TB by 2025,” the Union Health Minister further emphasized.


    In his address, Shri Nadda said that India today is more firmly committed to achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC) as articulated in its National Health Policy. “India has fast-tracked many initiatives aimed at achieving all the core tenets of Universal Health Coverage i.e, strengthening health systems, improving access to free medicines and diagnostics and reducing catastrophic healthcare spending,” he added. He stated that to translate the vision of UHC, Prime Minister of India,Shri Narendra Modi has recently launched an ambitious programme called 'Ayushman Bharat' i.e. Long Live India. “The programme rests on the twin pillars of Health and Wellness Centres for provision of comprehensive primary healthcare services and National Health Protection Mission for secondary and tertiary care that aims to cover around 100 million families,” Shri Nadda said.


    Highlighting the accomplishments of India in the health sector, Shri Nadda stated that India’s achievement in reducing the maternal mortality ratio (MMR) by 77%, from 556 per 100000 live births in 1990 to 130 per 100 000 live births in 2016 was commended by Regional Director, WHO SEARO.


    “This achievement puts the country on track to achieve the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) target of MMR below 70 by 2030. I would like to mention schemes like Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan, allowing women access to antenatal check-ups, obstetric gynaecologists and to track high-risk pregnancies, etc., and Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakram,”Shri Nadda stated.


    During his address, the Union Health Minister said that to reduce the burden of NCDs, India has already initiated universal screening for prevention and management of five common NCDs including hypertension, diabetes and three common cancers of oral cavity, breast and cervix at pan India level. “He further said that India has started a unique initiative called AMRIT Deendayal pharmacies, an acronym for 'Affordable Medicines & Reliable Implants for Treatment' - Centres that provide medicines for cancer & cardiovascular diseases and cardiac implants at significantly reduced prices. “We must, therefore, renew our resolve and commitment to fight NCDs together on the BRICS platform, through R &D and innovative strategies,” Shri Nadda said.


    The Health Minister said that the spate of recent global public health emergencies like Ebola, Zika has highlighted the need for greater public health preparedness and coordinated response. Sharing India’s experience in containing Nipah outbreak in Kerala, Shri Nadda complimented the team for their untiring efforts and coordinated response for successful containment of the outbreak. “I would like to stress upon the importance of implementation of IHR (2005), strengthened surveillance, enhanced laboratory capacity and multi sectoral approach,” Shri Nadda stressed.


    Shri Nadda further said that there is need to promote strategies for use of traditional or alternative forms of medicine, like Ayurveda in India and the Chinese traditional remedies.“It is important that within the framework of BRICS, we carry out not only an exchange of technologies and the development of joint ventures, but also the co-generation of knowledge because, only together can we solve the most significant health problems,” the Union Health Minister added while reiterating the need for enhanced cooperation.


    ***


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1539426) Visitor Counter : 947
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Tamil