      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      The scheme of Development of Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups covers 75 identified PVTGs in 18 States and one UT
      Posted On: 23 JUL 2018 5:21PM by PIB Delhi


    There are 75 total number of Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTGs) identified in the Country. The total population of Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTGs) in Jharkhand is 292359 which is 3.38 % of the total ST population of Jharkhand.


    The Ministry is implementing the scheme ‘Development of Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTGs)’ for the welfare of the PVTGs. PVTGs are the most vulnerable tribal community, and hence it becomes necessary to allocate adequate funds from Central Sector/ Centrally Sponsored and State Plan schemes for the socio-economic development of PVTGs. The scheme covers 75 identified Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups in 18 States and UT of Andaman & Nicobar Islands. The scheme is flexible as it enables the States to focus on areas that they consider are relevant to PVTGs and their socio-cultural environment. Activities under it include education, housing, land distribution, land development, agricultural development, animal husbandry, construction of link roads, and installation of non-conventional sources of energy for lighting purpose, social security including Janashree Bima Yojana or any other innovative activity meant for the comprehensive socio-economic development of PVTGs.


    Funds are not released district wise. Annual Plans of the State Governments are appraised and approved by the PAC. Funds approved in respect of Government of Jharkhand for educational activities under the scheme of Grants under Article 275 (1) of the Constitution during 2018-19 is Rs.6453.75 lakh and no fund has been approved under Development of PVTGs for educational activity during 2018-19 in Jharkhand.


    This information was given by the Union Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Shri. Jaswantsinh Bhabhor in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    NB/RN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1539686) Visitor Counter : 362