      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Eradication of Child Labour
      Posted On: 18 JUL 2018 4:51PM by PIB Delhi


    Child Labour is an outcome of various socio-economic problems such as poverty, economic backwardness, illiteracy etc. As per 2011 Census, the number of main workers in the age group of 5-14 years in the country is 43.53 lakh which shows a decline from 57.79 lakh as per 2001 Census.


    Under Legislative action plan Government has enacted the Child Labour (Prohibition & Regulation) Amendment Act, 2016 which came into force w.e.f 01.09.2016. The Amendment Act, inter alia, provides for complete prohibition on employment or work of children below 14 years and also prohibits employment of adolescents (14-18 years) in hazardous occupations and processes. Ministry of Labour & Employment has circulated an Action Plan to all States/UTs indicating the provisions and related actions by State Governments/UTs for enforcement of the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2016.


    After strengthening the legislative framework through amendment in Child Labour Act, Government has framed the Child Labour (Prohibition & Regulation) Amendment Rules, 2017 which inter alia specifies the duties and responsibilities of State Governments and District Authorities to ensure effective enforcement of the provisions of the Act. Government has also devised a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) as a ready reckoner for trainers, practitioners and enforcing and monitoring agencies and the same has been forwarded to all States/UTs.


    To ensure effective enforcement of the provisions of the Child Labour Act and smooth implementation of the National Child Labour Project (NCLP) Scheme a separate online portal PENCIL (Platform for Effective Enforcement for No Child Labour) has been developed. The Portal connects Central Government to State Government(s), District(s) and all District Project Societies. Further the Ministry has instructed all the concerned States where NCLP Scheme is sanctioned, to form State Resource Centre (SRC) under the chairmanship of State Labour Secretary, which would monitor the enforcement of Child Labour Act, coordinate for the rescue of children and adolescents, child tracking system and supervise all the functions through PENCIL portal. SRC would also prepare and implement awareness generation plan to curb the menace of child labour in the State.


    This information was given by Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Union Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employment in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    JN/FH/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1539009) Visitor Counter : 2772