      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Statement of Union Home Minister on N.R.C.
      Posted On: 22 JUL 2018 2:20PM by PIB Delhi


    NRC is being updated in Assam in accordance with the Assam Accord signed on 15 August, 1985. The entire process is being carried out as per directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court which is constantly monitoring the process.


    I will like to assure everyone that the NRC exercise is being carried out in a totally impartial, transparent and meticulous manner and will continue to be so. At every stage of the process, adequate opportunity of being heard is given to all persons. The entire process is being conducted according to law and due procedure is being followed.


    We will ensure that every individual gets justice and is treated in a humane manner. All individuals will have sufficient opportunity for all remedies available under the law.


    Govt. wants to make it clear that the NRC to be published on 30 th July is only a draft. After draft publication, adequate opportunity for claims and objections will be available. All claims and objections will be duly examined. Adequate opportunity of being heard will be given before disposal of claims and objections. Only thereafter, final NRC will be published.


    The Citizenship Rules provide that any person who is not satisfied with the outcome of claims and objections can appeal in the Foreigner’s Tribunal. Thus, there is no question of anyone being put in a detention centre after the publication of NRC.


    State Govt. has been asked to ensure that law & order is maintained and no one is allowed to take law into their hands and all possible arrangements are made to ensure safety and security for all. There is no reason for panic or fear. No person will be allowed to be harassed. Central Govt. will provide all necessary help to the Govt. of Assam in this regard.


    ******


    BB/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1539580) Visitor Counter : 1106
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese