      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      WCD Ministry launches ‘#Childline1098’ Contest- ‘Spot the Logo and Suggest a Tagline’.
      Posted On: 24 JUL 2018 5:46PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development has launched a contest, #Childline1098, inviting people to share images of the Childline 1098 logo that they spot at unique locations and send it with a tagline, to mark World Day against Trafficking in Persons on July 30.


    CHILDLINE is India's first 24-hour, free, emergency phone service for children in need of aid and assistance. At present, it is operational at 450 locations. As Railways often act as carriers of trafficked children, the Ministry signed an MoU with the Ministry of Railways to rescue and rehabilitate runaway, abandoned, kidnapped and trafficked children via Railways. The Ministry launched an awareness campaign via posters in railway coaches in November, 2015, and around 2 lakh posters have been put in trains which caution passengers about children around them who may need protection.

      * "Whether you are a concerned adult or a child, you can dial 1098, the toll free number to access our services. We not only respond to the emergency needs of children but also link them to services for their long-term care and rehabilitation," said Smt. Maneka Sanjay Gandhi, Hon'ble Union Minister for Women and Child Development, while adding that such online contests were a means to connect with citizens and engage them in spreading information about this great initiative towards curbing trafficking.

    To familiarise children with Childline 1098, Smt. Gandhi had earlier requested Shri Prakash Javadekar, Hon'ble Union Minister for Human Resource Development, to popularise it through the National Council Of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) publications and screening of educational films on child sexual abuse in schools. Based on the request, NCERT has published the information regarding Childline (1098) on the back side of the front cover of all course books from Class 6 to Class 12.


    In order to address various aspects of trafficking in terms of its prevention, protection and rehabilitation of victims, the Ministry drafted the comprehensive Draft Trafficking of Persons (Prevention, Protection & Rehabilitation) Bill, 2018, which was approved by the Cabinet in February, 2018, and is expected to be approved by the Parliament in the Monsoon Session.


    Details of #Childline1098 contest are available on the Facebook & Twitter accounts of Ministry WCD (@MinistryWCD). Last date to submit entries on creativecorner.mwcd@gmail.com or on MyGov is 30th July, 2018 .


    NB/PS


    ******


    

    
    (Release ID: 1539916) Visitor Counter : 1004
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali
    
    
    

*