      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Assistance to Small and Marginal Farmers
      Posted On: 24 JUL 2018 3:54PM by PIB Delhi


    Government receives representation from various quarters on issues concerning farmers of different parts of the country including Bundelkhand. Department is implementing various schemes for the welfare of farmers including small and marginal farmers. The strategy is to improve net returns to the farmers by enabling them to realise higher yields at lower cost and benefit from better market prices. Some important schemes include Soil Health Card Scheme (SHC), Neem Coated Urea, Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY), Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana (PMKSY), National Agriculture Market scheme (e-NAM), Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), etc.


    The Government provides total interest subvention up to 5% ( inclusive of 3 % prompt repayment incentive) on short-term crop loans up to Rs.3.00 lakh. Thus, loan is available to farmers at a reduced rate of 4% per annum on prompt repayment.


    Under the Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH) for holistic growth of the horticulture sector covering fruits, vegetables, root and tuber crops, mushrooms, spices, flowers, aromatic plants, coconut, cashew, cocoa and bamboo, subsidy is provided to the farm size limited to 4 hectare, in majority of its interventions. Also, small and marginal farmers are mobilized to form Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs)/ Farmer Interest Group (FIG) for aggregation and economies of scale. FPOs are eligible for financial assistance under MIDH.


    Under National Food Security Mission (NFSM), at least 33% of funds are earmarked for small and marginal farmers.


    Under the Sub Mission on Agricultural Mechanization (SMAM) under the main Mission i.e. National Mission on Agricultural Extension and Technology (NMAET), it is proving a suitable platform for converging all activities for inclusive growth of agricultural mechanization by providing a ‘single window’ approach for implementation with a special focus on small & marginal farmers.


    Under the Per Drop More Crop (micro irrigation) at least 50% of the allocation is to be utilized for small & marginal farmers. Further, 10% additional financial assistance is available to small & marginal farmers as compared to other farmers. National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) guidelines also envisage that at least 50% of the allocation is to be utilized for small & marginal farmers i.e. for Rainfed Area Development (RAD) and Sub Mission on Agro Forestry (SMAF) Schemes.


    Under the Soil Health Card Scheme (SHC) assistance is provided to all State Governments to evaluate soil health in all farm holdings across the country and issue Soil Health Cards to farmers (including small and marginal farmers) regularly in a cycle of two years.


    This Information was given by the Minister of State for Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Shri Parshottam Rupala


    *****


    APS/RCS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1539829) Visitor Counter : 1199