      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Policy Initiatives by Ministry of Road Transport & Highways
      Posted On: 23 JUL 2018 4:14PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government has made sustained and focussed efforts to identify issues affecting the road sector and addressing the bottlenecks through appropriate policy interventions after June, 2014 to achieve the objectives of the Ministry. The major policy initiative since June 2014 are as follows:

     1. P rocess streamlining which facilitated growth of the sector are as under:

     1. Mode of delivery – MoRTH empowered to decide on mode of delivery of projects.


     2. Increased threshold for project appraisal & approval – MoRTH has been authorized to appraise & approve projects up to Rs 1000 crore (earlier Rs 500 crore). Further delegation of powers after approval of Bharatmala Phase I in Oct. 2017.

     3. Enhanced Inter-Ministerial coordination – Group of Infrastructure created under Chairmanship of Hon’ble Minister (RTH, S, WR &GR) to resolve inter-ministerial issues. Most issues resolved. Last meeting was held on 30.01.2018.

     1. Innovative project implementation models viz. Hybrid Annuity Model (HAM), Toll – Operate – Transfer (TOT), etc. developed and put to use


     2. Languishing Projects revived - 73 projects of length around 8,310 km revived through policy interventions like:


        (a) 100% equity divestment two years after start of operations –private developers allowed to take out their entire equity from all operational BOT projects two years from start of operations.


        (b) Premium deferment in stressed projects – allows rescheduling of premium committed by concessionaires during bid stage.


        (c) Rationalized compensation to concessionaires for languishing NH projects in BOT mode for delays not attributable to concessionaires – allows extension of concession period for BOT(Toll) projects keeping original operation period unchanged. For BOT(Annuity) projects, payment of missed annuities corresponding to actual delay allowed.


        (d) One-time fund infusion – allows physical completion of languishing BOT projects that have achieved at least 50% physical progress, through one-time fund infusion by NHAI.


     3. Proactive steps taken to accelerate Land Acquisition (LA): Single CALA account set up at NHAI to aggregate disbursed compensation funds and maximize interest savings. NHAI ROs empowered to expeditiously approve land compensation. The Ministry with the help of National Informatics Centre has developed a Web Portal – BhooomiRashi, to digitize the entire process of land acquisition. LA process has been expedited significantly through this initiative.


        Further, the Ministry issued comprehensive guidelines dated 28.12.2017 on Land Acquisition for NHs to simplify the complex issues of Land Acquisition viz. applicability of certain provisions of RFCTLARR Act 2013 on NH Act 1956, date of determination of market value of land, issue of multiplication factor, bulk acquisition through consent of land owners etc.


     1. PMIS (Project Monitoring Information System) developed – 2000+ projects are getting monitored on real time basis.


     2. Sound DPRs and effective pre-project preparation.


     3. Electronic Toll Collection (ETC) – encouraged to minimize toll collection time and reduce pilferage in toll collection on NHs. Enabling facilities for ETC being put proactively in all toll plazas. Out of 424 toll plazas in the country, ETC has been implemented in at least 382 plazas. 16.57 lakh FASTags have been sold so far and average daily toll collection through ETC has reached Rs 12.62 crore (21 % of total toll revenue).


     4. National Highways Fees (determination of rates and collection) Rules 2008 has been amended from time to time to rationalize user fee collection and facilitate the convenience of road users. The details are as under:


     1. Facilitating electronic toll collection through FASTag.


     2. Measures have been taken to the deter the practice of overloading.


     3. Streamlining of the Maximum Gross Vehicle Weight (GVW) criteria for convenience of road users.


     4. Extending exemption from payment of user fees to vehicles specially constructed for use of person suffering from physical disability.


     5. Facilitating less-cash economy by enabling user fee payment through Prepaid payment instruments.


     6. Exempting combined harvesters from payment of user fees.


     7. Further streamlining Electronic user fees collection.


     1. Transport Sector initiatives:


     1. Motor Vehicle Amendment Act: The Motor Vehicle Amendment Bill passed by Lok Sabha on 10.04.2017. Pending with Rajya Sabha.


     2. All RTOs in 36 States/Union Territories have been connected through IT network to issue Vehicle Registration Certificates (VAHAN) and Driving Licenses (SARTHI).


     3. District Road Safety Committees constituted in each district of the country under the Hon’ble MP from the district to promote safety awareness.


     4. New scheme for setting up of Driver Training Centres launched. One- time financial assistance up to 50% of project cost subject to, a maximum of Rs 1.00 crore shall be provided.


     1. Regional Connectivity and international co-operation initiatives as under:


     1. Bangladesh, Bhutan, India and Nepal (BBIN) Motor Vehicles Agreement (MVA) in advanced stage


     2. India-Myanmar-Thailand (IMT) MVA is under consideration


     3. IMT Trilateral Highway is under implementation


     4. South Asian Sub-Regional Economic Cooperation (SASEC) Connectivity Investment Projects


     1. Signature Projects completed in the highways sector. The names of projects are as under:


     1. 2-laned 9 km long tunnel on Chenani-Nashri section of NH-1A


     2. Dhola Sadia Bridge


     3. Narmada Bridge


     4. New Brahmaputra Bridge


     5. Eastern Peripheral Expressway


    This information is given by the Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways, Shipping and Chemical & Fertilizers Shri Mansukh L Mandaviya in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    NP/MS/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1539651) Visitor Counter : 1188
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi
    
    
    

5.