      AYUSH

      Evaluation of Results of AYUSH Expansion in the Country
      Posted On: 24 JUL 2018 6:34PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry has been able to expand its visibility and impact of AYUSH in the country significantly. There are 773668 AYUSH Registered Practitioners throughout the country as on 01st January, 2017 who contributes to AYUSH health care services in the country including urban, semi- urban and rural areas. However, the data on paramedical staff for AYUSH systems of medicine is not maintained by the Central Government. For promotion of AYUSH, budgetary allocation of Rs. 1626.37 Crore as Budget Estimate has been made to Ministry of AYUSH for various activities for the year 2018-19.


    Public Health being a State subject, the primary responsibility to provide health care services lies with the respective State/UT Governments. However, Central Government through the Centrally Sponsored scheme of National AYUSH Mission (NAM) has supported the States/UTs in expanding the scope of AYUSH in the country including urban, semi urban and rural areas through the following activities:


    (i) Co-location of AYUSH facilities at Primary Health Centers (PHCs), Community Health Centers (CHCs) and District Hospitals (DHs).


    (ii) Up gradation of exclusive State Government AYUSH Hospitals and Dispensaries.


    (iii) Setting up of integrated AYUSH Hospital with a maximum of 50 beds.


    (iv) Upgradation of State Government Educational Institutions.


    (v) Setting up of new State Government AYUSH Educational Institutions including Yoga and Naturopathy in the State where it is not available.


    (vi) Strengthening of State Government/ Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathy (ASU&H) Pharmacies and Drug Testing Laboratories (DTL).


    (vii) Cultivation and Promotion of Medicinal Plants.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1539939) Visitor Counter : 345