      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Central Team led by MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju reviews flood situation in Kerala
      Posted On: 21 JUL 2018 5:52PM by PIB Delhi


    On the directions of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi , the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju ,accompanied by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Tourism, Shri K.J. Alphons and a high-level Central Team visited the flood affected districts of Alappuzha and Kottayam and reviewed the flood situation and relief measures undertaken by the Central and State Governments in the flood affected areas of Kerala.


    The Ministers and the Central team visited a number of relief camps, food distribution centres and mobile medical camps and met the affected people living in the relief camps. Based on an aerial survey, field visit and interaction with the affected people, Shri Rijiju expressed satisfaction on the arrangements made by the State administration in managing the unprecedented floods in the State and in providing basic amenities, including food, water and medical service etc. in the rescue and relief camps. The Chief Secretary thanked the Central Government for deploying four teams of NDRF for search and rescue and assisting the administration in relief distribution. Shri Rijiju assured to send more teams of NDRF in case need arises. The State Administration handed over a memorandum seeking Central Assistance of Rs 831.10 crore to the Joint Secretary (Disaster Management), MHA, Shri Sanjeev Kumar Jindal.


    Shri Rijiju announced that the Central Government has released an assistance of Rs 80.25 crore as Central share under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). Based on the Memorandum now submitted, an Inter-Ministerial Centre Team (IMCT) would be deputed for detailed assessment and the Government of India will consider providing additional relief from NDRF as per norms on priority.


    Briefing the media, Shri Rijiju expressed concern over the damage caused to the crop and loss of human lives. Later, reviewing the flood situation in district Kottayam, Shri Rijiju said that the Centre is very much concerned about the flood situation in Kerala and assured that the Central Government will continue to provide all possible assistance to the State Government to cope with the flood situation.


    During the current South-West monsoon season, various parts of the state have been affected by heavy rains/rain-oriented calamities of varying degrees. Four teams of NDRF consisting of 166 rescuers with essential rescue equipment including 13 boats are deployed in Kerala to assist the State administration in rescue and relief operations as well as distribution of essential relief material and to provide medical support to affected people at the time of emergency.


    ***


    BB/NK/PK/KGS/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1539558) Visitor Counter : 308