      Ministry of Education

      Various steps have been taken to improve quality of higher education
      Posted On: 19 JUL 2018 5:39PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Human Resource Development has started an annual web-based All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE) with the objectives to assess and review the performance of education sector and to strengthen the institutional coordination with the Ministry. The details and outcomes of different surveys are available at website http://aishe.nic.in/aishe/home .


    The University Grants Commission (UGC) has notified regulations pertaining to recognition, accreditation of the higher educational institutions, minimum qualifications for appointment as teacher/ academic staff, curbing the menace of ragging and grievance redressal for enhancing the quality of higher education in the institutions. The Commission has also launched schemes related to scholarship and fellowship e.g. PG Doctoral Fellowship for SC/ST etc. for promoting inclusion and equity. Moreover, The University Grants Commission has given skill orientation to higher education under skill development scheme by way of starting Community Colleges, B.Voc degree programme and Deen Dayal Upadhyay KAUSHAL Kendras.


    Further, The All India Council for Technical Education has undertaken following initiatives for enhancing the quality of technical education in the country.

     1. Training Policy for Technical Teachers
     2. Perspective Plan for Technical Education
     3. Induction Programme for Engineering students
     4. Model Curriculum for Engineering and Management Courses.
     5. Exam Reforms
     6. Start up Initiative
     7. NBA Accreditation for approval of technical courses
     8. Unnat Bharat Abhiyan.

    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Rajya Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK/ Quality of higher education


    

    
    (Release ID: 1539285) Visitor Counter : 709
    
    
    
    
    

8.