      AYUSH

      Special AYUSH Clinics for the Elderly
      Posted On: 24 JUL 2018 6:35PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government provides optimum services to elderly under AYUSH system of medicines. As Health is a State subject, opening of special clinic for elder persons in villages comes under the purview of the respective State/UT Government .


    However, under Centrally Sponsored Scheme of National AYUSH Mission (NAM), there is a provision of financial assistance to the States/UTs for setting up of upto 50-bedded integrated AYUSH Hospitals and for establishment of AYUSH facility in Primary Health Centres (PHCs). Accordingly, State/UT Government may avail assistance through posing their requirement in their State Annual Action Plan (SAAP) as per NAM guidelines. Further, under NAM there is provision of supply of essential drugs to the AYUSH hospitals and dispensaries through which the public including elderly persons can avail free services.


    In addition, Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS), an autonomous organization under Ministry of AYUSH is providing health services to the elderly persons through its 23 Clinical units (Special Geriatric Clinics) located throughout the country. Central Council for Research in Homoeopathy, an autonomous organization under Ministry of AYUSH is providing health services to the elderly persons through its 23 research centres and 8 peripheral Out Patient Departments (OPDs) located throughout the country. Central Council for Research in Siddha (CCRS ), an autonomous organization under Ministry of AYUSH is also providing Geriatric special Out Patient services. Further, National Institute of Siddha (NIS), an autonomous organization under Ministry of AYUSH also conducts a special OPD for elderly persons. Geriatric patients are exempted from payment of Indoor- Patient Department (IPD) charges.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    RJ/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1539941) Visitor Counter : 723
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi