      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      CPWD Planting 50,000 Trees in Delhi- Installing Rain Water Harvesting System and Waste Water Recycling Plant in all its Major Projects as a Part of Water Conservation Measure
      
      Solar Plants of 13.3 MWP Capacity, Have Been Installed in Central Government Buildings Across the Country by CPWD
      
      Under ‘Sugamya Bharat’ Mission, CPWD Making Public Buildings Completely Accessible

      Posted On: 20 JUL 2018 2:24PM by PIB Delhi

    This is with reference to a news report published in a local daily dated 14.7.2018 based on a Press Conference addressed by DG, CPWD during the celebration of 164 th day of the organisation. The news report has attributed a statement to the DG as regards felling trees in Delhi. It is clarified that at no stage it was mentioned that the ongoing projects under the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs will be delayed. The report published in the newspaper is not only factually incorrect but also conveys the impression as if all projects are being delayed. It was only stated that the number of proposed flats may come down slightly due to redesigning of the plan to avoid felling of trees.


    CPWD is in the fore-front in sustainable development of built environment. All new constructions in CPWD are being undertaken with minimum three star GRIHA rating. CPWD has constructed Jawahar Bhawan, Parayavaran Bhawan, PNB HQ, New Delhi and STPI Mohali as green buildings with highest five star / LEED rating. Parayavaran Bhawan is a net zero building, which produces as much power on site from renewable sources as it consumes.


    Towards greening of Delhi, as a special drive, CPWDis planting 50,000 trees at various residential colonies and office complexes maintained by it during ongoing rainy season. The locations have been identified, wherein the plantation drive will be undertaken soon.


    CPWD has taken firm initiatives for generation of renewable energy in government buildings. Solar plants of capacity 13.3 MWp, have been installed in central government buildings across the country. The installed solar plants have generated renewable energy of 25 lakhs Units appx, which resulted in 23281 tons reduction of carbon dioxide emission and overall saving of Rs. 29 crores.


    CPWD exhibited its deep commitment and dedication on energy efficiency measures in Central Government Buildings maintained by it. As Energy Efficiency Measures, existing fittings in 88 General Pool Office Buildings across the country have been replaced with LED fittings. Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi maintained by CPWD, has been selected for National Energy Conservation Awards and awarded 1 st prize in the year 2017.


    CPWD has made it mandatory to install Rain Water Harvesting system and Waste Water Recycling plant in all its major projects as a part of water conservation measures. Under the ‘Sugamya Bharat’ Mission, CPWD has undertaken the massive task of making public buildings under its maintenance in the country, completely accessible.


    CPWD Engineers and Architects are back on plans of redeveloping all four colonies after instructions of Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs Sh. Hardeep Singh Puri to save every single tree from cutting and yet completing the projects within the prescribed time.The plans for Mohammadpur and Thyagraj Nagar are being modified to save trees to ensure no tree felling. The planning of Sriniwaspuri& Kasturba Nagar is under way with similar aim. New proposals may emerge in favour of saving trees by sacrificing few elements of projects such as basement parking and few dwelling units etc. if required.


    *******


    RJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1539422) Visitor Counter : 381
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil