      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Upgraded Version of ‘Delhi Metro Rail’ App launched
      
      App to enable users in finding Shortest Route
      
      Posted On: 23 JUL 2018 4:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Durga Shankar Mishra, Secretary, Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs and Chairman/DMRC while launching an upgraded version of user friendly ‘Delhi Metro Rail’ mobile application here today stated that, “Using this application, the Metro passengers will be able to search the nearest Metro station, fares for desired travel, information for timings about the first and last train at stations etc. This revamped mobile application will be of great benefit to the people of the entire NCR. This app shows how technology can be effectively used to provide better services to the people.”


    The upgraded App has been revamped with an array of new features such as information about the nearest Metro station, feedback from passengers, information about the availability of shorter routes etc.


    DMRC’s Managing Director, Dr. Mangu Singh added that, “the Delhi Metro is continuously trying to incorporate technology into its functioning so that the services can become more convenient and accessible for the passengers. Through this app, we have tried to reach out directly to our commuters through their smart phones.”


    The latest version of the ‘Delhi Metro Rail’ mobile app has been enhanced with these additional features to make it more live and beneficial for commuters:-


    Nearest Metro station : A new feature has been introduced under this section so that a person can easily locate the nearest Metro station around his/her present location and can be navigated to that station through the Google map. In addition, this feature also provides benefit of navigation to the nearest Metro station(s) from any other location/address which a person can fill in the link and reach out to the desired nearest Metro station.


    Feedback : In a bid to make the feedback system more robust, effective and transparent, the App’s feedback feature has been further enhanced with the facility of attachment of photos or relevant information/document for better understanding and redressal of the issue reported.


    In case there is something which comes to the notice of the general public who want to apprise the Metro authorities regarding any suggestion, grievances etc., they can mail it through the existing feature of ‘feedback’ which is now provided with an additional feature of sending attachments too.


    Shorter routes : The opening of new lines/section has expanded the reach of the network thereby offering multiple routes to the public. This new feature will enable them to find the shortest route for their journey resulting in saving on money and travel time.


    This application can be downloaded on ‘IPhones’ and ‘Android’ smart phones through Apple Store and Google Play Store respectively. It can also be downloaded directly from DMRC’s website www.delhimetrorail.com . The App works with internet/GPRS and provides information with GPS availability for passengers.


    Apart from the above, the app also provides information on landmarks/tourist spots near Metro Stations, address and contact number of ‘Lost & Found’ cell, details of feeder bus services available at Metro stations with their routes, details about Metro Museum, Helpline number etc.


    The public can avail the benefits of this new and improved version of the ‘Delhi Metro Rail’ App by downloading it on their smart phones. These key functionalities will make up the home screen of the smart phone application of the user. Using the tabs available on the home screen, the user can navigate to the desired section/feature and get the required information.


    Additional Information:


    The Delhi Metro today operates on a network of 288 kilometres with 208 Metro stations across nine different routes covering almost all corners of the National Capital Region. Under its third phase of expansion, about 98 kilometres of new lines have been added in the last few years. Another 61 kilometres of new lines will get added to the network in the coming months. In fact, the Durgabai Deshmukh South Campus – Lajpat Nagar section of Delhi Metro’s Pink Line is completely ready now and awaiting the mandatory inspection by the Commissioner for Metro Rail Safety.


    The Delhi Metro has already reached the satellite cities of Gurugram, NOIDA, Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Bahadurgarh. In the coming months it will also reach Ballabhgarh in Haryana, apart from many new extensions in Ghaziabad and NOIDA.


    Currently, the Delhi Metro network has 19 interchange stations which are providing interconnectivity between the different corridors of the network. After the completion of Phase 3, the network will have 27 interchange stations.


    Delhi Metro has designed all its station buildings of Phase 3 as green buildings and all its stations opened so far under its third phase have been certified as ‘Platinum’ by the Indian Green Building Council for adherence to green building norms. DMRC is also generating over 23 megawatts of solar power through solar power plants installed in its stations, depots, residential areas etc.


    RJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1539658) Visitor Counter : 329