      Ministry of Education

      Status of National Mission on Teachers Training
      Posted On: 19 JUL 2018 5:34PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Sector Scheme of Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya National Mission on Teachers & Teaching having All India coverage, was launched by the Prime Minister of India on 25 th December, 2014 with an outlay of Rs. 900 crore and the scheme has been approved for continuation till March 2020. The Mission addresses current and urgent issues of supply of qualified teachers, attracting talent into teaching profession and raising the quality of teaching in schools and colleges. The Mission also pursues the long term goals of building a strong professional cadre of teachers by setting performance standards and creating top class institutional facilities for innovative teaching and professional development of teachers.


    Ten Project Approval Board (PAB) meetings have been held till now under the Scheme PMMMNMTT and out of 137 proposals received from various Universities/Institutes from all over the country and presented to PAB, a total of 64 proposals have been approved till now for setting up institutional arrangements under various components of the Scheme viz. (i) Schools of Education, (ii) Centres of Excellence for Curriculum and Pedagogy such as Teaching Learning Centres, Faculty Development Centres, Centres of Excellence in Science & Maths Education, (iii) Inter-University Centres for Teachers’ Education, (iv) National Resource Centre for Education, (v) Centres for Academic Leadership and Education Management, (vi) Innovations, Awards, Teaching Resource Grant, including Workshop & Seminar, (vii) Subject Networks for Curricular Renewal and Reforms, (viii) Induction training programmes of newly recruited faculty in higher education and (ix) Academic leadership development programme for senior academic and administrative functionaries of higher education institutions and (x) National Resource Centres for online refresher courses. Schools of Education which have been set up in Central Universities are required to collaborate with international institutions and such tie-ups are within the academic autonomy of the concerned Universities. A total of Rs. 213.81 crore has been released till now under the scheme.


    Some of the gainful outcomes and benefits that have accrued from the Scheme are (i) Pre-Service Training of Teachers in Central Universities, (ii) Specialised research in teacher education undergoing in Central Universities, (iii) Professional development, In-Service teacher/faculty training and capacity building done which were propelled by different training programs conducted by the Centres of Excellence in Curriculum & pedagogy, (iv) Teaching Resources being developed which can be categorized into ICT enabled, low cost infrastructure, e-content, course modules, etc., (v) Inclusive education and Special focus areas in Disability Studies, focus on women’s University, teacher education in tribal areas, NER and educationally backward regions, (vi) Subject Based Networks setup, (vii) Academic Leadership development training programme for Vice-Chancellors, Principals, HoDs, Registrars etc. and (viii) Induction training programmes for Faculty & Academic Staff in Central and State Universities, CFTIs and Degree & PG Degree colleges to familiarize them in their roles as freshly inducted university teachers.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Rajya Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK/ Status of National Mission on Teachers Training

    
    
    (Release ID: 1539279) Visitor Counter : 375