      Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

      NIWE, has installed a remote sensing instrument- LiDAR for assessment of offshore wind resource at Gulf of Khambat, off the Gujarat Coast
      
      Developers are encouraged to deploy most advanced technologies
      
      IREDA, a non-banking financial institution under the Ministry has conducted studies with foreign assistance during the last three years and current year

      Posted On: 19 JUL 2018 4:57PM by PIB Delhi

    Most of renewable energy projects in the country are being implemented by the private sector developers selected through a transparent bidding process. In order to be competitive, Developers are encouraged to deploy most advanced technologies.


    National Institute of Wind Energy (NIWE), an autonomous institution under the Ministry has installed a remote sensing instrument- LiDAR for assessment of offshore wind resource at Gulf of Khambat, off the Gujarat Coast.


    Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency (IREDA), a non-banking financial institution under the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy has conducted following studies with foreign assistance during the last three years and current year:


    • Study/Survey & Preparation of Road Map on Tidal Energy Projects in India.


    • Study on the business models for decentralized systems such as Solar PV/Hybrid mini grids, PV irrigation pumps and household lighting systems under access to Clean Energy Programme.


    • Study for analysis of battery and Solar PV modules recycling processes in India along with development of market outreach strategy for Rooftop Solar PV.


    • Study on the Investment Potential of Biofuels in India.


    A total of 31.67 GW of renewable energy capacity has been installed through implementation of various renewable energy programmes/schemes during last three years and current year (up to June 2018) in the country including the state of Uttarakhand.


    This information was provided by Shri R.K. Singh, Union Minister of State (IC) Power and New & Renewable Energy in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    JN / RP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1539271) Visitor Counter : 956