      Ministry of Education

      Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 2.0 successfully launched with the vision of transformational change in rural development processes
      Posted On: 23 JUL 2018 6:18PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government has successfully launched Unnat Bharat Abhiyan 2.0. The UBA 2.0 was officially launched on 25 th April, 2018 in AICTE, Vasantkunj.


    Unnat Bharat Abhiyan is a flagship programme of the Ministry of HRD, it aimsto link the Higher Education Institutions with set of atleast (5) villages, so that these institutions can contribute to the economic and social betterment of these village communities usingtheir knowledge base. It is a significant initiative where all Higher Learning Institutes have been involved for participation in development activities, particularly in rural areas. Unnat Bharat Abhiyan is inspired by the vision of transformational change in rural development processes by leveraging knowledge institutions to help build the architecture of an Inclusive India. It also aims to create a virtuous cycle between the society and an inclusive university system, with the latter providing knowledge base; practices for emerging livelihoods and to upgrade the capabilities of both the public and private sectors


    Objective of the scheme are (i) To engage the faculty and students of Higher Educational Institutions in understanding rural realities; (ii) Identify and select existing innovative technologies, enable customization of technologies, or devise implementation methods for innovative solutions, as required by people; and (iii) To allow Higher Educational Institutions to contribute to devising systems for smooth implementation of various Government Programs.


    Currently 748 Institutions are participating under the scheme. In the phase -2 of the scheme 605 institutions are selected. Out of these 313 are Technical Institutions and 292 are Non-Technical Institutions. Also, the number of institutions which took part in phase-1 are 143.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/LS-775


    

    
    (Release ID: 1539730) Visitor Counter : 1157