      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      The Ministry Of Tribal Affairs is currently running 9 schemes for welfare of tribal students
      Posted On: 23 JUL 2018 5:28PM by PIB Delhi


    There are 9 numbers of schemes currently being run by the Ministry for the tribal students. The names of these schemes are given below.

                                                                                           
Sl.No.  Name of Scheme                                                                     
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
1       Pre-Matric Scholarship for ST students                                             
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
2       Post Matric Scholarship for ST students                                            
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
3       National Overseas Scholarship (NOS) for ST students                                
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
4       National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education for ST students           
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
5       Grants-in-Aid to Voluntary Organisation working for the welfare of Scheduled Tribes
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
6       Strengthening Education among ST girls in Low Literacy Districts                   
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
7       Grants under Article 275(1) of the Constitution                                    
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
8       Development of Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups                               
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
                                                                                           
9       Special Central Assistance to Tribal Sub Scheme*                                   
                                                                                           
                                                                                           

    Most of the schemes/activities are demand driven. Funds are not allocated State-wise under these schemes. However, State-wise funds are approved under certain schemes like Grants under Article 275(1) of the Constitution for Eklavya Model Residential Schools to provide quality middle and high school level education to Scheduled Tribe students in remote areas, Development of Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups for education activities and Special Central Assistance to Tribal Sub Scheme for Boys & Girls Hostels for STs and other educational activities. Proposals are received from State Governments and are placed before Project Appraisal Committee (PAC) in the Ministry for appraisal and approval and funds are released accordingly.


    Since, these are ongoing schemes, no timeline has been fixed . However, the Scholarship for Higher Education component under the scheme “National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education for ST students” is an on board scheme and the timelines are as per National Scholarship Portal. As for Fellowships and National Overseas Scholarships, disbursements of scholarship for renewal are a continuous process and for fresh candidates disbursement is subject to selection for the year as per the scheme guidelines.


    This information was given by the Union Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Shri. Jaswantsinh Bhabhor in Lok Sabha today


    *****


    NB/RN/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1539691) Visitor Counter : 648