      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      29 States/UTs have notified District Officers and constituted Local Complaint Committee under Sexual Harassment at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013: Dr. Virendra Kumar
      Posted On: 30 JUL 2018 6:18PM by PIB Delhi


    The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 came into force on 9 th December 2013. The Act covers all women, irrespective of their age or employment status and protects them against sexual harassment at all workplaces both in public and private sector, whether organized or unorganized. The Act mandates all the workplace having more than 10 workers to constitute Internal Complaint Committee (ICC) for receiving complaints of sexual harassment. Similarly, the Appropriate Government is authorized to constitute Local Complaint Committee (LCC) in every district which will receive complaints from organizations having less than 10 workers or if the complaint is against the employer himself.


    So far, 29 States/UTs have notified District Officers and constituted Local Complaint Committee under Sexual Harassment at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.


    Ministry of Women and Child Development issues advisories from time to time to all States/UTs Government, Ministries/Departments in Government of India and leading business organisation Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India (ASSOCHAM), Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Confederation of Indian Society, Chamber of Commerce & Industry (CCI), and National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM)to ensure effective implementation of the Act.


    Further, all Ministries/Departments of Government of India and States/UTs have been requested to organize workshops and awareness programmes in their Departments/Offices for sensitizing the employees about the provision of this Act.Besides,all States/UTs Governments have also been requested to advise the Secretary Industries/Commerce to organize similar workshops and awareness programmes each and every industry, business house, private sector entity of the States/UTs.


    The Ministry has launched an online complaint management system titled Sexual Harassment electronic–Box (SHe-Box) for registering complaints related to sexual harassment at workplace of all women employees in the country, including government and private employees.


    Apart from the above, in order to create wide spread awareness about the Act across the country, both in organized and unorganized sectors, Ministry of Women and Child Development has identified a pool of 223 Resource Institutions to provide capacity building programmes i.e. training, workshops, etc., on the issue of sexual harassment at workplace.


    The above Information was given by Minister of State for Women and Child Development, DR. VIRENDRA KUMAR in reply to an Unstarred Question in the Lok Sabha, today.


    NB/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540703) Visitor Counter : 354