      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Shri Ramdas Athawale inaugurates “Awareness-Cum-Health Camp for Safai Karamcahris of NDMC” organized by NCSK
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2018 4:26PM by PIB Delhi


    National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (NCSK) in collaboration with the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and National Safai Karamcharis Finance and Development Corporation (NSKFDC), organised an Awareness-cum-Health Camp for Safai Karamcharis of NDMC today in the Convention Centre, NDMC, Palika Kendra, Sansad Marg, New Delhi. Shri Ramdas Athawale Minister for State in the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment was the Chief Guest for occasion. The Commission led by its Chairman Shri Manhar Valji Bhai Zala, Chairman and Shri Dilip K. Hathibed, Shri Jagdish Hiremani and Smt. Manju Diler, Members of the Commission attended the camp. Shri K. Narayan-Managing Director, National Safai Karamcharis Finance and Development Corporation and Shri Naresh Kumar, Chairman, New Delhi Municipal Council were also present on the occasion.


    The Chairman, NCSK along with its members felicitated 4 Safai Karamcharis from each of the 14 circles of NDMC for their devotion to duty and contribution in helping the Council to bag 4 th position in the Swacchh Bharat Ranking and for being adjudged as the Cleanest Small City in the Swacchh Survekshan-2018. These Safai karamcharis were honoured with citation plaque and a set of safety gears.


    Applauding the efforts of the Safai Karamcharis of the Council in particular and others in general, the Shri Ramdas Athawale expressed hope that they will continue the good work and assured that their genuine demands/concerns would be addressed by the Government. Shri Manhar Valji Bhai Zala, Chairman, NCSK congratulated the Council for its achievement and informed the participants about the new initiatives like launching of web/mobile based on line complaint system, holding of meetings with senior officers of all States on issues relating to Safai Karamcharis etc. taken recently by the Commission for welfare of Safai Karamcharis. He exhorted the Safai Karamcharis present on the occasion to make full use of these schemes. He particularly emphasized on the need for Safai Karamcharis to give good education to their children so that they can lead respectable life.


    Shri K. Narayan, MD, NSKFDC apprised the participants about various schemes being run by the Corporation for the welfare of Safai Karamcharis and their children. The event concluded with a Health Camp which was organized by National Safai Karamcharis Finance and Development Corporation. A large number of Safai Karamacharis underwent elementary health tests in the Camp.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E-/31-7-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540830) Visitor Counter : 362