      Department of Atomic Energy

      Nuclear Power Station
      Posted On: 25 JUL 2018 4:45PM by PIB Delhi


    There have been sporadic protests by a section of the locals against setting up of the nuclear power plant at Jaitapur. Groups ideologically opposed to nuclear power have also protested against the project. The protests have mainly been on account of issues related to Rehabilitation, apprehensions about safety of the plant and loss of traditional means of livelihood .


    The current status of Jaitapur Nuclear Power Project (JNPP) is as follows:


         1. Land for the project and residential township has been acquired.


         2. Agreement for Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) package has been signed between Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd. (NPCIL) and the State Government, and is being implemented.

         3. Statutory Environmental and Costal Regulation Zone (CRZ) clearances have been obtained from MoEF&CC.
         4. Site infrastructure and technology independent site investigation works are in progress at various stages.
         5. Discussions of NPCIL with EDF on Techno-Commercial Proposal (TCP) for setting up 6 EPR units to arrive at a project proposal, in line with the Industrial Way Forward Agreement (IWFA) are in progress.
         6. Neighbourhood welfare and Public Awareness activities are in progress.

    In the aftermath of the Fukushima accident in 2011, Germany had shutdown 8 nuclear power reactors that had completed their economic life and announced a plan for gradual phase out of the remaining 9 by 2022. Switzerland had also announced a gradual phase out of nuclear power. These decisions are country specific and depend on factors like the country’s nuclear and energy policies, requirements, availability of various energy options, market conditions etc. However, most countries with nuclear power programmes are continuing with their programmes. At present there are 453 reactors in operation (including 7 in Germany) and 57 reactors under construction in the world. Several new entrants like Bangladesh, UAE, Belarus, Turkey have embarked on nuclear power. It may be also mentioned that Japan has also started operating eight reactors which were shutdown following the accident.


    Nuclear power is clean and carbon free energy with huge potential that can provide the country long term energy security in a sustainable manner. Considering the huge and growing electricity demand of the country, nuclear power projects including Jaitapur will therefore be pursued.


    This information was provided by the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK/KGS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1540093) Visitor Counter : 1236
    
    
    
    
    

6.