      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      National Monitoring Committee has been set up to look into issues related to displacement, compensation, payment and resettlement including those of tribal persons
      Posted On: 26 JUL 2018 6:01PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Land Resources in the Ministry of Rural Development is the nodal agency for matters relating to land acquisition. Acquisition of land for various projects is done by concerned State Governments/ UT Administrations as per provisions laid down in the Land Rehabilitation Act, 1894 as well as under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (RFCTLARR Act, 2013). Further, the Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation is the nodal Ministry for implementing irrigation and Water Resources Projects in the country. Representations have been received during the last 60 days in connection with the displacement of people due to Polavaram Dam, Andhra Pradesh.


    As per information obtained from the Government of Andhra Pradesh through the Department of Land Resources, land was acquired for construction of power House of Polavaram Project as per land Acquisition Act, 1894 and compensation for land and properties and rehabilitation and resettlement (R&R) benefits were extended to both tribal and non-tribals prior to 2012 as per Andhra Pradesh Rehabilitation and Resettlement (AP R&R) Policy, 2005.


    The Government of Andhra Pradesh is committed to extend all benefits as per the provisions of Land Acquisition Act, 1894 upto 31.12.2013 and as per Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (RFCTLARR Act, 2013) beyond this date.


    To ensure adequate compensation and timely and proper rehabilitation of displaced tribal people across the country, the Government has made special provisions in the “Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (RFCTLARR) Act, 2013”. As per the Act, as far as possible, no land is to be acquired in the scheduled area except as last resort. In case acquisition or alienation of any land in the Scheduled Areas, prior consent of Gram Sabha or the Panchayat or the Autonomous District Councils, as the case may be, are required to be obtained. The Act also lays down procedure and manner of rehabilitation and resettlement (R&R) wherein R&R is an integral part of the land acquisition plan itself. Chapter-V and VI of the said Act contain detailed provisions for R&R awards and their implementation. The provisions of employment under the RFCTLARR Act, 2013 cover those whose land has been acquired after 31.12.2013.


    In accordance with the provisions of Section 48 of the RFCTLARR Act, 2013 a National Monitoring Committee has been set up under the Chairmanship of Secretary, Department of Land Resources in the Ministry of Rural Development for reviewing and monitoring the implementation of Rehabilitation and Resettlement Scheme, looking into issues related to displacement of people, payment of compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement, and the status of land acquisition.


    This information was given by the Union Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Shri. Sudarshan Bhagat in Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/RN


    

    
    (Release ID: 1540328) Visitor Counter : 523