      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Act according to the letter and spirit of law without waiting for orders: Dr Kiran Bedi to young police officers
      Posted On: 27 JUL 2018 7:03PM by PIB Delhi


    Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry, Dr Kiran Bedi has asked young police officers to be always remain true to the spirit of serving the police force since it concerns the safety of life, liberty and well-being of every citizen. She advised them to always act according to the letter and spirit of law without waiting for orders from their superiors.


    She said that the Superintendents of Police shoulder a great responsibility are as they are the leaders on the ground while senior officers play supervisory role. She exhorted them to start their day early in the morning and follow a strict daily regimen of going to the field and meeting with the people.


    Dr Bedi, who is a distinguished former Indian Police Service officer, was delivering the Valedictory address to the 2 nd Conference of Young Superintendents of Police, organised by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D) in collaboration with Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FICCI).


    Dr Bedi was all praise for the BPR&D for bringing together young police officers and technologically advanced companies dealing in security equipment besides the experts in this field. She recalled her days with BPR&D as its chief and expressed satisfaction over its growth in the following years. About the two-day conference of young SPs, she said that this should be made mandatory for every SP instead of limiting it to only 100 of them. She further suggested that BPR&D should start one-time training for the benefit of the entire police force on relevant subjects by use of appropriate technology.


    Director-General, BPR&D, Dr AP Maheshwari hailed Dr Bedi as a symbol of women’s empowerment besides being a Magsaysay Award winner and an extraordinary police officer. At the end of the two-day conference, Dr Maheshwari had a word of caution regarding the use of technology by saying that the person who uses it has to always make a judicious use of the technology so that it serves its intended purpose of public good. He cited the example of the farm sector where after indiscriminate use of chemical fertilizers, farmers are being encouraged to return to organic farming.


    Dr Maheshwari said that an institution like the BPR&D should be set up at the State-level to meet the growing needs of the State Police Forces and train the police personnel as per the local needs and conditions.


    Additional Director General, BPR&D, Shri VH Deshmukh presented an overview of the two-day conference and the technological exposition, Police Expo-2018, organised in collaboration with FICCI. He said that about 65 firms dealing in security related state-of the-art technology firms participated in the event. As for the origins of the Young SPs Conference, Shri Deshmukh said that it was introduced at the behest of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi who directed during the Annual Conference of Directors General and Inspectors General of Police held at Bhuj in 2015 that the young police officers should be trained and made familiar with the latest technology.


    The first Young SPs Conference was held in 2017 and this was the second such event. This time the conference was inaugurated by the Union Home Minister yesterday. Addressing the conference, Shri Rajnath Singh said that police face myriad challenges spread from mainland to coastline and the nature of the crime which policemen tackle nowadays has become complex. Better coordination between different entities with optimum use of technology can ensure better security. This is why exposure of young police officers to emerging technologies and interface with domain experts is very important, he said.


    The conference and the Police Expo concluded today with the Vote of Thanks by Shri Dilip Chenoy, Secretary-General, FICCI.


    *****


    BB/NK/PK/KGS/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1540494) Visitor Counter : 371