      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Healthcare Facilities for Weaker Sections
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2018 1:09PM by PIB Delhi


    Dr. Ambedkar Foundation, an autonomous organization under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment implements Medical Aid Scheme with the objective to extend aid in the form of grants to the patients belonging to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes suffering from serious ailments requiring surgery of Kidney, Heart, Liver, Cancer and Brain or any other life threatening diseases including organ transplant and spinal surgery, whose annual family income is not more than Rs.3.0 lakh. The scheme is implemented through designated Hospitals in the country. The information about the scheme under the Dr. Ambedkar Foundation is disseminated through its website and Dr. Ambedkar Chairs established in different Universities in the country.


    Public Health and Hospitals being a state subject, the primary responsibility of providing better healthcare facilities to all including weaker sections is that of respective State Government. Under National Health Mission (NHM) with its two sub Missions, National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) and National Urban Health Mission (NUHM) technical and financial support is provided to States/ UTs for provision of affordable, accessible and quality healthcare to all including weaker sections. Under NHM support is also provided for host of free services relating to maternal & child health, immunization, communicable disease control programmes, prevention and management of non-communicable diseases, strengthening health systems such as physical infrastructure, augmenting health human resource on contractual basis, free ambulances services, Free essential Drugs & Diagnostic, free dialysis services to the poor etc.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Vijay Sampla in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E-1/31-7-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540788) Visitor Counter : 573
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Bengali , Tamil