      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      15 STP Projects Completed in Uttarakhand, Work on 16 More being Expedited
      
      Shri Gadkari Directs Officials to Complete All Namami Gange Projects by December 2018

      Posted On: 31 JUL 2018 3:36PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Nitin Gadkari instructed officials and contractors related to Uttarakhand Namami Gange Project to complete all STPs, ghat and crematoria projects by December 2018 in a review meeting in New Delhi yesterday. The Minister said that officials should work in close cooperation with State Government, District Administration and Municipal Corporation for smooth completion of the projects. He said that Bihar and West Bengal governments are giving monetary help to house holders for House Service Connections (HSC’s). He instructed officials to take up the issue with Uttarakhnad State Government and link the HSC’s with main sewer line as quickly as possible.


    16 out of 31 sanctioned STP projects in Uttarakhand are complete and work is in progress on the remaining 15 STPs. Projected sewerage generation in the year 2035 in Uttarakhand is 122 MLD while the existing treatment capacity is 97.6 MLD. The projects under implementation will create a capacity for treating 131.7 MLD sewage after completion.


    In Haridwar there are four projects under implementation. These include I&D project at Jagjeetpur and Sawai (17.1 KM), STP (Hybrid Annuity Based PPP) at Jagjeetpur and Sewer Network Project at Arihant Vihar and New Vishnu Garden, Kankhal . The city generates 74 MLD of sewerage. The existing capacity is 63 MLD. The ongoing projects will create 82 MLD capacity, so after completion of these projects, the city will have a treatment capacity of 127 MLD.


    Other projects under construction in Uttarakhand include one STP and I&D at Muni Ki Reti, two STP projects in Rishikesh, O&M work at Tehri, upgradation of STP at Uttarkashi, , one STP and I&D, and one upgradation at Srinagar and STP and I&D projects at Rudraprayag, Karnprayag, Nandprayag, Chamoli-Gopeshwar, Joshimath and Badrinath. In addition to these, STP projects at Tapovan Devprayag, Gangotri, Kirtinagar have already been completed


    I&D works at Dehradun, STP work at Srikot and work of Loknath Nala, Haridwar have been undertaken in 2018-19. DPRs are under preparation for these projects.


    Apart from construction of new STP’s, upgradation of old STP’s and I&D works, 21 ghat and 22 crematoria projects are also going on. Of these, work at 10 ghats and 9 crematoria are complete, and the rest will be completed by the end of this year.


    Almost all the contractors assured the Minister that no clearances, permissions and formalities are pending and after the rainy season work will move on in full swing. Senior officials also assured the Minister that they would complete all the projects till December 2018 baring few difficult locations were work is being delayed due to cutting rocks & sloppy hills.


    Shri Gadkari also suggested that the possibility of using treated sewage water in industries in Dehradun and Haridwar and for irrigation purposes should be explored.


    Minister of State for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Dr. Satya Pal Singh, Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri U.P. Singh, Director General, National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) Shri Rajiv Ranjan Mishra and other senior officials of Ministry and Uttarakhand were also present in the meeting.


    ****


    NP/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540812) Visitor Counter : 331
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi