      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      3rd BRICS Film Festival concluded with India Day
      
      ‘Newton’ bags honour at BRICS Film Festival
      
      Posted On: 30 JUL 2018 5:20PM by PIB Delhi


    The 3 rd BRICS Film Festival took place in Durban, South Africa, along with the International Durban Film Festival (DIFF) from 22-27 th July, 2018. The last day of the festival was celebrated as India Country Day, followed by Awards and Closing Ceremony.


    Awards won by Indian films in the 3 rd BRICS Film Festival, Durban, South Africa

     1. Best Actress: Bhanita Das , Village Rockstars
     2. Best Film: Newton by Amit Masurkar
     3. Special Jury Award: Village Rockstars by Rima Das

    The festival screened four Indian Films in the following category


    Films in Competition Section:

     1. Newton by Amit Masurkar
     2. Village Rock Stars by Rima Das

    Films in Non-competition Section:

     1. Sinjar by Sandeep Pampally
     2. Bhanayakam by Jayaraj

    BRICS Film Festival:


    The film festival is aimed at celebrating world-class film productions from the BRICS nations with the objective of inspiring more collaboration from these nations. The format of the festival consisted of screening two feature films from each country in the competition category and three feature films in the non-competition category. A total of twenty-four films were screened during the duration of the festival.


    The films in competition competed for the Golden Rhino award, inspired by the history behind the golden rhino that was discovered in Mapungubwe, the significance of the place, and the linkages with other countries in earlier centuries. The 3 rd BRICS Film Festival had recognized the following categories - Best Film, Best Producer/s, Best Director, Best Script, Writer / Screenplay writer, Best Actor, Best Actress, Best Supporting Actor, Best Supporting Actress, Best Editor, Best Cinematography / Director of Photography (DOP), Best Composer / Music, Special Jury award.


    The Indian Delegation was headed by Shri Manoj Kumar Pingua, Joint Secretary (EW), Ministry of Information and Broadcasting & MD, NFDC and Shri Raja Chhinal, Deputy General Manager (East), NFDC


    ***


    AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540670) Visitor Counter : 2869
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali
    
    
    

2.