      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Socio-Economic Facilities to Minorities
      Posted On: 25 JUL 2018 4:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Minority Concentration Areas (MCAs) namely Minority Concentration Blocks (MCB), Minority Concentration Towns (MCT), Minority Concentration District Head Quarters (MCD Hq) are relatively backward and have been identified on the basis of select socio-economic and basic amenities parameters of Census 2011 data by identifying areas having more than 25% minority population, where socio-economic or basic amenities parameters are found below the national average. While the national average of backwardness parameters in respect of MCD Hqs, MCBs, and MCTs was 56.91, 55.86, 58.42 respectively, the backwardness average of identified MCD Hqs, MCBs and MCTs was 40.05, 39.15 and 39.27 respectively. These areas have been identified for implementation of Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karyakram (PMJVK) to improve such parameters which are below the national average by focusing on the areas of education, health and skill development, apart from the other areas, wherever need is felt.


    The problems of minorities are addressed by the Government through various schemes/programmes/initiatives which are implemented in the state and UTs. The schemes/ programmes implemented by this Ministry for the minority communities notified under section 2(c) of the NCM Act 1992 viz Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains and Parsis are as under:-

     1. Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karyakram (PMJVK) [restructured Multi-sectoral Development Programme (MsDP)] - implemented in identified Minority Concentration Blocks, Minority Concentration Towns, Minority Concentration District Hqs & Clusters of Villages for infrastructure development.
     2. Pre-Matric Scholarship Scheme, Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme and Merit-cum-Means based Scholarship Scheme – for educational empowerment.
     3. Maulana Azad National Fellowship – for research fellows empowerment.
     1. “Naya Savera” Free coaching and Allied Scheme - to enhance skills and knowledge of students and candidates for employment through competitive examination and admission in technical and professional courses.
     2. Padho Pardes – Scheme for interest subsidy on educational loans for overseas studies in technical and professional courses.
     3. Nai Udaan - Support for students clearing Preliminary Examination conducted by UPSC, SSC, State Public Service Commission (PSC), etc.
     4. Jiyo Parsi – Scheme for containing population decline of Parsis.
     5. Nai Roshni – Scheme for leadership development of minority women.
     6. Seekho Aur Kamao – Skill development initiative for minorities.
     7. Nai Manzil – Scheme for formal school education & skilling of school dropouts.
     8. USTTAD - Upgrading the Skills and Training in Traditional Arts/Crafts for Development.
     1. Hamari Dharohar - Scheme to preserve rich heritage of minority Communities under the overall concept of Indian Culture.
     2. Grants-in-Aid to Maulana Azad Education Foundation (MAEF) for implementation of education and skill related schemes.
     3. Garib Nawaz Skill Development Centre Scheme.
     4. Equity to National Minorities Development and Finance Corporation (NMDFC) for providing loans at concessional interest rates to minorities for self-employment and income generating activities.

    Details of the schemes and the achievements in respect of the schemes are available on the website of this Ministry (www. minorityaffairs.gov.in, on the website of MAEF ( www.maef.nic.in ) and, on the website of NMDFC ( www.nmdfc.org ).


    This information was given by Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    JN/FH/IA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1540088) Visitor Counter : 415
    
    
    
    
    

4.