      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Delay in Construction of Border Roads
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2018 4:26PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government has undertaken construction of 73 roads of operational significance along Indo-China border. Out of 73 roads, 48 roads are being constructed by Ministry of Defence (MoD) and 25 roads by Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Out of 73 roads, 34 roads have been completed. The construction of roads is a dynamic process which takes into account various challenges faced by executing agencies like tough working condition, inhospitable terrain, non-availability of construction material, mobilization of goods and logistic and vulnerability of the area to natural calamity, earthquake, landslide etc.


    The progress of roads being constructed by MHA are reviewed and monitored from time to time. The Committee constituted under the Chairmanship of Special Secretary (Border Management), MHA meets periodically to sort out various bottlenecks in the implementation of the project with all agencies concerned including State Governments.


    Empowered Committee has also been constituted by the States of Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Tripura to resolve issues related to land acquisition, forest/wild clearance, allotment of quarries etc.


    Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change has accorded general approval under Section (2) of the Forest (Conservation) Act 1980 for diversion of forest land for construction and widening of border roads in the areas falling within 100 Kms aerial distance from the Line of Actual Control (LAC).


    MoD has given enhanced financial and administrative powers to executives of BRO and also allowed outsourcing to augment the capacity of BRO.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju in a written reply to question in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK/VKB/2269


    

    
    (Release ID: 1540829) Visitor Counter : 332