      Ministry of Railways

      Manufacturing of Trainsets in Railways
      Posted On: 25 JUL 2018 5:01PM by PIB Delhi


    Integral Coach Factory (ICF)/Chennai is manufacturing Trainset which will be a self – propelled train. ICF will manufacture 6 train sets. The first two Trainsets will be turned out of ICF during 2018-19. The cost of one Trainset coach is about ` 6 Crore. These Trainsets are likely to be inducted in day journey and overnight journey trains.


    The above planned Trainsets are being produced in-house by ICF. So far, no short-listing of companies/firms has been done for supply of new trains.


    Indian Railways has already taken a decision not to manufacture ICF design coaches from April 2018 onwards. After completing their codal life, ICF coaches will be progressively replaced by Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches, Trainsets and Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) trains. Railway Production Units are already producing LHB coaches and MEMUs ‘in-house’.


    Following contract agreements was signed by Ministry of Railways on 30.11.2015 for long term Procurement cum Maintenance of state of the art, high horse power locomotives under Make in India’ initiative:


    (i) Ministry of Railways entered into a long term Procurement-cum-Maintenance with Madhepura Electric Locomotive Private Limited (MELPL), a joint venture Company of Ministry of Railways (26% equity participation limited to ` 100 crore) and Alstom Manufacturing India Limited (74% equity participation) for setting up of electric Locomotive Factory at Madhepura, Bihar and Procurement cum Maintenance of electric Locomotives.


    The company is required to supply 800 high horse power electric locomotives (12000 horse power) to Indian Railways over a period of 11 years. One prototype locomotive has already been supplied by the company.


    These locomotives have advanced features like improved energy efficiency, high reliability & availability, air conditioned cab etc.


    (ii) Ministry of Railways entered into a long term Procurement-cum-Maintenance agreement with GE Diesel Locomotive Private Limited (GEDLPL), a joint venture company of Ministry of Railways (26% equity participation limited to ` 100 Crore) and GE Global Sourcing India Private Limited (74% equity participation) for setting up Diesel Locomotive Factory at Marhowra, Bihar and Procurement and Maintenance of Mainline Diesel Electric Locomotives.


    These Diesel Locomotives have advanced featured like improved fuel efficiency, environment-friendly, having electronic fuel injection system, higher reliability & availability, air conditioned cab etc.


    The Company is required to supply 1000 high horse power Diesel Locomotives (700 locomotives of 4500 horse power and 300 locomotives of 6000 horse power) to Indian Railways over a period of 11 years. Two prototype locomotives have already been supplied by the Company.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Railways, Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540102) Visitor Counter : 479