      Ministry of Railways

      Passenger Amenities and Cleanliness in Trains and Toilets
      Posted On: 30 JUL 2018 3:26PM by PIB Delhi


    Provision of adequate passenger amenities and cleanliness is a continuous process and every endeavour is made to keep the coaches including toilets in a clean condition. However, few complaints regarding cleanliness in coaches and foul smell from toilets are received from time to time. Foul smell in bio-toilets is generally due to improper use by passengers. For this, corrective measures are being taken.


    All efforts are made by Indian Railways (IR) to address the complaints enroute and during coaching depot maintenance.


    Several initiatives have been taken by IR towards improvement of cleanliness in coaches, including sleeper class coaches. Some of them are listed below:

     1. Cleaning of coaches including toilets of trains at both ends including mechanized cleaning.
     2. On Board Housekeeping Service (OBHS) has been provided in more than 1000 pairs of trains including Rajdhani, Shatabdi and other important long distance Mail/Express trains for cleaning of coach toilets, doorways, aisles and passenger compartments during the run of the trains.
     3. In ‘Clean My Coach’ scheme, for any cleaning requirement in the coach in trains having OBHS service, passenger can send a message through mobile (SMS) on a specified mobile number. Alternatively, passenger can also use an android app or webpage for logging the request.
     4. ‘Clean My Coach’ service is now being upgraded to ‘Coach Mitra’ facility which is a single window interface to register coach related requirements of passengers such as cleaning, disinfection, linen, train lighting, air conditioning and watering of coaches. ‘Coach Mitra’ facility has been introduced in about 900 pairs of trains.
     5. Clean Train Station (CTS) scheme has also been prescribed for limited mechanized cleaning attention to identified trains including cleaning of toilets during their scheduled stoppages enroute at nominated stations.
     6. Provision for dustbins is also being made in sleeper class coaches of trains in addition to Air Conditioned Coaches.
     7. Provision of mugs with chains has also been made in toilets of sleeper class coaches.
     8. Steps are being taken to improve ventilation in bio-toilets and provide dustbin inside toilets. Awareness is being created for proper use of bio-toilets.
     9. A third party survey for assessment of cleanliness of 210 important trains is presently being carried out.

    This information was given by the Minister of State of Railways Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    SVS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540622) Visitor Counter : 320
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali , Tamil
    
    
    

9.