      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Declaring SAI Stadia as “Plastic Free Zones”
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2018 6:38PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports are celebrating Swachhta Pakhwada from 1st to 15th August, 2018 under the Swachh Bharat Mission Programme of Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation. On this occasion, Department of Sports has taken two major initiatives.


    First initiative will be for making all five SAI Stadia namely Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium, Indira Gandhi Stadium Complex, Dr. Karni Singh Shooting Range and Dr. SPM Swimming Pool Complex as “Plastic Free Zone”. This initiative will start on the 1st August, 2018 and by the 2nd October, 2018, these five Stadia will strengthen its internal organizational set up like availability of drinking water facilities at appropriate place, alternative to disposable plastic materials, suitable arrangements of waste disposal, proper sensitization of user and staff of the Stadia, etc. towards implementation of plastic free zone.


    Banners/Posters/Standees, etc. with appropriate slogans will be displayed properly at the entrance and other suitable places in the Stadia for creating awareness amongst the users of the facilities of Stadia. Users of the Stadia like SAI Trainees, Sportspersons, SAI Officials, etc. will be allowed to carry non-disposable plastic items such as regular water bottles, tiffins, etc. They will be sensitized against the use of the disposable plastics.


    Second initiative will be for giving Swachhta Rank to these Stadia namely Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium, Indira Gandhi Stadium Complex, Dr. Karni Singh Shooting Range and Dr. SPM Swimming Pool Complex on the implementation of Swachhta activities carried out during the Swachhta Pakhwada based on the following parameters:

     1. Cleanliness of the premises
     2. Sanitization standard of the toilets complex/stadia
     3. Functioning level of drainage system in the premises
     4. Drinking water facilities
     5. Tree plantation and maintenance of its growth
     6. Proper trimming of existing trees/plants, etc. in the premises
     7. Waste management system/facilities
     8. Involvement of complex/stadia in Swachhta activities of neighbouring areas of the complex.
     9. Replacement of old lamps with LED lights.

    Director General (SAI) will form a Committee, who will visit all Stadia during the Pakhwada and prepare a rank-wise list. Top three Stadia will be conferred Swachhta Awards on 2 nd October, 2018 at the Birth Anniversary of Rashtrapita Mahatma Gandhi.


    *****


    AD/

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540905) Visitor Counter : 413
    
    
    
    
    

9.