      AYUSH

      Shri Shripad Yesso Naik lays the foundation stone of the 2nd Phase of construction of NEIAH in Shillong
      
      NEIAH can become the hub for medical Research & Development for the Entire Southeast Asia: Shri Naik

      Posted On: 30 JUL 2018 5:01PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH Shri Shripad Yesso Naik laid the foundation stone of the 2nd Phase of Construction of North East Institute of Ayurveda & Homeopathy (NEIAH) at NEIAH Campus, Mawdiangdiang, Shillong on 29 th July 2018. The approximate estimated cost of the construction is Rs 40.80 crore for an area of 10481.53 sqm and will comprise of residential accommodation for students, doctors and staff and guest house.


    The minister expressed that the 2 nd phase will cater some of the basic needs of students, doctors and employee of the institute. The Minister, while acknowledging the satisfactory performance of the institute since its start in 2016, said that this institute will be able to produce quality human resources which will directly benefit the health care system of the region. This will also motivate people for cultivation and preservation of valuable medicinal plants in the region and it will be possible to promote and preserve the traditional knowledge of folk medicine, he added.


    The Minister opined that the NEIAH can be the hub for researches in Ayurveda and folk medicine for the entire South East Asia. He appreciated the fact that the presence of premier institutes like NEHU, NIT Shillong and IIM in close vicinity can aid in researches for better health care in the region. He also said that AYUSH has the potential for development of the entire North East region through health care, medical tourism and international trade for cultivation, processing and marketing of medical plant based on the available flora and fauna in the climatic condition of the region.


    On this occasion, Shri Roshan Jaggi Joint secretary, Ministry of AYUSH, said that AYUSH is very keen to strengthen the basic medical infrastructure of the institutes in the Northeast region so that good health care is easily accessible to the people of the region. He also informed the gathering of the plans of the AYUSH ministry to organise an International fair for medicinal plant entrepreneurs and experts to explore the biodiversity in the field which will help in adding value to their products and establish chains for export of these medicines.


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540664) Visitor Counter : 507