      Ministry of Education

      Government is considering introduction of B.A. (Professional), B.Sc (Professional) & B.Com (Professional)
      Posted On: 30 JUL 2018 6:41PM by PIB Delhi


    The matter of introduction of B.A. (Professional), B.Sc. (Professional) and B.Com. (Professional) by the Government is under consideration.


    The other steps taken by the Government to enhance the employability of graduate courses offered in the country are: -

     1. Community Colleges programme for training school drop outs and other youth in a mix of knowledge and vocational skills through AICTE and UGC approved institutions spread over the country. They comprise 40% General and 60% Skill components. These are courses of a flexible nature which, through an appropriate credit system, also enable secondary school drop outs to re-enter three year courses on successful completion.
     2. B.Voc. Degree is a regular 3 years’ degree recognized by UGC where vocational education is imparted in 85 trades of different industry sectors in the country. 40% of the course is general while 60% is skill based. The skill content is in accordance with the National Occupational Standards developed by Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship. Courses from Levels 1 to 6 in the National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) are offered in B.Voc courses.
     3. Under Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY-TI), a substantial number of Indian youth are given short term, industry relevant skill training which enables them to take up a livelihood means. The technical dimension of PMKVY are run through AICTE affiliated institutions.
     1. There are 63 Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Kaushal Kendras in the country offering advanced skills of Levels 5 and above in the NSQF. These kendras, in addition to skilling, also work between Higher Education System and Industry as Centers of Excellence in Skill Development in specialised areas.

    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Shri Upendra Kushwaha today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/YP/AK/LS-1915

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540717) Visitor Counter : 390
    
    
    
    
    

1.