      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Many measures in to check cyber crimes against women: Dr. Virendra Kumar
      Posted On: 26 JUL 2018 6:10PM by PIB Delhi


    After consultation on Cyber Crimes in India held on 23.07.2014, National Commission for Women has submitted a report on “Ways and Means to Safeguard Women from Cyber Crimes in India” which inter-alia recommended for stringent law, Policy to discourage hacking activities, dedicated helpline numbers, opening of more cyber cells, and imparting of proper legal, setting up forensic labs and technical training law enforcement agencies like police& judiciary etc. to combat cybercrime.


    The Information Technology Act, 2000 together with Indian Penal Code have adequate provisions to deal withprevailing Cyber Crimes. It provides punishment in the form of imprisonment ranging from two years to lifeimprisonment and fine / penalty depending onthe type of Cyber Crime. However, Government has taken a number of legal, technical and administrative measures to prevent incidents of cybercrimes. These inter alia, include:

     1. Cyber Police Stations and Cyber Crime Cells have been set up in each State for reporting and investigation of Cyber Crime cases.
     2. Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology(MeitY) has setup Cyber Forensics Training Labs in north-eastern States and cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Kolkata and Bangalore to train State police officials and judiciary in cybercrime detection and collection, preservation and seizing of electronic evidence and dealing with cybercrime.
     3. Various steps have been taken by Ministry of Home Affairs, Meity and State Government to modernise the setup and equip police personnel with knowledge and skills for prevention and control of cybercrime through various national and State Police academies/judicial academies and other institutes.
     4. Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology has issued an advisory on functioning of Matrimonial website on 6 th June, 2016 under Information Technology Act, 2000 and Rules made thereunder directing the matrimonial websites to adopt safeguards to ensure that people using these websites are not deceived through the means of fake profiles or misuse/wrong information posted on the website.
     5. The Government has circulated Computer Security Policy and Guidelines to all the Ministries/Departments on taking steps to prevent, detect and mitigate cyber attacks.
     6. A portal namely www.cybercrime.gov.in has been developed by Ministry of Home Affairs to allow public to report cybercrime complaints.

    The above Information was given by Minister of State for Women and Child Development, DR. VIRENDRA KUMAR in reply to an Unstarred Question in the Rajya Sabha, today.


    ******


    NB/PS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1540340) Visitor Counter : 1153
    
    
    
    
    

6.