      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Current Status of implementation of Petroleum, Chemical and Petrochemical Investment Regions (PCPIRs) projects in India
      
      Projected Investment on full realization of PCPIRs is Rs. 7.63 lakh crore and employment generation is expected for around 33.96 lakh persons: Shri Rao Inderjit Singh
      
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2018 2:36PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of State for Planning ( IC ) and Chem icals & Fertilizers, Shri Rao Inderjit Singh, in a written reply to a question on current status of implementation of Petroleum, Chemical and Petrochemical Investment Regions (PCPIRs) projects in India, in Lok Sabha today, informed that as per Detailed Project Reports (DPRs), the projected investment on full realization of PCPIRs is Rs. 7.63 lakh crore and employment generation is expected for around 33.96 lakh persons (direct and indirect).


    The Minister informed that as per the policy resolution on PCPIRs, a PCPIR is a specifically delineated investment region with an area of around 250 square kilometers. The actual notified area in respect of the four PCPIRs namely Dahej (Gujarat), Vishakhapatnam–Kakinada (Andhra Pradesh), Paradeep (Odisha) and Cuddalore and Nagapattinam (Tamil Nadu) is as follows:

                                                                       
PCPIRs                                   Total Area (Square Kilometers)
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Dahej, Gujarat                           453.00                        
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Vishakhapatnam–Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh  640.00                        
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Paradeep, Odisha                         284.15                        
                                                                       
                                                                       
                                                                       
Cuddalore and Nagapattinam, Tamil Nadu   256.83                        
                                                                       
                                                                       

    Shri Singh informed about the progress made and implementation status of the above projects, which is as follow:


    Dahej PCPIR: The development plan sanctioned and Environment and Coastal Region Zone Clearance granted by Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change for Dahej PCPIR on 14.09.2017. The actual investment (made/committed) in Gujarat PCPIR is Rs. 85,928 crore and actual employment for 1.32 lakh persons generated. The anchor tenant project i.e. ONGC Petro additions Limited (OPaL)’s cracker stands commissioned in March 2017.


    Andhra Pradesh PCPIR: Draft Master Plan has been completed and published and draft Environmental Impact Assessment Study stands completed. The actual investment (made/committed) in Andhra Pradesh PCPIR is Rs. 43,744 crore and actual employment for 1.11 lakh persons generated.


    Paradeep PCPIR: The draft Master Plan has been prepared and Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) initiated. The actual investment (made/committed) in Paradeep PCPIR is Rs. 45,000 crore and actual employment for 38,000 persons generated. The anchor project i.e. Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL)’s refinery stands commissioned in February 2016.


    Tamil Nadu PCPIR: Upon completion of the Districts level Notification process, the final Notification of the Tamil Nadu PCPIR has been issued by Government of Tamil Nadu on 20.6.2017 notifying the delineated PCPIR area in the Cuddalore and Nagapattinam Districts as a Local Planning Area, under Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act 1971. The actual investment (made/committed) in Tamil Nadu PCPIR is Rs. 8100 crore and actual employment for 13,950 persons generated.


    Informing about the roles of the Central and State Governments for the implementation of the PCPIR projects, Shri Singh stated that the role of Central Government includes granting approval for establishment of PCPIR, ensuring the availability of external physical infrastructure linkages to the PCPIR and supporting the State Governments concerned in promoting domestic and global investment in the PCPIR. The State Government has to play the lead role in setting up of the PCPIR. This includes preparation of the proposal and seeking approval for establishment of PCPIR, providing requisite infrastructure like power connectivity, water requirement, road connectivity, sewerage & effluent treatment linkages and constitution of a Management Board for development and management of the PCPIR.


    *****


    VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540800) Visitor Counter : 599
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Malayalam