      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Dharmendra Pradhan lays the Foundation stone for permanent campus for National Skill Training Institute (NSTI) for Women in Mohali
      
      Launched India’s first in-phone guide and mobile
      application “Go whatsThat” in Chandigarh
      Posted On: 28 JUL 2018 6:27PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill Development &Entrepreneurship Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, laid the foundation stone for permanent campus of National Skill Training Institute (NSTI) for Women at Mohali, Punjab today. This is the first NSTI Institute for Punjab and only one of its kind in India which is exclusively for women. The Minister also launched a unique Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendra (PMKK) which would admit differently abled persons as well, also a first of its kind in India at Mohali. The Institute is presently operating out of temporary campus at Rajpura.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan said that NSTI for women and PMKK for differently abled in Mohali are being launched under “Skill India” initiative of the Government of India under the leadership of Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi. The Minister said that Punjab is naturally gifted in skills of various kind in and is a leader in a many fields in the country. The challenge is to match the skills with the needs of the time and latest techno-economic necessities. He said that NSTI at Mohali would go a long way in setting the skill standards in the country and create appropriate skilled youth suitable for employment. Shri Dharmendra Pradhan added that the scheme of NSTI’s was planned in 2015 and is now being implemented in almost all parts of the country. He said that this NSTI was unique as this would be developed into “Trainers Training Institute”. The institute would not only be imparting training in traditional areas for women like beauty care, cosmetology & fashion design but also in cutting edge technologies of various kinds.


    The land for the project has been given by the farmers of village Saneta near Mohali and the cost of the project is Rs.17 crores. Beside the Union Minister, Member of Parliament, Shri Prem Singh Chandumajra-Sri Anandpur Sahib, Shri Balbir Singh Sidhu, Minister for Animal Husbandary & Dairy Development & Labour, Government of Punjab and Shri Charanjit Singh Channi, Minister for Technical Education and Industrial Training Institutes & Employment Generation, Government of Punjab, were also present on the occasion.


    Later on in the day, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Union Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill Development &Entrepreneurship launched India’s first in-phone guide and mobile application “Go whats That” in Chandigarh today.


    ****


    PS/DW

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540516) Visitor Counter : 648