      Ministry of Education

      An elaborate monitoring mechanism is in place to ensure quality food under MDMS
      Posted On: 30 JUL 2018 6:40PM by PIB Delhi


    Under the Mid Day Meal Scheme, the Central Government started providing 100% Central Assistance for construction of kitchen-cum-stores at a flat rate of Rs. 60,000/- per unit since 2006-07. The norms for kitchen-cum-stores have been revised from the month of December, 2009 and the cost of construction of kitchen-cum-stores is now determined on the basis of plinth area norms and the State Schedule of Rates prevalent in the States and UTs on sharing basis. The revised norms prescribe 20 sq. mtr. plinth area for construction of kitchen-cum-stores in schools having upto 100 children; for every additional 100 children, additional 4 sq. mtr. plinth area will be added. States and UTs have the flexibility to modify the slab of 100 children depending upon local conditions. As per revised norms financial assistance is shared between Centre and States & UTs in prescribed ratio .


    No specific complaints regarding irregularities/corruption/under-utilization of funds meant for construction of kitchen-cum-store have come to the notice of Government of India during the last three years and the current year.


    T he Government has adopted an elaborate monitoring mechanism at Central, State and District levels to ensure quality food is served to children as well as utilisation of funds under the Scheme. At national level, an Empowered Committee, headed by Minister of Human Resource Development and also a National level Steering-cum-Monitoring Committee (NSMC) as well as Programme Approval Board (PAB) monitor the scheme and suggest measures for its smooth and effective implementation. At the State level, a State level Steering–cum-Monitoring Committee headed by the State Chief Secretary and, at the District Level, a District Level Committee under the Chairpersonship of the senior-most Member of Parliament of Lok Sabha of the district monitors the implementation of the scheme in the concerned District. At local level Gram Panchayats/Gram Sabhas, members of Village Education Committees (VECs), Parent-Teacher Associations (PTAs) and the School Management Committees (SMCs) monitor the regularity and wholesomeness of the mid-day meal served to children, cleanliness in cooking and serving of the meal, timeliness in procurement of good quality ingredients, fuel, etc., implementation of variety in menu so as to make it attractive to children and ensuring social and gender equity on daily basis. In addition, the Centre constitutes Joint Review Missions (JRMs) consisting of educational and nutritional experts, which review the scheme through field visits from time to time. The reports of JRMs are shared with concerned States and UTs for taking suitable action on the findings.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Shri Upendra Kushwaha today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/YP/AK/LS-1966

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540716) Visitor Counter : 328