      Ministry of Railways

      Security and Safety of Railway Passengers
      Posted On: 25 JUL 2018 5:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Prevention and detection of crime, registration of First Information Report (FIR), their investigation and maintenance of law & order in railway station premises as well as in running trains are the statutory responsibility of State Governments, which they discharge through the GRP. Railways, through the Railway Protection Force (RPF), are supplementing efforts of respective States to strengthen security of passengers across Indian Railways. Measures initiated by the RPF to strengthen security of passengers include escorting of 2500 trains (on an average daily), in addition to escorting of 2200 such trains by GRP, access control at important stations, operationalisation of Security Help Line number 182, surveillance through Close Circuit Television (CCTV) Cameras provided at about 436 stations, prosecution of offenders under relevant provisions of the Railways Act, 1989, etc. The year 2018 has been declared by the Ministry of Railways as the year of women security for implementation of an Action Plan to strengthen women security. A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), on care and protection of children on railways, has been jointly prepared with the Ministry of Women and Child Development (MoWCD). Under the SOP, Child Help Desks/Kiosks (CHD) have been set up at 35 railway stations and 53 railway stations have been further identified for extension of this scheme. State Level Security Committee for Railways (SLSCR) have been constituted for all State/Union Territories (UTs) under the Chairmanship of respective Director General of Police/ Commissioner of States/ Union Territories for regular monitoring and review of security arrangements for the Railways.


    Safety is accorded the highest priority by Indian Railways and all possible steps are undertaken on a continual basis to prevent accidents and to enhance safety. These include timely replacement of over-aged assets, adoption of suitable technologies for upgradation and maintenance of track, rolling stock, signaling and interlocking systems, safety drives, greater emphasis on training of officials and safety inspections at regular intervals to monitor and educate staff for observance of safe practices. Preventive and predictive maintenance of the Railway assets is undertaken to ensure safe train operation. Safety devices/systems being used to prevent accidents include Electronic Interlocking, track circuiting, provision of Block Proving Axle Counters, Colour Light LED Signals, Train Protection and Warning System, Vigilance Control Device, Fog Pass Device, usage of 52 kg/60 kg, 90 or higher UTS rails and pre-stressed Concrete Sleepers, use of Ultrasonic Flaw Detection of rails and welds at predefined periodicity to detect internal flaws in rails/welds. Electronic monitoring of track geometry is carried out to detect defects and plan maintenance. Steel Channel Sleepers on girder bridges are being used while carrying out primary track renewals. Further, it has been decided to lay Thick webs switches, Weldable Cast Maganese Steel crossings on identified routes. Progressive use of Linke Hofmann Busch Coaches, use of Centre Buffer Couplers with Integral Coach Factory Coaches, etc. Railway tracks are replaced on age-cum-condition basis through track renewal works which is an ongoing process. Other measures include training of loco pilots and other safety category staff, improvement of their working conditions including proper rest and periodic medical examination etc. Besides, patrolling of tracks, footplate inspections and safety reviews at various levels, etc. are regularly conducted to continuously monitor and improve safety aspects of the Indian Railways.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Railways, Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540101) Visitor Counter : 261