      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Col. Rathore urges investors to invest for the development of Sports in the country
      Posted On: 26 JUL 2018 4:12PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of Youth Affairs and sports and Minister of Information and Broadcasting Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore has urged the investors to invest for the development of sports in the country. Addressing SCORECARD 2018 here today, he called upon all stakeholders to come together to take sports to a greater height in the country.Col. Rathore said Sports ministry is trying to create a system wherein local potential is recognized, nurtured and taken to international podium. He said Khelo India scheme launched by the government is very promising for nurturing talent and the concept has been received well by people. He said the government is working on a project that will identify the potential and hone the skills of 8 to 10 years of age in the country and provide them scholarships.


    He said, the government will partner with school boards, state governments and the armed forces to identify and map the physical fitness of 8-10-year-olds based on a simple test. After the first test has been carried out the number of student will be narrowed to 5000 children followed by 1000 students on which super advance tests will be conducted. The right physical talent for the right sport will be identified and Rs 5 lakh scholarship will be given to them for eight years so that by the time the child is 16 years he is ready to be a champion. The minister emphasised that no athlete will have to hesitate before asking for funds as there is no dearth of money for sportspersons.


    Col. Rathore said for the elite sportsmen, TOP (Target Olympic Podium) Scheme has been formulated within the overall ambit of National Sports Development Fund (NSDF) with the objective of identifying and supporting potential medal prospects for Olympic Games.


    The minister said National Sports University, Imphal, Manipur will be the first of its kind to promote sports education for select sports disciplines by adopting best international practices.


    Col. Rathore said that his ministry is also planning a manufacturers' summit later this year, where international companies along with their Indian counterparts will come together and tell the government what policy modifications are required to start manufacturing sport equipment in India.


    ***


    TFK/ CK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540250) Visitor Counter : 311
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Bengali , Tamil