      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Advisor to J&K Governor, Shri K. Vijay Kumar calls on Union Minister Dr Jitendra Singh
      Posted On: 31 JUL 2018 4:49PM by PIB Delhi


    Advisor to Jammu & Kashmir Governor, Shri K. Vijay Kumar called on Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh here today. They discussed a wide range of issues related to administration and development projects in the State.


    During the meeting, Dr Jitendra Singh expressed satisfaction over some of the laudable decisions taken by the State Administration under the Governor’s rule during the last one month. He was particularly appreciative about the clearance given by the State Administrative Council to the "Ujh Multipurpose" project which had been stalled for several decades and for which a new draft was prepared after the intervention by the Centre.


    Dr Jitendra Singh also conveyed his appreciation of the decision to get the Sarpanches of Panchayats elected directly, thus reversing the earlier decision to have an indirect election of the Sarpanches. He said, direct election of Sarpanches is imperative for strengthening genuine grassroots democracy in the local rural bodies.


    Dr Jitendra Singh also made a mention of the Governor's State Administrative Council deciding to implement the Government of India's decision for abolition of interviews for lower posts and said this was long overdue, since the DoPT had issued orders on January 01, 2016. He said, this will offer a level-playing field and equal opportunities to the youth of the State from all strata of society.


    Shri Vijay Kumar also discussed with Dr Jitendra Singh various issues related to Health Department.


    Dr Jitendra Singh suggested that the transfer policy of doctors needs to be formulated and strictly adhered to. He also suggested prioritization of the hospitals, particularly in far-flung areas, where specialist doctors could be posted on priority, instead of allowing overcrowding of doctors in city hospitals.


    Dr Jitendra Singh was also of the strong view that those of the medicos who seek admission to Medical College on the basis of RBA, LoC, etc reservation, should be bound to serve in the same area for at least 10 years after recruitment. In this regard, he cited the Maharashtra model, where any specialist doctor deciding to leave the State, is expected to pay a heavy monetary compensation for walking out of the bond agreement.


    Shri Vijay Kumar gave the Minister a broad resume of several developmental activities taken up at an increased pace during the last one month.


    *****


    BB/PK/NK/KGS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1540849) Visitor Counter : 157
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi