      Ministry of Railways

      Railway Safety Fund
      Posted On: 25 JUL 2018 5:04PM by PIB Delhi


    As announced by Minister of Finance in his Budget Speech 2017-18, a Fund namely ‘Rashtriya Rail Sanraksha Kosh’ has been introduced in 2017-18 for works relating to renewal, replacement, upgradation of critical safety assets under Capital segment of Budget. The Fund has a corpus of ` 1 lakh crore over a period of five years, with an annual outlay of ` 20,000 crore. The Fund is utilized to finance identified works under plan heads Track Renewals, Bridge Works, Signalling and Telecommunication Works, Road Safety Works of Level Crossings and Road Over/Under Bridges, Rolling Stock, Traffic Facilities, Electrical Works, Machinery and Plant, Workshops, Passenger Amenities and Training. The Fund has been introduced in 2017-18 and in the first year of its inception, an expenditure of ` 16091 crore has been incurred. An outlay of ` 20,000 crore has been allocated in Budget Estimates 2018-19 also.


    All safety related measures are taken in full earnestness and all maintenance and other activities are carried out with the help of existing manpower, mechanized means and need based outsourcing.


    Guidelines for operating of ‘Rashtriya Rail Sanraksha Kosh (RRSK) have been issued by Ministry of Finance. These guidelines include sources of financing RRSK, definition of safety works, summary of RRSK works identified, process of identifying/preparation of action plan on safety, approval framework and monitoring framework of RRSK safety plan.


    Planning Directorate of Railway Board has been assigned the task of regularly monitoring physical and financial progress of works funded through ‘RRSK’. In addition, an independent ‘RRSK Monitoring Committee’ has been created headed by CEO, NITI Aayog to regularly examine the RRSK performance. The RRSK progress/performance shall also be reviewed annually by the ‘Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA).


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Railways, Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1540105) Visitor Counter : 787