      Prime Minister's Office

      India-Rwanda Joint Statement during State Visit of Prime Minister to Rwanda
      Posted On: 24 JUL 2018 11:45PM by PIB Delhi

     1. At the invitation of the President of the Republic of Rwanda, H.E. Paul Kagame, Prime Minister of India, H. E. Shri Narendra Modi undertook a State visit to the Republic of Rwanda from 23-24th July 2018. He was accompanied by a high-level delegation including senior officials of the Government of India. A large business delegation from India was also present for the visit. This was the first ever visit by an Indian Prime Minister to Rwanda.
     2. President Paul Kagame visited India in 2017 on Official visit and to participate in the Vibrant Gujarat and in 2018 for the Founding Conference of International Solar Alliance respectively. The Vice President of India visited Rwanda in 2017.
     3. Prime Minister Modi was accorded ceremonial welcome on arrival. During the visit, he held bilateral discussions with H.E. President Paul Kagame at the State House, Kigali on Monday, 23rd July, 2018. A state Banquet was hosted in Honour of PM by the President.
     4. Prime Minister’s programme included bilateral delegation level talks, interaction with the Indian community and addressing a business event jointly organised by Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce (FICCI) and Rwanda Development Board (RDB). Prime Minister also visited the Gisozi Genocide Memorial and laid a wreath on the memorial of victims of the 1994 genocide against the Tutsi . On 24th July, the Prime Minister participated in an event in Rweru Model village outside Kigali under ‘Girinka programme’, a social protection scheme of one cow - one family and gifted cows as a contribution from India to the Scheme. This gesture was greatly appreciated
     5. During the talks, both leaders reviewed the entire gamut of bilateral cooperation and expressed satisfaction at the excellent relations between Rwanda and India in the overall context of Strategic Partnership. Prime Minister Modi highlighted the fact that Rwanda was the first of the new resident Indian Missions to be opened in Africa in 2018, underlining the importance attached by India to its relations with Rwanda. President Paul Kagame welcomed this development. Recalling the recent visit of President Kagame to India to participate in the Founding Conference of International Solar Alliance in March 2018, Prime Minister Modi appreciated speedy signing and ratification of ISA Treaty by Rwanda. He also expressed admiration for the remarkable growth and transformation of Rwanda under the leadership of President Kagame. Prime Minister Modi complemented President Kagame for the important role played by him as African Union Chair in finalizing the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement that has been signed by 44 countries. He expressed hope that his leadership will guide the African Union in furthering economic integration of the Continent. He indicated India’s willingness to continue to strengthen relations with African Union.
     6. President Kagame thanked India for the robust Development Cooperation with Rwanda and, indeed, with other African countries. Rwanda has benefitted from projects implemented under the Indian Lines of Credit through EXIM Bank, of nearly $ 400 million (Hydropower, Agriculture, Skill Development, Infrastructure), several grant projects (VTC, Solar Electrification) and from training and scholarship programs (ITEC, ICCR, IAFS). He also expressed desire to replicate some of India’s initiatives for Digital Inclusion in Rwanda. He commended India’s leadership in spearheading the establishment of the International Solar Alliance.
     7. Prime Minister announced the setting up of a Task Force in the field of digital education including the provision of an e-library. This was appreciated by President Kagame, in view of the benefits it would bring to the education sector of Rwanda.
     8. Prime Minister suggested long-term business visa and work permit for Indians and President Kagame assured that he would look into the matter to facilitate easier travel for Indian investors to Rwanda.
     9. Following the talks, both leaders:
          + Reiterated their commitment to increase bilateral trade and investment;
          + Agreed to encourage greater people to people exchanges;
          + Agreed to strengthen cooperation in the area of UN Peacekeeping as two large contributors of UNPKF in Africa,
          + Agreed to consider exploring cooperation in the energy sector,
          + Agreed to enhance cooperation in the health and education sectors; and
          + Decided to share experience and expertise in promotion of tourism
    10. Both leaders condemned terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and stressed that there can be no justification for any act of terrorism, irrespective of motivations, wherever and by whosoever committed. In this context, both leaders underlined their shared concerns on the menace of cross-border terrorism and stressed the importance of international efforts to prevent and fight terrorism.
    11. The leaders reiterated their commitment to intensify their cooperation in the United Nations and other multilateral Institutions in order to address current global challenges such as climate change and to foster international and regional peace and security, sustainable development.
    12. The following MoUs/Agreements were signed during the visit:
          + MoU on Defence Co-operation.
          + Bilateral Trade Agreement.
          + MoU on Dairy Co-operation between ICAR (National Dairy Research Institute), India and Rwanda Agriculture and Animal Resources Development Board, Kigali.
          + MoUbetween Central Leather Research Institute (CLRI), India and National Industrial Research and Development Agency (NIRDA), Rwanda.
          + MoU on Cultural Exchange
          + Amendment to the MoU on Cooperation in Agriculture and Animal Resources
          + LoC agreements of US$ 100 million for development of Industrial Parks and expansion of Kigali SEZ.
          + LoC agreements of US $ 100 million for financing components of its Agriculture Project Schemes.
    13. During the Visit, Prime Minister Modi made the following announcements:
          + Gifting of US $200, 000 to Rwanda to support the Girinka Programme of Government of Rwanda.
          + Gifting of 100,000 books of the National Council of Education Research and Training (NCERT) and to provide support for digitalization and online access of education books and related learning material.
          + Setting up of the Entrepreneurship Development Centre in Kigali which would provide training to youth of Rwanda for enhancing their skills in a variety of sectors.
          + Fully funded 25 slots for short term- training in the field of Dairy production and processing.
          + Contribution of US $10,000 each to the Gisozi Genocide Memorial in Kigali and the Imbuto Foundation run by the First Lady of Rwanda towards the Foundation for the education of the girl child.
    14. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi thanked President Mr. Paul Kagame for the warm hospitality extended to him and his delegation during the stay in Rwanda and invited President Kagame to visit India.

    ***


    AKT/SH/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1541489) Visitor Counter : 434
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Gujarati , Tamil
    
    
    

14.