      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Visit of NCST to Polavaram in Andhra Pradesh
      Posted On: 02 AUG 2018 5:29PM by PIB Delhi


    National Commission for Scheduled Tribes under the leadership of, NCST visited few villages and met Scheduled Tribe persons / families affected on account of Polavaram Irrigation Project in Andhra Pradesh from 26 th to 28 th March, 2018, Thereafter, the Commission met the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh and other Senior Officers dealing with the Project. Based on the interaction with the Polavaram Irrigation Project affected people, the Commission prepared a Special Report which comprises important features of Polavaram Irrigation Project, details regarding land acquisition and rehabilitation and resettlement issue raised in the various representations received from the project affected people and the Commission’s recommendations / advises for better rehabilitation and resettlement of the project affected Scheduled Tribes families. The Commission submitted the report to the Hon’ble President on 03.07.2018.


    A delegation of NCST led by Shri Nand Kumar Sai (Chairperson), Miss Anusuiya Ukey (Vice-chairperson) and other Members namely ‘Shri Harshadbhai Vasava, Shri Hari Krishna Damor & Smt. Maya Chintamn Ivante’ along with Officials from NCST visited the affected areas of Polavaram Indira Sagar Project, Andhra Pradesh.


    As per programme drawn up by State Government, the delegation visited Koya Tribal Village, Iddikulakotta Village, Ramanapallem Village, Madhapuram and Devaragongi Village, during field visit on 27.03.2018.


    There was no instance of villagers being refused to meet the NCST delegation.


    As per the mandate of the NCST under Article 338A of the Constitution of India, any person belonging to Scheduled Tribe can submit their grievances / petition to the Commission. The Commission will examine the matter and will take necessary measures / steps to protect the interest of the Scheduled tribes.


    This information was given by the Union Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Shri. Jaswantsinh Bhabhor in Rajya Sabha today .


    *****


    NB/RN


    

    
    (Release ID: 1541334) Visitor Counter : 304