      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Sanitary Napkins available for Rs. 1/- per pad at Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Kendras
      
      over 3.43 Crore pads have been sold till 10th June, 2020 at Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Kendras.
      Posted On: 17 JUN 2020 4:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Keeping in view the present scenario as a social drive Jan Aushadhi Suvidha Sanitary Napkin is being made available in more than 6300 Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushdhi Pariyojna -PMBJP Kendras across the country at a minimum price of Rs.1/-per pad. The market price of the similar Sanitary Napkins is around Rs. 3/- to Rs. 8/- per pad.


    Since inception (4 June 2018) to 10th June, 2020 over 4.61 crore sanitary Napkins was sold at Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Kendras. After the revision in the prices on 27 August 2019, over 3.43 Crore pads have been sold till 10th June, 2020 at Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Kendras.


    It may be stated that menstruation and menstrual practices still face some social, cultural, and religious restrictions which are a big barrier in the path of menstrual hygiene management. In many parts of the country especially in rural areas girls and women do not have access to sanitary products or they do not opt for them as most of these items available in the market are bit costly.


    This step ensured ‘Swachhta, Swasthya and Suvidha’ for the underprivileged Women of India. This step has been taken by the Union Department of Pharmaceuticals to ensure the achievement of Prime Minister Shri Narendera Modi’s vision of Affordable and Quality Healthcare for All.


    Sanitary Napkins are environmental friendly, as these pads are made with Oxo-biodegradable material complying with ASTM D-6954 (biodegradability test) standards. Under the Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana, these pads are being sold at Rs 1/- per pad .


    PMBJP Kendras are functional in this challenging time of outbreak of COVID-19 and ensuring availability of medicines and essentials to anyone who needs them. Jan Aushadhi Suvidha sanitary napkins are available across all Kendra's. Under PMBJP, more than 1.42 Crore pads have been sold in the month of March, April & May, 2020, across the country. Suvidha Pads are available in sufficient quantities across all Kendra's .


    On the eve of World Environment Day 4th June 2018, Government of India proudly announced the launch of “Jan Aushadhi Suvidha Oxo-Biodegradable Sanitary Napkin” for women of India.


    ********


    RCJ/RKM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1632082) Visitor Counter : 3213
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Manipuri , Punjabi , Odia , Tamil , Telugu , Malayalam