      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Dr Harsh Vardhan inaugurated Renovated Zoological and Botanical Galleries at Indian Museum along with Governor of WB
      Posted On: 09 MAY 2018 5:18PM by PIB Kolkata


    The Union Minister of Science & Technology, Environment, Forest and Climate Change and Earth Sciences
    Dr Harsh Vardhan today inaugurated four newly renovated galleries, namely, Invertebrate, Mammal,
    Ecosystem & Botanical at Indian Museum along with Governor of West Bengal, Shri Keshari Nath Tripathi,
    here, today. He visited the respective galleries along with the Governor and even released three
    pamphlets on the same after formal inauguration.
    The minister lauded the efforts of every employee of Zoological Survey of India (ZSI),
    Botanical Survey of India (BSI) and Indian Museum for successfully renovating the Invertebrate, Mammal,
    Ecosystem & Botanical galleries of Indian Museum. The cost of renovation of the first three galleries
    is Rs 17 crores and ZSI started the renovation activity in 2015 after getting the financial support
    from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change.
    Dr Harsh Vardhan expressed his concern on the global warming, climate change and harped on the
    necessity of clean air, dense forest for the children of next generation. He said small positive
    actions through us may save environment from degradation and his eponymous app ‘Dr Harsh Vardhan’ may
    be utilised to solve the issue. This app is available in Google Play Store and availing this app, one
    may indulge into the ‘500 Green Good Deeds’ movement to save the environment. He reminded the audience
    about their ‘Green Social Responsibilities’ and urged to practice ‘Green Good Behaviour’ for making the
    environment safer for the children of future generation.
    The Governor of West Bengal, who happens to be the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Indian
    Museum, too spoke on the occasion. The other dignitaries present on the occasion included Director of
    ZSI, Dr Kailash Chandra, Director, BSI, Dr Paramjit Singh and Director, Indian Museum Shri Rajesh
    Purohit.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531725) Visitor Counter : 108