      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Science has the Potential to Solve Every Unresolved Issue: Dr Harsha Vardhan
      Posted On: 08 MAY 2018 5:44PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, May 8, 2018


    Science has the potential of solving every unresolved issue. A significant part of one’s activity or invention should be translated into the welfare of people. One should be in the process of continuous brain-storming to come up with a novel thing that should be for the welfare of the people. Hence we should have a specific aim or goal to achieve something for good of the people as a whole. The Government will stand by such a Samaritan effort. The Union Minister of Science & Technology, Environment, Forest and Climate Change and Earth Sciences Dr Harsha Vardhan said this here today after visiting the different sections of Zoological Survey of India (ZSI). The Minister even urged to see that society plays a pivotal role to control environmental degradation and protect climate from such unwanted hazards. In this connection, Dr Harsha Vardhan spoke on in length about the eponymous app ‘Dr Harsha Vardhan’ which influences people to join the ‘500 Green Good Deeds’ movement to protect the environment and the children of next generation. He reminded the citizens about their ‘Green Social Responsibilities’ and urged people to practice ‘Green Good Behaviour’ for making the environment safer for the children of future generation.


    The Minister even released a ZSI publication on ‘Estuarine Bio-diversity in India’ and he even gave away a copy of his much-applauded book ‘A Tale of Two Drops’ (on eradication of Polio) to the Director of ZSI Dr Kailash Chandra. Dr Chandra gave a brief history of the organisation as well as the various objectives of the organisation like exploring, naming, describing, classifying and documenting fauna from all over India. In fact, in India till date, 1,00693 species of animals have been described, but a large number of species are expected to be discovered especially from the lower invertebrate groups occurring in various eco systems. Present on the occasion was Scientist F Shri K C Gope who gave the vote of thanks.


    ***************


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1531632) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali