      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister Visits Shantiniketan on May 25 to Preside over Convocation at Visva-Bharati and Inaugurate Bangladesh Bhavana along with Bangladesh Premier
      Posted On: 23 MAY 2018 2:57PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, May 23, 2018


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will be in West Bengal on a day’s tour on Friday, May 25, to preside over the convocation of Visva-Bharati and to inaugurate the Bangladesh Bhavana along with Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina.


    Prime Minister will first preside over the convocation of Visva-Bharati as Chancellor or Acharya of the University and then he along with the Bangladesh Premier will inaugurate the Bangladesh Bhavana at the University campus itself by unveiling the nameplate. After inauguration of the Bhavana, both will have bilateral discussions there.


    It is to be mentioned that it is Prime Minister’s Modi’s first visit to Visva-Bharati as Chancellor of the University. Last convocation was held in 2013. This year some 10,000 students would receive their degrees at convocation. The convocation will start at 10.45 am and will conclude at around 11.30 am. This time Deshikottam will not be conferred in the convocation, as confirmed by Visva-Bharati sources.


    Visva-Bharati has decided to present the replica of the first edition of Rabindranath Tagore’s anthology of poems-‘Gitanjali’, published in London in 1912, among other souvenirs, to Prime Minister Modi. Visva-Bharati authorities will also present replica of the original manuscript of Tagore’s poem Chitto Jetha Bhoyshunno (Where the mind is without fear) both in Bengali and the poet’s translation in English along with a CD with nearly half a dozen Tagore’s songs sung by Sangeet Bhavana students under the guidance of eminent Rabindrasangeet singer Swastika Mukhopadhyay. She is a professor there, teaching Rabindrasangeet for a long time. The songs include ‘Aguner Paroshmoni Choaon Prane’, ‘Anandoloke, Mongolaloke’, ‘Aji Bangladesher Hridoy Hote Kakhon Aponi’, Veda hymn ‘Twamishwaranang’ and the like. It is to be noted that Prime Minister Modi mentioned in his speech in last ‘Mann ki Baat’ the two songs ‘Aguner Paroshmoni’ and ‘Anondoloke Mongolaloke’.


    Among the other dignitaries who will be present on the occasion include Governor of West Bengal Shri Keshari Nath Tripathi and Chief Minister Smt Mamata Bandyopadhyay.


    ************


    SSS/23.5.18/.....

    
    
    (Release ID: 1533109) Visitor Counter : 105