      Ministry of Textiles

      Union Textiles Minister assures all assistance to boost textile industry.
      Posted On: 31 MAY 2018 5:09PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, May 31, 2018.


    Textiles Ministry is ready to provide all kind of supports and assistance to boost the textile industry in West Bengal, Union Textiles Minister Smt. Smriti Zubin Irani said that India will become self-sufficient in silk production in near future. This will eventually will lead to added job creation and more earnings for farmers, she added. She was speaking at a special session on “Recent Developments in the Textile Industry & The Road Ahead” organized by the Merchants’ Chamber of Commerce and Industry (MCCI) here today. Bengal has potential to emerge as a major textile centre in the country, she added. She stated that technical up-gradation of textiles hub must be carried out as the government has approved fund for it. She also mentioned that the Ministry has already taken initiatives in rejuvenating jute with special focus on the North-East.


    Emphasizing on the menstrual hygiene of the women and other health related issues, the minister said that medical use of textiles and jute products cannot be neglected. Underlining the importance of technology, she urged industrialists to innovate new methodology to benefit the countrymen by incorporating new technology and adopting proper mechanism.


    She also responded about the idea of Banana fabric, providing of pewerlooms in Murshidabad and therapeutic use of silk, while replying some questions raised by the entrepreneurs.


    Replying to the queries on GST, E-Way Bill, etc. Smt. Irani assured them to resolve all their problems with holding discussions with the concerned ministries and departments.


    Shri Vishal Jhajharia, Senior Vice President, MCCI and Shri Sanjay Kumar Jain, Chairman, Standing Committee on Textile and Ture, MCCI were also present among others on the occasion.


    *******


    CG/MSA/bb/Kol………

    
    
    (Release ID: 1533981) Visitor Counter : 49