      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Cabinet Secretary stresses on restoration of power and telecom services in FANI Cyclone affected areas of Odisha at the NCMC meeting
      Posted On: 05 MAY 2019 2:56PM by PIB Delhi


    National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) under the Cabinet Secretary Sh. P. K. Sinha today reviewed relief measures in thecyclone FANI affected areas of Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh with the States and Central Ministries/Agencies concerned.


    Odisha informed that power and telecommunication facilities are gradually being restored in the Cyclone affected areas of the state. Major damages to the Power transmission and distribution systems are reported in Bhubaneswar and Puri. Mobile services have been restored partially. In both the cities, about 70 percent water supply will be restored by today evening.Odisha also requested for supply of storage water tanks.


    Cabinet Secretary directed that restoration of power and telecommunication facilities be accorded top priority and Ministry of Power and Department of Telecommunications to coordinate with Odisha Government. Power Ministry has moved DG sets of 500 KVA, 250 KVA and 125 KVA capacity and also provided Workmen Gangs, who are engaged in restoration of power lines and towers. Senior officials of Power PSUs have been stationed in the affected areas to oversee restoration operations. Neighbouring states of Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal have been requested to provide additional assistance to Odisha, particularly in the area of power.


    Cabinet Secretary also suggested that Public Sector companies in Power and Oil and Gas sector contribute towards relief efforts under their CSR funding.


    Ministry of Steel has made available about 3500 steel electric poles and additional quantities as requested by Odisha are being arranged from other places. Manufacturing of additional poles is also been undertaken.


    60 percent of affected telecom towers are expected to be operational by evening and diesel supplies are being provided to make them functionalusing DG sets in the absence of regular power supply. Sufficient stocks of Diesel and other fuels are available in Odisha.


    Railways have reintroduced 85 of the 138 cancelled trains. The main line to Bhubaneswar has commenced operations while Puri will be ready to receive trains in about 4 to 5 days. Flight operations to Bhubaneswar resumed with 41 flights operating yesterday, even though the local airport suffered extensive damage.


    NDRF has cleared fallen trees from most of the roads in Puri, Khurda and Bhubaneswar and normal traffic has resumed.


    The Defence Ministry through special transport planes and helicopters moved medicines and other relief material. Naval and Coast Guard vessel near Odisha coast have enough water supplies to be supplied to affected areas.


    Reviewing the relief efforts, Cabinet Secretary directed that officers of Central Ministries/ Agencies should work in close coordination with Odisha State Government and provide all required assistance expeditiously.


    Chief Secretaries/Principal Secretaries ofAndhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal participated in the NCMC Meeting through Video Conference. Senior Officers fromMinistries ofHome Affairs, Defence,Civil Aviation, Railways, Petroleum and Natural Gas, Power, Telecommunications, Steel, Drinking Water and Sanitation, Health, NDMA and NDRF also attended the meeting.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571609) Visitor Counter : 634
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu , Bengali