      Ministry of Finance

      20th Conference of Regional Heads of Customs Administration (RHCA) of Asia Pacific Region of the World Customs Organisation (WCO) concludes in Kochi;
      
      Three Day Conference took stock of the progress made in carrying forward the programmes and initiatives of WCO to promote, facilitate and secure cross-border trade in the Region and the capacity building and technical assistance required by Member Administrations to achieve these goals among others
      
      Posted On: 10 MAY 2019 3:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) had organised a Conference of the Regional Heads of Customs Administration of Asia Pacific Region of the World Customs Organisation (WCO) in Kochi from 08 th to 10 th May, 2019. India hosted this Conference in its capacity as Vice-Chair of the Asia Pacific Region of WCO which it assumed on 1 st July, 2018 for a two-year period.


    The Conference took stock of the progress made in carrying forward the programmes and initiatives of WCO to promote, facilitate and secure cross-border trade in the Region and the capacity building and technical assistance required by Member Administrations to achieve these goals.


    This 3-day Conference was chaired by Mr. Pranab Kumar Das, Chairman, CBIC. Customs delegations from more than twenty countries of the Asia Pacific Region participated in the Conference along with senior officials of the WCO and its Regional Bodies, the Regional Office for Capacity Building (ROCB) and Regional Intelligence Liaoning Office (RILO). Mr Kunio Mikuriya, Secretary General, WCO and Mr P.N.Rao, Principal Chief Commissioner, Customs, Kochi also attended the meeting.


    In addition to the discussions on the strategic priorities of the Asia Pacific Region, the Conference also deliberated on the work programs of the Vice-Chair, ROCB & RILO, security related issues, trade facilitation, e-commerce, performance measurement, trusted trader programmes and emerging technological and logistical challenges in the fields of trade facilitation and Customs Administrations. The Conference also facilitated Bilateral Meetings between the Member States.


    Recognising the importance of the collaborative approach between Customs and trade, a Trade Day was organised on 7 th May, 2019 as a precursor to the Conference of the Regional Heads of Customs. In the daylong deliberations, representatives from trade & industry and think-tanks shared their insights and experiences that are expected to shape the thinking of customs administrations of the region in adopting policies and measures to promote trade facilitation and secure global trade, and promote ethical leadership.


    ***


    DSM/RM/PD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571842) Visitor Counter : 1109
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali