      Ministry of Defence

      59th BRO Raising Day
      Posted On: 07 MAY 2019 4:55PM by PIB Delhi


    Border Roads Organisation (BRO) is celebrating its 59 th Raising Day here today. BRO is a leading road construction agency under the Ministry of Defence with a primary role of providing road connectivity in border areas. It executes road construction and maintenance works along the Northern and Western frontiers primarily to meet the strategic requirements of the Army and is responsible for over 53,000 Km roads. The BRO has also constructed roads in friendly foreign countries like Bhutan, Myanmar, Afghanistan etc. thus contributing towards our strategic objectives in the region.


    In 2018-19, BRO executed 991 Km of Formation Cutting, 1965 Km Surfacing, Rs. 1518 Crores Permanent Works, 2817 M of Bridge construction and undertook resurfacing of 1778 Km roads along our Northern and Western Borders. The works done by BRO saw a jump of more than 12% in 2018-19 over the previous financial year.


    In line with the overall thrust of the Government to enhance overall strategic connectivity along our borders, the BRO is fully geared up to meet the challenges that lie ahead and has accordingly undertaken an exercise for organizational re-structuring and simplification of procedures with adequate delegation of financial powers to executives. The organisation is now executing works with a combination of departmental, contractual and EPC mode, thus enhancing our capabilities manifold. Necessary co­ ordination between BRO and Army units / Formations at all levels is also being ensured to plan and execute creation, up-gradation and maintenance of infrastructure along our borders to meet our overall tactical and strategic goals.


    On this occasion, Director General Border Roads, Lt Gen Harpal Singh conveys his greetings to all Veterans and BRO Personnel and calls upon all ranks of the Organisation to continue on the path of excellence with renewed vigour and dedication.


    Nampi/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571695) Visitor Counter : 1549
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali