      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NCMC reviews rescue and relief operations in cyclone hit areas of Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh
      Posted On: 04 MAY 2019 2:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Cabinet Secretary Sh. P. K. Sinha today reviewed rescue and relief measures in the cyclone affected areas of Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh with the States and Central Ministries/Agencies concerned in the aftermath of cyclone FANI.


    Odisha informed that extensive damage to telecommunications and power infrastructure had been caused in Puri, Bhubaneswar and other areas. However, due to advance precautionary measures taken and large scale evacuation, the loss of human lives was minimal. West Bengal reported mild impact of the cyclone while Andhra Pradesh informed of heavy rainfall and some damage to crops and roads in Srikakulam district.


    Cabinet Secretary directed Ministry of Power and Department of Telecommunications to immediately assist Odisha Government by providing electrical poles, gang workmen and Diesel Generator sets of varying capacities for quick restoration of power supply. The transmission line supplying power to Bhubaneswar is expected to be restored by today. Department of Telecommunications indicated that mobile services would be restored partially by today. The Railways, which suffered major damages to its infrastructure, have cleared the mainline and would start part of operations using Diesel operated locomotives by today. Flights to Bhubaneswar would resume operations by this afternoon. No damages to ports and refinery installations were reported. NDRF has moved 16 additional teams for rescue and relief work in Odisha and has removed fallen trees and other obstacles on most of the roads.


    Health Ministry has decided to postpone the NEET exam in Odisha scheduled for May 5 th based on the advice of Odisha Government. It is also moving teams of public health experts to assist the State Government in preventing outbreak of any epidemic.


    Reviewing the relief efforts, Cabinet Secretary directed that officers of Central Ministries/ Agencies should remain in close touch with Odisha State Government and provide all required assistance expeditiously. Enough supplies of food, medicines, drinking water and other essential supplies have been kept in readiness to be airlifted as per the requirements projected by the States. Railways and Civil Aviation Ministries have made arrangements for free transportation of relief material to the cyclone affected areas.


    Chief Secretaries/Principal Secretaries of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal participated in the NCMC Meeting through Video Conference. Senior Officers from the PMO, Ministries of Home Affairs, Defence, Shipping, Civil Aviation, Railways, Petroleum and Natural Gas, Power, Telecommunications, Steel, Drinking Water and Sanitation, Food Processing, Health, Fisheries, IMD, NDMA and NDRF also attended the meeting.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571599) Visitor Counter : 717
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi