      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President to embark on a four-day visit to Vietnam
      
      VP to hold high-level talks with Vietnamese leaders
      
      To attend 16th United Nations Day of Vesak

      Posted On: 08 MAY 2019 3:38PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu will embark on a four-day official visit to Vietnam from May 09. His visit is expected to enhance India’s comprehensive strategic partnership with the Southeast Asian nation.


    Apart from holding one-on-one talks with the leaders of Vietnam, the Vice President will participate in the 16th United Nations Day of Vesak at Tam Chuc pagoda in Vietnam's northern Ha Nam province, on May 12 and deliver the keynote address at the inaugural session of the event themed as "Buddhist Approach to Global Leadership and Shared Responsibilities for Sustainable Societies."


    Upon his arrival in Vietnam’s Capital Honoi, Shri Naidu will address the Indian Community at a reception hosted by the Ambassador of India.


    The next day, the Vice President will pay tributes to martyrs at the National Monument of Heroes and Martyrs and proceed to Presidential palace where he will be accorded a ceremonial welcome.


    Shri Naidu will interact with the Vice President of Vietnam, Mr. Dang Thi Ngoc Thinh and hold delegation level talks. He will also meet Mr. Mme. Nguyen Kim Thi Ngan, Chairperson of National Assembly of Vietnam.


    During the high level talks, the Vice President and his hosts are expected to discuss a wide range of issues including trade & investment relations. Giving better market access to India’s exports, exploring opportunities in oil and gas sectors, seeking support for Indian Pharmaceutical facilities in Vietnam, cooperation in defence and space technologies, training and capacity building of Vietnamese defence forces and strengthening of cultural bonds between the two nations are expected to figure during the talks.


    On May 11, Shri Naidu will visit Ho Chi Minh Mausoleum, where he will pay homage to the late President, Mr. Ho Chi Minh. The Vice President will also meet the Indian community and Vietnamese beneficiaries of the Jaipur Foot Artificial Limb Fitment Camp organized in Vietnam under the ‘India for Humanity’ initiative launched to commemorate the 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. In the afternoon, Shri Naidu will meet the Prime Minister of Vietnam, Mr. Nguyen Xuan Phuc in a separate engagement.


    On May 12, Shri Naidu will participate in the inaugural function of the 16th United Nations Day of Vesak at Tam Chuc pagoda in Vietnam's Ha Nam province and will deliver the key note address.


    Considered sacred to Buddhists, Vesak is celebrated to commemorate the birth of Buddha, his attainment of enlightenment and his passing away.


    Shri Naidu’s participation at the event is expected to further strengthen ties between India and Buddhist communities worldwide. The event is expected to attract more than 10,000 Buddhist followers, 1,500 religious dignitaries, researchers, scientists and others from all over the world.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571734) Visitor Counter : 934
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali