      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      National Training Workshop of Master Trainers for 7th Economic Census
      
      Fieldwork for the 7 th EC to commence in June 2019

      Posted On: 14 MAY 2019 4:01PM by PIB Delhi

    In the run up to upcoming 7 th Edition of Economic Census, a National Training Workshop of the Master Trainers was organized by the Ministry of Statistics and Program Implementation (MoSPI) at India Habitat Center in the national capital today. The objective was to impart training to Master trainers (enumerators and supervisors) engaged in Seventh Economic Census (7 th EC). The participants were trained on the key concepts and definitions, processes, digital platform and application to be used for the enumeration (data capture and supervision) in the field. The workshop was attended by Secretary, MoSPI, DG MoSPI, CEO, Common Service Centres- Special Purpose Vehicle, CSC-SPV and other senior officers of the ministry, State Governments and CSC-SPV.


    7 th Economic Census -2019 is being conducted by MoSPI to provide disaggregated information on various operational and structural aspects of all establishments in the country. A comprehensive training strategy has been evolved to impart training to trainers engaged in the 7 th Economic Census. After the National Training Workshop of Master Trainers in New Delhi today, similar exercise will be undertaken across the country. Over 6000 State and District level training workshops will be organized during the month of May and June 2019.


    MoSPI has partnered with Common Service Centres, CSC e-Governance Services India Limited, a Special Purpose Vehicle under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology as the implementing agency for 7 th EC. An IT based digital platform for data capture, validation, report generation and dissemination will be used in this Economic Census. The fieldwork for the 7 th EC will commence in June 2019. The results of the exercise will be made available after verification and validation of the fieldwork.


    Six Economic Censuses (EC) have been conducted till date. The first Economic Census was undertaken in 1977. The Second EC was carried out in 1980 followed by the Third EC in 1990. The fourth edition took place in 1998 while the fifth EC was held in 2005. The Sixth edition of Economic Census was conducted in 2013.


    ****


    AKT/KP/SKS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571986) Visitor Counter : 2965
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali