      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu calls for strengthening of India-Vietnam ties;
      
      Holds talks with Vietnam’s Prime Minister on a wide range of issues;
      
      VP offers India’s expertise in satellite building and other areas;
      
      Urges Vietnam to support entry of Indian pharma firms;
      
      Inaugurates ‘Jaipur Foot Artificial Limb Fitment Camp’ at Indian Embassy
      
      Also attends Gala Dinner Reception hosted by Chairperson of National Assembly of Vietnam
      
      Posted On: 11 MAY 2019 5:13PM by PIB Delhi


    On the penultimate day of his four-day official visit to Vietnam, the Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu continued his high-level engagement by holding talks with Vietnam’s Prime Minister, Mr. Nguyen Xuan Phuc on a wide range of issues and underscored the importance of strengthening the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership between the two nations to ensure peace and security in the region.


    The Vice President, who is scheduled to deliver the keynote address at the 16 th UN Day of Vesak Celebrations on May 12, reiterated during his talks with the Prime Minister that cordial and friendly relations between India and Vietnam have been strengthened by bonds of Buddhism and Hinduism.


    Referring to the growing cooperation between two nations in different fields, Shri Naidu informed the host Prime Minister that India was ready to partner with Vietnam in satellite construction, both for civilian and non-civilian uses. He also assured him that India remains committed to extend cooperation in training and capacity building of Vietnam's defence forces as that country’s requirement.


    On bilateral trade, the Vice President expressed confidence of achieving the target of USD 15 billion by 2020.


    Observing that Indian companies were increasingly looking to invest in emerging sectors like renewable energy and energy conservation, infrastructure, agriculture, agro-products, textiles, pharma and oil and gas, Shri Naidu informed him of India’s commitment to address various issues relating to market access and trade barriers.


    Seeking Vietnam Prime Minister’s personal intervention in facilitating the entry of Indian pharmaceutical products into their country, the Vice President assured him that the Indian companies can provide high tech health systems and medicines for public health in Vietnam at an affordable cost . This will make health services more affordable and reduce the insurance burden on the Government of Vietnam, he added.


    Regarding oil and gas exploration in Vietnam, Shri Naidu sought an extension of up to 10 years for OVL (ONGC Videsh Limited) contract, which is due to expire in 2023. He said that OVL has invested more than USD 530.00 million in exploration and exploitation of oil and gas in Vietnam and was exploring possibility of another gas discovery that may entail additional investment of around USD 136.00 million. He also wanted extension of Production Sharing Contract by Petro Vietnam by two years.


    The Vice President also reiterated India’s support to Vietnam for the non-permanent membership of the UNSC for 2020-21 and thanked Vietnam for its support to India to be a permanent member of an expanded UNSC .


    Shri Naidu said that India has strong interest in Indo-Pacific region. India’s approach and vision to Indo-Pacific is SAGAR – Security and Growth for All in the Region .


    Earlier, inaugurating a ‘Jaipur Foot Artificial Limb Fitment Camp’ held at the Indian Embassy under ‘India for Humanity’ programme to mark the 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the Vice President said the core philosophy of India from time immemorial has been to share and care and emphasized the need to pay attention to the deprived sections.


    Stating that the iconic Jaipur Foot provided mobility, a sense of dignity and an ability to live life fully to the differently abled, Shri Naidu lauded Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Samiti, for providing the services free of charge.


    Earlier in the morning, the Vice President visited Ho Chi Minh Mausoleum and paid homage to the Vietnamese Revolutionary Leader, Ho Chi Minh.


    The Vice President also attended a Gala Dinner Reception hosted by the Chairperson of the National Assembly of Vietnam, Ms. Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan at the National Convention Centre.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1571887) Visitor Counter : 619
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi