      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Indian Delegation participates in Second SCO Mass Media Forum at Bishkek
      Posted On: 24 MAY 2019 4:46PM by PIB Delhi


    The Second Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Mass Media Forum is being held at Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan from 23-26 May, 2019. A Delegation from I&B Ministry comprising of Shri TVK Reddy, Addl. Director General and Shri Ankur Lahoty, Asst. Director is representing India at the Forum. The Forum was inaugurated by the President of Kyrgyz Republic Mr. S. Jeenbeko. The President in his inaugural address highlighted the importance of Mass Media organizations of SCO countries in accomplishing the SCO objectives of mutual trust, friendly relations with neighbors and regional security in line with the “Shanghai Spirit”.


    The Forum aims to strengthen the exchange and cooperation in the field of mass media amongst SCO countries. It offers a unique platform for active work through mass media to create an objective vision of the organization and strengthen its positive image in the global information space. The representative of state bodies supervising mass media of the SCO countries (Member States, Observer Countries, Dialogue Partners); representatives of leading mass media of the SCO countries and representatives of the SCO Secretariat are participating in the Forum.


    Speaking at the Forum, the Indian Delegation highlighted the vital role of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in the development of the mass media landscape within the country. The Delegation emphasized the need for media collaborations and exchange of best practices amongst the various mass media agencies, organizations and associations across the SCO partner states. The Delegation suggested that media personnel exchange programmes may be undertaken along with joint international press conferences. The idea of working together to counter the problem of fake news was also highlighted. The Delegation invited all the SCO member delegates to the Golden Jubilee edition of International Film Festival of India to be held in Goa in November 2019.


    The SCO Member States also adopted the Resolution of Media Forum which calls for establishing successful collaborations of Mass Media Organizations of the SCO member Countries.


    Background


    The first SCO Media Summit was held in Beijing on 1 June 2018. This event was held under the motto “Development of the “Shanghai Spirit” and opening of a new era in the mass media cooperation”, where over 110 media outlets from 16 countries participated, including the SCO Member States, Observer States and Dialogue Partners.


    ***


    AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572541) Visitor Counter : 897
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali