      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Shri Kiren Rijiju takes charge of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports
      Posted On: 31 MAY 2019 6:21PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Kiren Rijiju took over as the Minister of State (Independent charge) for the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports here today. Shri Rijiju was administered the oath of office and secrecy by the President in a ceremony held at Rashtrapati Bhawan yesterday.


    Briefly interacting with the media after taking charge, the Minister said that it would be a fantastic opportunity to contribute to the youth’s empowerment. Shri Rijiju said Youth Power will be galvanised to achieve the goals. He expressed his gratitude to the Prime Minister for giving this opportunity to do something constructive for the youth and sports. He said he has been connected with sports for last many years and has a great concern for the sportspersons. He further stated that his good wishes are with all the sportspersons who play for the country particularly with the Indian Cricket Team, which is taking part in the World Cup in England. The Minister said all efforts would be made to facilitate the sportspersons. He also said that good things of the past will be carried forward and new things will be added to achieve new heights. He said that traditional games alongwith National gamesand other sporting events etc. will be promoted for achieving excellence.


    Shri Rijiju is a Loksabha MP from Arunachal (West), Arunachal Pradesh. Born on 19 th Nov. 1971, Sh. Rijiju has studied B.A., LLB from Delhi. This is the second term of ShRijiju as the member of the Lok Sabha. ShRijiju has keen interest in badminton, football and athletics. He has also participated in National games. Sh. Rijiju has written many articles in the Newspapers and Magazine related to Social, Cultural and Political issues. He has special interests in strategic and security affairs. An active social worker since school days, Sh. Rijiju led several social movements as a social worker and student leader. He has represented India in various social and cultural events held in many countries. He was adjudged as the best young parliamentarian by the media during 14 th Lok Sabha.


    *****


    YKB/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572975) Visitor Counter : 265
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali