      President's Secretariat

      President of India hosts banquet in honour of the Heads of State/Government attending the Swearing-in-Ceremony of the Prime Minister of India
      Posted On: 31 MAY 2019 2:29PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, hosted yesterday (May 30, 2019) a banquet in honour of the Heads/Representatives of State/Government attending the swearing-in-ceremony of the Prime Minister of India at Rashtrapati Bhavan.


    Dignitaries attended the banquet include Mohammad Abdul Hamid, the President of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh; MrMaithripalaSirisena, the President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka; MrSooronbaiZheenbekov, the President of Kyrgyz Republic; U Win Myint, the President of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar; MrPravind Kumar Jugnauth, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Mauritius; Mr K.P. Sharma Oli, the Prime Minister of Nepal; DrLotayTshering, the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Bhutan and MrGrisadaBoonrach, Special Envoy of the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand.


    Speaking on the occasion, the President said that India’s dreams are not for India alone. As we work for our progress, we remain deeply conscious of the support we draw from our close friends and our close neighbours. From the warm waters of the Indian Ocean to the earnest embrace of the Bay of Bengal and further to the shared cultural affinities and economic opportunities of Central Asia, our people embody similar hopes and aspirations. Over the centuries, India has been the centre-piece of a great trading system that has run from the heartland of Central Asia right to the Indian Ocean. This is our legacy, and this is also our future. For all our people and for the global community, we must work together to foster peace and prosperity in our region and beyond. Our countries remain stakeholders in each other’s progress and wellbeing.


    Click here to See Speech ,Banquet -Heads of State Attending Swearing-in Ceremony


    ***


    AKT/SH/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572900) Visitor Counter : 1258
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Tamil