      Ministry of Defence

      Jaisalmer gets Ready to Host International Army Scout Masters Competition 2019
      Posted On: 14 MAY 2019 9:17PM by PIB Delhi


    International Army Scout Masters Competition as a part of International Army Games will be organised under the aegis of Konark Corps at Jaisalmer from 24 July to 17 August 2019. The event will witness participation of the Mechanised Infantry Scout Teams of eight countries including Russia who is the founding member of this format of International Army Games.


    The Russian Delegation, Senior Military and Diplomatic dignitaries from participating countries visited Jaisalmer Military Station on 14 and 15 May 2019. The delegates were shown and briefed on the special training facilities created at Jaisalmer and Pokhran. The visiting team of officials were impressed with the overall arrangements and complimented the Indian Organisers for creating the excellent infrastructure for the competition. The head of the Russian delegation Lieutenant General Budyshkin Albert Alienvich expressed confidence that India will provide the right opportunity for all teams to excel and bring long term tangible benefits to International Military Cooperation.


    The International Army Scout Masters Competition will be conducted in five stages, which will test the overall skills of Mechanised Infantry Scouts in simulated battle field scenarios. The combat skills will be adjudicated by a panel of international judges and referees.


    The competition will showcase combat training and promote camaraderie amongst the contestants, facilitate sharing of best practices as well as develop military and technical cooperation between participating nations. India will be conducting the Army Scout Masters Competition for the first time as part of the International Army Games. It is also for the first time that an Indian team will participate in this competition


    Lt Col Mohit Vaishnava


    for PRO (Army)

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572022) Visitor Counter : 743
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Urdu , Hindi