      Prime Minister's Office

      Messages felicitating PM Modi for the historic victory in the general elections continue to stream in
      Posted On: 25 MAY 2019 10:01PM by PIB Delhi


    Messages felicitating Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi for the historic victory in the general elections continued to stream in from across the world. The Prime Minister received telephone calls today from HRH Mohammed bin Salman, Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia; HRH Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani, Emir of the State of Qatar; H.E. Mrs. Angela Merkel, Chancellor of Germany; H.E. Mrs Theresa May, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom; and H.E. Mr Mahinda Rajapaksa, former President of Sri Lanka.


    The Prime Minister thanked the Crown Prince for his warm felicitations and conveyed his appreciation for his invaluable friendship with people of India and his personal interest in furthering the close relations between the two countries.
    The Emir warmly felicitated the Prime Minister and noted the deepening relationship between India and Qatar. Prime Minister thanked the Emir and expressed appreciation for his guidance in building strong partnership between the two countries.


    Congratulating the Prime Minister, Chancellor Merkel noted the growing relationship between the two countries and expressed her desire to further enhance cooperation in areas of mutual interests. The Prime Minister thanked her and noted the exemplary role played by her in furthering bilateral ties between the two countries as well as for global peace and prosperity. The two leaders look forward to interacting at the forthcoming G 20 Summit in Osaka, Japan, and to the Inter Governmental Consultations between the two countries later this year in India.
    Prime Minister May congratulated the Prime Minister on the strong mandate. Describing the General Elections as a major showcase for democracy, Prime Minister May complimented the people of India on completion of the significant exercise. Prime Minister Modi thanked her and expressed his desire to continue to work for further deepening bilateral cooperation with the United Kingdom in all spheres.
    Prime Minister thanked Former President of Sri Lanka Mr Rajapaksa for his greetings. Stating that as neighbours India and Sri Lanka enjoy longstanding, close and friendly relations, the Prime Minister expressed the confidence that these relations will continue to grow for the benefit of the people of the two countries as also for regional peace and prosperity.


    *****


    
    AKT/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572618) Visitor Counter : 589
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Tamil , Kannada