      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Fastags can Now be Purchased Online through Amazon
      Posted On: 29 MAY 2019 6:08PM by PIB Delhi


    FASTags are now available on e-commerce platform Amazon. These were earlier launched by IHMCL, a company promoted by NHAI, in January 2019. NHAI FASTag is a ‘bank-neutral’ FASTag i.e. no bank is pre-assigned to the FASTag at the time of purchase by customer from a Point-of-Sale or Online and offers the flexibility to customer to link the FASTag with their existing bank account by using My FASTag Mobile app, currently available on Google Play Store.


    The online NHAI FASTag has been conceived in a DIY (Do-It-Yourself) concept wherein a customer can self-activate it by entering customer and vehicle details in My FASTag mobile app. Thereafter, the customer will have to link the tag to an existing bank account of his/her choice. Currently, the bank linking facility is available for 7 member banks viz. SBI, ICICI Bank, Axis bank, HDFC bank, IndusInd Bank, Paytm Payments bank and Equitas Small Finance Bank. The online NHAI FASTag shall be available for VC-4 i.e. Car/Jeep/Van only for now.


    IHMCL is focused on enhancing the user experience of FASTag customers and is constantly working on new strategies to ensure efficient and delightful tolling experience. FASTag is also available at selected petrol pumps in Delhi NCR and identified Common Service Centers (CSCs) and we are also in process of expanding the outreach to other Metros cities. This online sale initiative is an important achievement for IHMCL and will ensure easy availability of FASTag at the doorsteps of the customers.


    Currently FASTags are also being issued by 22 certified banks through various channels such as Point-of-Sale at NH toll plazas, selected bank branches, etc. However, these FASTags issued by these certified banks does not offer option to customer for linking with existing bank account of his/her choice. The online availability of NHAI FASTag by IHMCL will eventually help enhanced adoption of FASTag program by increasing user convenience and offering seamless digital payments of toll and thereby saving time, money and fuel. Further, the digital payments of toll shall enhance transparency and promote cashless transactions, converting India into less-cash society supporting the Digital India Programme.


    ***


    NP/MS/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572781) Visitor Counter : 1825
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali