      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President calls for renewed efforts for India to gain permanent membership of the UN Security Council;
      
      Urges the world community to unite to curb the pervasive menace of terrorism;
      
      No country is immune to the consequences of terrorism: Vice President
      
      Return of protectionism adversely impacts the global effort for collective advancement;
      
      Ease with which financial fugitives find safe havens is a serious global concern;
      
      Our foreign policy formulation must be firmly tied to domestic development agenda;
      
      Indian Diaspora is a great strength of our nation;
      
      Interacts with IFS Officer Trainees of 2018 Batch & Bhutanese Diplomats
      
      Posted On: 28 MAY 2019 6:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has called for renewed efforts by India to gain permanent membership of the UN Security Council.


    Interacting with the Officer Trainees of the 2018 Batch of the Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Bhutanese Diplomats, here today, the Vice President referred to the growing prominence of India on the world stage and underscored the need for enhancing support from world nations and building a sustained dialogue in favor of UNSC reforms.


    The Vice President also stressed the need to build a consensus for expansion and democratization of a number of multilateral fora to ensure representation to a number of other emerging nations.


    Congratulating the young officers for choosing IFS as a profession, Shri Naidu said that the Service offered a challenging and exciting career and a unique opportunity to take India’s great civilizational and cultural ethos with its developmental aspirations to the rest of the world.


    Terming the young diplomats as ‘future spokespersons, interpreters, and narrators of India’s story to the world’, the Vice President said that they would soon work on constructing new bridges of understanding between India and the rest of the world. ‘You can play an important role in shaping the geopolitics of the future and in determining the new world order’, he told them.


    Shri Naidu cautioned that the return of the unwelcome tendency of protectionism would adversely impact the global effort for collective advancement. Despite the acknowledged need for an Integrated World Order, new walls are being to the free flow of goods and services and people as well, he added.


    Outlining the challenges the budding diplomats would have to deal with, Shri Naidu expressed his concern over the threat posed by terrorism. Observing that no country was immune to the consequences of terrorism, he called for a united response from world nations to curb the menace of terrorism.


    Pointing out that India consistently took an unrelenting and uncompromising stand against terrorism, he said, “we must continue to be champions of peace”.


    Referring to the unethical acts of financial fugitives, the Vice President expressed his concern over the ease with which they find safe havens in other countries. He suggested the constant updating and overhauling of Extradition Treaties and all bilateral and multilateral agreements to defend and safeguard the integrated global economic order for the collective good.


    The Vice President said that the world community would need India’s participation to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, because of the problems faced by the planet today needed a humane and holistic vision. The world needs India because it needs a voice that speaks of peace, non-violence and peaceful co-existence.


    Expressing his happiness that India took the lead in building sustainable development solutions, he said the International Solar Alliance launched under India’s initiative in Paris was such an example.


    Stating that India was moving on the development path swiftly, Shri Naidu said that the world was looking at India with keen interest. He emphasized the need to take advantage of this momentum by capitalizing on opportunities in areas of trade, services, investments, and infrastructure. “Diplomats must be proactive in enabling Indian industries and business to tap into world markets and must do their best in encouraging foreign investment to flow into India”, he stressed.


    Describing the Indian Diaspora as an asset, he said they play an important role culturally as well as economically in the countries they live in.


    The Vice President urged the young officers to develop a deep understanding of the countries of their posting and explore all opportunities for improving relations between those countries and India. He advised them to uphold the principles of Integrity, Probity, and conscientiousness at all times. He asked them to be India’s articulate voices, proactive catalysts of India’s prosperity and relentless advocates of Indian values of peaceful coexistence, inclusive and sustainable development.


    Referring to the recently concluded General Elections 2019, the Vice President said that people had made their choice with resounding clarity and had voted for stability.


    The Secretary to the Vice President of India, Dr. I.V. Subba Rao, the Dean, Foreign Services Institute (FSI), Shri J.S. Mukul, the Joint Secretary, FSI, Shri Virendra Paul, the Course Coordinator, Shri. Amarnath Dube and others were present on the occasion.


    Following is the text of Vice President’s address :


    “ I welcome each and every one of you to Upa Rashtrapathi Bhawan.


    Let me take this opportunity to congratulate all of you for choosing the Indian Foreign Service as a profession. The Foreign Service offers you the privilege of being India’s ambassador’s to the world.


    The Service offers a challenging and exciting career and a truly unique opportunity to take our country’s great civilizational and cultural ethos with its developmental aspirations to the rest of the world.


    My dear young friends,


    You will soon be given the crucial responsibility of being all the spokespersons, interpreters and narrators of India’s story to the world.


    You will construct new bridges of understanding, appreciation and collective advancement between India and the rest of the world and build new, forward looking and stable partnerships between nations.


    You can play an important role in shaping the geopolitics of the future and in determining the new world order.


    We are now living in a world that is more connected than ever before. The world is truly a ‘Global Village’. It is also swiftly changing in many unprecedented ways.


    The changing global geo-political and geo-economic landscape requires a new agile, carefully strategized diplomatic response.


    I see a number of challenges that budding diplomats such as yourself would have to deal with and overcome.


    Despite the acknowledged need for an Integrated World Order, new ‘walls’ are being erected to the free flow of goods and services and people as well.


    This return of the unwelcome tendency of protectionism has the potential to adversely impact the global effort for collective advancement.


    Let me impress upon you the grave nature of the threat that the world community as a whole faces due to terrorism . No country in the world is immune to the consequences of terrorism now and therefore curbing this menace would require a united response from world nations.


    India has consistently taken an unrelenting and uncompromising stand against terrorism, we must continue to be champions of peace.


    We are now confronted by the unethical acts of financial fugitives .


    The ease with which they find safe havens in other countries escaping the long arm of law is a serious global concern. Extradition Treaties and all bilateral and multilateral agreements need to be constantly updated and overhauled to defend and safeguard the integrated global economic order for collective good.


    My dear young friends,


    To transform this world into the world we want, in consonance with the United Nations’ transformative, ambitious 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development , the world needs India. The world needs India not only because we are home to nearly 1.3 billion people comprising one- sixth of humanity. The world needs India because the problems and challenges facing the planet today need a humane, holistic vision.


    The world needs India because it needs a voice that speaks of peace, non-violence and peaceful coexistence. The world needs India because it needs to harness the potential of dialogue and discussion, collaboration and cooperation.


    This vision and voice, this attitude and belief are what India has stood for over the last twenty millennia. This vision and voice of India is more relevant to the world than ever before.


    Our core civilizational principle of viewing the world as ‘ Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’ and our prayer of ‘Sarve Jana Sukhino Bhavanthu’ gives us the moral strength and courage to influence global discourse in these testing times of great turbulence.


    I am glad to note that India has taken the lead in building sustainable development solutions.


    International Solar Energy Alliance, launched under India's initiative at the COP 21 in Paris is one such example.


    You must continually look for opportunities to provide similar leadership and lead the global agenda setting and implementation in as many fields as possible.


    Our foreign policy formulation and implementation must be firmly tied to the domestic development agenda.


    There is a constant need for a sustained dialogue and exchange of information between India’s representatives abroad and those who are implementing the development initiatives back home.


    With India moving on the development path swiftly, the world is looking at India with keen interest . We must not hesitate to take advantage of this momentum by capitalizing opportunities in areas of trade, services, investments and infrastructure. Diplomats must be proactive in enabling Indian industries and business to tap into world markets and must do their best in encouraging foreign investment to flow into India.


    Just recently, we have conducted the ‘largest festival of democracy’. We have conducted the elections in a peaceful and orderly manner. The people have made their choice with a resounding clarity and voted for stability.


    “I hope that all people will continue to deepen the roots of our rich democratic tradition and focus our collective energies on development, reforms and enhancement of the quality of our people’s lives”.


    Indian Diaspora is a great strength of our nation.


    Diplomats must continually engage with Diaspora while also safe-guarding their interests and looking after their welfare and ensuring that their efforts and goodwill is appreciated and channelized suitably.


    Just like the world needs India, India needs the world too. We need to learn and draw benefits from the good practices from all over the world.


    India is strong and is gaining in strength because we are open to good ideas from all over the globe.


    This is what the ancient sages had also said when they said: “Aa no bhadrah kratavo yantu vishwathaha” “Let noble thoughts come to us from all over the world”.


    As you become consummate practitioners of the art of negotiations with other countries, I would urge you to put every single one of your decisions through two tests. Ask yourself if your decision will advance world peace and prosperity and if it protects our national interests.


    During the last five years, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has significantly and remarkably raised the visibility and standing of India.


    India has emerged as the fastest growing economy with global powers acknowledging India’s growth story.


    We must renew our efforts to gain a permanent membership of the UN Security Council by further enhancing support from world nations and building a sustained dialogue in favor of UNSC reforms.


    We have to build consensus for the expansion and democratization of a number of other multilateral fora to ensure representation of a number of other emerging nations.


    My dear young friends,


    As future designers of India’s foreign relations, you have to continually work on improving your knowledge and skills.


    You should cultivate deep interest in understanding the countries of posting and explore all opportunities for improving relations between those countries and India.


    You have to uphold the principles of Integrity, Probity and conscientiousness.


    You must not only be India’s articulate voices but also be proactive catalysts of India’s prosperity and relentless advocates of Indian values of peaceful coexistence and inclusive, sustainable development.


    I wish you all the very best in your careers.


    Thank You! Jai Hind!”


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572750) Visitor Counter : 1030
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Bengali , Tamil