      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      I&B Ministry to organize Special Interactive Session with Mr. John Bailey - President of Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences
      
      Interaction to take place on 28thMay at Siri Fort

      Posted On: 26 MAY 2019 1:02PM by PIB Delhi

    In a major initiative to explore possibilities of collaboration, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting is organizing a Special Interactive Session with Mr. John Bailey, President of Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences on 28 th May at Siri Fort, New Delhi.


    The interaction will not only throw insights into the thought leadership at Oscars but will also be informative for key stakeholders attending the event. It will throw light not only on the nuances behind the craft of cutting edge filming techniques but also help develop an understanding amongst the stakeholders about creating world class content.


    Mr. Bailey will also be interacting with Shri Amit Khare, Secretary, Ministry of I&B. The interaction will be an opportunity for the Ministry to further highlight financial incentives offered to foreign filmmakers to shoot in India, single window facilitation mechanism for filming in India through web portal under the Film Facilitation Office, financing co-production of films and promotion of single screen theatres in small towns across the country.


    In the 47th edition of International Film Festival of India (IFFI), Mr. Robert Yeoman, world known Cinematographer and Mr. Alan Heim, renowned Film Editor from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences had taken Master Class in their respective fields. This interactive session presents an opportunity to further enhance outreach of the Festival and explore possibilities of collaboration with the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences for the Golden Jubilee edition of IFFI which will be organized if Goa in November, 2019.


    Brief Profile of John Bailey


    John Bailey is the first Cinematographer to hold the position of Academy President. His credits include “Ordinary People,” “American Gigolo,” “The Big Chill,” “Groundhog Day,” “As Good as It Gets,” “The Anniversary Party,” “The Way Way Back” and “A Walk in the Woods.” As a cinematographer, he is best known for his collaborations with directors Paul Schrader, Lawrence Kasdan, Michael Apted, and Ken Kwapis.


    In 1985, Bailey shared the Cannes Film Festival Best Artistic Contribution Award with EikoIshioka and Philip Glass for Mishima: A Life in Four Chapters. He was nominated for the Independent Spirit Award for Best Cinematography for Tough Guys Don't Dance and the Camerimage Golden Frog Award for Best Cinematography for Forever Mine. In 2015, the American Society of Cinematographers presented him Lifetime Achievement Award.


    ***


    AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572620) Visitor Counter : 1309
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali