      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Nominations open for Padma Awards-2020
      Posted On: 29 MAY 2019 5:45PM by PIB Delhi


    Online nominations/recommendations for the Padma Awards to be announced on the occasion of Republic Day, 2020 have started from 1 st May, 2019. The last date for nominations for Padma Awards is 15 th September, 2019.


    The Padma Awards, namely, Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri, are amongst the highest civilian awards of the country. Instituted in 1954, these Awards are announced on the occasion of the Republic Day every year. The award seeks to recognize ‘work of distinction’ and is given for distinguished and exceptional achievements/service in all fields/disciplines, such as, Art, Literature and Education, Sports, Medicine, Social Work, Science and Engineering, Public Affairs, Civil Service, Trade and Industry etc. All persons without distinction of race, occupation, position or sex are eligible for these Awards. Government servants including those working with PSUs, except Doctors and Scientists, are not eligible for Padma Awards.


    The nominations/recommendations for the Padma Awards will be received online only on the Padma portal www.padmaawards.gov.in . Central Ministries/Departments, States/UT Governments, Bharat Ratna and Padma Vibhushan awardees, Institutes of Excellence have been requested to make concerted efforts in identifying talented persons whose excellence and achievements really deserve to be recognized, and make suitable nominations in their favour.


    All citizens can make nominations/recommendations including self-nomination. The nominations/recommendations should contain all relevant details specified in the format available on the above said website, including a citation in narrative form (maximum 800 words), clearly bringing out the distinguished and exceptional achievements/service of the person recommended in her/his respective field/discipline. While recommending a person online, it should be ensured that all the necessary details are filled properly.


    The Ministry of Home Affairs has requested all Ministries/Departments of the Central Government as well as State/UT Governments that efforts may be made to identify talented persons from amongst women, weaker sections of the society, SCs & STs, divyang persons, etc., who deserve to be considered for the award.


    Further details in this regard are available under the heading 'Awards and Medals' on the website of Ministry of Home Affairs ( www.mha.gov.in ). The statutes and rules relating to these awards are available on the this website with the link https://padmaawards.gov.in/AboutAwards.aspx


    ******


    BB/NK/SS/PK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1572780) Visitor Counter : 1816
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi