      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      A series of events planned for this year’s World Environment Day
      
      Song “Hawa Aane De” released on this year’s theme, Air Pollution.

      Posted On: 29 MAY 2019 7:49PM by PIB Delhi

    World Environment Day (WED) is celebrated on 5 th June every year. Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change (MoEFCC) celebrates WED focussing on the theme declared by UNEP and organizes several events. This year’s theme is ‘Air Pollution’. Keeping with the tradition, this year the main function is being held at Vigyan Bhawan on 5 th June, 2019 and will be presided over by the Minister for Environment, Forest & Climate Change. The events will include launch of film competition on environment, release of several books and three thematic sessions on Air Pollution, Waste Management and Forests: the Green Lungs of cities . The World Environment Day will also be celebrated across the country in State Capitals and other places.


    The theme song was launched by Secretary MoEFCC, Shri C.K. Mishra in the presence of the artists involved with the song, today in New Delhi. At the launch function Secretary said that the song is a call to action for all to come together to combat the environmental challenges of our time, urging each one of us to explore green technologies and measures to improve the quality of air and make the country and our cities less polluted.


    It is noteworthy that to combat air pollution, Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change has recently launched the National Clean Air programme (NCAP) which is a mid-term 5 Year Action Plan with targets of 20-30% reduction of PM 2.5 and PM 10 concentration in 102 cities, out of which 84 cities have already submitted their action plan. The main objective of NCAP is to control and abate air pollution across the country. It is a multi sectoral and collaborative approach with mainstreaming and integration.


    Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change, in collaboration with Bhamla Foundation, Mumbai,has produced the theme song on the subject. The song #HawaAaneDe with celebrities and influencers is intended to carry out the message of Air Pollution. The theme song is written by Shri Swanand Kirkire and sung by Shri Shantanu Mukherjee, Kapil Sharma, Sunidhi Chauhan and Shankar Mahadevan. The film has been directed by Shri Romanchak Arora.


    ***


    GK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1572789) Visitor Counter : 2362
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali