      Ministry of Home Affairs

      India to co-chair Consultative Group (CG) of Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR)
      Posted On: 14 MAY 2019 7:19PM by PIB Delhi


    India is unanimously chosen as co-chair of the Consultative Group (CG) of Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR) for the fiscal year 2020. The decision was taken during the CG meeting of GFDRR held in Geneva, Switzerland today, on the margins of the 6 th Session of the Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction (GPDRR) 2019. The CG Meeting was co-chaired by Africa Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) Group of States, the European Union (EU) and World Bank. Additionally, GFDRR in cooperation with the UNDRR and the EU is also organizing the 4 th edition of World Reconstruction Conference (WRC) on May 13-14, 2019.


    GFDRR is a global partnership that helps developing countries better understand and reduce their vulnerability to natural hazards and climate change. GFDRR is a grant-funding mechanism, managed by the World Bank, that supports disaster risk management projects worldwide. It is presently working on the ground with over 400 local, national, regional, and international partners and provides knowledge, funding, and technical assistance.


    India became member of CG of GFDRR in 2015 and expressed its interest to co-chair in last meeting of CG held in October 2018. India’s candidature was backed by its consistent progress in disaster risk reduction (DRR) in the country and its initiative to form a coalition on disaster resilient infrastructure.


    This will give the country an opportunity to work with the member countries and organizations of GFDRR with a focused contribution towards advancing the disaster risk reduction agenda during the course of the year. This is the first time that the country has been afforded the opportunity of co-chairing the CG meeting of GFDRR. India would like to pursue a focused agenda and develop synergies with ongoing work streams of GFDRR. Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (DRI) will be a central theme of engagement with the GFDRR partners and stakeholders.


    The meeting of CG of GFDRR was attended by Shri Kamal Kishore, Member, NDMA and Shri Sanjeev Kumar Jindal, Joint Secretary (DM).


    ********


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572014) Visitor Counter : 1120
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi