      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi assumes charge as Union Minister for Minority Affairs
      Posted On: 31 MAY 2019 6:23PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi assumed charge as Union Minister for Minority Affairs at Antyodaya Bhawan in New Delhi today. Shri Sailesh, Secretary, Ministry of Minority Affairs and other senior officials of the Ministry welcomed the Minister.


    While talking to reporters, Shri Naqvi said that “3E- Education, Employment and Empowerment” will be his priority to ensure socio-economic-educational empowerment of Minorities. Our commitment is to provide fruits of development to the last person of the society.


    Shri Naqvi said that providing quality education to Minorities will be our priority. The Ministry of Minority Affairs will launch nation-wide awareness campaign on war footing to reduce school dropout rate among Minority especially Muslim girls. Schools, colleges, ITIs, polytechnics, hostels, Sadbhav Mandap etc will be constructed on war footing in Minority concentrated areas across the country to ensure better educational infrastructure under Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karykram.


    Shri Naqvi said that the campaign to provide employment and employment opportunities to master artisans from Minority community will be further accelerated. “Hunar Haat”, which has been proved to be an effective measure to provide employment and employment opportunities to master artisans, will be organised across the country in the coming days.


    Shri Naqvi said that the Ministry of Minority Affairs has prepared a 100-days roadmap to strengthen Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s commitment to “Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas”. Shri Naqvi said that besides, 100 per cent digitalisation and GPS mapping of waqf properties across the country will also be priority of the Minority Affairs Ministry.


    He was born on 15 th October, 1957 at Bhadari Village in Allahabad, Shri Naqvi has completed his BA (Hons.) and post-graduation in Mass Communication. He has continued writing on several socio-political-cultural issues and working for the uplift of artisans and craftsmen.


    Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi served as Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting and Parliamentary Affairs in 1998 in Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Government. During his tenure, he took major decisions and initiated reforms like Direct to Home broadcast system (DTH) and giving industry status to Indian film industry. In the last Government during 2014 to 2019, he served as Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Independent Charge of Minority Affairs and then Cabinet Minister for Minority Affairs. Shri Naqvi played a crucial role in several key legislative works and passage of various important Reform Bills.


    Shri Naqvi has been chairman and member of many Parliamentary Committees and Haj committees, Consultative committees and Joint Parliamentary Committees.


    *****


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1572977) Visitor Counter : 137
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali