      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Workshop on Artificial Bio Organs held in Visakhapatnam
      Posted On: 15 MAY 2019 12:44PM by PIB Delhi


    In order to strengthen Indo-Australian Cooperation and achieve development of 3D printing industry in both the countries, Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone (AMTZ) has recently organized a one-day workshop on Organ Bio Printing at the Kalam Convention Center, AMTZ Campus in Visakhapatnam. The workshop explored 3D printing, an innovative technology that covers all medical disciplines and offers new opportunities in diagnostics and therapy. From diagnostic visualization to surgical planning, patient-specific models provide an added value for patients and physicians.


    Dr. Jitendar Kumar Sharma, MD & CEO invited the delegates to experience the 3D printing facility at AMTZ, which is one of the largest 3D printing facilities in the world with diverse materials and diverse applications. He also spoke about Bio Harmonised Aids for Rehabilitation and Treatment (BHARAT), a new initiative to develop at least 10 organs by 3D Bioprinting. He Invited international and national collaboration in this project that would benefit lakhs of people.


    Dr Gordon Wallace, who is involved in design and discovery of new materials for use in energy and health, elaborated on metal 3D Printing giving valuable insights on sourcing the right material, formula formation and development of prototype and commercialization of 3D Bio-Printed products. Dr Gordon Wallace is also director of Translational Research Initiative for Cellular Engineering and Printing (TRICEP)


    Dr Payal Mukherjee, an Otologist, Cochlear Implant and LateralSkull Base Surgeon in Sydney & Deputy Chair of the RACS NSW State Committee,stressed on the need for not only research but also availability of facilities for conducting clinical trials on large animals. She also highlighted the need for collaboration and role of cosmetic surgeons in usage of 3D Printed Bio Organs.


    Dr. Raghunandan, Consultant ENT Surgeon at Madras ENT Research Foundation (MERF), Chennai stressed on the need for financial aid from government for surgeries involving 3D Printed parts as they could be expensive at times.


    Dr. Sanjay Gambhir, Associate director, TRICEP (Bio-Inks & Bio Materials), Alok Medikepura Anil, founder of start-up, Next Big Innovation Labs and Rajasekhar Upputuri, CEO, Think 3D also attended the workshop.


    ***


    MM/ SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1572038) Visitor Counter : 1575
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali