      Ministry of Education

      Shri Sanjay Shamrao Dhotre takes over as Minister of State for Human Resource Development
      Posted On: 31 MAY 2019 8:52PM by PIB Delhi


    The newly appointed Union Minister of State for Human Resource Development , Shri Sanjay Shamrao Dhotre, assumed charge of his office in Shastri Bhawan today. On his arrival at the Ministry of HRD in Shastri Bhawan, Shri Dhotre was received by Secretary, Higher Education, Shri R. Subramanyam and Secretary , School Education & Literacy Smt. Rina Ray and other senior officersvof the Ministry.


    After assuming the charge, the Minister also held a meeting with the senior officers of the Ministry where he was briefed on the key initiatives and policy issues of the Ministry.


    Shri Dhotre hails from Akola, Maharashtra. He is a graduate in Mechanical Engineering and did his engineering from Government College of Engineering, Amravati, Maharashtra. He is an Agriculturist

    Engineer and Industrialist by profession. He is socially and culturally very active and participated actively in Art of Living and conducting Navchetana Shivir. Shri Dhotre has special interest in Reading, organic farming, spirituality, personality deveolpment, yoga, water conservation, infrastructure development in rural and semi-urban areas. His Favourite Pastime and Recreation is Reading and travelling.


    Shri Dhotre is 4 th time MP in current 17 th Lok Sabha and represent Akola parliamentary constituency. Before becoming Member of Parliament he was a Member of Maharshtra Legislative Assembly from 1999 to 2004. First time he was elected as a Member of Parliament in 14 th Lok Sabha in 2004. He has held some key positions in various parliamentary committees. He was a Member of Standing Committee.


    Shri Dhotre was conferred Maharashtra Government Industry Award for excellent performance in 1987 and Late Shri Vasantrao Naik Memorial Award for outstanding work in agricultural sector.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1573030) Visitor Counter : 140
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi