      PIB Headquarters

      CMFRI to throw open unseen world of marine wonders for public
      CMFRI to open its doors on 73rd foundation day tomorrow (Feb 4, Tuesday)

      Posted On: 03 FEB 2020 2:40PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram

    Lion Fish in CMFRI Marine Aquarium


    As part of its 73rd foundation day, the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) opens its doors to students and the public on Tuesday to give them a rare privilege of getting the ringside view of the marine splendours.


    The exhibition will offer a display of diverse aquatic species in the sea and a platform to understand the latest developments in marine research. The National Marine Biodiversity Museum, which is rich with collection from a wide spectrum of niches ranging from estuaries to coastal and deeper waters of the Indian seas, various laboratories, newly-designed marine research aquarium, hatcheries and other facilities in the CMFRI will be kept open to the public from 10 am to 4 pm.


    The largest fish – whale shark – horse shoe crab, sea snakes, sea birds, pearl oyster, sea cow, dolphins and sharks at the CMFRI Museum will attract visitors. The marine research aquarium showcases different marine ornamental varieties including bat fish, lion fish, etc. Those curious to understand the latest research developments in marine fisheries may visit various laboratories related to bioprospecting, ocean acidification, fishery biology, environmental research, climate change, cell culture, etc. The fish ageing laboratory will definitely attract marine enthusiasts to uncover the secrets behind estimation of fish age which is a revolutionary step in marine fisheries research. Visitors can also acquire knowledge in the area of developing medicines from marine organisms for various diseases.


    Models of innovative technologies in integrated farming such as the Recirculating Aquaculture System (RAS) and aquaponics along with that of cage fish farming, ornamental fish farming will be demonstrated on the occasion. Programmes creating awareness on marine pollution and dangers of dumping plastic wastes into water ecosystem will also be offered to the public.


    The objective of the programme is to sensitise the people about the conservation of the marine biodiversity and to provide an insight into the research activities being transpired in the sector, said Dr A Gopalakrishnan, Director of CMFRI.


    IE/BSN

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601701) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam