      PIB Headquarters

      CMFRI displays wonders of marine life
      Posted On: 05 FEB 2020 11:52AM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Kochi: A large number of people turned out to watch in awe the wonders of marine life at the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) on Tuesday. Students and the public also got opportunity to understand the latest research developments being transpired in marine fisheries while the CMFRI opened its doors for public to mark its 73 rd Foundation Day.


    The National Marine Biodiversity Museum, various laboratories, marine research aquarium and hatcheries were major attractions that displayed a ringside view of marine aquatic life and offered a platform to acquire knowledge about secrets of marine biodiversity. The visitors watched the rich collection from a wide spectrum of niches ranging from estuaries to coastal and deeper waters of the Indian seas at the museum, which is designated as the National Repository by the Union Government. It offered a display of the largest fish – whale shark – horse shoe crab, sea snakes, sea birds, pearl oyster, sea cow, dolphins and sharks to mention a few.


    Visitors also got attracted to the show of pelagic, demersal, molluscan and crustacean fishery resources such as flying fish, dolphin fish, rare species of sharks and rays, giant tiger shrimps and giant-sized crabs. The exhibition also offered marine ornamental varieties, pearls, pearl oysters, squid jigs, different varieties of mangroves, seaweeds, etc. On the occasion, information on cage fish farming, innovated aquaculture practices, hatchery production, ornamental fish culture and aquarium keeping was provided to the public. An awareness session, that gave insight into marine pollution and the impact of plastic pollution on fish ecosystem, was also held at the exhibition.


    An exhibition-cum-sale of photographs on sea birds captured by CMFRI Technical Assistant and bird enthusiast Aju K Raju was also held as part of the programme.


    Ear-rings made of fish otoliths a huge draw


    Ear-rings made up of fish otoliths exhibited at CMFRI on its Foundation Day drew attention of large number of people on Tuesday. A huge rush felt to have a close watch of the ornaments in different size and design made up of otoliths. Though majority of the fish have otoliths, only that of around ten species are suitable for making ornaments. Researchers at the CMFRI regularly use the otoliths as taxonomic tool for their identification and estimating fish age. The ornamental prospect of these otoliths was recognised only by chance on course of the regular research, says Dr E M Abdussamad, Principal Scientist of CMFRI.


    “Even though ornaments made of fish otolith are not available in India, they are used as lucky stones in some countries like Italy, Brazil and Egypt. A repository of otoliths comprising around 1000 fishes in Indian coasts is available at CMFRI. Ornaments like locket and bracelets also can be made of the otoliths using ordinary metals, silver, gold and others. The ones designed by CMFRI are in silver. It may cost around Rs 1000 while designing in silver, though it may vary depending on size and models”, he said. Making of otolith ornaments would become an additional livelihood for fisherwomen. This may have demand in places where foreign tourists assemble, he added.


    According to CMFRI study based on fish otoliths, the oil sardine being caught in Kerala waters has one and half years of age, while the mackerel has two and half years and yellow-fin tuna has up to 19 years.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1601971) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam