      PIB Headquarters

      Kerala Governor calls for attracting FDI into marine products sector
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2020 4:54PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Kochi: Kerala Governor Shri Arif Mohammad Khan today inaugurated the 22 nd India International Seafood Show (IISS) here, calling for efforts to attract foreign direct investment (FDI) into the sector for increasing employment opportunities and boosting the country’s seafood exports through an innovative model based on diversification and value addition.


    Delivering his inaugural address at the three-day showpiece event of the marine industry, Shri Khan expressed confidence that India would be able to increase its share in global seafood trade from the present 4.1 per cent to 6.7 per cent by 2030 by increasing production, value addition and diversification.


    “Blue evolution: Beyond Production to Value Addition” is the focal theme of the biennial event being jointly organised by the Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA), the nodal agency of Union Ministry of Commerce & Industry, and the Seafood Export Association of India (SEAI).


    Highlighting the importance of seafood, the Governor pointed out that 40 per cent of the global population live within 200 km from seacoasts and 12 of the 15 mega cities are on the coasts. In India alone, about 40.5 million people are involved in the fisheries sector, which also contributed one per cent to the gross domestic product (GDP), he noted.


    Oceans and fisheries had always fascinated the imagination of Indians as the first incarnation of Lord Vishnu was in the form of a fish, he explained.


    Billed as one of Asia’s largest seafood fairs, the IISS is being held in Kochi after a gap of 12 years. Over 1,500 delegates, 50 of them from 12 foreign countries, are attending it to deliberate on policies and actionable roadmaps to achieve the country’s marine products export target of US$10 billion by 2022.


    Among others who addressed the inaugural function were MPEDA Chairman Shri K.S. Srinivas, his predecessors Leena Nair and G. Mohan Kumar, Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) Chairman Dr. Christy Fernandez and SEAI National President Jagdish V Fofandi.


    On the occasion, MPEDA launched an online certification scheme “Shaphari” for the farmers to ensure quality produce, bereft of anti-biotics which hindered exports.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1602423) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam