      PIB Headquarters

      Milestone’ IISS ends on optimistic note, next summit at Kolkata in 2022
      Posted On: 10 FEB 2020 12:06PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Kochi: One of Asia’s biggest marine products fairs wound up its 22nd edition here today, showcasing the latest technological interventions in aquaculture and deliberating on matters that can give a fillip to the sector ahead of the next summit at Kolkata in 2022.


    The February 7-9 India International Seafood Show (IISS-2020), which was organised in Kochi by the Marine Products Exports Development Authority (MPEDA) in association with the Seafood Exporters Association of India, is a “milestone”, considering the boost the mega exhibition and its brainstorming sessions have given to the country’s aquafarming amid certain challenges.


    “Our seafood sector can improve with a joint effort of a handful of key ministries: Commerce, Fisheries, Environment and Health. This key point found highlight at IISS-2020, much to our pleasure,” said Shri K S Srinivas, Chairman of MPEDA, which functions under the Union Ministry of Commerce & Industry as an autonomous nodal agency for holistic development of seafood industry.


    Recalling that MPEDA has proposed to the Centre to renovate select 25 fishing harbours across the country, Shri Srinivas said the plan was to start the Rs 2,500-crore project with upgradation and modernisation of the ones at Thoppumpady in Kochi and Nizampattanam in Andhra Pradesh. “We are readying a DPR (detailed project report) with Ernst and Young as the consultants. The document will be submitted next month,” he revealed. “Once approved, we will form an SPV (special purpose vehicle) to implement the project.”


    India’s seafood exports to China had touched $1billion in November 2019, but this has slowed down a bit subsequently owing to the white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) in a few consignments, the MPEDA head revealed. “But China itself has WSSV; so they can’t restrict another country from importing it on that ground, going by the WTO guidelines,” he added.


    As for the Coronavirus outbreak in China, Mr Srinivas said it has not affected the shrimp consumption in that country where Wuhan, the epicentre of the disease, is a small province.


    Terming IISS-2020 as a “big success”, he said Kolkata would hold the 23rd edition of the biennial event.


    IISS-2020, which offered a platform for all stakeholders to deliberate on various aspects of the seafood industry for striking business deals, was inaugurated on February 7 by Kerala Governor Shri Arif Mohammad Khan. The Governor had called for making all-out efforts to attract FDI into the sector and boosting the country’s seafood exports through an innovative model based on diversification and value addition.


    A day later, Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Shri Som Parkash gave away MPEDA Awards to 60 companies and individuals for their excellent performance.


    Kerala Fisheries Minister Smt J Mercykutty Amma, among others, was present at the function in the summit held at Lulu International Convention Centre, Hotel Grand Hyatt, in Bolgatty Island.


    Featuring three technical sessions, IISS-2020 had close to 1,500 delegates, of whom 50 were from 12 foreign countries. On the concluding day, the entry was open to the public, who primarily visited the 350-odd stalls at the venue spread over 7,000 sq m. The exhibition showcased a wide range of products based on automated and IT-aided pre-processing, processing and storage technologies for value addition, thus opening for service providers such as the logistics and certifying/testing segments.


    One technical session, on ‘Prospective Markets & Regulatory Environment’ (Friday), noted that China continues to be an important market for seafood import with its increasing presence of upper and middle classes who are keen on healthy food. Another on ‘Certification, Traceability & Value Addition’ highlighted Andhra Pradesh’s capacity to remain India’s seafood capital, while a following session focused on ‘Tuna Export Value Chain - Better Harvest Practices’. In addition, DANFOSS Industries (P) Ltd and TCS made business presentations.


    IISS-2020 also saw the launch of Shaphari, the 'Antibiotic-free Certification’ system for aquaculture, which guarantees quality shrimp post larvae (PL) and authenticates their quality in the highly competitive international market. This software has been developed in association with digital identification solution provider Syntizen Technologies


    India is the second largest aquaculture producer in the world and the largest exporter of shrimp to USA. The country also exports a significant volume of shrimp to Europe and other markets in South East Asia.


    

    
    (Release ID: 1602592) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam