      PIB Headquarters

      KVK set to ensure availability of genuine desi poultry in urban homes
      Posted On: 13 FEB 2020 3:10PM by PIB Thiruvananthpuram


    Kochi: Ernakulam Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) is set to ensure the good availability of authentic desi poultry in urban homes of the city. The KVK will collect one-day old chicks from organic poultry farmers in the district after ensuring the purity of the genus of the poultry and will distribute through its sales counter located at Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI). In the first step of this initiative, KVK formed a group of desi poultry farmers in the district and a self-help group at a meeting held at CMFRI on Wednesday.


    “After collecting the chicks, the KVK will rear them for two months and during the period necessary vaccines and feeds will be administered. Only then, the poultry will be handed over to those in need of this variety”, said Dr Shinoj Subramanian, Head of KVK. The Kendra would also ensure that farmers were practicing the scientific method in poultry farms as advised by the KVK before buying the chicks from them, he said.


    KVK’s initiative assumes significance in the wake of the shortage of desi poultry among the city residents. “KVK will start buying the chicks of original desi genus from next May and it is expected that the vaccinated poultry could be distributed by July”, Dr Shinoj said.


    “The farmers’ group under the KVK is also planning to solve the issue of shortage of feeds for organic poultry. An attempt will be made to produce the feed under farmers’ group” he added.


    In an another major initiative of the KVK and the poultry farmers associated with, desi eggs would be made available in the market with a brand name. In addition to creating market avenue for the eggs, the price would be made uniform. Some of the health clubs in the city have already approached KVK for getting genuine desi eggs. “Currently, there is no systematic market for desi eggs. Even though there is a huge demand for the produce in the city, lack of proper market network stands in the way of farmers to reach out to the targeted buyers”, Dr Shinoj said.


    As many as 30 organic poultry farmers attended the meeting at the CMFRI under which the Ernakulam KVK is functioning.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603060) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam