      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot opens Admission in Dr B.R. Ambedkar School of Media Empowerment to Train Dalit and Tribal Youths
      Posted On: 06 DEC 2018 4:06PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri ThaawarchandGehlot opens nationwide admission in Dr. B.R. Ambedkar School of Media Empowerment to train Dalit and Tribal youths here today. The Media School, first of its kind to train Dalit and Tribal youths in journalism is supported by Indian Institute for Mass Communication (IIMC). The school will be having its branches in Pune, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and other parts of India. Shri Amar Sable, MP, Rajya Sabha, Shri Tarun Vijay, ex-MP, RajyaSabha and Shri K.G. Suresh, DG, IIMC were present on the occasion.


    Addressing on the occasion, Shri ThaawarchandGehlot said that the Media school is an effort to encourage the youth belonging to these marginalized segments to find their place through profession of journalism. He assured all sorts of cooperation from his ministry.


    Dalit rights leader Shri Amar Sable, MP, Rajya Sabha is the Chairman of its National Coordination Committee. Several veteran journalists, editors and dalit tribal activists are supporting the idea. The media school will be having courses on all major streams of journalism and mass communication including artificial intelligence and cyber security. The Pune Centre will be opened shortly.


    The Media School is aiming to help the Dalit and Tribal youths join the mainstream media, as presently their number is abysmally low in comparison to their nationwide real population. While media refuses to give them reservation, it is an effort to encourage the youth belonging to these marginalized segments to find their place through the might of pen. Dr. B. R. Ambedkar was a great journalist & editor and his works are the main inspiration behind the opening of Dr. B. R. Ambedkar School of Media Empowerment.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E-01-06-12-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554867) Visitor Counter : 493
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil