      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      ESIC to Allow Non - IPs to Avail Medical Services from its Underutilized Hospitals
      
      Recruitment of Around 5200 Various Posts in ESIC Under Way

      Posted On: 06 DEC 2018 2:02PM by PIB Delhi

    The ESI Corporation during its 176 th meeting held on 05.12.18 under the Chairmanship of Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of State for Labour & Employment (I/C) has taken some very important decisions towards improvements in its service delivery mechanism.


    In the meeting, It was decided to allow Non-IPs (Non Insured Persons) to avail medical services from underutilized ESIC Hospitals after levying User Charges at a subsidized cost of Rs. 10/- for OPD Consultation, at 25% of CGHS package rates for admitted patients and to provide medicines on actual rate initially for one year on pilot basis. It will immensely help common people get the quality medical care at very low cost. Besides, it will ensure full utilization of resources of hospital for people’s cause.


    Recruitment to the 5200 posts in various categories like Social Security Officer, Insurance Medical Officer Grade-II, Junior Engineers, Teaching Faculty, Paramedical & Nursing Cadre, UDC and Steno etc. in ESIC is under process.


    To meet the shortage of specialist/super specialist doctors in some of the ESIC Hospitals, the ESIC approved for hiring of full time contractual specialists/super specialists in the department of Anaesthesia, Medicine, Surgery, Pediatrics, Gyne, Ortho, Cardiology, Nephrology and Medical Oncology after inviting open tender.


    Keeping in view the rise in the National Floor Level Minimum Wages to Rs. 176/-, it was decided in the meeting to Enhance the exemption limit for payment of employees’ share of contribution from Rs. 137 to Rs. 176.


    Shri Heera Lal Samaria, Secretary, Labour & Employment, Sh. Raj Kumar, Director General, ESIC, ESIC representatives of Employees and Employers and ESI Corporation Members, representatives of state govts. and senior officers of the Ministry were also present in the meeting.


    ****


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554848) Visitor Counter : 1054
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Tamil