      Ministry of Defence

      Italy Wins Admiral's Cup Sailing Regatta 2018
      Posted On: 06 DEC 2018 9:51PM by PIB Delhi


    1. The ninth edition of ‘Admirals Cup’ Sailing Regatta (2018) concluded today, on Thursday, 06 December 2018 with a glittering closing ceremony at Ettikulam Beach at Indian Naval Academy (INA), Ezhimala tonight.


     1. Team Italy represented by Midshipman Vincenzo Rocco and Midshipman Alberto Cabras won the Admiral's Cup 2018. Team Singapore represented by 2 nd Lieutenant Koh Yi Qian and 2 nd Lieutenant Dillon How was the Runners-Up and Team USA represented by Midshipman Jessica Mc Jones and Midshipman Tyler Fleig came third. The host country team (Indian Naval Academy) finished fourth in the overall position of Admiral's Cup 2018. 1 st Lieutenant Ebrahim Showaiter from Bahrain stood first in the individual position in the men’s category followed by Midshipman Vincenzo Rocco from Italy and 2 nd Lieutenant Dillon How from Singapore at second and third positions respectively. Midshipman Jessica Mc Jones from USA stood first in the individual position in women’s category followed by Midshipman Paula Kaminska from Poland and Cadet Francisca Mauricio from Portugal at second and third positions respectively. Vice Admiral RB Pandit, AVSM, Commandant, INA the chief guest for the closing ceremony presented the “Admiral’s Cup”, runners up trophy and individual prizes to the winners. Italy and Singapore will carry home the replicas of the Admiral's Cup and the Runners-Up trophy respectively.


    3. The Admiral’s Cup witnessed competitive sailing races in Laser Radials boats during race days scheduled from 03 December 2018 to 06 December 2018. 62 participants, including nine female participants displayed their sailing skills in the Laser Radials in challenging wind and weather conditions as they squeezed every knot out of their boats over the past four days of the race. The event has become very popular since its inception in 2010.


    4. The ninth edition of Admiral’s Cup Sailing Regatta 2018, with 30 competing teams from Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Egypt, France, Germany, Indonesia, Iran, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Maldives, Myanmar, Nigeria, Oman, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Singapore, South Africa, Sri Lanka, UAE, UK, USA and Vietnam and two Indian academy teams from INA and National Defence Academy, Khadakvasla, has the distinction of having the highest number of participating countries in the world for any military sailing competitive event.


    5. During the last five days, the visiting foreign teams and accompanying officials were involved in various activities apart from competitive racing which included visit to training and sporting facilities located at Indian Naval Academy, archaeological and fitness trek to Mount Dilli and cultural package showcasing India's rich traditions, languages, cultures, dance and art forms.


    7. The event culminated in a grand finale with the closing ceremony held in the evening today, Thursday 06 December 2018 at Ettikulam Bay at Indian Naval Academy (INA), Ezhimala. The participating teams will be departing INA tomorrow, 07 December 2018 having competed fiercely and hoping to be back for the tenth edition of the ‘Admirals Cup’ Sailing Regatta in 2019.


    
    DKS/MS/DJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1554973) Visitor Counter : 625
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

1.