      Ministry of Railways

      Ministry of Railways Signs an MoU with Madame Tussauds Wax Museum to foster tourism in Delhi NCR
      Posted On: 04 DEC 2018 5:49PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Railways’ National Rail Museum (NRM) and Madame Tussauds Wax Museum join hands together to provide an amazing combo offer to Delhi NCR tourists. As a part of the collaboration, a special discount of 35% on ticket prices will be offered to NRM visitors when they visit Madame Tussauds Museum. Similarly, Madame Tussauds Wax Museum visitors will be getting an attractive discount of 30% on combo packages of NRM. It is envisaged that this innovative, first time ever, public-private museum collaboration, shall attract more tourists to both National Rail Museum and Madame Tussauds Wax Museum. In this regard, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed between Ministry of Railways and Madame Tussauds Wax Museum. Secretary, Railway Board, Shri Ranjanesh Sahai, Director & General Manager of Madame Tussauds, Shri Anshul Jain, Sr. Officials of Ministry of Railways and other dignitaries were also present on the occasion.


    In addition, there will be a special provision for school groups. School children will be able to enjoy both museums at a 45% discount. This will help in promoting railway heritage and also enable children to learn about national heroes, thereby making the student excursion more inclusive, holistic and interesting.


    Delhi has many popular museums but most of them require individual ticketing. The broader vision of this collaboration is to spread the concept of a discounted single ticket for accessing more museums, even spanning over 3-4 days. This will not only be convenient to tourists, it will also promote tourism industry. Similar facility is already available in major tourist cities across world.


    Backgrounder:-


    National Rail Museum (NRM), managed by Indian Railway, is one of the top edutainment tourist destinations of Delhi NCR area having annual footfall of more than 5 lakhs. NRM offers railway history, heritage, nostalgia, games & children activity all bundled together at one place.


    Spread over 11 acres of land at Chanakyapuri, NRM comprises of outdoor & indoor exhibition space with exotic collections of more than 75 real size exhibits, Joy Train for children, real life steam engine, more than hundred artifacts and digital displays, Diesel & Steam Locomotive Simulators, VR based coach simulator etc.


    Madame Tussauds wax museum is a leading chain of Wax Museums in the world. In 2017, Madame Tussauds opened its 23 rd Wax museum in Connaught Place (CP), New Delhi. This is the first wax museum in India of this renowned brand. The CP museum has 52 wax figures of celebrities like Mahatma Gandhi, Amitabh Bachchan, Sachin Tendulkar, Shahrukh Khan among others. Within a year, the wax museum has become one of the most sought after destination in Delhi.


    *****


    SVS/MKV/AP/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554677) Visitor Counter : 1094