      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      After approving projects for pollution hotspots along River Ganga, Namami Gange programme focusses on the tributaries of the river
      
      The National Mission for Clean approves projects worth Rs. 841 crore on tributaries of Ganga in Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal
      
      Also approves an STP project on Ganga in Bihar at a cost of Rs. 41.36 Crore

      Posted On: 05 DEC 2018 4:00PM by PIB Delhi

    The National Mission for Clean Ganga is now focusing on cleaning the tributaries of River Ganga in a big way. In the 18 th meeting of its Executive Committee yesterday, NMCG approved projects worth Rs. 841. crore on Ganga tributaries in Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal . With this, the sanctioned cost of all sewerage projects on tributaries has gone up to Rs.5735 crore. A total number of 30 sewerage projects have already been sanctioned on tributaries in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Haryana, Delhi and Himachal Pradesh. The EC also approved an STP project on Ganga in Bihar at a cost of Rs. 41.36 Crore


    For Uttar Pradesh projects have been approved in Bareilly, Muzaffarnagar and Budhana at a total cost of Rs. 551.94 crore.


    14 Interception & Diversion works (I&D) and four Sewage Treatment Plants creating a capacity of 63 Million Litres per day (MLD) have been approved for Bareilly. Bareilly lies entirely in the Ganges plains and Ramganga, one of the major tributaries of the Ganga river flows at a distance of a few km from the city along with other rivers such as Bahgul, Shankh, Devrania, Nakatia, Kailasi that also pass through this district. There are 13 major drains in the town, having cumulative discharge of 41 MLD in the Naktiya river. Choubari nala has 18.25 MLD discharge and Airforce nala has a discharge of 1MLD. A decentralized STP has been proposed for this area. There are 5 nalas from the central zone for which 3 projects are ongoing under the AMRUT scheme. The STP capacity is 35 MLD for the central zone. The remaining interventions have been proposed in this projects, while integrating the ongoing schemes.


    The Muzaffarnagar project was also given the go ahead. It includes 8 I&D structures and 22 MLD new STP, and other works including O&M for 15 years. There are 10 major drains in the town, out of these 3 drains are under East zone and the remaining 7 drains are under West zone. The cumulative present discharge of the East zone drains (Nai Mandi drain, Sandhawa drain) is 22.82 MLD. The cumulative discharge of West zone drains (Nayajipur drain, Laddawala drain, Shamli road drain, Khadarwala drain, Krishnapuri pipe drain, Sujdu village drain and Nai basti Khalapar drain) is 53.52 MLD


    The Executive Committee approved Interception & Diversion works (I&D) and Sewage Treatment Plant at Budhana which includes construction of a new 10 MLD STP, 3 I&D structures and allied works, along-with Operation and Maintenance cost for 15 years. There are presently 3 drains in the town which carry untreated waste water from houses and establishment. All the three drains i.e. Dobhi ghat darin, Sabzi Mandi drain & Shamshaan ghat drain have a cumulative discharge of 10.07 MLD which is directly falling into the river Kali without any treatment at present.


    Interception & Diversion network for the drains falling in river Damodar in West Bengal including pumping stations and Sewage Treatment Plants under Durgapur Municipality has been approved at a total project cost of Rs. 287.53 crore and includes 2 STPs of 25 MLD each and 1 STP of 30 MLD capacity, network laying of the length of 5.73 KM, with O&M cost for 15 years. There is no centralized sewerage system in the town and it is currently facing a serious problem in sanitation. The entire wastewater from upper and lower part of the municipal town flows into the Damodar River through surface drains and then into river Hoogly. Therefore, all the drains out falling into the Damodar River must be Intercepted and then Diverted to proposed lift stations (LS), main pumping stations (MPS) and the proposed STPs.


    In addition to the above projects, and I&D and STP project was also approved for Maner in Bihar. The Maner I&D and STP Project includes 3 I&D structures for the drains construction of a state-of-the-art 6.5 MLD STP, UV disinfection, SCADA online monitoring system and necessary ancillary infrastructures. The proposal intends to develop an Interception & Diversion and STP of 6.5 MLD capacity at Maner town, for the treatment of the sewage generated from Maner town which is currently finding its way into river Ganga. On implementation of the project there will be no discharge of untreated sewage from Maner Town into River Ganga thereby reducing pollution load in the river.


    An action plan is being worked out for use of reclaimed water. In line with the holistic approach adopted by NMCG, treated waste water is proposed to be used either in agriculture or in the industrial sector. The States have been asked to workout proposals for re-use in each project.


    ***


    NP/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554760) Visitor Counter : 1229
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi