      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      National Commission for Women to support livelihood programmes in Northeast
      Posted On: 03 DEC 2018 5:21PM by PIB Delhi


    National Commission for Women (NCW) will support Northeast livelihood programmes for women, particularly for those in younger age group, through Skill development and Specialized training, which can enable them to earn their living and also empower them as individuals. This was discussed at a meeting between Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh and the newly appointed member of the three-member National Commission for Women, Smt Soso Shaiza, who called on the Minister here today.


    During the meeting, it was observed that even though the women in Northeast, by and large, are quite emancipated as far as their contribution in outdoor work is concerned, but there was a huge scope for raising the levels of education among the women living in remote and rural areas, and also to impart skill training to make them self - reliant.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said that the National Commission for Women can supplement its efforts and resources in carrying forward several of the women oriented projects which are already undertaken by the Ministry of Development of North-eastern Region and the NEC. In this regard, he made a special mention of a number of Self Help Groups (SHGs) of women doing a commendable work in the region.


    The issue of Northeast women, particularly of younger age groups, living in metros like Bengaluru and Mumbai was also discussed. Dr Jitendra Singh informed Smt Shaiza that the construction work of an exclusive hostel in Bangalore University campus for girl students from Northeast is almost complete and the entire project has been funded by North Eastern Council / DoNER Ministry. He also informed that the upcoming hostel for Northeast students in Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), New Delhi will include accommodation for 200 girl students also.


    Smt. Soso Shaiza was assured by the Minister that the PSUs working under the Ministry of Development of Northeastern Region will offer their collaboration and cooperation in women oriented welfare programmes in the region.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554530) Visitor Counter : 1085