      Ministry of Defence

      DGAFMS Military Medicine Conclave 2018
      Posted On: 01 DEC 2018 5:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The first Directorate General Armed Forces Medical Services (DGAFMS) Military Medicine Conclave was held here today. The aim of the conclave was to deliberate on issues and challenges being faced by the AFMS today and to utilize the collective wisdom and experience of veteran leaders of the Corps who have led the Corps to its glorious present status. The conclave was attended by AFMS veterans consisting of 34 Ex DGsAFMS and DGsMS of the Army, Air Force and the Navy along with the serving DGsMS and other senior officers of the Armed Forces Medical Services.


    DGAFMS and Senior Colonel Commandant AMC Lt Gen Bipin Puriwelcomed the delegates and highlighted the significance of this unique endeavour.


    The Army Medical Corps has had a glorious heritage spanning more than 250 years during which it has not only proven to be the anchor of military medicine, but also evolved as a peerless healthcare delivery system. It has kept abreast with the latest developments in the field of pan spectral, comprehensive care with numerous centres of excellence that are spread across the country.


    The vast network of AFMS medical units and establishments comprises the largest healthcare organization in the country with a disciplined, dedicated and professionally competent work force. Up gradation of the qualitative benchmarks is an ongoing process which cogently addresses the changing disease burden, harnessing of modern technology, optimal availability of resources and the ever evolving operational milieu. These contemporary challenges, which lie at the cross roads of finite manpower and financial resources including clientele expectations, were extensively deliberated at the conclave. The conclave saw a confluence of wisdom of the esteemed former Director Generals and current innovations and futuristic vision of the AFMS fraternity.


    Deliberations on such complex issues with a view to chart the future course were the highlights of the conclave. The DGAFMS, Lt Gen Bipin Puri, in his concluding remarks thanked all the former DGs for having taken out time to actively participate in the conclave. He also assured the veteran luminaries that their suggestions, recommendations and views will be a valuable repository for defining the roadmap of the AFMS to meet future challenges from a position of strength.


    AA/Nampi/DK/Rajib


    

    
    (Release ID: 1554397) Visitor Counter : 765