      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister launches Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) for Nagaland
      Posted On: 01 DEC 2018 6:14PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh launched Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) for the State of Nagaland at Kohima today, coinciding with the Formation Day of Nagaland and the inaugural day of Hornbill Festival 2018. Residents in Nagaland do not require to remember multiple helpline numbers now. They can dial 112 or use Panic Button on their phones or 112 India mobile App to connect to a single number based 112 emergency services which will connect to Police, Fire, Health and other helplines through an Emergency Response Centre in the State. Shri Rajnath Singh also flagged off Emergency Response Vehicles fitted with mobile device terminals.


    Central Government has allocated Rs. 321.69 Crore under Nirbhaya Fund for implementation of ERSS project across the country. Nagaland has been allocated Rs.4.88 crore for the project.


    Nagaland is the first amongst the North-Eastern States and the second State in India to launch Pan-India single emergency number ‘112’ under ERSS. Under this project, one Emergency Response Centre (ERC) has been established in Kohima along with 3 District Command Centers (DCCs), namely Kohima, Dimapur and Mokokchung. The Emergency Response Centre is capable of receiving emergency calls through voice call to 112, email, panic buttons activated calls and 112 India mobile App.


    State of Nagaland has integrated ERSS with Tourist Police and Highway patrol and will expand to interior districts subsequently. This is first time that Union Home Minister visited Police Head Quarter in Nagaland. DGP stated that this is a big honor for Nagaland Police.


    As a special feature, to ensure safety of women, a unique ‘SHOUT’ feature has been introduced in 112 India mobile App. This allows victims to seek immediate assistance from registered volunteers in the vicinity apart from contacting Emergency Response Centre. The SHOUT feature is exclusively available to women.


    The ‘112 India’ mobile app will be subsequently rolled out in all States & Union Territories to help people across the country access the unified emergency services.


    The Chief Minister of Nagaland, Shri Neiphiu Rio expressed his gratitude to the Union Home Minister for inaugurating the 112-single emergency number, 112 India mobile app and ERSS website and for providing financial assistance for the project. He said that they will be able to overcome connectivity issues in remote districts.


    Union Home Minister congratulated and applauded the initiatives of Govt. of Nagaland under the able leadership of Shri Neiphiu Rio for being the first North Eastern State to launch the single emergency number 112 under ERSS project. He appealed to the residents of State of Nagaland to download ‘112 India’ mobile app and encouraged them to come forward and register themselves as volunteers. Citing the success of Himachal Pradesh & Nagaland in rolling out the ERSS project, he urged other States and Union Territories to make all out efforts to commence rollout of their ERSS project.


    *****


    BB/NK/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1554402) Visitor Counter : 1034