      Ministry of Home Affairs

      MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju takes salute at 54th Raising Day Parade of BSF
      
      “Adopt digitalization, but be alert against traps”: Shri Rijiju to BSF jawans

      Posted On: 01 DEC 2018 7:59PM by PIB Delhi

    The Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju took salute at the 54 th Raising Day Parade of Border Security Force here today.


    Addressing the gathering Shri Kiren Rijiju said the BSF should take steps towards digitalization as the country is taking strides in adopting Information Technology. “Take advantage, but at the same time be extra alert as IT on the other hand exposes one to anti-national elements,” he said. Shri Rijiju said the Government is taking constant steps towards the Modernization of Police Forces. “Government is committed to making the Forces powerful, provide all facilities and welfare to its personnel,” said Shri Rijiju. “To resolve your problems the MHA has supported a mobile App for grievance redressal and the Bharat ke Veer portal for the welfare of paramilitary martyrs,” he added.


    Shri Rijiju said the forces have been given complete freedom at Operational Front so as to mount timely and appropriate action to overcome the challenges. The Government is working at several levels for better Border Management. “Steps taken towards this include the raising of six new BSF Battalions, erecting Smart Fencing in Jammu region and the Eastern borders besides several reforms in delegating administrative and financial powers,” he said.


    Shri Rijiju also exhorted the BSF officers to effectively utilize human resources for securing the country’s borders. “Know your personnel, Know your Area,” he said.


    On the occasion, the Minister inspected an impressive parade by BSF jawans and took salute of the march past. He later presented Medals and Trophies to BSF personnel and families. He also released Borderman magazine. Earlier, he paid homage to martyrs at BSF memorial.


    Attractions of the Parade included armed female contingent, Camel/ Horse unit, march past by BSF Camel mounted Band and a display of the latest equipment and armaments. During the ceremony, the BSF Camel Contingent also displayed acrobatics to a huge round of applause from the viewers’ galleries.


    ***


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554414) Visitor Counter : 427