      Ministry of Railways

      Shri Kuldeep Singh, the Chief Coach of Indian Women Wrestling Team promoted to the Gazetted post of Assistant Commercial Manager in Northern Railway
      
      This is the first promotion of a coach under the liberalized policy for promotion of the sportspersons and coaches as announced by Shri Piyush Goyal earlier this year
      
      Ms. Sudha Singh, double Olympian athlete of Indian Railways has also been granted promotion to officer grade in Indian Railways
      
      Ms. Sakshi Malik, and Ms. Vinesh Phogat, both Railway employees, are amongst Shri Kuldeep Singh’s pupils.
      
      Posted On: 05 DEC 2018 5:58PM by PIB Delhi


    Railway Sports Promotion Board (RSPB) of Ministry of Railways has formulated a liberalized policy for promotion of the sportspersons and coaches to the officers grade as per which out of turn promotion shall be granted to sportspersons to Officer Grade based on their outstanding sports achievements which inter-alia include representing the country in Olympics on at least two occasions with either at least one medal in Commonwealth Games/Asian Games or being the Arjuna/Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Awardees.


    Amongst the first beneficiary of the policy is Shri Kuldeep Singh, the Chief Coach of Indian Women Wrestling Team whose orders for promotion to the Gazetted post of Assistant Commercial Manager have been issued in Northern Railway. Ms. Sakshi Malik, Bronze medalist of Rio Olympics and Ms. Vinesh Phogat, Gold Medalist of Commonwealth Games 2018 and Asian Games 2018, both Railway employees, are amongst Shri Kuldeep Singh’s pupils.


    Ms. Sudha Singh, double Olympian athlete of Indian Railways has also been granted promotion to officer grade in Indian Railways in terms of this new policy.


    It is felt that such proactive steps would not only encourage the sportspersons and coaches to do better but will also go a long way in taking the Indian Sports to new high.


    Backgrounder:-


    During the felicitation function of Commonwealth games medalists held earlier this year, Union Minister of Railways & Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal had announced that a Comprehensive promotion policy for sportspersons and coaches to Officers Grade shall be put in place. He had also emphasized that the contribution of the coaches in preparing the sportspersons who bring laurels to country by way of medals at prestigious International competitions should be given due recognition.


    Accordingly, Railway Sports Promotion Board have formulated a liberalized policy for promotion of the sportspersons and coaches to the officers grade as per which out of turn promotion shall be granted to sportspersons to Officer Grade based on their outstanding sports achievements which inter-alia include representing the country in Olympics on at least two occasions with either at least one medal in Commonwealth Games/Asian Games or being the Arjuna/Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Awardees.


    The liberalized promotion policy also provides for out of turn promotion to such of the Railway Coaches in Officer Grade who fulfill certain criterion. The criterion for coaches inter-alia includes Padma Awardees on the basis of achievement in sports and also such coaches whose pupils have won medals at the Olympics/Asian Games/ Commonwealth games etc.


    *****


    SVS/MKV/AP/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554797) Visitor Counter : 386
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu