      Ministry of Tourism

      The first ever Swadesh Darshan Project in the state of Nagaland to be inaugurated tomorrow
      Posted On: 04 DEC 2018 4:15PM by PIB Delhi


    “Development of Tribal Circuit: Peren-Kohima-Wokha Project” will be inaugurated by the Chief Minister of Nagaland, Shri Neiphiu Rio, in the presence of Union Minister of State (I/C) for Tourism, Shri K.J. Alphons and Advisor for Tourism, Art & Culture, Government of Nagaland, Shri H. Khehovi Yepthomi at Kisama Heritage Village in Nagaland tomorrow. This is the first project to be implemented in the state under Swadesh Darshan Scheme of Ministry of Tourism, Government of India.


    The project “Development of Tribal Circuit: Peren-Kohima-Wokha” was sanctioned by the Ministry of Tourism in November 2015 for Rs. 97.36 Crores. Under the project the Ministry has developed facilities like Tribal Tourist Village, Eco Log Huts, Open Air Theatre, Tribal Rejuvenation Centre, Cafeteria, Helipad, Tourist Interpretation Centre, Wayside Amenities, Last Mile Connectivity, Public Conveniences, Multipurpose Hall, Nature Trails, Trekking Routes etc.


    In addition to the above project, the Ministry has sanctioned another project in Nagaland “Development of Tribal circuit: Mokokchung–Tuensang-Mon” for Rs.99.67 crore. The implementation of the project is in progress.


    Swadesh Darshan scheme is one among the flagship schemes of the Ministry of Tourism for development of thematic circuits in the country in a planned and prioritised manner. Under this scheme the Government is focussing on development of quality infrastructure in the country with objective of providing better experience and facilities to the visitors on one hand and on other hand fostering the economic growth. The scheme was launched in 2014 -15 and as on date the Ministry has sanctioned 73 projects worth projects for Rs. 5873.26 Crore to 30 States and UTs. 30 projects / major components of these projects are expected to be completed this year. 8 projects have been inaugurated as on date under the scheme.


    *****


    NB/JP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554645) Visitor Counter : 1858