      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Shri Gadkari reviews NamamiGange projects in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi
      
      Calls for urgent and concerted efforts to speed up their execution

      Posted On: 06 DEC 2018 7:11PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Nitin Gadkari , Union Minister of Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation, Road Transport & Highways and Shipping has asked the Uttar Pradesh and Delhi Governments to speed up the execution of NamamiGange projects in their states. In a detailedreview meeting in New Delhi yesterday, Shri Gadkari discussed the progress of each sanctioned project in the two states with officials of his Ministry, the concerned state governments and the concessionaires. He directed all stakeholders to make urgent and concerted efforts to remove existing bottlenecks and ensure that the projects get completed well before the stipulated dates. He said, cleaning Ganga and its tributaries is a major priority for the Government, and to ensure this, it is absolutely necessary that the sewage infrastructure and other projects, including network of drains and household connections are completed urgently and in a comprehensive way.


    In Uttar Pradesh a total of 70 projects costing Rs 9405.92 crores have been sanctioned under NamamiGange programme. Of these there are 40 sewage infrastructure projects. Officials from the state informed that 11 of these projects are complete, 22 are in progress, tender for 1 is being evaluated, 3 are under process of tendering and 3 have to be tendered.


    One of the major achievements in the state has been the recent interception and diversion of SisamauNala in Kanpur , the worst pollutant for river Ganga that emptied waste water from the tanneries into the river. 140 MLD water from this drain has been intercepted and is being diverted to an STP for treatment. Five other STP works are in various stages of progress at Baniyapurva, sewerage district I, Shuklaganj, Unnao and Pankha in the city of Kanpur.


    In Varanasi, the projected sewage generation for 2035 is 400 MLD. The existing treatment capacity of the city is 242 MLD and the STP projects in progress will create an additional treatment capacity of 170 MLD. There is a JICA assisted project in six packages of which 3 have been completed and work is under progress for 3 packages including rehabilitation of old trunk sewer, pumping stations and STPs at Dinapur and Bhagwanpur and other work for pollution abatement. The other ongoing projects in the city include Trans Varuna Sewerage Network, 120 MLD Goithaha STP and 50 MLD STP at Ramana on Hybrid Annuity mode.


    In Allahabad the projected generation of sewage for 2035 is 234 MLD. The city already has a treatment capacity of 268 MLD. Work is in progress to add a further capacity of 72 MLD. STP projects with 119 ML Dcapacity have been completed at Kodra, Rajapur, Salori, Naini, Numayadahi and Ponghat. 3 projects for sewerage works are likely to be completed soon and two projects forI&D and STP Works at Naini, Jhunsi and Phaphamau and rehabilitation and O&M of Existing Sewage Treatment Infrastructure are to be tendered.


    STP projects are also under progress in several other cities like Moradabad, Anupshahr, Bithoor,Ramnagar, Farrukhabad, Mathura, Ayodhya, Vrindavan, Mirzapur, Ghazipur,Agra, Kasganj, Sultanpur


    Work is also going on for projects for industrial pollution abatement at Jajmau in Kanpur for sewage from the tanneries and Mathura for the textile printing units . In addition to these, 3 projects worth Rs 133.28 have been sanctioned for providing sanitation during the upcoming KumbhMela next year. Projects have also been sanctioned for cities on tributaries of Ganga like Yamuna, Kali, Ghaghra, Ram Ganga, Saryu and Gomti.


    94 Ghat and Crematoria development projects worth Rs 425.1 crore have also been sanctioned for Uttar Pradesh . Of these 41 have been completed and the rest are under progress.


    In Delhi the JICA assisted Yamuna Action Plan Project is under implementation in Rithala, Okhla and Kondli drainage zones. The approved cost of 8 projects under this is Rs 1656 crore. 7 of these projects have been awarded. In addition to this, 14 STP projects are being implemented in the command area of Najafgarh zone.


    ***


    NP/SKP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554913) Visitor Counter : 384