      Ministry of Defence

      Chief of the Air Staff visits Ex Cope India-18
      Posted On: 05 DEC 2018 5:41PM by PIB Delhi


    Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa, Chief of the Air Staff visited Air Force Station Kalaikunda on 05 Dec 18 to interact with participating forces of ongoing Ex Cope India 18 between U.S Air Force (USAF) and Indian Air Force (IAF). Chief of the Air Staff was received by Air Mshl R Nambiar, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief Eastern Air Command and Air Cmde Saji Antony Air Officer Commanding Air Force Station Kalaikunda.


    The fourth edition of Ex Cope India is aimed to provide operational exposure to the participating forces and mutual exchange of the best practices towards enhancing IAF capability. USAF is participating with F-15, C-130 and IAF is participating with Su-30MKI, Mirage-2000, Jaguar, C-130J, AWACS and AEW&C. Additionally, Special Forces from both the Air Forces are also participating in the exercise.


    The Chief of the Air Staff was briefed in detail about various phases of the exercise and was apprised of its progress. Post briefing, Chief of the Air Staff visited the USAF and IAF detachment, wherein he interacted with the personnel of both the Air Forces. He was satisfied with the progress of the exercise and complimented all participants on their professional approach and conduct during the exercise.


    During the interaction, Chief of the Air Staff emphasized on the importance of joint exercises as they create an environment of camaraderie and an opportunity to learn from each other’s best practices in enhancing operational synergy.


    Ex Cope India 2018 is a testimony of the growing Indo-US military relationship. In the past, IAF has participated in International exercises with USAF including the Ex-Red Flag. Recently for the first time, IAF had participated in Ex Pitch Black at Darwin, Australia in which 130 aircraft from 16 countries took part.


    ********


    AB/MKR/BSK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1554790) Visitor Counter : 620