      Vice President's Secretariat

      India attaches utmost importance to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development: Vice President
      
      Terrorism is a big menace to world community & Poverty is also a challenge for all of us;
      
      Interacts with Member, Mexican Chamber of Deputies

      Posted On: 11 DEC 2018 7:15PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that India attaches utmost importance to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. He was interacting with the Member, Chamber of Deputies (Lower House of Mexican Parliament) & President, Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU), Ms. Gabriela Cuevas Barron who called on him, here today.


    The Vice President said that Mexico is a very important partner for India and India attaches great importance to relations with Mexico. India has been an active member of the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) and participated in all meetings/events, he said. We cherish our relationship and engagements with the IPU family, he added.


    The Vice President said that India takes note of the IPU is working on priority areas such as human rights, gender equity, child protection, sustainable development, climate change, migration etc. We look forward to greater engagement with IPU under your leadership, he said.


    Shri Naidu said that India attaches utmost importance to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. He further said that the 2030 Agenda and its 17 Sustainable Developmental Goals (SDGs) mirror our own vision of development. Several of our initiatives like the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, Swachh Bharat, Jan Dhan Yojana etc., closely relate to several targets of SDGs, he added.


    The Vice President said that terrorism is a big menace to world community and it has no religion, but our neighbour is unfortunately funding and abetting it. Poverty is also a challenge for all of us and we have to support each other and move forward with much greater coordination and cooperation, he added.


    ​The Member, Mexican Chamber of Deputies & the President, IPU said that Mexico would like to further strengthen bilateral relations with India at all levels and in all sectors. She further said that Mexico would like to benefit from India's Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme and explore transfer of technology and know how to reach the Mexicans, particularly the vulnerable and those living in the far-flung areas.


    Ms. Gabriela said that Mexico would be keen to send the Director of their newly created welfare Bank to come and study the Indian system. IPU under Mexican presidency to prioritise the fight against terrorism, she added.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555548) Visitor Counter : 956
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu