      Ministry of Textiles

      Low Rate of Silk Cocoons
      Posted On: 12 DEC 2018 1:30PM by PIB Delhi


    There has been fall in mulberry cocoon prices during 2018-19 compared to the prices prevailing in the previous year. The average cocoon prices decreased by 21% with respect to bivoltine cocoons and 24% in crossbreed cocoons during April-October 2018 compared to the same period during last year. There was a declining trend in cocoon prices during April18 to July 18. However, the prices started to recover from August month onwards. In contrast to prices, the cocoon arrivals have increased significantly during April to October 2018 compared to the same period during the previous year for both bivoltine and cross breed cocoons.


    The major reasons for fall in cocoon prices are increase in arrival of cocoons to the market. As cocoon marketing is a state subject, the state governments have been providing various support measures to farmers including price incentives for cocoons. The Government of India through Central Silk Board is implementing a Central Sector Scheme - Silk Samagra to provide technical and technological support in the country including Karnataka State. The Silk Samagra scheme comprises the following four components:


    1. Research & Development, Training, Transfer of Technology and I.T. Initiatives


    2. Seed Organizations


    3. Coordination and Market Development, and


    4. Quality Certification Systems (QCS) / Export Brand Promotion and Technology Up-gradation.


    Under this scheme, assistance and subsidy is extended to silk farmers and stakeholders through states for raising of kisan nursery, plantation with improved mulberry varieties, irrigation, chawki rearing centres with incubation facility, construction of rearing houses, rearing equipment, door-to- door service agents for disinfection and input supply, support for improved reeling units like automatic reeling units, multi-end reeling machines, improved Vanya reeling & twisting machines and support for post yarn facilities for quality silk and fabric production. Support provided under these interventions and areas would enable the silk farmers and stake holders to get reasonable price for their produce.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Textiles, Ajay Tamta, in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555587) Visitor Counter : 365