      Vice President's Secretariat

      Russia calls for enabling laws to fully tap India-Russia cooperation potential
      
      Chairmen of Rajya Sabha and Russia’s ‘Duma’ call for effective parliamentary exchanges for strengthening convergence
      
      Shri Venkaiah Naidu flags global terror concerns; Russia offers help
      
      Shri Naidu recalls goodwill for Russia since his student days
      
      5th Meeting of India-Russia Parliamentary Commission in New Delhi today
      
      Interacts with Russian Parliamentary Delegation
      Posted On: 10 DEC 2018 4:06PM by PIB Delhi


    The Chairman of ‘Duma’ of the Russian Parliament, Mr. Vyacheslav Volodin called for an enabling legislative framework to fully tap the immense potential of bilateral cooperation between India and Russia. A 30 member high level Russian Parliamentary delegation led by Chairman of the State Duma (counterpart of the Lok Sabha) of the Russian Parliament, called on the Vice President and the Chairman, Rajya Sabha, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu and held wide range of discussions on bilateral ties, here today.


    During the 40 minutes long meeting, both the sides fondly recalled the traditional bonds of friendship between the two counties and the need to further intensify cooperation in the present world order. The Chairman of the Duma, Mr. Volodin stressed on the need for enhancing parliamentary exchanges between the two countries to enable necessary legislative framework to fully harness the potential of India-Russia ties in various sectors. He urged the Committees of the Parliaments of both the countries to be more proactive in this regard. He said; “There is a need to further build upon the traditional friendship between the two countries for mutual advantage in the fields of economy, human development and cultural cooperation”. Referring to the immense opportunities in the fields of tourism and medical education, Mr. Volodin called for addressing bureaucratic delays. He further said that bilateral trade increased by about 21% last year and still there is scope to go much beyond.


    Referring to the ‘special and privileged’ relationship and positive engagement between the two countries in various multilateral forums, Shri Venkaiah Naidu said that the 19 bilateral summits between the leaders of the two countries since 2000 and the recent very productive meeting between Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and Russian President Mr. Vladimir Putin reflect the solidarity between the two countries. He said the convergence of views between India and Russia on various international and multilateral matters need to be taken forward through parliamentary exchanges.


    Shri Venkaiah Naidu recalled the positivism in India about India-Russia ties since his student days.


    Shri Naidu referred to ‘the menace of terrorism’ threatening the socio-economic fabric across the world and called for increased global cooperation against it. Responding to Shri Naidu’s concern, the visiting dignitary said that Russia can cooperate with India with its ‘wealth of experience in counter terrorism activities’.


    Chairman of Duma, Mr. Vyacheslav Volodin said that the India-Russia Parliamentary Commission at its 5 th meeting being held in New Delhi today would address specific issues concerning bilateral cooperation.


    The 30 member visiting Russian Parliamentary delegation consisted of First Deputy Chairman and Deputy Chairman of ‘Duma’ and Chairpersons of 10 Committees of ‘Duma’ including on Defence, Internal Affairs, International Affairs, Financial Markets, Economic Policy, Enquiry, Health, Security and Corruption Control.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555386) Visitor Counter : 757