      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President to release Collection of Selected Speeches by the President- “The Republican Ethic”&“LoktantraKeSwar”
      Posted On: 07 DEC 2018 11:35AM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India Shri M.Venkaiah Naidu will release Compilation of Selected speeches of the President, Ram nath Kovind titled, “The Republican Ethic” in English and “Loktantra ke Swar” in Hindi at a function in Vigyan Bhawan in the capital on December 8. Union Minister of External Affairs, Smt. Sushma Swaraj and the Minister of Information Broadcasting (IC),Col. Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore along with other senior dignitaries will grace the occasion.


    Both the books- The Republican Ethic & Loktantra ke Swar are a collection of President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind’s selected speeches made by him in the first year of assuming the office.


    ‘The Republican Ethic’ has a collection of 95 select speeches in English out of the total 243 speeches made by him in the first year as the President of India. The speeches are categorized into eight subgroups -- Addressing the Nation, diversity of India, window to the world, educating India, equipping India, dharma of public service, honoring our sentinels, spirit of the Law & acknowledging excellence.


    The second book “Loktantra ke Swar” – is a collection of 109 speeches in Hindi which talks about different layers and levels of multifaceted largest democracy in the world - India.


    The building blocks of this book are equality, egalitarianism & education. These are principles that have motivated the President on his personal journey which began in a small village mud house. The book has been conceived to help the readers navigate through the vision and


    thought that the President delves upon, especially with relation to the vision of nation and


    individual citizen’s duty towards the nation.


    The event has been organized by the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting to promote and disseminate selected speeches of the President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind. Large number of dignitaries from various walks of life and many senior government functionaries are expected to attend the event.


    *****


    AKT/SH/SKS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555041) Visitor Counter : 1142
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi