      Ministry of Railways

      Ministry of Railways organizes “Leading with Emotional Intelligence” Workshops
      
      GMs and DRMs participated in these Workshops for evolving effective, efficient and emotionally intelligent leadership in Indian Railways
      
      Indian Railways also plans to train its trainers for conducting similar courses for the young officers joining Railways and at various levels of career development

      Posted On: 14 DEC 2018 5:31PM by PIB Delhi

    Decisive actions in an uncompromising pursuit of excellence have been the hallmark of Indian Railways top leadership in the recent past. Vision of driving change through process, structure and cultural reforms has been at the forefront to improve service delivery. An exceptional empowerment and delegation has been made over past 1 year in order to give complete autonomy to the field units in the areas of influence to manage transformative agenda of the Government of India.


    The pursuit of emotionally intelligent leadership is one of the leadership strategies for dramatic turnaround of Railways that would stay in a cultural transformation to achieve aspirational goals.


    Keeping in view of the above, Ministry of Railways organized three workshops with the main focus on module of ‘ Leading with emotional Intelligence’ between November 10 to December 10, 2018 covering all General Managers and Divisional Railway Managers of Indian Railways at National Academy of Indian Railways(NAIR),Vadodara.


    Workshops were arranged for top level leaderships — General Managers and Divisional Railway Managers using MHS EQI 2.0 as the anchor instrument for driving emotionally intelligent leadership in measurable and replicable way. General Managers have also been empowered to organize these Workshops for the junior officers working in the Divisions, for a qualitative impact on productivity and well being of the large workforce that Indian Railways have with an intention to improve the overall work environment. Indian Railways also plans to train its trainers for conducting similar courses for the young officers joining Railways and at various levels of career development.


    Indian Railways may be a trailblazer in the Government of India to launch the initiative of Emotional Intelligence for sustainable success of the organization with the aim of efficient service delivery.


    BACKGROUNDER:


    MHS EQI 2.0 has been developed by Multi Health Systems, Canada based on rigorous research and validation. World’s first scientifically validated Emotional Intelligence assessment test was created by Dr. Renven Bar-on and has been in use since 1997. Indian Railways also plans to train its trainers for conducting similar courses for the young officers joining Railways and at various levels of career development. EQI as a tool, helps in change management for helping mitigate stress, increase learning agility, promote employee recognition, make better decisions, take proactive actions and recover from adversity. Given the context of Railways, the challenges surrounding its leaders are managing people below them, managing conflict, maintaining relationships, influencing various other stake holders with or without authority making impactful decisions.


    Emotional Intelligence refers to the capability of a person to manage his or her emotions and possess the capability to control the emotions of others as well.


    Leaders with higher Emotional Intelligence are more effective in their work. This has five major components — self perception, self expression, intra-personal, problem solving and stress management. The Workshop on Emotional Intelligence allowed participants to deepen their understanding in areas like empathy, flexibility, assertiveness, stress tolerance and impulse control and gave them an opportunity for further development.


    A culture of Emotional Intelligence is the most productive and positive culture and is the corner stone of innovation, efficiency and effectiveness. This is one of the major initiatives taken by Ministry of Railways.


    ***


    SVS/MKV/AP/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555975) Visitor Counter : 357