      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Year End Review- 2018: Ministry of Minority Affairs
      Posted On: 14 DEC 2018 10:24AM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Minority Affairs took a number of initiatives in the year 2018 for the welfare of the minorities in the country. These, among others, include Skill Development, Education, Haj, Waqf, Dargah Ajmer, Pradhanmantri Jan Vikas Karykram (earlier Multi Sectoral Development Programme), Secularism & Empowerment, Swachchhta and Mushairas on the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi.


    1-Skill Development:


    The Ministry of Minority Affairs organised several “Hunar Haats” in the country including at Baba Khadak Singh Marg, New Delhi (from February 11, 2018)at Allahabad (Sept, 2018), Pragati Maidan (2016, 2017, 2018) at New Delhi; Puducherry (2017, 2018) and Mumbai (2017).. The theme of “Hunar Haat” organized by the Ministry of Minority Affairs was “Development with Dignity”. “Hunar Haat” was organised from February, 10-18, 2018 in New Delhi “Hunar Haats”, are being organised by the Minority Affairs Ministry to provide an opportunity, as well as domestic and international exposure to the master artisans from across the country. “Hunar Haats”, being organised across the country have become a “credible brand” to fulfil Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s commitment to “Make in India”, “Stand up India” and “Start up India”.


    In the coming days, “Hunar Haat” will be organised at Mumbai (December 2018), Baba Kharak Singh Marg, New Delhi (January 2019) and Goa (February 2019). More Than 1 lakh 50 thousand artisans and people associated with them have been provided employment and employment opportunities during about last one year through “Hunar Haat”.


    2-Education:


    The Ministry of Minority Affairs has implemented a scheme namely “ Free Coaching and Allied Scheme for the candidates and students belonging to minority communities” all over the country including North Eastern States, under which, free coaching is provided to students belonging to six notified minority communities through selected or empanelled coaching institutions or organisations for preparation of qualifying examinations for admission in technical and professional courses and competitive examinations for recruitment to Group “A” , “B” and “C” services and other equivalent posts under the Central and State governments including public sector undertakings, banks, insurance companies etc. The Ministry has organised “Taleem-o-Tarbiyat” programme at Anjuman-a-Islam Girls High School at Bandra, Mumbai.


    The Ministry has launched a pilot project for minority Cyber Gram for digital literacy in a minority dominated village Chandauli in Alwar district of Rajasthan. The Ministry mainstreamed the Cyber Gram project with the Multi-sectoral Development Programmein the year 2014-15 as a special initiative.


    The Ministry implements various schemes for pursuing higher research and institutions of National importance for minority students, though there is no specific skill scheme for minority youth to facilitate their entry into the areas of higher research and institutions of national importance.


    The Merit-cum-Means Scholarship Scheme is awarded for pursuing professional and technical courses, at under-graduate and post-graduate levels, in institutions recognized by the appropriate authority. The details of schemes/guidelines and achievements are available on the website of this Ministry (www.minorityaffairs.gov.in).


    The Ministry has launched a training programme to link Madarsa teachers with the mainstream education system on 27 March, 2018.


    The Ministry, in collaboration with Jamia Millia Islamia University, has organised residential training programme for 40 Madarsa teachers and distributed certificates after completion of training


    The Ministry, distributed certificates to those students who have been successful in “Bridge Course”, jointly conducted by Ministry of Minority Affairs and Jamia Millia Islamia, for school drop outs and those students who are pursuing their studies in Madarsas. Ministry of Minority Affairs, in collaboration with Jamia Millia Islamia University, had started “Bridge Course” to bring Madarsa students and school drop outs into mainstream education system


    The Ministry launched the country's first "National Scholarship Portal Mobile App" (NSP Mobile App) in New Delhi on 13 September, 2018. The portal will ensure a smooth, accessible and hassle-free scholarship system for students from poor and weaker sections.


    On 1 st October, 2018, Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi laid foundation stone of first world class educational institute being established with the assistance of Minority Affairs Ministry, Govt. of India, at Kohrapipli village of Alwar district in Rajasthan. the first world class educational institute in Alwar will be proved to be a milestone in the direction of affordable, accessible and quality education to poor, weaker sections including Minorities.


    This educational institution will start functioning in 2020. The Rajasthan Government has given 15 acres of land in Kohrapipali village for this educational institute. World class skill development centre, educational facilities for primary to higher studies, Ayurveda and Unani science and sports facilities will be established here. Forty per cent reservation is proposed for girls in this institution.


    3- Haj:


    Saudi Arabia has given the green signal for India’s decision to revive the option of sending Haj pilgrims through sea route also and officials from both the countries will discuss on all the necessary formalities and technicalities so that Haj pilgrimage through sea route can be started in the coming years. A decision in this regard was taken, during the signing of bilateral annual Haj 2018 agreement between India and Saudi Arabia at Makkah. Sending pilgrims through ships will help cut down travel expenses significantly. The practice of ferrying Haj pilgrims between Mumbai and Jeddah by waterways was stopped from 1995.


    This time Haj 2018 has been made 100 per cent digital/online. For the first time about 1300 Muslim women from India went to Haj without “Mehram” (male companion). Separate accommodation and transport was arranged for these women Haj pilgrims in Saudi Arabia. For the first time more than 100 female Haj Assistants were deployed in Saudi Arabia to assist women Haj pilgrims.


    India’s Haj Quota Increased for the second consecutive year and for the first time after the Independence, record number of 1 lakh 75 thousand 25 Haj Pilgrims from India went for Haj 2018 that too without Haj subsidy. The Government, led by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, has succeeded in getting India’s Haj quota increased for the consecutive second year.


    The amount of Haj subsidy provided by the Government of India reflects in the budget of Ministry of Civil Aviation, which is the nodal Ministry responsible for making air travel arrangements for Haj pilgrims identified by the Haj Committee of India.


    The welfare schemes meant for minorities are implemented by Ministry of Minority Affairs from the budget allocated to the Ministry. An additional allocation of Rs.505 Crore has been made for the Ministry of Minority Affairs for the year 2018-19. It has been decided to allocate bulk of the additional funding for educational empowerment of Minority communities. For the first time after the Independence, a record number of Muslims from the country went to Haj this year and that too without any subsidy.


    The Union Government’s commitment to transparency and strict directives given to the airlines to check unreasonable increase in fares has ensured that Haj 2018 air fares have been come down significantly this year.


    Even after ending the Haj subsidy, Rs 57 crore less were paid to airlines this year for those Haj pilgrims, who went through Haj Committee of India.


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi flagged off the first batch of Haj pilgrims from New Delhi Airport in the morning of 14 July, 2018, with prayers of country’s safety and prosperity.


    It is for the first time after Independence that preparation for next year’s Haj has been started immediately after completion of the current year’s Haj process in India.


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Naqvi has reviewed the Haj 2019 preparation meeting on 3rd October, 2018.


    4-Waqf:


    The Ministry of Minority Affairs has decided to award those “Mutawallis” who will perform well in management of waqf properties to ensure utilisation of these properties for upliftment of the society especially educational empowerment of girls. Central Waqf Council is providing financial help to state waqf boards for digitisation of records so that state waqf boards can complete the task within timeframe.


    The Central Government has launched a scheme in 2009 namely „Computerization of Records of State Waqf Boards‟ with a view to streamline record keeping, introduce transparency, and to computerize and digitize the records of waqf properties of the State/UT Waqf Boards (SWBs). The scheme has now been modified and renamed as Qaumi Waqf Board Taraqqiati Scheme (QWBTS).Under the “Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karykram” (PMJVK), the Minority Affairs Ministry will construct schools, colleges, ITIs, skill development centres, multi-purpose community centres “Sadbhav Mandap”, “Hunar Hub”, hospitals, business centres etc on waqf properties across the country. This will be for the first time after the Independence of the country.


    As per provisions of section 32 of the Waqf Act 1995 as amended, general superintendence of all auqaf in a State is vested with the State Waqf Board (SWB) and the Waqf Board is empowered to manage the waqf property and take legal action against unauthorized occupation and encroachment of such properties. The Central Waqf Council (CWC) has decided to provide training to women for their empowerment in the trades of i) Tailoring & Knitting ii) Food Processing iii) Embroidery and iv) Cloth Printing and accordingly, proposals have been invited. The CWC has also decided to provide financial support for coaching of muslim students for competitive examinations for jobs through the coaching centers of Jamia Millia Islamia for 50 students for Civil Services and Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), Aligarh for 100 students i.e. 50 for Civil Services and 50 for SSC-CGL/Bank PO examinations.


    Ministry of Minority Affairs has been implementing a scheme called “Nai – Roshni. The scheme is for Leadership Development of Minority Women with an aim to empower and instil confidence in women by providing knowledge, tools and techniques for interacting with Government systems, banks and intermediaries at all levels.


    Maulana Azad Education Foundation (MAEF) is implementing Begum Hazrat Mahal National Scholarship for girls belonging to minorities. Under this scheme scholarship is provided to girls students for classes 9th, 10th, 11th & 12th. The eligible girls may apply online. The details of this scheme is available on the website for MAEF i.e. www.maef.nic.in. The details of the various schemes of the Ministry are available on its website i.e. www.minorityaffairs.gov.in.


    5- Dargah Ajmer:


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi offered 'Chadar' on behalf of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi at dargah of Sufi Saint Hazrat Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti at Ajmer Sharif on 19 March, 2018.


    In his message, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi conveyed greetings and best wishes to followers of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti in India and abroad on the occasion of 806 th annual Urs. Prime Minister said, “On the occasion of the annual Urs of this great saint, I am offering “Chadar” and Khiraaj-E-Aqueedat (homage) to Dargah Ajmer Sharif and wish for a harmonious co-existence of our culture. Greetings and best wishes to the followers of Khawaja Moinuddin Chishti across the world on the annual Urs. ”People from all sections of the society welcomed wholeheartedly the “Chadar” send by the Prime Minister. Shri Naqvi also inaugurated 100 toilets complex, constructed by Ministry of Minority Affairs at “Vishramsthali”, Kayad near the Dargah. Zaireen, coming in large number at Dargah, will be benefitted from the facility. Shri Naqvi also took stock of various ongoing development works related to Ajmer Dargah with the officials.


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi has emphasised that the philosophy of Sufism spreads the thoughts of peace and harmony. While launching the official web portal of Dargah Khwaja Sahib Ajmer on 17 July, 2018 in New Delhi, Shri Naqvi said that the present government is doing efforts for inclusive growth of every section of the society.


    The web address can be accessed at https://gharibnawaz.minorityaffairs.gov.in


    6- Pradhanmantri Jan Vikas Karykram (earlier Multi Sectoral Development):


    “Pradhan mantri Jan Vikas Karykram” (earlier Multi Sectoral Development Programme) has been proved to be a milestone in the direction of socio-economic-educational empowerment of Minorities and other weaker sections of the society. For the first time after the Independence, a campaign has been started on war-footing to provide basic amenities to ensure educational empowerment of Minorities especially girls in 308 districts across the country.


    The Central Government, keeping in mind the educational empowerment and employment oriented skill development of Minority girls, is providing school, college, polytechnic, girls hostel, ITI, skill development centre etc under “Pradhan mantri Jan Vikas karykram” in those “backward and ignored” areas which had been deprived of these facilities since the Independence.


    During the last 4 years, under PMJVK, 16 Degree Colleges, 1992 School Buildings, 37,123 Additional Classrooms, 1147 Hostels, 173 Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs), 48 Polytechnics, 38,753 Anganwadi Centres, 3,48,624 lAY (PMAY) houses, 323 Sadbhavna Mandaps, 73 Residential Schools, 494 Market sheds, 17,397 drinking water facilities etc have been constructed by the Central Government in the Minority concentrated areas. This has led to significant improvement in lives of weaker sections, Minorities especially women.


    7- Secularism and Empowerment:


    "Secularism, social-communal harmony and tolerance" is in the DNA of India and compared to the entire world, constitutional, social, cultural and religious rights of minorities are more safe and secure in India. A campaign has been started by the government on war-footing to provide basic amenities to ensure educational empowerment of girls belonging to Minority communities in 308 districts across the country. The Central Government, keeping in mind the educational empowerment and employment oriented skill development of Minority girls, is providing school, college, polytechnic, girls hostel, ITI, skill development centre etc under “Pradhanmantri Jan Vikas Karykram” in those “backward and ignored” areas which had been deprived of these facilities since the Independence.


    The steps taken by the Central Government aimed at inclusive growth has ensured that today Minorities have been brought into mainstream development. Schemes such as “Seekho aur Kamao”, “Ustaad”, “Garib Nawaz Kaushal Vikas Yojana”, “NaiManzil”, “Nai Roshni”, “Begum Hazrat Mahal Girls scholarships” etc have proved to be the guarantee of empowerment of Minorities especially girls. More than 6 lakh people from Minority communities have been provided employment and employment opportunities through these job-oriented skill development programmes.


    The Ministry has stressed upon fast and transparent implementation of schemes for the welfare of the Minorities. A workshop on “Financial Management” was organised by National Minorities Development & Finance Corporation ( NMDFC) on 17 July, 2018 in New.


    The schemes/ programmes implemented by this Ministry for the minority communities notified under section 2(c) of the NCM Act 1992 viz Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains and Parsis are :-


     1. Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karyakram (PMJVK) [restructured Multi-sectoral Development Programme (MsDP)] - implemented in identified Minority Concentration Blocks, Minority Concentration Towns, Minority Concentration District Headquarters & Clusters of Villages for infrastructure development.


     1. Pre-Matric Scholarship Scheme, Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme and Merit-cum-Means based Scholarship Scheme – for educational empowerment.

     1. Maulana Azad National Fellowship – for research fellows’ empowerment.

     1. “Naya Savera” Free coaching and Allied Scheme - to enhance skills and knowledge of students and candidates for employment through competitive examination and admission in technical and professional courses.


     1. Padho Pardes – Scheme for interest subsidy on educational loans for overseas studies in technical and professional courses.


     1. Nai Udaan - Support for students clearing Preliminary Examination conducted by UPSC, SSC, State Public Service Commissions, etc.


     1. Jiyo Parsi – Scheme for containing population decline of Parsis.


     1. Nai Roshni – Scheme for leadership development of minority women.


     1. Seekho Aur Kamao – Skill development initiative for minorities.


    10. Nai Manzil – Scheme for formal school education & skilling of school dropouts.


    11. USTTAD - Upgrading the Skills and Training in Traditional Arts/Crafts for


    Development.


    12. Hamari Dharohar - Scheme to preserve rich heritage of minority Communities under the


    overall concept of Indian Culture.


    13. Grants-in-Aid to Maulana Azad Education Foundation (MAEF) for implementation of


    education and skill related schemes.


    14. Garib Nawaz Skill Development Centre Scheme.


    15. Equity to National Minorities Development and Finance Corporation (NMDFC) for


    providing loans at concessional interest rates to minorities for self-employment and


    income generating activities.


    Details of the schemes and the achievements in respect of the schemes are available on the website of this Ministry (www. minorityaffairs.gov.in, on the website of MAEF ( www.maef.nic.in ) and, on the website of NMDFC ( www.nmdfc.org ).


    8- Swachchhata:


    The Ministry has stressed the need of cleanliness of our inner and outer self. At the SWACHHTA HI SEWA programme at Maulana Azad Educational Foundation in New Delhi on 15 September, 2018, the Minister of Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi participated in the SHRAMDAAN activities along with film star Annu Kapoor, singer Sabri Brothers and other dignitaries.


    9- Mushaira:


    The Ministry of Minority Affairs, organised “Mushaira”, on 6 October, 2018 based on the themes of teachings and principles of Mahatma Gandhi as a part of Central Government’s decision to commemorate 150 th Birth Anniversary of the Father of the Nation in New Delhi.


    On 26 th October, 2018, A “Mushaira”, to commemorate 150 th Birth Anniversary of Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi, was organised in Mumbai. Maharashtra Governor Shri C. Vidyasagar Rao inaugurated this “Mushaira” in the presence of Union Minority Affairs Minister Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi.


    This “Mushaira” was organised at Rangsharda Auditorium, Bandra West, Mumbai. Famous Urdu poets like Shri Wasim Barelvi, Shri Haseeb Soz, Shri Manzar Bhopali, Shri Mansoor Usmani (Nazim), poetess Dr. Naseem Nikhat, Shri Aizaz Popular Merathi, poetess Shabina Adeeb, poetess Nikhat Amrohvi, singer Salma Agha, Shri Shakeel Azmi, Shri Qaiser Khalid and Col. Dr V P Singh gave strong message of peace, humanity and unity through their poetry.


    A large number of people from political, social and other fields, intellectuals and youths were present and encouraged the performing poets. These Mushairas will also be organised inLucknow, Chandigarh, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Ranchi and other cities in Future.


    *******


    RCJ/FH/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555900) Visitor Counter : 6832
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Tamil
    
    
    

1.