      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Good governance is possible only through active involvement of civil society: Kerala Governor Justice (Retd.) P. Sathasivam
      
      Regional Conference on Good Governance begins in Thiruvananthapuram

      Posted On: 10 DEC 2018 5:08PM by PIB Delhi

    Kerala Governor Justice (Retd.) P. Sathasivam has said that the aim of the administrative machinery must be to translate the policies of the Government into action in such a way that the welfare of society is ensured. Inaugurating a two day Regional conference on Good Governance initiatives in Thiruvananthapuram, he pointed out that Good governance cannot be possible without strengthening the institutions of democracy through the active involvement of the civil society. Asserting that a thorough understanding of the Constitution is essential for anyone in administration, the Governor said reforms in administration must begin with this. Shri Sathasivam pointed out that since society and its outlook are always changing, the administration also must keep pace with such positive changes. He said that the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances plays a significant role of exchanging and disseminating reform related ideas and best practices. He said that dissemination of best practices of good governance helps to encourage different levels of government to work towards the common goal of welfare and to foster excellence in every action.


    The Governor said it is high time we look into how many organizations in Kerala have updated their citizen charter in the last five years or have even prepared and hosted on their website. Pointing out that corruption denies justice to the deserving sections of society, he said it has to be avoided at any cost. Collective and informed decisions are helpful in eliminating corruption. The Governor also said that more effective and efficient ways to implement socio-economic welfare schemes have to be found out so that benefits reach the intended beneficiary.


    Pointing out that the successful practices prevalent in the informal sector must also be examined, the Governor said there is no harm in working out models of joint ventures and partnerships in social, business and environmental spheres.


    Asserting that good governance is a reflection of the successful functioning of the institutions of state with the welfare of citizens as its noble goal, Shri Sathasivam said a professionally managed civil service committed to serve all people equally, with eternal vigil over the interests of all communities and the State, is the edifice for good governance.


    Shri K.V. Eapen , Secretary Department of Administrative Reforms , Govt. of India in his key note address pointed out that the rescue and relief operations during the recent floods in Kerala jointly carried out by the government and the people of the state is a prime example of good governance. Kerala Chief Secretary Shri Tom Jose in his Presidential Address said that good governance is possible only through the convergence of interests of citizens and that of the nation.


    Delegates from more than ten States and Union Territories from Western and Southern India are participating in the two day conference.


    *****


    BB/NK/ND

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555401) Visitor Counter : 486