      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      A Reality show with a difference - Mahila Kisan Awards programme launched by DD Kisan
      
      The programme will not only entertain but also educate people: Dr. A Surya Prakash, Chairman, Prasar Bharati
      
      Every participant of the show is a winner: Shri Amit Khare, Secretary, Ministry of I&B
      
      If there is any place where smashing of patriarchy has happened, it is in this show: Shri Shashi S. Vempati, CEO, Prasar Bharati
      
      Mahila Kisan Awards is a reality show which is truly based on reality: Ms Supriya Sahu, DG, Doordarshan
      Posted On: 14 DEC 2018 4:39PM by PIB Delhi


    DD Kisan today launched a first-of-its-kind reality show 'Mahila Kisan Awards'. To be telecast from 17th December, the show will see participation of women farmers from across the length and breadth of India, including from Jammu & Kashmir, all the states of North Eastern Region, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, West Bengal, Punjab, Haryana, Goa, Bihar, Jharkhand, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh among others.


    The Format


    The selection of contestants for the show has been done by Indian Council of Agricultural Research. The format of the show will include two woman farmers talking about their achievements in each episode. Judges will score these contestants based on their assessment. The five contestants who get the highest scores during the show will reach the finals, where one of them will be declared the winner.


    Through the show, each participant will have an opportunity to learn from the experiences of other participants. The show is also expected to act as a source of inspiration for lakhs of women across the country watching the show.


    The Launch


    Speaking on the occasion, Chairman, Prasar Bharati, Dr. A Surya Prakash congratulated the DD Kisan team for conceptualizing and bringing to fruition ‘Mahila Kisan Awards’. He added that this programme will showcase the impact women have had on Indian agriculture and will not only entertain but also educate people.


    Secretary, Ministry of I&B, Shri Amit Khare added that the show showcases talent from across the country where every participant is a winner and a source of inspiration on how to move ahead, together.


    CEO,Prasar Bharati, Shri Shashi Shekhar Vempati said that of late there has been a lot of discussion on social media regarding smashing patriarchy and if any smashing of patriarchy has happened, it has happened in this show through the stories of women farmers’ innovation and spirit of entrepreneurship.


    Speaking at the launch, DG, Doordarshan, Ms. Supriya Sahu said that ‘Mahila Kisan Awards’ is a reality show which is truly based on reality and is a means of telling the stories of these unsung heroes of Indian agriculture.


    Member, Prasar Bharati Board, Shri Ashok Tandon; DG AIR, Shri F. Sheheryar; DG, DD News, Shri Mayank Agrawal and DG, NSD-AIR, Ms. Ira Joshi were also present on the occasion.


    ***


    AP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1555959) Visitor Counter : 500
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi