      Cabinet

      Year End Review- 2018: Cabinet & CCEA
      Posted On: 14 DEC 2018 12:38PM by PIB Delhi


      03 Jan 2018


      Cabinet gives approval to the Approach to be adopted by India at the Eleventh Ministerial Conference of the WTO held in Buenos Aires, Argentina during 10-13 December 2017


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval to the Note submitted by the Department of Commerce and approved the approach to be adopted by India at the Eleventh Ministerial Conference of the WTO held in Buenos Aires, Argentina in December 2017.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Israel on Cooperation in the Oil and Gas Sector


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Israel on cooperation in the Oil and Gas Sector.


      The MoU is expected to provide impetus to India - Israel ties in the energy sector. The cooperation envisaged under the agreement will facilitate promotion of investments in each other's countries, technology transfer, R&D, conducting joint studies, capacity building of human resources and collaboration in the area of Start-ups.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and the USA for co-hosting the Global Entrepreneurship Summit 2017 (GES-2017) in India


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between India and the USA for co-hosting the Global Entrepreneurship Summit (GES) 2017 in India. The MoU delineated the responsibilities, areas of co-operation including logistics and venue related requirements between the parties for smooth conduct of the Summit.


      Cabinet approves Agreement between India and Myanmar on Land Border Crossing


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Agreement between India and Myanmar on Land Border Crossing.


      The Agreement will facilitate regulation and harmonization of already existing free movement rights for people ordinarily residing in the border areas of both countries. It will also facilitate movement of people on the basis of valid passports and visas which will enhance economic and social interaction between the two countries.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Belgium on Cooperation in the field of ICT&E


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Belgium on Cooperation in the field of Information Communication Technology and Electronics (ICT&E). The MoU was signed during the State Visit of King Philippe of the Belgium to India on November 7, 2017.


      Cabinet apprised of the MoU between India and Italy on cooperation in the field of renewable energy


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on India-Italy Cooperation in Renewable Energy between India and Italy. The MoU was signed on 30 th October, 2017 at New Delhi. The MoU was signed by Shri Anand Kumar, Secretary, Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, Government of the Republic of India and H.E. Mr. Lorenzo ANGELONI, Italian Ambassador to India.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and ‘Transport for London’,


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing and implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Ministry of Road Transport & Highways and ‘Transport for London’, a statutory body established under the Greater London Authority Act, 1999 (UK) to improve Public Transport in India.


      Cabinet approves setting up of new AIIMS in Bilaspur


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for establishment of new AIIMS in Bilaspur (Himachal Pradesh) under the Pradhan MantriSwasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY). The cost of the project is Rs.1351 crore.


      Cabinet approves revised Model Concession Agreement for PPP Projects in Major Ports


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved amendments in the Model Concession Agreement (MCA) to make the Port Projects more investor-friendly and make investment climate in the Port Sector more attractive.


      Cabinet approves Jal Marg Vikas Project for enhanced navigation on the Haldia-Varanasi stretch of National Waterway-1


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for implementation of the Jal Marg Vikas Project (JMVP) for capacity augmentation of navigation on National Waterway-1 (NW-1) at a cost of Rs 5369.18 crore with the technical assistance and investment support of the World Bank. The Project is expected to be completed by March, 2023.


      Cabinet approves extension of norms for mandatory packaging in Jute Materials


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for mandatory packaging of foodgrains and sugar in the jute material for the Jute Year 2017-18. The decision would sustain the core demand for the jute sector and support the livelihood of the workers and farmers dependent on the sector. The Jute Year 2017-18 period is from 1st July 2017 to 30th June, 2018.


      Cabinet approves construction, operation and maintenance of 2-lane bi-directional Zojila tunnel with parallel escape tunnel in J&K


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval to the construction, operation and maintenance of 2-lane bi-directional Zojila Tunnel with Parallel Escape (Egress) Tunnel excluding approaches on Srinagar-Leh section connecting NH-1A at Km 95.00 and at Km 118.00 in Jammu & Kashmir on Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) mode. The construction of this tunnel will provide all weather connectivity between Srinagar, Kargil and Leh and will bring about all round economic and socio-cultural integration of these regions. The project has strategic and socio-economic importance and shall be an instrument for the development of the economically backward districts in Jammu & Kashmir.


      10 Jan 2018


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Canada for cooperation in the field of Science & Technology


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Canada for cooperation in the field of Science & Technology. The MoU will provide a mechanism and help to foster scientific cooperation between R&D and academic institutions of India and Canada.


      Cabinet approves Cadre review of Group 'A' Executive Cadre of Central Industrial Security Force


      
      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Cadre review of Group 'A' Executive Cadre of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). It provides for creation of 25 posts of various ranks from Assistant Commandant to Additional Director General ranks to enhance the supervisory staff in Senior Duty posts of CISF.


      Cabinet approves implementation of CCEA decision on closure of Tungabhadra Steel Products Limited


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the implementation of the CCEA decision on closure of Tungabhadra Steel Products Limited (TSPL) regarding disposal of its immovable assets. It also provides for getting the name of the company struck off from the Registrar of Companies after setting balance liabilities of TSPL.


      Cabinet approves fixed term for Chairperson and Members of the National Trust


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal to amend Section 4(1) and Section 5(1) of the National Trust for the Welfare of Person with Autism, Cerebral Plasy, Mental Retardation and Multiple Disabilities Act, 1999 to fix the term of the Chairperson and Members of the Board of National Trust for three years.


      FDI policy further liberalized in key sectors


        * 100% FDI under automatic route for Single Brand Retail Trading

        * 100% FDI under automatic route in Construction Development
        * Foreign airlines allowed to invest up to 49% under approval route in Air India
        * FIIs/FPIs allowed to invest in Power Exchanges through primary market
        * Definition of ‘medical devices’ amended in the FDI Policy

      Cabinet approves continuation of Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme beyond 12th Plan


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval to continuation of Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) till the term of the 14th Finance Commission i.e. 31.03.2020.


      07 Feb 2018


      Cabinet approves signing of India-Australia Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) for Secondment Programme


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of Memoranda of Understanding for Secondment Programme between the Department of Economic Affairs (Indian Economic Service Cadre) and The Treasury, Government of Australia, for a period of three months.


      Cabinet approves signing and ratification of protocol amending the Agreement between India and China for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing and ratification of protocol amending the Agreement between India and China for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to taxes on income.


      Cabinet approves signing of a MoU with United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on Cooperation in the Field of Skill Development, Vocational Education and Training


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on Cooperation in the Field of Skill Development, Vocational Education and Training.


      The MoU would pave the way for closer bilateral cooperation between the two countries in the field of vocational education and training and skill development.


      
      Cabinet approves signing of a Memorandum of Cooperation between India and USA on Law Enforcement Training


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of a Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC) between Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC),USA and Bureau of Police Research & Development (BPR&D), India on Law Enforcement Training.


      Cabinet approves Discovered Small Fields (DSF) Policy Bid Round-II for 60 un-monetised discoveries of ONGC and OIL under Nomination and Relinquished Discoveries under PSC Regime


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for extending the Discovered Small Field Policy notified on 14.10.2015 to identified 60 discovered small fields / un-monetized discoveries for offer under the Discovered Small Field Policy Bid Round-II. Out of these, 22 fields/ discoveries belong to of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) Limited, 5 belong to Oil India Limited (OIL) and 12 are relinquished fields / discoveries from the New Exploration and Licensing Policy (NELP) Blocks. In addition, 21 fields / discoveries are remaining from DSF Bid Round-l which were put on offer but could not be awarded due to insufficient response from the investor.


      Cabinet approves Ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for ratification of Minamata Convention on Mercury and depositing the instrument of ratification enabling India to become a Party of the Convention.


      The approval entails Ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury along with flexibility for continued use of mercury-based products and processes involving mercury compound up to 2025.


      Cabinet approves placing the new Instrument adopted by International Labour Organization (ILO) Recommendation concerning “The Employment and Decent Work for Peace and Resilience (No.-205)” before the Parliament


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for placing the new Instrument adopted by International Labour Organization (ILO) Recommendation concerning “The Employment and Decent Work for Peace and Resilience (No.-205)” before the Parliament. The International Labour Conference of ILO at its 106 th Session held in Geneva in June, 2015 adopted the Recommendation. India supported the adoption of Recommendation.


      Cabinet approves Implementation of ‘Prime Minister Research Fellows (PMRF)’


      The Union Cabinet today approved implementation of 'Prime Minister's Research Fellows (PMRF)' scheme at a total cost of Rs.1650 crore for a period of seven years beginning 2018-19.


      The Prime Minister has emphasized the importance of innovation and technology for the progress and development of the nation. This fellowship scheme is key to realizing his vision of development through innovation. The scheme has been announced in the Budget Speech 2018-19.


      
      Cabinet approves Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill, 2017 to replace the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2017


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given Ex-post facto approval to the modifications carried out in the replacement Bill, which replaced the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill 2017, and which has been passed by the Parliament as the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Act, 2018.


      Cabinet approves proposal for Amendment to the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 to change the criteria of classification and to withdraw the MSMED (Amendment) Bill, 2015 – pending in Lok Sabha


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved change in the basis of classifying Micro, Small and Medium enterprises from ‘investment in plant & machinery/equipment’ to ‘annual turnover’.


      This will encourage ease of doing business, make the norms of classification growth oriented and align them to the new tax regime revolving around GST (Goods & Services Tax).


      Cabinet apprised of an MoU signed between India and Tunisia for cooperation on Youth matters


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between India and Tunisia to promote cooperation in the field of youth matters The MoU was signed on 30.10.2017 in New Delhi.


      The objective of the MoU is to create international perspective among the Indian Youth, to promote exchange of ideas, values and culture and to involve them in promoting peace and understanding.


      
      Cabinet approves changes in the Major Port Authorities Bill 2016


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the incorporation of the Official Amendments to the Major Port Authorities Bill 2016, which is pending in the Parliament. The Amendments are based on the recommendations of the Department-related Parliamentary Standing Committee.


      Cabinet approves rationalization of Autonomous Bodies under Department of Health & Family Welfare


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for closure of Autonomous Bodies, namely, RashtriyaArogyaNidhi (RAN) and JansankhyaSthirataKosh (JSK) and the functions are proposed to be vested in Department of Health & Family Welfare (DoHFW).


      Cabinet approves enhancement of target under Pradhan MantriUjjwalaYojana


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has approved to enhance of the target of Pradhan MantriUjjwalaYojana (PMUY) from five crore to eight crore with an additional allocation of Rs. 4,800 crore. The decision comes in the wake of huge response toPradhanMantriUjjwalaYojana (PMUY) from the women particularly in rural areas and to cover such households not having LPG connection. The revised target of Pradhan MantriUjjwalaYojana (PMUY) will be achieved by 2020.


      Cabinet approves scheme for augmenting human resources for health and medical education


      Giving a boost to Health and Medical Education, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for continuation and taking up additional phases of Human Resources for Health and Medical Education schemes, at a total estimated cost of Rs.14,930.92 crore upto 2019-20.


      Cabinet approves hike in MSP for Copra for 2018 season


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for increase in the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for Fair Average Quality (FAQ) of "Milling Copra" to Rs.7500/- per quintal for 2018 season from Rs. 6500/-per quintal in 2017. The MSP for FAQ of "Ball Copra" has been increased to Rs.7750/- per quintal for 2018 season from Rs. 6785/- per quintal in 2017.


      


      20 Feb 2018


      Cabinet approves creation of National Urban Housing Fund


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given approval for creation of National Urban Housing Fund (NUHF) for Rs.60,000 crores. This fund will be situated in Building Materials and Technology Promotion Council (BMTPC), an autonomous body registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 under the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.


      Cabinet approves India-Morocco Cooperation Agreement in Railway Sector


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the Cooperation Agreement betweenIndia and the Moroccan National Railways Office (ONCF) to develop long-term cooperation and partnership in different areas of railway sector. The Cooperation Agreement was signedon 14 th December, 2017.


      Cabinet approves proposal for Mahanadi Water Disputes – Constitution of a Tribunal under Inter-State River Disputes Act, 1956 – request from State of Odisha


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for adjudication of dispute on Mahanadi River Waters. The Tribunal shall determine water sharing among basin States on the basis of the overall availability of water in the complete Mahanadi basin, contribution of each State, the present utilization of water resources in each State and the potential for future development.


      Cabinet approves Agreement between India and Israel on Film Co-production


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to an Agreement on Film Co-production between India and Israel signed during the visit of Prime Minister of Israel Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu to India, in the presence of both the Prime Ministers in Hyderabad House in New Delhi on 15 th January, 2018.


      Cabinet approves setting up of bus bay near Indian Defence University Land in Gurugram, Haryana


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given approval for de-notification of 03 marla of land overlapping with NHAI for setting up of bus bay near Indian Defence University Land in Gurugram, Haryana. The Cabinet also approved refund of Rs. 1,82,719 by Government of Haryana towards de-notification of 03 marla of land to Ministry of Defence, which was paid to Government of Haryana at the time of acquisition in 2011.


      Cabinet approves New Bill to ban Unregulated Deposit Schemes and Chit Funds (Amendment) Bill, 2018


      In a major policy initiative to protect the savings of the investors, the Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to introduce the following bills in the Parliament:-


      (a) Banning of Unregulated Deposit Schemes Bill, 2018 in parliament &


      (b) Chit Funds (Amendment) Bill, 2018


      Cabinet approves Six Laning of Nidagatta - Mysuru Section of NH-275 in Karnataka


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for six-laning of Nidagatta - Mysuru Section of NH-275 from km 74.200 to km 135.304 on Hybrid Annuity Mode in Karnataka.


      The development of six-laning of about 61 km is estimated to cost approximately Rs.2919.81 crore including the cost of land acquisition and pre-construction activities. The civil construction cost is approximately Rs.2028.93 crore.


      Bhatni-Aurnihar Line Doubling with Electrification


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved 116.95 Km long Bhatni-Aurnihar line doubling with electrification at a completion cost of Rs. 1300.9 crore and is likely to be completed by 2021-22. The project will cover the districts of Deoria, Ballia, Mau and Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh.


      Aurnihar is junction station of Varanasi division having connectivity towards four sides namely Aurnihar-Chhapra, Aurnihar-Bhatni, Aurnihar-Jaunpur and Aurnihar-Varanasi. Present line capacity utilization of the section is 118% leading to congestion and slower train movement. The doubling project will ensure higher speed, reduce train delays, enhance safety by allowing more time for track/block maintenance, and provide additional capacity for future increase in traffic.


      Cabinet approves Silkyara Bend-Barkot Tunnel in Uttarkhand as part of ‘ChardhamMahamargPariyojana’


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval to the construction of 4.531 km long 2-Lane Bi-Directional Silkyara Bend - Barkot Tunnel with escape passage including approaches on Dharasu -Yamunotri section between Chainage 25.400 Km. and Chainage 51.000 Km in Uttarakhand.


      Jhansi-Manikpur and Bhimsen-Khairar lines Doubling with Electrification


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has approved 425 Km long Jhansi-Manikpur and Bhimsen-Khairar lines doubling and electrification projects at a completion cost of Rs. 4955.72 crore. These are likely to be completed by 2022-23. The projects will cover the districts of Jhansi, Mahoba, Banda, ChitrakutDham in Uttar Pradesh and Chhatarpur in Madhya Pradesh.


      The present line capacity utilization of Jhansi-Khairar, Khairar-Manikpur and Khairar-Bhimsen is 126%, 160% and 107% respectively, which leads to congestion and slow movement of trains.


      Jeypore-Malkangiri New Line Project


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved 130 Km long Jeypore-Malkangiri New Line project at a completion cost of Rs. 2676.11 crore and is likely to be completed by 2021-22. The project will cover the districts of Koraput and Malkangiri of Odisha State.


      Malkangiri and Koraput districts are among the identified left wing extremism (LWE) affected districts in the country. These areas are also amongst the 115 aspirational districts. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given a clarion call to develop these districts to help achieve the vision of New India by 2022.


      Muzaffarpur-Sagauli&Sagauli-Valmiki Nagar lines Doubling with Electrification


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the 100.6 Km long Muzaffarpur-Sagauli& 109.7 Km Sagauli-Valmiki Nagar lines Doubling projects with electrification at completion costs of Rs. 1347.61 crore, Rs. 1381.49 crore respectively. These projects will cover the districts of Muzaffarpur, East Champaran (Motihari) and West Champaran (Bettiah) in Bihar.


      Cabinet approves methodology for auction of coal mines / blocks for sale of coal under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the methodology for auction of coal mines / blocks for sale of coal under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act, 2015 and the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957. The opening up of commercial coal mining for private sector is the most ambitious coal sector reform since the nationalisation of this sector in 1973.


      28 Feb 2018


      Cabinet apprised of an MoU between India and Fiji on Cooperation in Renewable Energy


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of aMemorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Cooperation in Renewable Energy between India and Fiji. The MoU was signed on 24 th May, 201 7at Suva, Fiji.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Macedonia on cooperation in the field of Health


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Macedonia on cooperation in the field of Health.


      Cabinet approves signing of MoU between India and Jordan on Cooperation in Health Sector


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Jordan on cooperation in the field of Health & Medical Science.


      Cabinet approves signing of MoU between India and Jordan on Cooperation in the Field of Manpower


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Jordan on Cooperation in the Field of Manpower.


      Cabinet approves Action Plan for Champion Sectors in Services


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal of the Department of Commerce to give focused attention to 12 identified Champion Services Sectors for promoting their development, and realizing their potential. These include Information Technology & Information Technology enabled Services (IT &ITeS), Tourism and Hospitality Services, Medical Value Travel, Transport and Logistics Services, Accounting and Finance Services, Audio Visual Services, Legal Services, Communication Services, Construction and Related Engineering Services, Environmental Services, Financial Services and Education Services.


      Cabinet approves Agreement between India and Jordan on Cooperation and Mutual Administrative Assistance in Customs Matters


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing and ratifying an Agreement between India and Jordan on Cooperation and Mutual Administrative Assistance in Customs Matters.


      Cabinet approves Amendments to Housing and Telephone Facilities Rules, Constituency Allowance Rules andOffice Expense Allowance Rules for MPs.


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved Amendment to (i) The Housing and Telephone Facilities (Members of Parliament) Rules, 1956 (ii) The Members of Parliament (Constituency Allowance) Rules, 1986, (iii) The Members of Parliament (Office Expense Allowance) Rules, 1988. The details are:


      Cabinet approves the Trafficking of Persons (Prevention, Protection and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2018


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Trafficking of Persons (Prevention, Protection and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2018 for introduction in the Parliament


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Jordan for mining and beneficiation of Rock Phosphate & MOP and setting upproduction facility in Jordan for Phosphoric Acid/DAP/NPKFertilizers


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has approved the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Jordan for mining and beneficiation of Rock Phosphate & MOP and setting up production facility in Jordan for Phosphoric Acid/DAP/NPK Fertilizerswith a long term agreement for 100% off-take to India.


      The MoU would ensure consistent supply of raw material, intermediaries and finish P&K fertilizers to cater to the needs of the country at a reasonable price.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Vietnam on Economic and Trade Cooperation


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved thesigning of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Vietnam on Economic and Trade Cooperation.


      The MoU would expand more bilateral trade and economic cooperation between India and Vietnam.


      Cabinet approves doubling of Government guarantee from Rs 9,500 crore to Rs.19,000 crore for procurements of pulses and oilseeds at MSP under Price Support Scheme by NAFED


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has approved the regularization and extension of Govt. Guarantee provided to lender Bank for providing credit limit to National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED) Rs.19,000 crore from earlier Rs.9,500 crore for undertaking procurement operation of pulses and oilseeds under Price Support Scheme (PSS) and to Small Farmers Agri-Business Consortium (SFAC) for Rs. 45 crore for meeting their existing liability and settlement of extant claims. These Government Guarantees are provided for a period of five years i.e. till 2021-22 by Govt. of India and with waiver of 1% Government Guarantee fee.


      Cabinet approves continuation of Prime Minister's Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP) beyond 12th Plan for three years from 2017-18 to 2019-20


      
      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the continuation of Prime Minister's Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP) beyond 12th Plan for three years from 2017-18 to 2019-20 with a total outlay of Rs.5,500 crore.


      Scheme will create sustainable estimated employment opportunities for 15 lakh persons in three financial years.


      01 Mar 2018


      Cabinet approves Establishment of National Financial Reporting Authority


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for establishment of National Financial Reporting Authority (NFRA) and creation of one post of Chairperson, three posts of full-time Members and one post of Secretary for NFRA.


      The decision aims at establishment of NFRA as an independent regulator for the auditing profession which is one of the key changes brought in by the Companies Act, 2013. The inclusion of the provision in the Act was on the specific recommendations of the Standing Committee on Finance (in its 21 st report).


      Cabinet approves Fugitive Economic Offenders Bill, 2018


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has approved the proposal of the Ministry of Finance to introduce the Fugitive Economic Offenders Bill, 2018 in Parliament. The Bill would help in laying down measures to deter economic offenders from evading the process of Indian law by remaining outside the jurisdiction of Indian courts.


      The cases where the total value involved in such offences is Rs.100 crore or more, will come under the purview of this Bill.


      07 Mar 2018


      Cabinet approves signing of Migration and Mobility Partnership Agreement between India and France


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of Migration and Mobility Partnership Agreement between India and France. The Agreement is expected to be signed during the forthcoming State visit of the French President to India.


      Cabinet approves signing of an Agreement between India and France to facilitate "Mutual Recognition of Academic Qualifications"


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of an Agreement between India and France to facilitate Mutual Recognition of educationalqualifications and periods of study undertaken by students in duly approved, recognized and/or accredited educational Institutions within the two countries.The Agreement is expected to be signed during the forthcoming State visit of the French President to India.


      Cabinet approves an agreement between India and France to prevent illicit consumption and reduction of illicit traffic in Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Chemical Precursors and related offences


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved an Agreement between India and France on the Prevention of the Illicit Consumption and Reduction of Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Chemical Precursors, and related offences.


      Cabinet approves continuation of SwatantraSainik


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the continuation of SwatantraSainikSammanYojana (SSSY) during 2017-2020 beyond the 12 th Five Year Plan whichended on 31/03/2017.


      The approval provides for a monthly Samman Pension to freedom fighters, as a token of respect for their contribution in the national freedom struggle and on their demise, to their eligible dependents viz. spouses and thereafter, unmarried and unemployed daughters and dependent parents, as per prescribed eligibility norms and procedure.


      Cabinet approves the proposals for promulgation of the Daman and Diu Municipalities (Amendment) Regulation, 2018;


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for promulgation of:

       1. The Daman and Diu Municipalities (Amendment) Regulation, 2018;
       2. The Dadra and Nagar Haveli Municipal Council (Amendment) Regulation, 2018; and
       3. The Andaman and Nicobar Islands (Municipal) Amendment Regulation 2018

      Cabinet approves two percent Dearness Allowance to Central Government employees


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to release an additional instalment of Dearness Allowance (DA) to Central Government employees and Dearness Relief (DR) to pensionersw.e.f. 01.01.2018 representing an increase of 2% over the existing rate of 5% of the Basic Pay/Pension, to compensate for price rise.


      Cabinet approves Recommendations of Inter-Ministerial Group on Stressed Assets in Telecom Sector


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved two key measures in telecom sector to facilitate investments, consolidation in the sector and enhancing ease of doing business. These include restructuring the deferred payment liabilities of spectrum auction of telecom service providers and revising the limit of the cap for spectrum holding for telecom service providers.


      Cabinet approves the Commercial Courts, Commercial Division and Commercial Division of High Courts (Amendment) Bill, 2018


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Commercial Courts, Commercial Division and Commercial Appellate Division of High Courts (Amendment) Bill, 2018 for introduction in the Parliament.


      Cabinet approves the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill, 2018


      `


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill, 2018 for introduction in the Parliament. It is a part of the efforts of the Government to encourage institutional arbitration for settlement of disputes and make India a centre of robust Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) mechanism.


      Cabinet approves a Memorandum of Cooperation between India and France in the field of environment


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of a Memorandum of Cooperation between India and France in the field of environment


      The Memorandum of Cooperation will enable establishment and promotion of closer and long-term cooperation between the countries in the field of environment protection and management of natural resources on the basis of equity, reciprocity and mutual benefits, taking into account the applicable laws and legal provisions in each country.


      Cabinet approves MoU between UPSC and Public Service Commission of Mauritius


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) and Public Service Commission of Mauritius.


      Cabinet approves an MoU between India and Hellenic on Renewable Energy Cooperation


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Cooperation in the field of Renewable Energy between India and Hellenic. The MoU was signed by the External Affairs Minister, Smt. SushmaSwaraj, Government of India and H.E. Nikos Kotzias, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic during the latter's visit to New Delhi in November, 2017.


      Cabinet approves promotion of agricultural mechanisation for in-situ management of crop residue in the states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and NCT of Delhi


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for promotion of Agricultural Mechanization for in-situ Management of Crop Residue in the States of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and NCT of Delhi.


      The total outgo from the Central funds would be Rs. 1151.80 crore (Rs. 591.65 crore in 2018-19 and Rs. 560.15 crore in 2019-20).


      14 Mar 2018


      Cabinet approves the MoU on Cooperation between India and Iran in the field of Traditional Systems of Medicine


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between India and Iran in the field of Traditional Systems of Medicine.


      Cabinet approves Agreement for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion between India and Iran


      The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved an Agreement for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to taxes on income between India and Iran.


      Cabinet apprised of an MoU signed between India and Sri Lanka for promoting cooperation in the field of Information Technology and Electronics


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Sri Lanka for promoting cooperation in the field of Information Technology and Electronics. The MoU was signed on 15 th January, 2018 during the visit of Minister of Law & Justice and Electronics & Information Technology, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad to Sri Lanka.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Iran for cooperation in the field of agriculture and allied sectors


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post-facto approval for the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Iran for cooperation in the field of agriculture and allied sectors. The MoU was signed on 17 th February, 2018 during the visit of the President of Iran to India.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Iran on cooperation in the field of Health and Medicine


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post-facto approval for the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Iran on cooperation in the field of Health and Medicine. The MoU was signed on 17 th February, 2018 during the visit of the President of Iran to India.


      Cabinet approves continuation of ongoing urea subsidy scheme beyond 12th Five Year Plan


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal of Department of Fertilizers to continue Urea Subsidy Scheme upto 2019-20 at a total estimated cost of Rs. 1,64,935 crore and for disbursement of fertilizer subsidy. This decision implies that there will be no increase in price of urea, till 2020.


      21 Mar 2018


      Cabinet approves Inclusion of the communities 'Parivara and Talawara' as synonym of "Nayaka' in the list of STs in Karnataka


      The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has, in principle, approved the inclusion of the communities, namely, 'Parivara and Talawara' as synonym of "Nayaka' at SI. No. 38 in the list of STs of Karnataka.


      Cabinet approves Opening of Missions in Africa to implement commitments of India-Africa Forum Summit (IAFS-III)


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approvedthe opening of 18 new Indian Missions in Africa over a four year period from 2018-2021.


      Cabinet approves North-East Industrial Development Scheme (NEIDS) 2017


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the North East Industrial Development Scheme (NEIDS), 2017 with financial outlay of Rs.3000 crores upto March, 2020. Government will provide necessary allocations for remaining period of scheme after assessment before March 2020. NEIDS is a combination of the incentives covered under the earlier two schemes with a much larger outlay.


      Boost to Health Infrastructure


      In a major boost to health infrastructure the Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the continuation of the National Health Mission – with effect from 1 st April 2017 to 31 st March 2020 with a budgetary support of Rs. 85,217 crore as Central Share over this period.


      Cabinet approves Ayushman Bharat – National Health Protection Mission


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has approved the launch of a new Centrally Sponsored Ayushman Bharat -National Health Protection Mission (AB-NHPM) having central sector component under Ayushman Bharat Mission anchored in the MoHFW. The scheme has the benefit cover of Rs. 5 lakh per family per year. The target beneficiaries of the proposed scheme will be more than 10 crore families belonging to poor and vulnerable population based on SECC database. AB-NHPM will subsume the on-going centrally sponsored schemes -RashtriyaSwasthyaBimaYojana (RSBY) and the Senior Citizen Health Insurance Scheme (SCHIS)


      Cabinet approves revision of the Agreement between India and Qatar for the avoidance of double taxationand for the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income


      

      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for revision of the Agreement betweenIndia and Qatar for the avoidance of double taxation and for the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income.


      Cabinet apprised of an MoU between India and Guyana on cooperation in Renewable Energy


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on cooperation in Renewable Energy between India and Guyana. The MoU was signed on 30 th January, 2018 in New Delhi by Shri R. K. Singh, Minister of State (IC) for Power and New and Renewable Energy (NRE) and H.E. Mr. Carl B. Greenidge, 2 nd Vice President and the Foreign Minister of the Co-operative, Guyana.


      Cabinet approves closure of India Development Foundation of Overseas Indians


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for closure of India Development Foundation of Overseas Indians (IDF-OI)to enhance synergies in channelizing Diaspora's contributions to Government of India's flagship programmes such as National Mission for clean Ganga and Swachh Bharat Mission.


      Cabinet approves the extension of the term of the Commission constituted to examine the issue of Sub-categorization of Other Backward Classes in the Central List upto20th June, 2018


      
      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the second and final extension of the term of the Commission constituted to examine the issue of Sub-categorization of Other Backward Classes in the Central List, beyond 27 th March 2018 for a period of twelve weeks i.e. upto 20 th June, 2018.


      Cabinet approves formation of 100% owned C Corporation of Telecommunications Consultants India Ltd. (TCIL) in USA


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval forformation of 100% owned C Corporation of Telecommunications Consultants India Ltd.(TCIL) in USA as per the details given below:

       1. Formation of C Corporation of Telecommunications Consultants India Ltd. (TCIL) in the state of Texas, USA with authorization for registering in other states of USA for doing business subsequently.

       1. TCIL's Equity Investment of 100% in the C Corporation amounting to USD 5 Million (equivalent to INR 33.84 crores taking the exchange rate as Rs. 67.68)in a phased manner.


       1. TCIL's submission of Counter Guarantees amounting to USD 5 Million to Lenders of Loans/ Facilities / Vendors and also client for Bid bonds / Advance/ Performance Guarantees etc. required in connection with the execution of Projects in USA.


      Cabinet approves moving official amendments in the "Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2016"


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval formovingofficial amendments in the "Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2016".


      Cabinet allows M/s ITI Limited to bring a Further Public Offer for fresh equity shares to achieve 25% Minimum Public Shareholding requirement of Securities and Exchange Board of India, raise working capital for new projects and to reduce its debt obligations


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval forthe following proposal of Department of Telecommunication to allow M/s ITI Limited to:


      Offer 18 crore fresh equity shares to General Public through a prospectus based Further Public Offer (FPO) in the domestic market as per SEBI Rules and Regulations to raise working capital for new projects, reduce its debt obligations and to meet SEBI’s requirement of minimum 25 % public shareholding.


      Keep a reservation of up to 5% of the offer over and above the fresh shares being offered in FPO for allotment to employees of ITI in accordance with DPE guidelines and ICDR Regulation 42.


      Offer discount of up to five per cent to retail investors as well as employees in accordance with ICDR Regulation 29.


      Select and appoint Advisor(s) to advise the Company and assist in the proposed transactions


      Appoint Merchant Bankers for Book building process and follow the procedures as per SEBI rules and Regulations in consultation with Merchant Bankers.


      Cabinet approves Revision of Energy Norms under New Urea Policy


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has accorded the following approval to the proposal of Department of Fertilizers:


       1. The Target Energy Norms under New Urea Policy-2015(NUP-2015) for 11 urea units to be implemented w.e.f. 1st April, 2018.

       2. The extension of present energy norms with token penalties, under the New Urea Policy-2015 for a further period of two years for 14 urea manufacturing units which failed to achieve the Target Energy Norms.
       3. Three Naphtha based urea units are also allowed the existing energy norms for another two years/till gas pipeline connectivity.
       4. The target energy norms as per NUP-2015 will be continued for 5 years w.e.f. 1st April, 2020.

      Cabinet approves continuation of Centrally Sponsored Scheme of RashtriyaUchchatarShikshaAbhiyan (RUSA) - National Higher Education Mission


      
      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for continuation ofCentrally Sponsored Scheme of RashtriyaUchchatarShikshaAbhiyan (RUSA) from 1.04.2017 to 31.03.2020.


      Cabinet approves Central Sector "Integrated Scheme for Development of Silk Industry" for sericulture sector


      
      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for Central Sector Scheme "Integrated Scheme for Development of Silk Industry" for the next three years from 2017-18 to 2019-20.


      28 Mar 2018


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Zambia in the field of Judicial Cooperation


      
      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Zambia in the field of Judicial Cooperation.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and United Kingdom and Northern Ireland regarding cooperation and the Exchange of Information for the Purposes of Combating International Criminality and Tackling Serious Organised Crimes


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and United Kingdom and Northern Ireland regarding cooperation and Exchange of Information for the Purposes of Combating International Criminality and Tackling Serious Organised Crime.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and South Asia Cooperative Environment Programme for Co-operation on the response to Oil and Chemical Pollution in the South Asian Seas Region


      
      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and South Asian Cooperative Environment Programme (SACEP) for cooperation on the response to Oil and Chemical Pollution in the South Asian Seas Region.


      Cabinet approves re-structuring of National Skill Development Fund (NSDF) and National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) to strengthen governance, implementation and monitoring framework


      
      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for restructuring of National Skill Development Fund (NSDF) and National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) to strengthen governance, implementation and monitoring framework.


      Cabinet approvesMoU between India and Canada on IPRs


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post approval for the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India India and Canada. The MoU was signed on 23 rd February, 2018 to establish bilateral cooperation activities in the field of Intellectual Property (IP). MoU is intended to promote innovation, creativity and economic growth in both countries.


      Cabinet approves certain official amendments to the National Medical Commission (NMC) Bill


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved certain official amendments to the National Medical Commission (NMC) Bill.


      Boost for development projects in North-East


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the following schemes of M/o DONER for continuation till March, 2020:

        * Under the Schemes of NEC - Special Development Projects, with the existing funding pattern (90:10 basis) for ongoing projects and on 100% Central funding for new projects;
        * For other projects funded by NEC - both Revenue and Capital - as 100% Central funding basis, to continue with existing pattern;
        * Extension of 100% centrally funded North Eastern Road Sector Development Scheme (NERSDS);
        * Transfer to NEC for implementation, the Non-Lapsable Central Pool of Resources (NLCPR-C);
        * Proposal to ensure optimization of resources through convergence of efforts of various Ministries/Departments.

      Cabinet approves continuation of the Credit Guarantee Fund for Education Loans Scheme and continuation and modification of Central Sector Interest Subsidy Scheme


      
      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs under the Chairmanship of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for continuation of Credit Guarantee Fund for Education Loans Scheme and continuation and modification of Central Sector Interest Subsidy Scheme with a financial outlay of Rs. 6,600 crore for period from 2017-18 to 2019-20. This will provide education loans to 10 lakh students during this period.


      Cabinet approves Export of all edible oils in bulk (except mustard oil)


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal of Ministry of Commerce & Industry for removal of prohibition on export of all varieties of edible oils except mustard oil. Mustard oil will continue to be exported only in consumer packs upto 5 Kgs and with a minimum export price of US $ 900 per tonne.


      Cabinet approves formulation of a new Integrated Scheme for School Education from 1st April, 2018 to 31st March, 2020


      
      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal of Department of School Education and Literacy to formulate a Integrated Scheme on School Education by subsuming SarvaShikshaAbhiyan (SSA), RashtriyaMadhyamikShikshaAbhiyan (RMSA) and Teacher Education (TE) from 1st April, 2018 to 31st March, 2020. An estimated allocation of Rs 75,000 crore over the period has been approved which is a 20% increase over the current allocations.


      Cabinet approves enhancing the coverage of Pradhan MantriRojgarProtsahanYojana


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for enhancing the scope of Pradhan MantriRojgarProtsahanYojana (PMRPY). The Government of India will now contribute the Employer's full admissible contribution for the first three years from the date of registration of the new employee for all the sectors including existing beneficiaries for their remaining period of three years.


      Cabinet approves continuation, strengthening and establishment of KrishiVigyanKendras till 2019-20


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal of the Department of Agricultural Research and Education for continuation / strengthening, upto 2019-20, of 669 KrishiVigyanKendras(KVKs) established till 31.03.2017, 11 Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (ATARIs), support to the Directorates of Extension Education (DEEs) of Agricultural Universities (AUs) and all special programmes associated with the Scheme and establishment of 76 spill over KVKs as already approved in the 12thPlan.


      Cabinet approves continuation of Nutrient Based Subsidy and City Compost Scheme till 2019-20


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal of the Department of Fertilizers for continuation of Nutrient Based Subsidy (NBS)and City Compost Scheme beyond 12th Five Year plan till 2019-20. The total expenditure for continuation of both the schemes till 2019-20 will be Rs. 61,972 crore.


      Cabinet approves fixation of Nutrient Based Subsidy rates for Phosphatic and Potassic (P&K) fertilizers for the year 2018-19


      Government is making available fertilizers, namely Urea and 21 grades of P&K fertilizers to farmers at subsidized prices through fertilizer manufacturers/importers. The subsidy on P&K fertilizers is being governed by NBS Scheme w.e.f 01.04.2010. In accordance to its farmer friendly approach, the Government is committed to ensure the availability of P&K fertilizers to the farmers on affordable price. The Government has increased the subsidy expenditure by Rs. 1913.07 crore in comparison to Financial Year 2017-18 to save the farmers from the impact of increase in international prices of P&K fertilizers.


      04 April 2018


      Cabinet approvesa Cooperation Arrangement between India and Afghanistan for cooperation in the field of food safety and related areas


      

      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of a Cooperation Arrangement between Food Safety & Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) and Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation & Livestock (MAIL), Afghanistan for cooperation in the field of Food Safety and related areas.


      Cabinet approvesMoU between India and Iran on the establishment of an expert group on trade remedy measures


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Iran on the establishment of an expert group on trade remedy measures to promote cooperation in areas of mutual interest. The MoU was signed on 17 th February, 2018 during the visit of the President of Iran.


      Cabinet approves closure of loss making Burn Standard Company Limited - a Central Public Sector Enterprise (CPSE)


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the closure of Burn Standard Company Ltd (BSCL) - a Central Public Sector Enterprise (CPSE) under Ministry of Railways. This decision has been taken in view of the continuous poor physical and financial performance of the company for more than 10 years despite financial assistance and other support provided by government, and low probability of its revival in the future. This measure will save public funds, which are currently being used for loss making BSCL, and can be used for other developmental work.


      Cabinet apprised of MoU between India and Canada to foster cross-border partnerships focused on research excellence and industry-academic collaboration


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of theMemorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between India and Canada. The MoU was signed on 21 st February, 2018 in New Delhi.


      The MoU aims at fostering cross-border partnerships focused on research excellence and industry-academic collaboration between India and Canada that brings robust innovation gains to both countries.


      Cabinet apprised of MoU between India and United Arab Emirates on Technical Cooperation in Rail Sector


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of theMemorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed with the Federal Transport Authority - Land & Maritime of the United Arab Emirates on Technical Cooperation in Rail Sector. The MoU was signed on 10 th February, 2018.


      Cabinet approves demerger and transfer of surplus land from TCL to HPIL


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the transfer of administrative control of Hemisphere Properties India Ltd. (HPIL), PSU from the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) after infusion of equity amounting to Rs. 700 crore and Rs. 51 cr. secured GOI Loan into the Company and implementation of scheme of arrangement for de-merger of surplus land.


      Cabinet approves rightsizing the Competition Commission of India


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for rightsizing the Competition Commission of India (CCI) from One Chairperson and Six Members (totalling seven) to One Chairperson and Three Members (totalling four) by not filling the existing vacancies of two Members and one more additional vacancy, which is expected in September, 2018 when one of the present incumbents will complete his term.


      Cabinet approves the Protection of Human Rights (Amendments) Bill, 2018


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the Protection of Human Rights (Amendments) Bill, 2018 for better protection and promotion of human rights in the country.


      Cabinet approves revised cost estimates of the scheme of updation of National Register of Citizens, 1951 in Assam


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Revised Cost Estimates (RCE) of the scheme of Updation of National Register of Citizens (NRC), 1951 in Assam at a cost of Rs. 1220.93 crore upto 31.12.2018.


      The scheme of NRC, 1951 is specific to state of Assam covering about 3.29 crore applicants.


      11 Apr 2018


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland on the return of Illegal Migrants


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the MoU between India and the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland on the return of Illegal Migrants.


      Cabinet approves revision of pay and allowances of Lieutenant Governors of Union Territories


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for revision of pay and allowances of Lieutenant Governors of Union Territories. It will bring the pay and allowances of LGs at par with that of the Secretary to the Government of India.


      Cabinet approves Headquarters (Host country) Agreement between India and the International Solar Alliance


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for entering into Headquarters (Host country) Agreement between India and the International Solar Alliance (ISA) and authorizing the Ministry of External Affairs for signing the Headquarter Agreement. The Agreement was signed on 26th March, 2018.


      Boost to Ease of Doing Business in Petroleum & Natural Gas Sector


      Cabinet approves Delegation of Powers to Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas and Minister of Finance to approve the award of the Blocks/Contract Areas to successful bidders under HELP/OALP after International Competitive Bidding (ICB)


      Cabinet approves Exploration and Exploitation of Coal Bed Methane (CBM) from areas under Coal Mining Lease allotted to Coal India Limited (CIL) and its Subsidiaries


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi today gave its approval for issuing a notification amending clause 3(xiii) of the notification dated 03.11.2015 issued by the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural gas under Section 12 of the Oil Fields (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (ORD Act, 1948).


      Due to this amendment relaxation is granted under the Petroleum & Natural Gas Rules 1959 (PNG Rules, 1959), to Coal India Limited (CIL) and its subsidiaries for not applying for grant of license/lease under the PNG Rules, 1959 for extraction of Coal Bed Methane (CBM) under their Coal Bearing Areas.


      25 Apr 2018


      Cabinet approves Memorandum of Understanding between India and Sao Tome and Principe for Cooperation in the field of Traditional Systems of Medicine and Homoeopathy


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Sao Tome and Principe for Cooperation in the field of Traditional Systems of Medicine and Homoeopathy. The MoU was signed in March, 2018.


      Cabinet apprised of the Memorandum of Agreement between India and World Health Organisation represented by its Regional Office for South-East Asia acting through its Country Office in India


      The Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) between India and World Health Organisation represented by its Regional Office for South-East Asia acting through its Country Office in India. The MoU was signed on 13th March, 2018 at New Delhi.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Sao Tome and Principe on cooperation in the field of Medicinal Plants


      The Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Sao Tome and Principe on cooperation in the field of Medicinal Plants. The MoU was signed on 14.03.2018.


      Cabinet approves MoU on cooperation in the field of regulation of medical products for human use amongst the medicine regulatory agencies of the BRICS countries


      The Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on cooperation in the field of regulation of medical products for human use amongst the medicine regulatory agencies of the BRICS countries.


      The MoU would facilitate better understanding about the regulatory aspects between the parties and could help in increasing India’s export of medical products to BRICS countries.


      Cabinet approves Long Term Agreements for supply of iron ore to Japan and South Korea through MMTC Limited


      The Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the renewal of Long Term Agreements (LTAs) for supply of iron ore (lumps and fines) of grade +64% Fe content to Japanese Steel Mills (JSMs) and POSCO, South Korea for another three years (i.e. 1.4.2018 upto 31.3.2021) through MMTC Limited.


      Cabinet approves declaration of Scheduled Areas in respect of Rajasthan under Fifth Schedule to the Constitution of India


      The Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given approval to the declaration of Scheduled Areas in respect of Rajasthan under Fifth Schedule to the Constitution of India by rescinding the Constitution Order (C.O.)114 dated 12 th February 1981 and promulgation of a new Constitution Order.


      Cabinet approves Minimum Support Prices for Raw Jute for 2018-19 season


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for the increase in the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for Raw Jute for 2018-19 season.


      The Minimum Support Price (MSP) for Fair Average Quality (FAQ) of Raw Jute has been increased to Rs.3700/- per quintal for 2018-19 season from Rs. 3500/- per quintal in 2017-18 season.


      Cabinet approves restructured National Bamboo Mission


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi today has approvedCentrally Sponsored Scheme of National Bamboo Mission (NBM) under National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) during remaining period of Fourteenth Finance Commission (2018-19 & 2019-20). The Mission would ensure holistic development of the bamboo sector by addressing complete value chain and establishing effective linkage of producers (farmers) with industry.


      02 May 2018


      Cabinet approves Doubling of Investment Limit for Senior Citizens from Rs. 7.5 lakh to Rs.15 lakh under Pradhan MantriVayaVandanYojana (PMVVY)


      The Union Cabinet chaired by chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for extending the investment limit from Rs 7.5 lakhs to Rs 15 lakhs as well as extension of time limits for subscription from 4 th May 2018 to 31 st March, 2020 under the Pradhan MantriVayaVandanYojana (PMVVY) as part of Government's commitment for financial inclusion and social security.


      Cabinet approves Mutual Recognition Agreement between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has has approved the Mutual Recognition Agreement between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and The South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA).


      Cabinet approves Restructuring of the Indian Bureau of Mines (IBM) – creation, abolition & upgradation of posts of Joint Secretary-level and above


      The Union Cabinet chaired by chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Restructuring of the Indian Bureau of Mines (IBM) by upgradation, creation and abolition of certain posts of Joint Secretary-level and above. The total cadre strength of Indian Bureau of Mines has been maintained at the existing strength of 1477.


      Cabinet approves Cadre review and formation of Group ‘A’service of the technical cadre of Petroleum & Safety Organization (PESO) in the name of Indian Petroleum & Explosives Safety Service (IPESS)


      The Union Cabinet chaired by chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Cadre review and formation of Group ‘A’ service of the technical cadre of Petroleum & Safety Organization (PESO) in the name of Indian Petroleum & Explosives Safety Service (IPESS).The measure will enhance the capacity and efficiency of the organization and it will also enhance career progression of its Group ‘A’ officers.


      Cabinet approves construction and operationalisation of 100 bedded General Hospital at Najafgarh, New Delhi


      The Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for construction and operationalisation of 100 bedded General Hospital at Rural Health Training Centre (RHTC), Najafgarh, New Delhi at an estimated cost of about Rs. 95 Crore.


      The Project envisages setting up of the 100 bedded hospital in Najafgarh in two years to cater to the local population of 13.65 Lakh spread across 73 villages


      Boost to healthcare infrastructureCabinet approves continuation of Pradhan MantriSwasthya Suraksha Yojanaupto 2019-20


      In a major boost to the expansion of healthcare infrastructure in the country, the Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the continuation of Pradhan MantriSwasthya Suraksha Yojana(PMSSY) beyond 12 th Five Year Plan to 2019-20. The financial outlay for this purpose is Rs 14,832 crore. Under this scheme, new AIIMS are established and Government medical colleges are upgraded.


      Cabinet approves accession to the Protocol under WHO Framework Convention on tobacco control to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products


      The Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given approval to accede to the Protocol under World Health Organization (WHO) Framework Convention on tobacco control to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products. It will be applicable to both smoking and chewing or smokeless tobacco (SLT) forms as negotiated and adopted under Article 15 of the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (WHO FCTC). India is a party to WHO FCTC.


      Cabinet approves financial assistance to sugar mills for clearing cane dues of farmers


      
      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to provide financial assistance @ of Rs. 5.50 per quintal of cane crushed in sugar season 2017-18 to sugar mills to offset the cost of cane, in order to help sugar mills to clear cane dues of farmers.


      Details:


      The assistance shall be paid directly to the farmers on behalf of the mills.


      It will be adjusted against the cane price payable due to the farmers against Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP) including arrears relating to previous years.


      Subsequent balance if any, shall be credited into the mill’s account.


      Cabinet approves restructuring of Multi-sectoral Development Programme for its continuation during remaining period of 14th Finance Commission as Pradhan Mantri Jan VikasKaryakram


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi today has approved the proposal for renaming and restructuring of Multi-sectoral Development Programme (MsDP) as Pradhan Mantri Jan VikasKaryakram (PMJVK). CCEA has also approved its continuation during the remaining period of the 14th Finance Commission.


      Boost to Airport Infrastructure in Lucknow, Chennai and Guwahati


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to for expansion and upgradation of integrated terminals at Chennai, Guwahati & Lucknow Airports, at a cost of Rs.2467 crore, Rs.1383 crore and Rs.1232 crore, respectively.


      Cabinet approves continuation of Umbrella Scheme ‘Green Revolution — KrishonnatiYojana’ in Agriculture Sector


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for the Umbrella Scheme, "Green Revolution – KrishonnatiYojana" in agriculture sector beyond 12thFive Year Plan for the period from 2017-18 to 2019-20 with the Central Share of Rs. 33,269.976 crore.


      The Umbrella scheme comprises of 11 Schemes/Missions. These schemes look to develop the agriculture and allied sector in a holistic and scientific manner to increase the income of farmers by enhancing production, productivity andbetter returns on produce. The Schemes will be continued with an expenditure of Rs.33,269.976 crore for three financial years, i.e., 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20.


      16 May 2018


      Cabinet apprised of MoU between India and France on Technical Cooperation in the field of railways


      The Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Indian Railways and SNCF Mobilites (a company owned by the French State) on Technical Cooperation in the field of Railways. The MoU was signed on 10th March, 2018.


      The MoUs provide a platform for Indian Railways to interact and share the latest developments and knowledge in the railway sector. The MoUs facilitate exchange of technical experts, reports and technical documents, training and seminars/workshops focusing on specific technology areas and other interactions for knowledge sharing.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Morocco in the legal field


      The Union Cabinet chaired by chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for signing of the MoU for cooperation in the legal field between India and Morocco, in order to share their experience and expertise in the field of law and legislation.


      The MoU will give an opportunity to the Lawyers, Law Officers and law students to discuss issues in the field of law and justice in seminars, symposiums and workshops arranged by authorities of India and Morocco.


      Cabinet approves MoU between the India and Swaziland on cooperation in the field of Health and Medicine


      The Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has has given its ex-post-facto for the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the India and Swaziland on cooperation in the field of Health and Medicine. The MoU was signed on 9th April 2018.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Suriname for cooperation in the field of electoral management and administration


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Suriname on cooperation in the field of electoral management and administration including exchange of knowledge and experience in the field of organizational and technical development of electoral process; support in exchanging information, institutional strengthening and capacity building, training of personnel, holding regular consultations etc.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Equatorial Guinea for Cooperation in the field of Traditional Systems of Medicine


      The Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Equatorial Guinea for Cooperation in the field of Traditional Systems of Medicine. The MoU was signed on 8th April, 2018.


      The MoU will enhance bilateral cooperation between the two countries in the areas of Traditional Systems of Medicine.


      Cabinet approves MoU on Cooperation in the field of Medicinal Plants between India and Equatorial Guinea


      The Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Cooperation in the field of Medicinal Plants between India and Equatorial Guinea


      The MoU will further enhance bilateral cooperation between the two countries in the area of Medicinal Plants.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Morocco in the field of Mining and Geology


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi hasgiven its ex post facto approval to the signing of MoU between India and Morocco in the field of mining and geology. The agreement was signed on 11.4.2018 in New Delhi between the Moroccan Ministry of Energy, Mines and Sustainable development and the Ministry of Mines, Govt. of India.


      Cabinet approves MoU on Cooperation in the field of Traditional Systems of Medicine between India and Colombia


      The Union Cabinet chaired by chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Colombia on establishing cooperation on Traditional Systems of Medicine of India.


      Cabinet approves setting up of a new AIIMS in Deoghar, Jharkhand


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved setting up of a new All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Deoghar, Jharkhand. A provision of funds worth Rs. 1103 crore has been approved for the project and the said AIIMS will be set up under the Pradhan MantriSwasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY).


      Cabinet approves signing and ratification of Agreement between India and Brunei Darussalam for the Exchange of Information and Assistance in Collection with respect to Taxes


      The Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has has approved the signing and ratification of Agreement between India and Brunei Darussalam for the Exchange of Information and Assistance in Collection with respect to Taxes.


      Cabinet approves setting up of a Central University in Andhra Pradesh


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its in-principle approval for establishing a Central University by the name of “Central University of Andhra Pradesh” in Janthaluru Village of Ananthapur District, Andhra Pradesh. A provision of funds worth Rs. 450 crore has been approved for meeting the first phase expenditure towards establishment of the said University.


      Boost to Metro connectivity


      In a major boost to public transport infrastructure in NOIDA, the Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved extension of Delhi Metro corridor from Noida City Centre to Sector-62, Noida Uttar Pradesh covering a length of 6.675 k.m. at the total completion cost of Rs.1,967 crores. Gol liability will be Rs. 340.60 crore on account of Grant and Subordinate Debt.


      Cabinet approves establishment of National Institute of Mental Health Rehabilitation at Bhopal


      The Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the establishment of National Institute of Mental Health Rehabilitation (NIMHR) at Bhopal as a Society under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 under the aegis of the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities. The estimated cumulative cost of the project is Rs. 179.54 crore in first three years. This includes non-recurring expenditure of Rs. 128.54 crore and recurring expenditure of Rs. 51 crore.


      Cabinet approves strengthening the mechanism for resolution of commercial disputes of Central Public Sector Enterprises


      The Union Cabinet Chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has has approved the strengthening of the mechanism for resolution of commercial disputes of Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) inter se and also between CPSEs and other Government Departments/Organizations. The Cabinet decision is based on recommendations of the Committee of Secretaries (CoS). The decision will put in place an institutionalized mechanism within the Government for speedy resolution of commercial disputes of CPSEs without the matter being referred to the Courts of law.


      Cabinet approves National Policy on Biofuels - 2018


      The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved National Policy on Biofuels – 2018.


      Cabinet approves development of Trunk Infrastructure Components for Integrated Multi Modal Logistics Hub known as "Freight Village" at Nangal Chaudhary in Haryana under Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor Project


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the following proposal of the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion


      Cabinet approves Corpus for Micro Irrigation Fund with NABARD under Pradhan MantriKrishiSinchayeeYojana


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi today has approved an initial Corpus of Rs.5,000 crore for setting up of a dedicated “Micro Irrigation Fund” (MIF) with NABARD under Pradhan MantriKrishiSinchayeeYojana (PMKSY).


      Cabinet approves enhancement of budget for implementation of Network for Spectrum for Defence Services


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for enhancement of budget by Rs.11,330 crore for Network For Spectrum (NFS) project for laying of alternate communication network for Defence Services for release of spectrum over and above Rs.13,334 crore already approved by Cabinet Committee on Infrastructure in July, 2012.


      23 May 2018


      Cabinet approves USOF scheme for provision of mobile services in Meghalaya under CTDP for North Eastern Region


      The Union Cabinet chaired by chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved Implementation of a Comprehensive Telecom Development Plan (CTDP) for the North Eastern Region(NER) in Meghalaya at a total estimated project cost of Rs. 3911 crore to be funded by the Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF) and approval of the enhanced cost of CTDP Project for NER for an amount of Rs. 8120.81 crore (Rs. 5336.18 crore already approved by the Cabinet on 10.09.2014).


      Cabinet approves provision of mobile connectivity in Left Wing Extremism Areas


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the "Universal Service Obligation Fund [USOF]” supported scheme to provide mobile services at 4072 tower locations identified by MHA in inhabited uncovered areas affected by Left Wing Extremism [LWE] of 96 districts in 10 States for Phase-ll project. The total project cost would be Rs.7,330 Crore.


      This network would be used by the security personnel deployed in LWE affected areas. Project will also provide the mobile services to help the residents in unconnected inhabited villages which would improve the economic activities in the region. It will give impetus to the e-Governance activities in the backward and LWE affected area with the availability of digital mobile connectivity.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Turkey on trade in poppy seeds to ensure quick and transparent processing for import of poppy seeds from Turkey


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Turkey on trade in poppy seeds to ensure quick and transparent processing for import of poppy seeds from Turkey.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Singapore on Cooperation in the field of Personnel Management and Public Administration


      The Union Cabinet chaired by chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Singapore on Cooperation in the field of Personnel Management and Public Administration.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Denmark on Food Safety Cooperation


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Denmark regarding cooperation in the areas of food safety. The MoU was signed on 16 th April 2018.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Morocco on India-Morocco cooperation in Renewable Energy


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Morocco on India-Morocco Cooperation in Renewable Energy. The MoU was signed on 10th April, 2018 in New Delhi.


      Cabinet apprised of the MoU between India and Angola for promoting bilateral cooperation in the field of Electronics and Information Technology


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) the between India and Angola for promoting bilateral cooperation in the field of Electronics and Information Technology.


      Cabinet approves MoU signed between India and France in the field of Renewable Energy


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval tothe Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between India and France in the field of Renewable Energy on 10th March, 2018 in New Delhi.


      Cabinet approves waiver of Penal Interest on Government Loans advanced to Visakhapatnam Port Trust


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for waiving of Penal Interest on Government Loans to Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) as per following:


      Waiver of Penal Interest amounting to Rs. 250.89 crore in respect of VPT as on 31.03.2017 and further accruals thereon till date of approval of waiver;


      VPT to pay penalty @0.25%of Penal Interest as on date of approval of waiver of Penal Interest;


      VPT to pay the outstanding Principal of Rs. 44.69 crore and outstanding Interest as on the date of approval of waiver, in one single instalment in the Financial Year 2018-19.


      Cabinet approves restructuring of balance sheet of Scooters India Limited, Lucknow


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for restructuring of balance sheet of Scooters India Limited, Lucknow (SIL) by way of:


      Reduction of equity of Rs. 85.21 crore in the share capital of SIL held by Government of India against accumulated losses. The reduction would be deemed to have taken effect as on 31.03.2013 and


      Freezing the interest on the Non-Plan loan of Rs. 1.89 crore released to SIL during 2012-13 from the date of its release to the company and conversion into equity of the outstanding principal amount of Rs. 1.89 crore.


      Cabinet approves waiver of Penal Interest on Government Loans advanced to Paradip Port Trust


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for waiving of Penal Interest on Government Loans to Paradip Port Trust (PPT) as per following:


      Waiver of penal interest amounting to Rs.1076.59 crore in respect of PPT as on 31.03.2017 and further accruals thereon till date of approval of waiver.


      PPT to pay penalty @ 0.25% of Penal Interest as on the date of approval of waiver of penal Interest.


      PPT to start the re-payment of outstanding principal of Rs. 387.74 crore and outstanding interest as on date of approval of the waiver and the re-payment to be completed in two instalments in 2018-19 and 2019-20.


      06 June 2018


      cabinet approves the joint issue of postage stamp between India and Russia


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was apprised of the agreement signed in connection with release of Joint Stamps between Department of Posts, India and Russia Post (Joint-Stock Company “MARKA” of Russian Federation) to establish postal cooperation and strive towards mutually beneficial operational excellence in the field of issuance of stamps.


      Cabinet approves the extension of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Netherlands on technical cooperation in the field of Spatial Planning, Water Management and Mobility Management


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between India and Netherlands on technical cooperation in the field of Spatial Planning, Water Management and Mobility Management in April, 2018.


      Cabinet approves Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Denmark on technical cooperation in the field of Sustainable and Smart Urban Development


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between India and Denmark on technical cooperation in the field of Sustainable and Smart Urban Development in April, 2018.


      Cabinet approves Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and United Kingdom on technical cooperation in the field of Sustainable Urban Development


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between India and United Kingdom on technical cooperation in the field of Sustainable Urban Development in April, 2018.


      Cabinet approves Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle Mark-III Continuation Programme – Phase 6


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) Continuation Programme (Phase 6) and funding of thirty PSLV operational flights under the Programme.


      Status-cum-Progress Report of “Special Committee for Inter-Linking of Rivers”


      The progress report on interlinking of rivers has been submitted to the Cabinet in compliance of the Hon’ble Supreme Court judgement dated 27.02.2012 in the matter of Writ Petition (Civil) – 512 of 2002: “Networking of Rivers” along with Writ Petition No.668 of 2002 which directs the Union Government of India to constitute a Special Committee for Interlinking of Rivers. A periodical report is required to be submitted to the Cabinet on the progress made by the Special Committee for Interlinking of Rivers.


      Cabinet approves Memorandum of Understanding between India and Oman on Cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was apprised of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between India represented by the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) and Oman represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications on Cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space, in February, 2018 at Muscat.


      Cabinet approves Agreement between India and France on technical cooperation in the field of Sustainable Urban Development


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was apprised of the Agreement signed between India and France in the field of Sustainable Urban Development in March, 2018. The Agreement shall remain in force for a period of five years.


      Cabinet approves Continuation Programme for Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle Mark-III


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved funding for the for Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle Mark-III (GSLV Mk-III) continuation programme (Phase-I) consisting of ten (10) GSLV (Mk-III) flights, at a total estimated cost of Rs. 4338.20 crores. This includes Rs. 4338.20 Crores and includes the cost of ten GSLV Mk-III vehicles, essential facility augmentation, Programme Management and Launch Campaign.


      Cabinet approves Revision in the wage structure and allowances of GraminDakSevaks (GDS) of the Department of Posts


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has approved the revision in the wage structure and allowances of GraminDakSevaks (GDS) of the Department of Posts.


      The revision in the wage structure would entail an estimated expenditure of Rs 1257.75 crore (Non-recurring expenditure - Rs 860.95 crore and Recurring expenditure of Rs.396.80 crore) during 2018-19.


      Cabinet approves Revised guidelines on time bound closure of sick/ loss making Central Public Sector Enterprises and disposal of movable and immovable assets


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has approved the revised guidelines of the Department of Public Enterprises (DPE) on time bound closure of sick/ loss making Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) and disposal of movable and immovable assets. The revised guidelines would reduce delays in implementation of closure plans of sick/loss making CPSEs. These guidelines will replace the guidelines issued by DPE in September, 2016.


      Cabinet approves Continuation of Off-grid and Decentralised Solar PV Applications Programme - Phase III


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for implementation of Phase-Ill of Off-grid and Decentralised Solar PV (Photo Voltaic) Application Programme to achieve additional 118 MWp(Mega Watt peak) off-grid solar PV capacity by 2020.


      Cabinet approves construction of a new 6 - Lane bridge with its approaches across River Ganga at Phaphamau, Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, approved the project for construction of 9.9 km long new 6 - lane bridge across river Ganga on NH - 96 at Phaphamau in Allahabad with total capital cost of Rs. 1948.25 crore.


      Cabinet approves interventions to deal with the current crisis in the sugar sector


      In order to improve the problem of liquidity of sugar mills resulting in accumulation of huge cane price arrears of farmers, the Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the following measures involving total amount of about Rs. 7000 crore


      13 June 2018


      
      Cabinet approves the extension of tenure of the Commission constituted to examine the issue of Sub-categorization within Other Backward Classes in the Central List


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the final extension of the term of the Other Backward Classes in the Central List currently mandated upto 20 th June 2018, till 31 st July, 2018.


      Cabinet approves Agreement between India and Peru


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved an Agreement between India and Peru which was signed in May, 2018 at Lima, Peru.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Viet Nam on Joint issue of postage stamp


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the joint issue of a postage stamp between Department of Posts and Viet Nam Post.


      Department of Posts, Ministry of Communications and Viet Nara Post mutually agreed to jointly issue Postage Stamps on India-Viet Nam: Joint Issue on the theme "Ancient Architecture". The joint stamps were released on 25-01-2018.


      Cabinet approves Repositioning of North Eastern Council


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal of Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) for the nomination of the Union Home Minister as ex-officio Chairman of North Eastern Council (NEC) - a statutory body with Governors and Chief Ministers of all the eight North Eastern States as its Member. The Cabinet also approved that Minister of State (Independent Charge), Ministry of DoNER would serve as Vice Chairman of the Council.


      Cabinet approves proposal for enactment of Dam Safety Bill, 2018


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for introduction of Dam Safety Bill, 2018 in the Parliament.


      Cabinet approves MoU between the ICMR and INSERM, France


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) which was signed in March, 2018 between the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Institut National de la Santeet de la RechercheMedicale (INSERM), France.


      Cabinet approves monetization of 3.70 acres of land at PragatiMaidan for construction and running of a Hotel by a third party including private sector, waiver of charges levied by L&DO and waiver of land charges raised by the Ministry of Railways


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the monetization of 3.70 acres of land at PragatiMaidan by India Trade Promotion Organisation (ITJPO) on long-term leasehold basis for 99 years for construction and running of a Hotel by a third party including private sector through a transparent competitive bidding process.


      Cabinet approves proposal for withdrawal of Nalanda University (Amendment) Bill, 2013 pending in Rajya Sabha


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for withdrawal of Nalanda University (Amendment) Bill, 2013 pending in the Rajya Sabha.


      The Nalanda University was established on the basis of a Joint Press Statement at the 4th East Asia Summit held in Thailand in October, 2009, which supported its establishment as a non-state, non-profit, secular and self-governing international institution. Subsequently, the Nalanda University Act, 2010 was passed by the Parliament and came into effect from 25 th November 2010.


      Cabinet approves 'Three Year Action Plan of Agricultural Education Division & ICAR Institutes


      
      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the continuation of the Three Year Action Plan (2017-2020) of the scheme for Agricultural Education Division and ICAR Institutes with an outlay of Rs.2225.46 crore[Rs. 2197.51 crore + Rs. 27.95 crore (State share) as salary component for AICRP-HS]for strengthening and developing higher agricultural education in India.


      Cabinet approves raising of additional share capital of M/s. HDFC Bankup to a maximum of Rs. 24,000 crore


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for grant of permission to M/s. HDFC Bank Ltd. to raise additional share capital of up to a maximum of Rs. 24,000 crore, including premium, over and above the previous approved limit of Rs. 10,000 crore, such that the composite foreign shareholding in the Bank shall not exceed 74% of the enhanced paid-up equity share capital of the bank.


      27 Jun 2018


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Singapore on Cooperation in the field of Planning


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex post-facto approval to the MoU between India and Singapore on cooperation in the field of urban planning and development. The MoU was signed on 31st May 2018.


      Cabinet apprised of the Agreement between India and Denmark on Cooperation in the field of Science, Technology and Innovation


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Germany on Cooperation in the field of Civil Aviation


      Cabinet approves Strengthening of teaching, patient / clinical care and public health programme implementation - Shifting of more experienced doctors belonging to Central Government and Central government entities to tea


      Cabinet apprised of Implementing Arrangement between India and France on Cooperation on Maritime Awareness Mission


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been appraised of the Implementing Arrangement (IA) for Pre-formulation Studies of a Maritime Domain Awareness Mission signed between India and France on 10th March 2018.


      Cabinet apprised of the MoU between India and Denmark for cooperation in the fields of Animal Husbandry and Dairying


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between India and Denmark for cooperation in the fields of Animal Husbandry and Dairying. The MoU was signed on 16.4.2018.


      Cabinet approves enhancement of age of superannuation of General Duty Medical Officers, Specialist Grade doctors and Teaching Medical Faculty working in Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre,


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal of Department of Health Research, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare to enhance the age of superannuation of General Duty Medical Officers, Specialist Grade doctors and Teaching medical faculty working in Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre, Bhopal to sixty-five years at par with doctors of Central Health Services and doctors working under other Central government hospitals/institutes.


      Cabinet apprised of the MoU between India and Indonesia on Technical Cooperation in the field of Railways sector


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of theMemorandum of Understanding (MoU)between India and Indonesia on Technical Cooperation in the field of railways sector . The MoU was signed on 29th May, 2018.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Bahrain on cooperation in the field of Healthcare


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approvedthe signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Bahrain on cooperation in the field of Healthcare.


      Cabinet approves establishment of additional 6.5MMT Strategic Petroleum Reserves at Chandikhol in Odisha and at Padur, Karnataka


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approvedestablishment of additional 6.5 Million Metric Tonne (MMT) Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) facilities at two locations, i.e. Chandikhol in Odisha and Padur in Karnataka, including construction of dedicated SPMs (Single Point Mooring) for the two SPRs. The SPR facilities at Chandikhol and Padur will be underground rockcaverns and will have capacities of 4 MMT and 2.5 MMT respectively. Government had announced setting up of two additional SPRs during the budgetannouncement for 2017-18.


      Cabinet approves Strengthening of teaching, patient / clinical care and public health programme implementation - Shifting of more experienced doctors belonging to Central Government and Central government entities to teaching / clinical /Public Health Programme implementation activities


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Strengthening of teaching, patient / clinical care and public health programme implementation - Shifting of more experienced doctors belonging to Central Government and Central government entities to teaching/ clinical / Public Health Programme implementation activities.


      Cabinet approves Mechanism for procurement of ethanol by Public Sector Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) to carry out the Ethanol Blended Petrol (EBP) Programme- Revision of ethanol price for supply to Public Sector OMCs


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Mechanism for procurement of ethanol by Public Sector Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) to carry out the Ethanol Blended Petrol (EBP) Programme- Revision of ethanol price for supply to Public Sector OMCs.


      Cabinet approves capital infusion in Export Credit Guarantee Corporation Ltd.


      
      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the capital infusion of Rs.2000 crore for strengthening of Export Credit Guarantee Corporation (ECGC). The amount would be infused in the three financial years i.e. Rs.50 crore in 2017-18, Rs.1450 crore in the year 2018-19 and Rs.500 crore for 2019-20.


      Cabinet approves a Corpus to National Export Insurance Account Trust


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved contribution of Grant-in-Aid (Corpus) of Rs.1,040 crore to National Export Insurance Account Trust (NEIA).


      The Corpus is to be utilised during three years from 2017-18 to 2019-20. An amount of Rs.440 crore has already been received for the year 2017-18. Rs.300 crore each will be given to NEIA for the years 2018-19 and 2019-20.


      04 July 2018


      Cabinet approves transfer of 7.5 acres of Defence land to KendriyaVidyalayaSangathan for the construction of KendriyaVidvalaya in Survey No. 408, Jalandhar Cantt


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has approved the transfer of 7.5 acres of A-1 Defence land on lease in perpetuity basis at a nominal rent of Re 1/- per annum to KendriyaVidyalayaSangathan for the construction of KendriyaVidyalaya No. 4 in Survey No. 408, Jalandhar Cantt.


      Cabinet approves transfer of 4 acres of Defence land on lease basis to KendriyaVidyalayaSangathan for the construction of KendriyaVidyalaya No. 4 at Kandhar Lines, Delhi Cantt.


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the transfer of 4 acres of Defence land in perpetuity basis to KendriyaVidyalayaSangathan (KVS) for the construction of KendriyaVidyalaya No. 4 at Kandhar Lines, Delhi Cantt. at a nominal rent of one rupee per annum.


      Cabinet approves Transfer of Sashastra Seema Bal’s land measuring 5.99 acres at Tawang to the State Government of Arunachal Pradesh


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Transfer of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB)'s land measuring 5.99 acres at Tawang to the State Government of Arunachal Pradesh for construction of a Mega-Festival-Cum-Multipurpose Ground.


      Cabinet approves transfer of 7.118 acres of Defence land to KendriyaVidyalayaSangathan for construction of KendriyaVidyalaya Number 2 Dhar Road in District Udhampur, Jammu & Kashmir


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the transfer of 56 kanals and 19 marlas (7.118 acres) of Defence land on lease on long term basis for 30 years renewable for two like terms of 30 years each to KendriyaVidyalayaSangathan (KVS) for construction of KendriyaVidyalaya No. 2 at Udhampur, Jammu & Kashmir at a nominal rent of one rupee per annum.


      Cabinet approves exemption from charging commercial rates for the plot of land allotted to the High Commission of Fiji in New Delhi


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approvedan exemption from charging commercial rates at the time of acquisition for the plot No. 31-B, measuring 2800 sq.meter in Chanakyapuri, Diplomatic Area to the Fijian High Commission in New Delhi and to extend the same terms and conditions as offered by Fiji for the land offered to the High Commission of India in Suva, Fiji.


      Cabinet approves accession to WIPO Copyright Treaty, 1996 and WIPO Performance and Phonograms Treaty, 1996


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approvedthe proposal submitted by Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, Ministry of Commerce and Industry regarding accession to the WIPO Copyright Treaty and WIPO Performers and Phonograms Treaty which extends coverage of copyright to the internet and digital environment The approval is a step towards the objective laid in the National Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) Policy adopted by the Government on 12 th May 2016 which aims to get value for IPRs through commercialization by providing guidance and support to EPR owners about commercial opportunities of e-commerce through Internet and mobile platforms.


      Cabinet approves Umbrella Schemes for Relief and Rehabilitation of Migrants and Repatriates


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for continuance of the 8 existing schemes of the Ministry of Home Affairs upto March 2020 for relief and rehabilitation of migrants and repatriates under the Umbrella scheme "Relief and Rehabilitation of Migrants and Repatriates"


      Cabinet approves renewal of MoU between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India & Saudi Organisation for Certified Public Accountants


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed in 2014 and approval for renewal of MoU between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) & Saudi Organisation for Certified Public Accountants (SOCPA) in Saudi Arabia to promote mutual co-operation framework in the areas of Corporate Governance, Technical Research & Advice, Quality Assurance, Forensic Accounting, issues for Small and Medium Sized Practices (SMPs), Islamic Finance, Continuing Professional Development (CPD) and other subjects of mutual interest related to Accountancy profession.


      Cabinet approves renaming of Agartala Airport, Tripura as Maharaja Bir Bikram Manikya Kishore Airport, Agartala


      The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today gave its approval to rename the Agartala Airport in Tripura as ‘Maharaja Bir Bikram Manikya Kishore Airport, Agartala. The decision comes in the wake of the long pending demand of people of Tripura as well as the Tripura Government for paying tribute to Maharaja Bir Bikram Manikya Kishore.


      Cabinet approves extension of Scheme of Recapitalization of Regional Rural Banks upto 2019-20


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the extension of the scheme of recapitalization of Regional Rural Banks (RRBs) for the next three years i.e. upto 2019-20. This will enable the RRBs to maintain the minimum prescribed Capital to Risk Weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR) of 9 per cent.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and United Kingdom on cooperation in the sphere of Law & Justice and establishing a Joint Consultative Committee


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and United Kingdom regarding cooperation between both countries in the sphere of Law & Justice and to set up a Joint Consultative Committee.


      Cabinet approves creation of one post each of Vice-Chairperson and Member in the National Commission for SafaiKaramcharis


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approvedthe creation of one post each of Vice-Chairperson and Member in the National Commission for SafaiKarmacharis.


      Cabinet approves DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill, 2018


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved The DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation Bill 2018.


      Cabinet approves revision of the compensation on SESF Operations with Boeing 747-400 aircraft


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to enhance the expenditure for "Special Extra Section Flights" (SESF) operations from Rs.336.24 crore plus applicable taxes to Rs.534.38 crore plus applicable taxes for 2016-17 with built-in annual escalation of 10% to compensate the cost of living index and exchange fluctuation for the maintenance of B747-400 aircraft.


      Boost to Higher Education


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for expanding the scope of Higher Education Financing Agency (HEFA) by enhancing its capital base to Rs. 10,000 crore and tasking it to mobilise Rs. 1,00,000 crore for Revitalizing Infrastructure and Systems in Education (RISE) by 2022.


      Boost to farmers’ income


      Giving a major boost for the farmers’ income, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the increase in the Minimum Support Prices (MSPs) for all kharif crops for 2018-19 Season.


      18 July 2018


      Cabinet approves Special Remission to Prisoners on the occasion of 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has today given its approval to grant Special Remission to Prisoners as part of Commemoration of 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.As part of commemoration of 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the following categories of prisoners will be considered for special remission and released in three phases. In Phase-l, the prisoners will be released on 2nd October, 2018 (Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi), in Phase-ll prisoners will be released on 10 th April, 2019 (Anniversary of ChamparanSatyagrah) and in Phase-Ill, prisoners will be released on 2 nd October 2019 (Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi):-


      Cabinet approves signing of Memorandum of Understanding amongst BRICS Nations on the Regional Aviation Partnership


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has today approved the signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) amongst BRICS Nations on the Regional Aviation Partnership Cooperation viz. Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa.


      cabinet approves MoU between India and Cuba on cooperation in the field of Traditional Systems of Medicine and Homeopathy


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Cuba on cooperation in the field of Traditional Systems of Medicine and Homeopathy. The MoU was signed on 22.6.2018.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Indonesia on cooperation in the field of pharmaceutical products, pharmaceutical substances, biological product and cosmetics regulatory functions


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO), India and National Agency for Drug and Food Control (BPOM), Indonesia on cooperation in the field of pharmaceutical products, pharmaceutical substances, biological product and cosmetics regulatory functions. The MoU was on signed on 29 th May, 2018 in Jakarta.


      Cabinet approves the Mutual Recognition Agreement (MRA) signed in 2010 and approves fresh MRA between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the Institute of Certified Public Accountants, Ireland


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has given its ex-post facto approval of the "Mutual Recognition Agreement (MRA)" signed in 2010 and Approval for fresh MRA between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and the Institute of Certified Public Accountants (CPA), Ireland for promotion of mutual co-operation framework for the advancement of accounting knowledge, professional and intellectual development, advancing the interests of their respective members and positively contributing to the development of the accounting profession in Ireland and India.


      Cabinet approves MoU between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and Bahrain Institute of Banking and Finance, Bahrain


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has approved Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and Bahrain Institute of Banking and Finance (BIBF), Bahrain to work together to strengthen the accounting, financial and audit knowledge base within Bahrain.


      Cabinet approves MoU between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and "National Board of Accountants and Auditors, Tanzania


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and National Board of Accountants and Auditors (NBAA), Tanzania to establish mutual co-operation framework in the areas of Member Management, Professional Ethics, Technical Research, Continuing Professional Development, Professional Accountancy Training, Audit Quality Monitoring, Advancement of Accounting Knowledge, Professional and Intellectual Development.


      Cabinet approves determination of Fair and Remunerative Price payable by Sugar Mills for 2018-19 sugar season


      Keeping in view the interest of sugarcane farmers, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP) of sugarcane for sugar season 2018-19 at Rs. 275/- per quintal for a basic recovery rate of 10%; providing a premium of Rs. 2.75/qtl for each 0.1 % increase in recovery over and above 10%. The cost of production of sugarcane for the sugar season 2018-19 is Rs. 155 per quintal.


      Cabinet approves establishment of Medical College, Salempur at Deoria, Uttar Pradesh


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal of the State Government of Uttar Pradesh for establishment of new medical college at Deoria at a cost of Rs.250 crore under Phase-II of the Centrally Sponsored Scheme.


      Cabinet approves Policy framework for streamlining the working of Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs) in Pre-NELP and NELP Blocks


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the policy framework for streamlining the operations of Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs) for increased domestic production of hydrocarbon resources.


      Cabinet approves continuation of the Schemes of (i) Pre-Matric Scholarship Scheme; (ii) Post Matric Scholarship Scheme; and (iii) Merit-cum-Means based Scholarship Scheme for the students belonging to Minority Communitie...


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for Continuation of Pre-Matric, Post Matric and Merit-cum-Means based Scholarship Schemes for the students belonging to the six notified Minority Communities at a total cost of Rs. 5338.32 crore for period up to 2019-20. This will benefit 70 lakh students annually.


      Cabinet approves Special Package for Irrigation Projects in Vidarbha, Marathwada and other chronically drought prone areas of Rest of Maharashtra


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the implementation of Centrally Sponsored-Scheme for completion of 83 Minor Irrigation projects and 8 major/medium irrigation projects of Marathawada, Vidharbha and drought prone areas of the rest of Maharashtra.


      01 August 2018


      Cabinet approves Extension of Concessional Financing Scheme (CFS) to support Indian Entities bidding for strategically important infrastructure projects abroad


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the first extension of Concessional Financing Scheme(CFS) to support Indian Entities bidding for strategically important infrastructure projects abroad.


      Cabinet approves: Raising of Extra Budgetary Resources (EBR) for Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin) [SBM(G)] amounting up to Rs. 15,000 crore during the financial year 2018-19; and Expansion of scope of work of the erstwhile International Centre for Drinking Water Quality, to rename as National Centre for Drinking Water, Sanitation and Quality (NCDWS & Q) and to authorize it to work as a receptacle for receiving EBR for SBM(G).


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the following:


      Raising funds up to Rs.15,000 crore as Extra Budgetary Resources (EBR) (Gol Fully Serviced Bonds) for Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin) [SBM(G)] during the financial year 2018-19 through NABARD.


      Cabinet approves Re-structuring of the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board (ASRB)


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for restructuring of Agricultural Scientists'Recruitment Board (ASRB).


      Cabinet approves Policy Framework for exploration and exploitation of Unconventional Hydrocarbons


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the policy to permit exploration and exploitation of unconventional hydrocarbons such as Shale oil/gas, Coal Bed Methane (CBM) etc. It will be carried out under the existing Production Sharing Contracts (PSCs), CBM contracts and Nomination fields to encourage the existing Contractors in the licensed/leased area to unlock the potential of unconventional hydrocarbons in the existing acreages.


      LIC to acquire controlling stake of IDBI Bank


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approvedconveying of no objection to reduction in Government of India shareholding in IDBI Bank Limited to below 50% by dilution. It has also approved acquisition of controlling stake by Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) as promoter in the bank through preferential allotment / open offer of equity, and relinquishment of management control by the Government in the bank.


      Cabinet approves opening of 13 new KendriyaVidyalayas in seven States and opening of second JawaharNavodayaVidyalaya at Alot, District Ratlam, Madhya Pradesh


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for opening of 13 new KendriyaVidyalayas (KVs) in seven States and a second JawaharNavodayaVidyalaya(JNV) in Alot, District Ratlam, Madhya Pradesh.


      Cabinet approves grant of Interest Free Loan equivalent to interest during construction component to fertilizer revival projects at Sindri, Gorakhpur and Barauni by Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal of Department of Fertilizers to grant Interest Free Loan (IFL) equivalent to the interest during construction (IDC) component of Rs.422.28 crore, 415.77 crore and 419.77 crore for Gorakhpur, Sindri and Barauni projects respectively to Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL) fertilizer projects.


      Cabinet approves issue of fresh equity to the extent of 15% of the paid up equity capital by Hindustan Copper Limited


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for issue of fresh 13,87,82,700 equity shares to the extent of 15% of paid up equity capital efface value of Rs. 5/- each by Hindustan Copper Limited(HCL) through the Qualified Institutions Placement (QIP) route as per SEBI and other applicable guidelines.


      09 August 2018


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Indonesia on Health cooperation


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Indonesia on health cooperation.


      Cabinet approves extension of the term of the Commission to examine the issue of Sub-categorization of Other Backward Classes in the Central List


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the extension of the term of the Commission to examine the issue of Sub-categorization of Other Backward Classes in the Central List till November, 2018.


      Cabinet approves creation of two posts equivalent to Joint Secretary level in the Interpreters' cadre of the Ministry of External Affairs


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the creation of two posts equivalent to Joint Secretary level in the Interpreters' cadre of the Ministry of External Affairs.


      Cabinet approves signing of MoU between India and Canada on collaboration among Chartered Accountant Institutions


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of the "Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)" between "Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI)" and "Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada (CPA Canada)".


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Korea on Trade Remedy Cooperation


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi gave its ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Korea on Trade Remedy Cooperation.


      Cabinet approves transfer of Central Hospital at Karma, Jharkhand under the Labour Welfare Organisation for setting up a new Medical College


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved to transfer the Central Hospital at Karma, Jharkhand under the Ministry of Labour & Employment along with its land and building to the Jharkhand Government free of cost to establish a new Medical College under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS) for Establishment of Medical Colleges attached with Existing District / Referral Hospitals and cater to the health needs of the people in the region.


      Cabinet condoles the demise of Dr. M. Karunanidhi, former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu


      The Union Cabinet met under the Chairmanship of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and condoled the demise of Dr. M. Karunanidhi, former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu who passed away on 7.8.2018 at Kauvery Hospital in Chennai.


      Cabinet approves Concession Agreements & Land Lease Agreements for revival of Gorakhpur &Sindri units of FCIL and Barauni unit of HFCL by HURL and approval for providing land on lease.


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal -


      to provide land on lease to Hindustan Urvarak&Rasayan Limited (HURL);


      to provide the Concession Agreements & Land Lease Agreements for the revival of Gorakhpur &Sindri units of Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited (FCIL) and Barauni unit of Hindustan Fertilizer Corporation Limited (HFCL) by HURL; and


      Cabinet approves joint issue of postage stamp between India and South Africa


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was apprised of joint issue of Postage Stamps on India-South Africa on the theme, "20 Years of Strategic Partnership between India and South Africa". The joint stamps were released in June 2018.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Indonesia on Scientific and Technological Cooperation


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Indonesia on Scientific and Technological Cooperation.


      Cabinet approves raising of four additional battalions of National Disaster Response Force


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given the approval for raising of four (4) additional battalions of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to strengthen the India's disaster response set up at an estimated cost of Rs 637 crore.


      Cabinet approves release of pulses procured from farmers under Price Support Scheme to States with Central Subsidy of Rs. 15 per Kg for utilization under Welfare Schemes


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has approved the release of pulses to States/UTs at discounted rate to be utilized for various Welfare Schemes from the stock of pulses procured under Price Support Schemes (PSS).


      Cabinet approves construction of New 4 - Lane Bridge on Kosi river at Phulaut , Bihar


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, approved the project for construction of 6.930 km long 4-lane bridge at Phulaut in Bihar. The CCEA also cleared the decks for rehabilitation and up-gradation of existing Birpur- Bihpur section of National Highway-106 from Km 106 to Km 136 to '2 lane with Paved Shoulder’ in Bihar at a capital cost of Rs 1478.40 crore. The construction period for the project is three years and likely to be completed by June, 2022.


      Cabinet approves continuation and revision of “Post Matric Scholarship for OBC Students for studying in India”


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for continuation and revision of the Centrally Sponsored Scheme of “Post Matric Scholarship for Other Backward Classes Students for studying in India” (PMS-OBC) for the years 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20.


      Boost to Rural Road connectivity


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for continuation of Pradhan Mantri Gram SadakYojana (PMGSY) beyond 12th Five Year Plan period. It will help in connecting 38,412 habitations at an estimated cost of Rs. 84,934 crore (Central Share is 54,900 crore and State share is 30,034 crore). The fund sharing pattern will be same.


      29 August 2018


      Cabinet approves signing of MoU between India and Bulgaria in the field of tourism


      The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Bulgaria for strengthening cooperation in the field of Tourism.


      Cabinet apprised of theMoUbetween India and Republic of Korea on the cooperation in the field of railways


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on the cooperation between Research Designs and Standards Organisation (RDSO), India and Republic of Korea Railroad Research Institute (KRRI) to strengthen and promote scientific and technical cooperation in the field of railways. The MoU was signedon 10thJuly 2018


      Cabinet apprised of the MoU between India and United Kingdom and Northern Irelandon the Cooperation in the fields of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and United Kingdom (UK) and Northern Ireland for cooperation in the fields of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries. The MoU was signed on 17.04.2018.


      Cabinet approves signing of Air Services Agreement between India and Morocco


      The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the revised air services agreement to be signed between India and Morocco. After the new Air Services Agreement comes into force, the existing Air Services Agreement of December, 2004 shall stand superseded.


      Cabinet approves Trade Cooperation Framework between India and Rwanda


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for the trade cooperation framework between India and Rwanda. The trade cooperation framework was signed on 23rd July, 2018.


      Cabinet approves Memorandum of Understanding between India and USA in insurance regulatory sector


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) and the Federal Insurance Office, USA.


      Cabinet approves additional 2 percent Dearness Allowance (DA) for Central Government employees and Dearness Relief (DR) to pensionersw.e.f. 1st July, 2018


      The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modihas approved to release an additional instalment of Dearness Allowance (DA) to Central Government employees and Dearness Relief (DR) to pensioners w.e.f. 01.07.2018 representing an increase of 2% over the existing rate of 7% of the Basic Pay/Pension, to compensate for price rise.


      Cabinet approves Revised Cost Estimate for setting up of India Post Payments BankBoost to Banking Services at Post Offices across the country


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for revision of the project outlay for setting up of India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) from Rs. 800 crore to Rs. 1,435 crore. The additional sum of Rs. 635 crore in the revised cost estimates is on account of Rs 400 crore for Technology Costs and Rs 235 crore for Human Resource Costs.


      Cabinet approves Umbrella scheme “Ocean Services, Technology, Observations, Resources Modelling and Science (O-SMART)” of Ministry of Earth Sciences


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for the umbrella scheme “Ocean Services, Technology, Observations, Resources Modelling and Science (O-SMART)”, for implementation during the period from 2017-18 to 2019-20 at an overall cost of Rs.1623 crore. The scheme encompasses a total of 16 sub-projects addressing ocean development activities such as Services, Technology, Resources, Observations and Science.


      05 September 2018


      Boost to pro-people and pro-poor initiatives


      In a major boost to pro-people and pro-poor initiatives, the Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi in its meeting held on 5.9.2018 has approved the continuation of National Mission for Financial Inclusion - Pradhan MantriJanDhanYojana (PMJDY) with the following changes:-


      Cabinet approves establishment and operationalization of permanent campus of seven new IIMs at Amritsar, Bodh Gaya, Nagpur, Sambalpur, Sirmaur, Vishakhapatnam and Jammu


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the establishment and operationalization of permanent campus of seven new Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) at Amritsar, Bodh Gaya, Nagpur, Sambalpur, Sirmaur, Vishakhapatnam and Jammu, and their recurring expenditure at a total cost of Rs 3775.42 crore (Rs 2999.96 crore asNon-Recurring and Rs 775.46 Crore as Recurring Expenditure). These IIMs were established in the year 2015-16/2016-17. These institutes are presently functioning from transit campuses.


      Cabinet approves continuation of the Centrally Sponsored Umbrella Scheme of Integrated Development of Wildlife Habitats beyond 12th Plan


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved continuation of the Centrally Sponsored Umbrella Scheme of Integrated Development of Wildlife Habitats (CSS-IDWH)beyond the 12thPlan period from 2017-18 to 2019-20. The Scheme consists of Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Project Tiger (CSS-PT), Development of Wildlife Habitats (CSS-DWH) and Project Elephant (CSS-PE). The total outlay is Rs. 1731.72 crore as central share (Rs. 1143 crore for Project Tiger, Rs. 496.50 crore for Development of Wildlife Habitats and Rs.92.22 crore for Project Elephant) from 2017-18 to 2019-20.


      12 September 2018


      Cabinet approves Transfer of land of M/s. Rashtriya Chemicals & Fertilizers (RCF) to Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (MMRDA)


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval for


      transfer of land of M/s Rashtriya Chemicals & Fertilizers Ltd. (RCF) to Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (MMRDA);


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Brunei Darussalam on Cooperation in the operation of Telemetry Tracking and Telecommand station for satellite and launch vehicles, and for cooperation in the field of Space Research, Science and Applications


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Brunei Darussalam on Cooperation in the operation of Telemetry Tracking and Telecommand station for satellite and launch vehicles, and for cooperation in the field of Space Research, Science and Applications. The MoU was signed in New Delhi on 19th July 2018.


      Cabinet approves MoU on Collaborative Research on Distributed Ledger and Block Chain Technology in the context of Development of digital economy by Exim Bank under BRICS Interbank Cooperation Mechanism


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Collaborative Research on Distributed Ledger and Block chain Technology in the context of Development of digital economy by Export-Import Bank of India (Exim Bank) with the participating member banks, under the BRICS Interbank Cooperation Mechanism namely Banco Nacional de DesenvolvimentoEconomico e Social (BNDES, of Brazil), China Development Bank (CDB), State Corporation Bank for Development and Foreign Economic Affairs (Vnesheconombank, of Russia) and Development Bank of Southern Africa (DBSA).


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and South Africa on cooperation in the exploration and uses of outer space for peaceful purposes


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and South Africa on cooperation in the exploration and uses of outer space for peaceful purposes. The MoU was signed in Johannesburg on 26th July 2018.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Egypt on cooperation in the field of Agriculture & allied sectors


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Egypt for cooperation in the field of agriculture & allied sectors.


      Cabinet approves signing of MoU between India and Malta for strengthening cooperation in the field of Tourism


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Malta for strengthening cooperation in the field of Tourism. The MoU will be signed during the upcoming visit of the Vice President to Malta.


      Cabinet approves Policy Framework to Promote and Incentivize Enhanced Recovery Methods for Oil and Gas


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Policy framework to promote and incentivize Enhanced Recovery (ER)/ Improved Recovery (IR)/ Unconventional Hydrocarbon (UHC) production Methods/techniques to improve recovery factor of existing hydrocarbons reserves for augmenting domestic production of oil and gas. The ER includes Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) and Enhanced Gas Recovery (EGR), Unconventional Hydrocarbon (UHC) production methods include Shale oil and gas production, tight oil and gas production, production from oil shale, gas hydrates and heavy oil. Enhanced Recovery, Improved Recovery and exploration and exploitation of unconventional hydrocarbons are capital intensive, technologically complex and challenging in nature. It calls for supporting infrastructure, logistic support, fiscal incentives and enabling environment.


      Cabinet approves New Umbrella Scheme “Pradhan MantriAnnadataAaySanraksHanAbhiyan” (PM-AASHA)


      Giving a major boost to the pro-farmer initiatives of the Government and in keeping with its commitment and dedication for the Annadata, the Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved a new Umbrella Scheme “Pradhan MantriAnnadataAaySanraksHanAbhiyan’ (PM-AASHA). The Scheme is aimed at ensuring remunerative prices to the farmers for their produce as announced in the Union Budget for 2018.


      Cabinet approves amendment to National Institute of Design (NID) Act, 2014


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for introduction of Bill in Parliament for amendment of NID Act, 2014 to include the four new National Institutes of Design (NID) viz. National Institute of Design, Amaravati/Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh; National Institute of Design, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh; National Institute of Design, Jorhat, Assam and National Institute of Design, Kurukshetra, Haryana within the ambit of the National Institute of Design Act, 2014 and to declare them as Institutions of National Importance (INIs) at par with the National Institute of Design, Ahmedabad. Some minor amendments to the Act including consequential amendments considered necessary namely, to re-name NID Vijayawada as NID Amaravati and nomenclature of Principal Designer as equivalent to Professor are also proposed in the Bill.


      Cabinet approves on Fixation/Revision of ethanol price derived from B heavy molasses / partial sugarcane juice and 100% sugarcane juice under Ethanol Blended Petrol Programme for Ethanol Supply Year 2018-19


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to revise / fix the price of ethanol derived from B heavy molasses / partial sugarcane juice and fix a higher price for 100% sugarcane juice based ethanol for the forthcoming sugar season 2018-19 during ethanol supply year from 1st December 2018 to 30thNovember 2019 as under:


      Cabinet approves continuation of Capacity Development Scheme for the period 2017-18 to 2019-20


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved continuation of the Capacity Development Scheme for the period 2017-18 to 2019-20 with an outlay of Rs 2,250 crore.


      100% Electrification of Broad Gauge Routes of Indian Railways


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has approved the proposal for electrification of balance un-electrified BG routes of Indian Railways (IR) comprising of 108 sections covering 13,675 route kilometers (16,540 track kilometers) at a cost of Rs.12,134.50 crore. This electrification is likely to be completed by 2021-22.


      26 Sep 2018


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Uzbekistan on Mutual Cooperation in Combating Illicit Trafficking in Narcotics, Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the MoU between India and Uzbekistan on Mutual Cooperation in Combating Illicit Trafficking in Narcotics, Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Uzbekistan on Cooperation in the Sphere of Law & Justice


      The MoU takes care of concerns and requirements in the field of exchange of experience by legal professionals, Government functionaries and their training and effective legal aid mechanism for resolution. The MoU will facilitate greater cooperation between India and Uzbekistan in providing legal services in both countries in the field of exchange of experience through information sharing visits, and training between both countries on enhancing legal capacities of Government functionaries.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Uzbekistan for strengthening cooperation in the field of Tourism


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Uzbekistan for strengthening cooperation in the field of Tourism. The MoU will be signed during the VIP visit from Uzbekistan to India on 1st October 2018.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Uzbekistan on cooperation for establishment of Uzbek-Indian Free Pharmaceutical Zone in the Andijan region of Uzbekistan


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Uzbekistan for strengthening cooperation in the field of Tourism. The MoU will be signed during the VIP visit from Uzbekistan to India on 1st October 2018.


      Cabinet approves MoU between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK)


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya (ICPAK). It will help to establish mutual co-operation and collaboration in the areas of knowledge sharing through joint research, quality support, capability and capacity building, trainee accountant exchange programmes and conducting Continuous Professional Development (CPD) Courses, workshops and conferences.


      Cabinet approves Agreement between India and Uzbekistan on cooperation in the field of Agriculture and Allied sectors


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of an Agreement between India and Uzbekistan for cooperation in the field of agriculture and allied sectors.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Uzbekistan on cooperation in pharmaceutical sector


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Uzbekistan for increased cooperation in the areas of Trade, Industry, and Research & Development of Pharmaceutical products. The MoU will be signed during the visit of President of Uzbekistan to India on 1st October 2018.


      Cabinet approves MoU between NITI Aayog, and Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation (MEDRF) in the field of social, economic, industrial and regional development programs


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between National Institute for Transforming India (NITI) Aayog, and Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation (MEDRF) in the field of social, economic, industrial and regional development programs.


      Cabinet apprised of the MoU between India and South Korea for enhancing cooperation in Applied Science and Industrial Technology


      
      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and South Korea on cooperation in Applied Science and Industrial Technology. The MoU was signed in New Delhi on 9th July 2018 during the visit of the President of South Korea to India.


      Cabinet approves financial assistance worth Rs.825 Crore for relining of Sirhind Feeder Canal and relining of Rajasthan Feeder Canal


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved providing Central Assistance of Rs. 620.42 Cr. and Rs. 205.758 Cr. for implementation of relining of Rajasthan Feeder Canal and Sirhind Feeder Canal respectively over five years (2018-19 to 2022-23) for Relining of Sirhind Feeder from RD 119700 to 447927 and relining of Rajasthan Feeder from RD 179000to 496000 of Punjab.


      Cabinet approves Agreement between India and Uzbekistan on cooperation in health and medical science


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of an Agreement between India and Uzbekistan on cooperation in health and medical science.


      Cabinet approves increasing of Government ownership in Goods and Services Tax Network and change in the existing structure with transitional plan


      The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modihas approved increasing of Government ownership in Goods and Services Tax Network (GSTN) and change in the existing structure with transitional plan as per following:


      Acquisition of entire 51% equity held by the Non-Government Institutions in GSTN equally by the Centre and the State Governments and allow GSTN Board to initiate the process for acquisition of equity held by the private companies.


      The restructure GSTN, with 100% government ownership shall have equity structure between the Centre (50%) and the States (50%).


      To allow change in the existing composition of the Board of GSTN inducting three directors from the Centre and the States and three other independent directors to be nominated by the Board of Directors and one Chairman and the CEO. Thus the total number of Directors is 11.


      Cabinet approves National Digital Communications Policy-2018


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the National Digital Communications Policy-2018 (NDCP-2018) and re-designation of the Telecom Commission as the "Digital Communications Commission”.


      New BG Electrified Line of 294.53 route Kms from Katghora to Dongargarh will provide rail connectivity to unserved areas of Chhattisgarh


      Boost to airport infrastructure


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the construction of New Domestic Terminal Building and other allied structures at Patna airport at an estimated cost of Rs.1,216.90 crore.


      Cabinet approves transfer (disinvestment) of incomplete projects of Hotel Gulmarg Ashok, Gulmarg and Hotel Patliputra Ashok, Patna to the State Governments of Jammu & Kashmir and Bihar respectively


      In continuation of the disinvestment policy of the Government of India, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved to further disinvestment of ITDC properties / units / JVs by way of transfers of Incomplete Project of Hotel Gulmarg Ashok, Gulmarg to the State Government of Jammu & Kashmir and Hotel Patliputra Ashok, Patna to the State Government of Bihar respectively.


      Cabinet approves comprehensive policy to deal with excess sugar production in the country


      Due to excess carryover stocks and indication of similar excess production in the ensuing sugar season 2018-19, the liquidity problem of the sugar mills is likely to persist in the coming sugar season too. As a result, cane price arrears of sugarcane farmers may also peak at unprecedented high level.


      03 October, 2018


      Cabinet approves Redevelopment of Railway Stations by IRSDC as Nodal Agency, through simplified procedures and longer lease tenure


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the redevelopment of Railway Stations by Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Limited (IRSDC) as Nodal Agency and main Project Development Agency, through simplified procedures adapting various business model and for longer lease tenure of upto 99 years. Thus, paving the way for large scale modernisation and ensure world class infrastructure.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Russia on Bilateral Cooperation in the Road Transport and Road Industry


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Russia on Bilateral Cooperation in the Road Transport and Road Industry. The MoU will be signed during the upcoming visit of Russian President to India.


      In order to develop and establish formal platform for cooperation in the Transport and Highways sector, a Memorandum of Understanding in the field of Road Transport and Road Industry has been jointly negotiated and finalized by both countries.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Russiaon cooperation in the field of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved signingofaMemorandum of Understanding (MoU) between National Small Industries Corporation Ltd. (NSIC) - a Public Sector Undertaking of the Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) of the Republic of India and JSC-Russian Small & Medium Business Corporation (RSMB Corporation), Russia.The MoU will be signed during the upcoming visit of Russian President to India.


      Cabinet approves Second Protocol amending the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA) between India and Singapore


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the Second Protocol amending the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA) between India and Singapore. The CECA was signed on 24th August 2018.


      Boost to Metro Rail connectivity in Indore


      The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the implementation of Indore Metro Rail Project comprising Ring Line of length 31.55 Km from Bengali Square - Vijay Nagar - Bhawarsala - Airport - Patasia - Bengali Square which will connect major public nodes and city cluster areas of Indore.


      Boost to Metro Rail connectivity in Bhopal


      The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved implementation of Bhopal Metro Rail Project comprising two corridors of total length 27.87 Km (i) Karond Circle to AIIMS (14.99 Km) and (ii) Bhadbhada Square to RatnagiriTiraha (12.88 Km) which will connect major public nodes and city cluster areas of Bhopal.


      Cabinet approves establishment of National Institute of Mental Health Rehabilitation in Sehore District instead of Bhopal


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved,in partial modification of the earlier decision taken on 16.05.2018, the establishment of National Institute of Mental Health Rehabilitation(NIMHR) in Sehore District (Bhopal-Sehore highway) instead of Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh.


      Cabinet approves budgetary support to Nepa Limited for the Revival and Mill Development Plan, payment of pending salary/wages, statutory dues, funding Voluntary Retirement Scheme and disinvestment of the company on RMDP ...


      Cabinet approves enhanced Minimum Support Prices (MSP) for Rabi Crops of 2018-19 Season to be marketed in 2019-20 Season.


      Giving a boost to farmers’ income, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the increase in the Minimum Support Prices (MSPs) for all Rabi crops for 2018-19 to be marketed in 2019-20 season. The farmer friendly initiative will give additional return to the farmers of Rs 62,635 crore by way of increasing MSP of notified crops to at least 50 per cent return over cost of production and will aid in doubling farmers’ income.


      10 Oct 2018


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Lebanon for cooperation in the field of agriculture and allied sectors


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Lebanon for cooperation in the field of agriculture and allied sectors.


      Bilateral cooperation in the field of agriculture will be mutually beneficial to both the countries. The MoU will promote understanding of best Agricultural practices in the two countries and will help in better productivity at farmer fields as well as improved global market.


      Cabinet approves closure of National Jute Manufactures Corporation Ltd. and its subsidiary Birds Jute & Exports Ltd.


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the closure of National Jute Manufactures Corporation Ltd. (NJMC) and its subsidiary Birds Jute & Exports Ltd. (BJEL).


      Cabinet approves Memorandum of Understanding between India and Romania in the field of tourism


      The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modihas given its ex-post facto approvalto the Memorandum of Understanding signed between India and Romania in the field of tourism. The MoU was signed in September, 2018 during the visit of the Vice-President of India to Romania.


      Cabinet approves Productivity Linked Bonus for Railway Employees


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the payment of Productivity Linked Bonus (PLB) equivalent to 78 days’ wages for the financial year 2017-18 for all eligible non-gazetted Railway employees (excluding RPF/RPSF personnel). The financial implication of payment of 78 days’ PLB to railway employees has been estimated to be Rs.2044.31 crore. The wage calculation ceiling prescribed for payment of PLB to the eligible non-gazetted railway employees is Rs.7000/- p.m. The maximum amount payable per eligible railway employee is Rs.17,951 for 78 days. About 11.91 lakh non-gazetted Railway employees are likely to benefit from the decision.


      Cabinet approves Memorandum of Cooperation between India and Finland on Environmental Cooperation


      The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modihas approved Memorandum of Cooperation between India and Finland on Environmental Cooperation. The Memorandum of Cooperation will enable establishment and promotion of closer and long-term cooperation between the two countries in the field of environment protection and management of natural resources on the basis of equity, reciprocity and mutual benefits, taking into account the applicable laws and legal provisions in each country.


      Cabinet approves establishment and operationalisation of permanent campuses of the Indian Institutes of Science Education & Research (IISERs) at Tirupati and Berhampur


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved establishment and operationalistion of permanent campuses of the two new Indian Institutes of Science Education & Research (IISERs) at Tirupati (Andhra Pradesh) and Berhampur (Odisha). The total cost likely to be incurred is Rs. 3074.12 crore (Non-Recurring: Rs.2366.48 crore and Recurring: 707.64 crore).


      Cabinet approves merger of National Council for Vocational Training, NCVT and National Skill Development Agency, NSDA to establish National Council for Vocational Education and Training, NCVET


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the merger of the existing regulatory institutions in the skills space - National Council for Vocational Training (NCVT) and the National Skill Development Agency (NSDA) into the National Council for Vocational Education and Training (NCVET).


      Cabinet approves closure of Biecco Lawrie Limited


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the proposal for closure of the Biecco Lawrie Limited (BLL) including giving Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS)/ Voluntary Separation Scheme (VSS) to the employees of the Company.


      The idling assets of BLL will be subsequently put into productive use after meeting all the liabilities in accordance with the extant guidelines of the Government.


      24 Oct 2018


      Cabinet approves signing and ratification of Extradition Treaty between India and Malawi Cabinet approves creation of one post of Director in the basic pay of Rs. 2,25,000/- (fixed) plus NPA but not exceeding Rs.2,37,500/- each for new AIIMS at Rae Bareli, Gorakhpur, Bathinda, Guwahati, Bilaspur and Deoghar


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved thecreation of one post of Director in the basic pay of Rs. 2,25,000/- (fixed) plus NPA but not exceeding Rs.2,37,500/- each for new AIIMS at Rae Bareli (Uttar Pradesh), Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh), Bathinda (Punjab), Guwahati (Assam), Bilaspur (Himachal Pradesh) and Deoghar (Jharkhand).


      Cabinet approves Scheme for setting up of Indian Institute of Skills at different locations across the country in PPP modes


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the for setting up of Indian Institute of Skills(IISs) at different locations across the country in Public Private Partnership (PPP), which will be explored for promotion of IIS at select locations based on demand and available infrastructure.


      Cabinet approves appointment of Adjudicating Authority and establishment of Appellate Tribunal under Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the appointment of Adjudicating Authority and establishment of Appellate Tribunal under Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act(PBPT), 1988.


      Cabinet approves MoU amongst BRICS nations regarding cooperation in the social and labour sphere


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) among Brazil, Russian Federation, India, China, South Africa, regarding Cooperation in the Social and Labour Sphere.The MoU was signed on 3rd August, 2018 during BRICS Labour and Employment Ministers (LEM) Meeting.


      Cabinet approves Memorandum of Understanding between India and Singapore on setting up of a joint working group on FinTech


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between India and Singapore in June, 2018 on the constitution of a Joint Working Group (JWG) on FinTech.


      Cabinet approves MoU between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and Certified Professional Accountants Afghanistan (CPA Afghanistan)


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) and Certified Professional Accountants Afghanistan (CPA Afghanistan). The MoU will establish mutual co-operation framework in the areas of Capacity Building of "Afghanistan Accountancy Board (AAB)", strengthening the IT Capacity and Quality Assurance in Afghanistan through facilitating Knowledge Transfer; Students and Members Exchange Programs; Conduct of Seminars, Conferences and Joint Activities mutually beneficial to both the parties.


      Cabinet approves Memorandum of Understanding among BRICS Nations on Environmental Cooperation


      The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval for Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed among the BRICS Nations on Environmental Cooperation. The MoU was signed during the 10th BRICS Summit in July, 2018 in Johannesburg, South Africa.


      Cabinet approves signing of Bilateral Investment Agreement between India Taipei Association in Taipei and the Taipei Economic and Cultural Center in India


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the signing of Bilateral Investment Agreement (BIA) between India Taipei Association (ITA) in Taipei and Taipei Economic and Cultural Center (TECC) in India.


      Cabinet approves National Monitoring Framework on Sustainable Development Goals


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the constitution of a High Level Steering Committeefor periodically reviewing and refining the National Indicator Framework (NIF) for monitoring of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with associated targets.


      Creation of Fisheries and Aquaculture Infrastructure Development Fund (FIDF)


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval for creation of special Fisheries and Aquaculture Infrastructure Development Fund (FIDF).


      The approval entails an estimated fund size of Rs.7,522 crore, comprising Rs.5,266.40 crore to be raised by the Nodal Loaning Entities (NLEs), Rs. 1,316.6 crore beneficiaries contribution and Rs.939.48 crore budgetary support from the Government of India. National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), National Cooperatives Development Corporation (NCDC) and all scheduled Banks (hereinafter referred as Banks) shall be the nodal Loaning Entities.


      Cabinet approves increase in supervisory visit charges for ASHA Facilitators


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the increase in supervisory visit charges for ASHA Facilitators from Rs. 250/-per visit to Rs. 300/- per visit for 2018-2019 to 2019- 2020 w.e.f from October 2018 (to be paid in November, 2018). ASHA Facilitator will undertake about 20 supervisory visits per month. With the proposed increase, ASHA Facilitators would receive about Rs 6000 per month against Rs 5000 per month that is an increase of Rs 1000/- per month.


      Cabinet approves the New Railway Line between Bahraich and Khalilabad, Uttar Pradesh


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved new Railway Line between Bahraich and Khalilabad via Bhinga, Shravasti, Balrampur, Utraula, Domariyaganj, Mehdawal, Bansi. The total length of the new Broad Gauge line will be 240.26 kilometers.


      01 Nov 2018


      Cabinet approves Agreement between India and Morocco on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Agreement between India and Morocco on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters.


      Cabinet approves renaming of Jharsuguda Airport, Odisha as “Veer Surendra Sai Airport, Jharsuguda”


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved renaming of Jharsuguda Airport, Odisha as “Veer Surendra Sai Airport, Jharsuguda”


      Cabinet apprised of MoU between India and the Russian Federation for the development of cooperation in transport education; and MoC between India and the Joint Stock Company "Russian Railways" on technical cooperation in...


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the following two instruments, namely, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) and a Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC), with Russia on 5th October, 2018:


      MoU with the Ministry of Transport of the Russian federation for the development of cooperation in transport education for the development of cooperation in transport education.


      MoC with the Joint Stock Company "Russian Railways" (RZD) on technical cooperation in the field of railways.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Korea for strengthening cooperation in the field of Tourism


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Korea for strengthening cooperation in the field of Tourism.


      Cabinet approves moving a Resolution in the first Assembly of the International Solar Alliance (ISA) for amending the Framework Agreement of the ISA for opening up the ISA membership to all countries that are members of ...


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval for moving a Resolution in the first Assembly of the International Solar Alliance (ISA) for amending the Framework Agreement of the ISA for opening up the ISA membership to all countries that are members of the United Nations.


      08 Nov 2018


      Cabinet approves Agreement between India and Morocco on Mutual Legal Assistance in Civil and Commercial Matters


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Agreement between India and Morocco on Mutual Legal Assistance in Civil and Commercial Matters.


      Cabinet approves signing and ratifying the Extradition Agreement between India and Morocco


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved signing and ratifying the Extradition Agreement between India and Morocco. The Agreement will be signed during the proposed VIP visit from Morocco from 11-18 November 2018.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Italy for continuing training and education in the fields of Labour and Employment


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Italy for training and education in the fields of Labour and Employment.


      Cabinet approves leasing out six airports - Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Lucknow, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram and Mangaluru through PPP


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the following:


      "In-principle" approval for leasing out six airports of AAI viz. Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Lucknow, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram and Mangaluru for operation, management and development under Public Private Partnership (PPP) through Public Private Partnership Appraisal Committee (PPPAC).


      Constitution of an Empowered Group of Secretaries headed by CEO, NITI Aayog with Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation, Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs and Secretary, Department of Expenditure to decide on any issue falling beyond the scope of PPPAC.


      Cabinet apprised of India joining as Member of Advanced Motor Fuels Technology Collaboration Programme under International Energy Agency


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of India joining as Member of Advanced Motor Fuels Technology Collaboration Programme (AMF TCP)under International Energy Agency (IEA) on 9thMay, 2018. AMF TCP works under the framework of International Energy Agency (IEA) to which India has "Association" status since 30thMarch, 2017.


      Cabinet approves Laying down procedure and mechanism for sale of enemy shares


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the mechanism and procedure for sale of the enemy shares. Details are as follows:


      ‘In principle’ approval has been accorded for sale of enemy shares under the Custody of Ministry of Home Affairs/ Custodian of Enemy Property of India (CEPI), as per sub-section 1 of section 8A of the Enemy Property Act, 1968.


      Department of Investment and Public Asset Management has been authorized under the provisions of sub-section 7 of section 8A of the Enemy Property Act, 1968, to sell the same.


      Sale proceeds are to be deposited as disinvestment proceeds in the Government Account maintained by Ministry of Finance.


      Cabinet approves filling of Padur Strategic Petroleum Reserves at Padur, Karnataka by overseas National Oil Companies


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the filling of Padur Strategic Petroleum Reserves(SPR) at Padur, Karnataka by overseas National Oil Companies (NOCs). The SPR facility at Padur is an underground rock cavern with a total capacity of 2.5 million metric tonnes (MMT) having four compartments of 0.625 MMT each. The filling of the SPR under PPP model is being undertaken to reduce budgetary support of Government of India.


      Cabinet approves Amendment to the Central Universities Act, 2009 for setting up of Central Tribal University in Andhra Pradesh


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved setting up of a Central Tribal University in Andhra Pradesh. The "Central Tribal University of Andhra Pradesh" will be set up in Relli village of Vizianagaram District as provided under the Thirteenth Schedule to the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014 (No. 6 of 2014). Cabinet has also approved the provision of funds of Rs. 420 crore for the first phase expenditure towards establishment of the Central Tribal University.


      Cabinet approves strategic disinvestment of 100% Govt. of India’s equity in the Dredging Corporation of India Ltd. (DCIL)


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has given ‘in principle’ approval for strategic disinvestment of 100% Government of India's shares in DCIL to consortium of four ports namely, Vishakhapatnam Port Trust, Paradeep Port Trust, Jawahar Lal Nehru Port Trust and Kandla Port Trust.


      Cabinet approves Procurement Quota to M/s ITI Ltd. in procurements made by BSNL, MTNL and BBNL


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved Procurement Quota to M/s ITI Ltd. in procurements made by BSNL, MTNL and BBNL


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) today approved the following proposal of Department of Telecommunications regarding continuation of Procurement Quota for M/s ITI Limited.


      13 Nov 2018


      Cabinet condoles the demise of Shri Ananthkumar, Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers and Parliamentary Affairs


      The Union Cabinet expressed profound sorrow at the sad demise of Shri Ananthkumar, Union Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers and Parliamentary Affairs who passed away at 0150 Hrs. on 12.11.2018 in Bengaluru. In a Resolution passed at a special Cabinet Meeting, the Cabinet noted that in his passing away, the Nation has lost an experienced leader. The Cabinet met today under the Chairmanship of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and extended its heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family on behalf of the Government and the entire nation.


      22 Nov 2018


      Cabinet approves extension of the term of the Commission to examine the issue of Sub-categorization of Other Backward Classes in the Central List till 31st May 2019


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the extension of the term of the Commission to examine the issue of Sub-categorization of Other Backward Classes in the Central List for six months beyond 30th November, 2018 and till 31st May 2019.


      Cabinet approves the Allied and Healthcare Professions Bill, 2018 for regulation and standardisation of education and services by allied and healthcare professionals


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Allied and Healthcare Professions Bill, 2018 for regulation and standardisation of education and services by allied and healthcare professionals.The Bill provides for setting up of an Allied and Healthcare Council of India and corresponding State Allied and Healthcare Councils which will play the role of a standard-setter and facilitator for professions of Allied and Healthcare.


      Cabinet apprised of Agreement between India and Uzbekistan on Cooperation in the field of Science, Technology and Innovation


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of an Agreement on Cooperation in the field of Science, Technology and Innovation between India and Uzbekistan. The Agreement was signed on 1st October 2018 at New Delhi in the presence of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi and President of Uzbekistan Mr. ShavkatMirayoyev, by the Minister for Science & Technology and Earth Sciences, Dr. Harsh Vardhan on the Indian side and Minister of Innovative Development, Mr. IbrohimAbdurakhmanov on the Uzbek side.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Tajkistan on Cooperation on Youth Matters


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Tajikistan on Cooperation on Youth Matters.


      Cabinet apprised of the MoU between Atal Innovation Mission, India and Fund "Talent and Success", Russia for promotion of science & technology


      The Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Atal Innovation Mission, India and Fund "Talent and Success", Russia for promotion of science & technology, strong foundation to the collaborative work through exchange of students, teachers, researchers and scientists between both countries. The MoU was signed on October 5, 2018.


      Cabinet approves MoU with Mauritius on Consumer Protection and Legal Metrology


      
      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved MoU between India and Mauritius on Consumer Protection and Legal Metrology


      Cabinet approves setting up of Medical College at Silvassa in the UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the setting up of Medical College at Silvassa in the Union Territory (UT) of Dadra and Nagar Haveli.


      Cabinet approves Commemoration of the 550th Birth Anniversary of Shri Guru Nanak Devji


      The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has passed a Resolution to celebrate the 550th Birth Anniversary of Shri Guru Nanak Devji, which falls next year, throughout the country and across the globe, in a grand and befitting manner along with State Governments and the Indian Missions abroad. Guru Nanak Devji's teachings of love, peace, equality and brotherhood have eternal value.


      Extension of Norms for Mandatory Packaging in Jute Materials


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to expand the scope of mandatory packaging norms under the Jute Packaging Material (JPM) Act, 1987 as follows:


      The CCEA approved that 100% of the food grains and 20% of the sugar shall be mandatorily packed in diversified jute bags. The decision to pack sugar in diversified jute bags will give an impetus to the diversification of the jute industry.


      Initially 10% of the indents of jute bags for packing foodgrains would be placed through reverse auction on the Gem portal. This will gradually usher in a regime of price discovery.


      Cabinet approves: i) Implementation of the umbrella scheme "Atmosphere & Climate Research-Modelling Observing Systems & Services"; ii) Sub-schemes to continue during 2017-20; and iii) National Facility for Airborne Resea...


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved continuation of the nine sub-schemes of the umbrella scheme "Atmosphere & Climate Research-Modelling Observing Systems & Services (ACROSS)" during 2017-2020 at an estimated cost of Rs. 1450 crore. It will be implemented by the Ministry of Earth Sciences through its institutes namely India Meteorological Department (IMD), Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), National Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting (NCMRWF), and Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Service(INCOIS).


      06 Dec 2018


      Cabinet approves MoC between India and Japan in the field of Environmental Cooperation


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC) between India and Japan. The MoC was signed on 29th October 2018 during the visit of Hon’ble Prime Minister of India to Japan.


      Cabinet approves revised Model MoU between India and foreign


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its approval to the revised Model Memorandum of Understanding between the Financial Intelligence Unit(FIU) – India (FIU-Ind) with its counterpart foreign Financial Intelligence Units (FIUs) for exchange of information. The revised Model MoU was drafted based on Egmont Group Secretariat revised Model MoU 2014.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and the USA concerning Scientific and Technical Cooperation in the Earth Sciences


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and the United States of America (USA) concerning Scientific and Technical Cooperation in the Earth Sciences. The MoU was signed on 1stNovember 2018.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and France in the field of energy efficiency/energy conservation


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and France in the field of energy efficiency / energy conservation. The MoU was signed on 17th October 2018.


      Cabinet approves Amendment of the JallianwalaBagh National Memorial Act, 1951


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Amendment of the JallianwalaBagh National Memorial Act, 1951.


      Cabinet approves Agriculture Export Policy, 2018


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Agriculture Export Policy, 2018. The Cabinet has also approved the proposal for establishment of Monitoring Framework at Centre with Commerce as the nodal Department with representation from various line Ministries/Departments and Agencies and representatives of concerned State Governments, to oversee the implementation of Agriculture Export Policy.


      Cabinet approves MoC between India and Japan for Cooperation in the Postal field


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC) between India and Japan for cooperation in the Postal field. TheMoC seeks to improve postal services and cooperation in the postal field between the two countries.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Tajkistan on Cooperation on Peaceful uses of Space Technology for Development


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India andTajkistan on Cooperation on Peaceful uses of Space Technology for Development. The MoU was signed on 8th October 2018 at Dushanbe, Tajkistan.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Russia on Joint Activities under Human Spaceflight Programme


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Russiaon Joint Activities under Human Spaceflight Programme. The MoU was signed on 15th October 2015 at New Delhi.


      Cabinet approves Agreement between India and Uzbekistan on Cooperation in the exploration and uses of Outer Space for peaceful purposes


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of Agreement between India and Uzbekistan on Cooperation in the exploration and uses of Outer Space for peaceful purposes. The Agreement was signed on 1st October 2018 at New Delhi during the State visit of the President of Uzbekistan to India.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Zimbabwe for cooperation in the field of geology, mining and mineral resources


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given ex-post facto approval to the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Zimbabwe for cooperation in the field of geology, mining and mineral resources. The MoU was signed on 3rd November 2018 at Harare, Zimbabwe.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Morocco for Cooperation in the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Indiaand Morocco for Cooperation in the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space. The MoU was signed at New Delhi on 25th September 2018.


      Cabinet approves Agreement between India and Algeria on Cooperation in the field of Space Sciences, Technologies and Applications


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been apprised of Agreement between India and Algeria on Cooperation in the field of Space Sciences, Technologies and Applications. The Agreement was signed at Bengaluru on 19th September 2018.


      Cabinet approves MoU between India and Armenia on joint issue of postage stamp


      The Union Cabinet was apprised of a Memorandum of Understanding signed between India and Armenia on joint issue of postage stamp. The MoU was signed in June, 2018.


      As per the MoU, Department of Posts, Ministry of Communications and the National Postal Operator of Armenia (“HayPost” CJSC) mutually agreed to jointly issue Postage Stamps on India-Armenia:Joint Issue on the theme “Dence”. The Joint stamps were released in August, 2018.


      The Commemorative Postage Stamps depict “Manipuri Dance” of India and “HovArek Dance” of Armenia.


      Cabinet approves Memorandum of Cooperation between India and Japan in the field of Healthcare and Wellness


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has given its ex-post facto approval on the Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC) between India and Japan in the field of Healthcare and Wellness signed on 29th October, 2018.


      Cabinet approves Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC) between India and the Japan in the field of Healthcare and Wellness


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has given its ex-post facto approval to the signing of Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC) between India and the Kanagawa Prefectural Government of Japan in the field of Healthcare and Wellness.


      Cabinet approves implementation of Shahpurkandi Dam (National Project) on river Ravi in Punjab


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has approvedimplementation of Shahpurkandi Dam Project, Punjab on river Ravi. For this, Central Assistance of Rs. 485.38 cr (for irrigation component) would be provided over five years from 2018-19 to 2022-23.


      Cabinet approves National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems


      The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today has approved the launching of National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems (NM-ICPS) to be implemented by Department of Science &Technology at a total outlay of Rs. 3660 crore for a period of five years.


      Cabinet ‘In Principle’ approves strategic sale of the Government of India’s existing 52.63% of total paid up equity shareholding in Rural Electrification Corporation to Power Finance Corporation along with transfer of ma...


      The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has given its ‘In Principle’approval for strategic sale of the Government of India’s existing 52.63% of total paid up equity shareholding in Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) to Power Finance Corporation (PFC) along with transfer of management control.


      The acquisition intends to achieve integration across the Power Chain, obtain better synergies, create economies of scale and have enhanced capability to support energy access and energy efficiency by improved capability to finance power sector. It may also allow for cheaper fund raising with increase in bargaining power for the combined entity.


      Both REC and PFC are Central Public Sector Enterprises under the Ministry of Power.


      ***


      AKT/SH/VK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555914) Visitor Counter : 7033
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil
    
    
    

   
   
*  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
3. 
   
   
   
4. 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
*