      Ministry of Railways

      Upgradation of Security Criterion in Railways
      Posted On: 12 DEC 2018 5:31PM by PIB Delhi


    Security has been identified as one of the priority areas by the Railways for strengthening and up-gradation. Measures initiated for strengthening of security over Railways in recent past include provision of Close Circuit Television (CCTV) Cameras at important railway stations, operationalisation and up-gradation of Security Helpline 182, installation of security equipment like baggage scanners etc. In addition, escorting of 2500 trains (on an average daily), is done by Railway Protection Force (RPF) besides escorting of 2200 trains by Government Railway Police (GRP). Special measures have been initiated for women security over Railways like formation of special ladies squads, prosecution of offenders under the provisions of the Railways Act etc.


    Prevention and detection of crime and maintenance of law and order in Railway station premises as well as in running trains are the statutory responsibility of State Governments, which they discharge through the GRP. Railways, through the RPF, are supplementing efforts of respective States to strengthen security across Indian Railways.


    For regular monitoring and review of security arrangements for the Railways, State Level Security Committee for Railways (SLSCR) have been constituted for all State/Union Territories (UTs) under the Chairmanship of respective Director General of Police/Commissioner of States/ Union Territories.


    Safety is accorded the highest priority by Indian Railways and all possible steps are undertaken on a continual basis to prevent accidents and to enhance safety. These include timely replacement of over-aged assets, adoption of suitable technologies for upgradation and maintenance of track, rolling stock, signaling and interlocking systems, safety drives, greater emphasis on training of officials and safety inspections at regular intervals to monitor and educate staff for observance of safe practices. Preventive and predictive maintenance of the Railway assets is undertaken to ensure safe train operation. Safety devices/systems being used to prevent accidents include Electronic Interlocking, track circuiting, provision of Block Proving Axle Counters, Colour Light LED Signals, Train Protection and Warning System, Vigilance Control Device, Fog Pass Device, usage of 52 kg/60 kg, 90 or higher UTS rails and pre-stressed Concrete Sleepers, use of Ultrasonic Flaw Detection of rails and welds at predefined periodicity to detect internal flaws in rails/welds. Electronic monitoring of track geometry is carried out to detect defects and plan maintenance. Steel Channel Sleepers on girder bridges are being used while carrying out primary track renewals. Further, it has been decided to lay Thick webs switches, Weldable Cast Manganese Steel crossings on identified routes. Progressive use of Linke Hofmann Busch Coaches, use of Centre Buffer Couplers with Integral Coach Factory Coaches, etc. Railway tracks are replaced on age-cum-condition basis through track renewal works which is an ongoing process. Other measures include training of loco pilots and other safety category staff, improvement of their working conditions including proper rest and periodic medical examination etc. Besides, patrolling of tracks, footplate inspections and safety reviews at various levels, etc. are regularly conducted to continuously monitor and improve safety aspects of the Indian Railways.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Railways, Shri Rajen Gohain in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SVS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555683) Visitor Counter : 357