      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Optimum Utilization of resources is key to sustainable development - Giriraj Singh
      Posted On: 14 DEC 2018 4:59PM by PIB Delhi


      Giriraj Singh addressing the Social Enterprise Conclave – 2018 in New Delhi


      Union Minister of State(I/C), for the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Giriraj Singh, said that India needs more indigenously developed technologies for the optimum utilization of resources of the country for sustainable development.


      He was speaking at the Social Enterprise Conclave - 2018 of the MSME Ministry in New Delhi today. He said that the successful example of the Solar Charkha Mission of MSME Ministry which has been operational since six months,in many villages, is empowering women by creating livelihood for them. Women are now earning more than Rs. 10,000/- a month. The Minister said all enterprises that helps in the development of the society are Social Enterprise. The Minister further said that Khadiis the best example of social enterprise. The Khadi village industry has zero pollution effect on the environment. He urged the youth to join Khadi industries and be a part of a sustainable development model.


      Giriraj Singh said that Prime Minister’s vision of doublingfarmers income is an achievable goal only when we utilize all the resources available in ruralareas like cow-dung, cow-urine, discarded human hair and agri waste products by turning them into bio-compost or utility products. He said that this will improve the economic condition of villages and will lead to overall social development.


      Giriraj Singh said that for him women and the produce that is obtained from the cow are key to the development of villages in the country.


      Speaking on the occasion, Additional Secretary & Development Commissioner, MSME, Ram Mohan Mishra, said that the MSME Ministry has launched a scheme on supporting and harnessing the social enterprise segment as they are the key growth drivers for creating and sustaining new MSMEs.


      Jyotsna Sitling, Joint Secretary, M/o Skill Development and Entrepreneurship,spoke about the schemes and programmes being made available by the Ministry for skill developmentof the youth so that they may be gainfully employed.


      Social activists, representatives of NGOs, entrepreneurs, research organizations, finance and business experts from different parts of the country, who work in the field of micro, small and medium entrepreneurship,are deliberating upon issues related to social enterprises during the day long conclave being held in New Delhi today.


      ***


      MM/ KA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555964) Visitor Counter : 396
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi