      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      1st International Conference on Sustainable Water Management inaugurated at Mohali today
      Posted On: 10 DEC 2018 8:19PM by PIB Delhi


    The Governor of Himachal Pradesh, Shri Acharya Devvrat said that water - a source of life and a gift of nature to the mankind needs to be conserved and saved at all costs in all possible ways with collective efforts by one and all at all levels in an integrated and sustainable manner.


    Shri Acharya Devvrat was delivering inaugural address at the first International Conference being organized under the aegis of National Hydrology Project, Union Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation by Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) at Indian School of Business (ISB), Mohali on the theme ‘Sustainable Water Management’ . He also stressed for adopting natural farming making judicious and proper use of every drop of water for more crops increasing the fertility of land with friendly earth worms for recharging of the ground water. He also inaugurated an exhibition on the occasion where 20 companies have put up their stalls to show case their activities in the area of sustainable water resources management. A CD of documentary entitled ‘Bhakra Beas Nation’s Pride’ on BBMB was also released on the occasion.


    Shri U.P. Singh, Secretary, Government of India, Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation said that the aim of the Conference is to foster the participation of and dialogue between various stakeholders, including governments, the scientific and academic communities, so as to promote sustainable policies for water management, to create awareness of water-related problems, motivate commitment at the highest level for their solution and thus promote better management of water resources at local, regional, national and international levels.


    Shri S. Masood Husain, Chairman, Central Water Commission (CWC) gave a presentation on ‘Water Resources Management Initiatives in India’ , Shri D.K Sharma, Chairman, BBMB gave presentation on ‘Bhakra Dam- A Modern Temple for Sustainable in India’ while Dr. Kees Bons, Netherlands gave a presentation on ‘Water Resources Planning and Management- An International Experience’ in the plenary session. As many as 15 technical sessions are being held on various topics on the theme.


    A number of Experts & Delegates from reputed organisations from both within India and from other countries like Australia, United Kingdom, USA, Spain, Netherlands, Republic of Korea, Canada, Germany, Sri Lanka etc. are taking part in the event to deliver their experience and expertise in the use of state of art technology to the stakeholders for sustainable development of water resources. More than 400 delegates have been registered for the two-day conference.


    Details of the Conference are available on NHP web site http://nhp.mowr.gov.in/Conference/home.aspx .


    *****


    PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555482) Visitor Counter : 925
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi