      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      DAPRG to hold inter-Ministerial meetings on Citizens Charter and e-Governance
      Regional meet on Good Governance concludes
      
      Posted On: 11 DEC 2018 5:11PM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Administrative Reforms & Public Grievance (DAPRG) is to hold Inter-Ministerial meetings on Citizens Charter and e-Governance. This was disclosed by Secretary, DAPRG, Shri. K.V. Eapen while addressing the valedictory session of the Regional Conference on Good Governance with focus on Aspirational districts which concluded in Thiruvananthapuram today. Stressing the need for replicating the best practices of good governance in various states, he said the Government of India draws inspiration from the grievance redressal mechanism of Madhya Pradesh government. He also expressed satisfaction on the deliberations at the two-day conference.


    Speaking on the occasion, Additional Secretary DAPRG Shri. V. Shrinivas pointed out that Collectors of aspirational districts highlighted the challenges faced due to the lack of manpower.


    State Nodal officer and Professor, IMG, Dr. Ram Mohan also addressed the gathering.


    A total of 52 participants from 15 states, 8 Union Territories and Collectors from five aspirational districts attended the conference.


    On Effective Governance there were presentations on Local Self Governance – Learnings from Kerala was presented by former Chief Secretary Shri S.M. Vijayanand, Chairman, Centre for Management Development, Thiruvananthapuram, Beat Plastic Pollution by Prof. (Dr.) R. Vasudevan, Dean, Thiagarajar College of Engineering, Madurai, and Citizen Satisfaction on Public Distribution System in Kerala by Prof. (Dr.) S. Jaya, Institute of Management in Government, Thiruvananthapuram.


    Among the presentations by Aspirational Districts, Breast Milk Banks in District Ramanathapuram by Shri K.Veera Raghava Rao, Collector, Ramanathapuram (TN) Block Task Force in District Gadchiroli by Shri Vijay Chandrakant Rathod, CEO-Zila Parishad, Gadchiroli (Maharashtra) Narmada Transformation Corps (for effective outreach & awareness campaign of schemes at village and block levels) by Shri Jignesh Tanna, Superintendent (Prohibition & Excise), Gujarat were held.


    Transforming Aspirational Districts by Shri Rama Kamaraju, Senior Consultant, NITI Aayog, Aspirational District Waynad – Impact by Shri Ajayakumar AR, Collector, Waynad were the other presentations in this regard which was followed by a panel discussion.


    Among the Presentations on PM/NCEG/CAPAM Awarded Initiatives were Unnayan Banka - Reinventing Education Using Technology by Shri Ahsan, DPO, Department of Education, District Banka, Bihar Padhe Dantewada - Likhe Dantewada, by Shri Pranith Simha, Bachpan Banao, NGO Partner, Dist. Dantewada, Chhattisgarh Unified Agriculture Markets by Shri Manoj Rajan, Secretary, Market Reforms and Cooperative Department, Karnataka SAMRAKSHANE by Shri Shakeel Ahmed, Project Director, HRMS and Shri Samartharam N R, Technical Director, NIC, Centre for e-Governance, Government of Karnataka.


    Advantages accrued from Root Cause Analysis of Grievances and Way Forward suggested for States, Samadhan Ek Din and CM Helpline of Madhya Pradesh government and Efficient Waste Management in Goa were also among the presentations in the conference.


    *******


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555523) Visitor Counter : 758