      Ministry of Defence

      Indian Defence University workshop on ‘Ideas for Sustainability’
      Posted On: 13 DEC 2018 5:40PM by PIB Delhi


    Indian Defence University (IDU) organised a two-day workshop on 'Ideas for Sustainability' for senior and middle level officers from the three Services, here today. The workshop intends to cover the following:


    • How to build robustness in systems and processes to achieve sustainability within the organisation and their ecosystem?


    • Ideas and solutions to address the challenges to sustainability.


    • Strategy to formulate and improve new programmes and initiatives that will contribute to build more sustainable Defence Services Organisations that are relevant and ready for the future.


    The workshop commenced with the welcome address by Deputy Chief of Headquarters Integrated Defence Staff Lt Gen PJS Pannu followed by keynote address by Chief of Integrated Defence Staff Lt Gen PS Rajeshwar. The workshop will be conducted as panel discussions and talks by subject experts. The workshop aims to touch various issues, which provide strength to any institution i.e., economic factor, internal and external factors. How important it is for any institution to remain inclusive, diverse and adaptable?


    This workshop is third in the series, prior to this, a Capsule on Defence Acquisition Management process was conducted involving experts from the fields for Acquisition/Procurement at Service Headquarters/Command/Corps Headquarters from May 16 to 18, 2018 in New Delhi. This was followed by a workshop on Artificial Intelligence and its Military application. A total strength of 80 officers, including selected senior and middle level officers from Services HQs, HQ IDS and training institutions involved in policy formulation on AI & its implementation framework had attended the workshop.


    Ideas for sustainability is an apt topic especially in the backdrop of various studies ordered for transformation of Indian Armed Forces. It is essential to see through the ultimate objective planned to be achieved and set building blocks to strengthen the structure and process involved in institution building, so that there is sustainability in whatever steps are taken and finally we achieve our goals.


    During the workshop, eminent speakers will share their pragmatic experience of establishing an institution, strengthening it by providing sustainable structures and processes, modifying it with the changing times and adapting them to remain on course set by the founder members and maintaining high standards. Few notable speakers.


    These initiatives by IDU, touching niche areas i.e., Acquisition, Artificial Intelligence, and Sustainability etc. are excellent steps in the right direction to set the path for this University to be of a world class standard. This would also facilitate establishing linkages with the renowned Institutions / Universities.


    **********


    AA/Nampi/DK/Rajib/HS/RS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1555848) Visitor Counter : 495