      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      To connect with Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT), an online portal “ENSURE” has been launched
      
      The portal will provide a very simple, useful and transparent system to the beneficiary

      Posted On: 11 DEC 2018 4:43PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shri Radha Mohan Singh launched a portal ENSURE- National Livestock Mission-EDEG developed by NABARD and operated under the Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries today. On this occasion, he informed that the National Livestock Mission has been conceived by Modi government for the sustainable development of the livestock sector. Under the Mission’s component called Entrepreneurship Development and Employment Generation (EDEG), subsidy payment for activities related to poultry, small ruminants, pigs etc. through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) goes directly to the beneficiary’s account. In order to make it better, simpler and transparent, the NABARD has developed an online portal “ENSURE” ( https://ensure.nabard.org ) so that the information related to beneficiary and processing of application can be made readily available.


    Shri Singh added that under the new process, controlling officer/branch manager of the bank, after scrutinizing & sanctioning of proposal, uploads the subsidy claims in the portal. The subsidy will be approved within 30 days from the date of sanction of loan. Earlier, even after the loan approval, subsidy took a long time to reach the beneficiary’s account. Through this process, the flow of information/funds will also be quicker and more accountable. The burden of extra interest due to delay in the disbursal of the subsidy would now be reduced after the launch of the portal. Access from the portal will also be on real-time basis and list of beneficiaries can be easily prepared.


    ***


    APS/RCS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555521) Visitor Counter : 2576
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Bengali