      Ministry of Defence

      Air force golden jubilee institute hosts 33rd annual athletic meet
      Posted On: 08 DEC 2018 4:21PM by PIB Delhi


    Air Force Golden Jubilee Institute, Subroto Park celebrated its 33 rd Annual Athletic Meet on 8 th December 2018. The Chief Guest for the occasion was Air Vice Marshal Amar Ahuja, Assistant Chief of Air Staff (Organisation & Ceremonials).


    The Guest of Honour was Ms Sonia Chahal, the silver medalist and renowned World Boxing champion. After the Welcome Address and floral welcome of the Guest of Honour, the Chief Guest, Mrs Mamta Ahuja, Air Commodore Sanjay Sachdeva, Schools Adventure and Sports and CMC Air Force Schools, Mrs Aarti Sachdeva and all the guests, the KG class students from the Primary Wing presented a display, ‘Little Buds’. The ceremonial March Past included troops from the five Houses, Special Wing, Primary Wing and NCC displaying strength and cohesiveness. After the address by the Principal, Mrs Poonam S Rampal the Annual Sports Report was presented which highlighted the achievements of our sports stars and progress of the school in the field of sports and games.


    Thereafter, the students of the Aero Modelling Club put up an enthralling display of Yellowbird and Hunter planes. Students of Classes 1 and 2 performed a drill on the song ‘Colours of Life’. After that, the athletic events were held in which students of all three Wings participated in races and challenged their fitness and skills.


    Further, the talented performers of the Special Wing put up a show ‘Fitness Fusion’. The Students of Class IV did Yogaerobics. Ms Sonia Chahal, AVM Amar Ahuja and Mrs Mamta Ahuja graciously gave away the medals and trophies during the Victory Ceremony. The Headgirl, Shefali Arora was declared as the Best Sports Student of the Year.


    Our honourable Chief Guest motivated and lauded the students for their diligent efforts. The students also had an interactive session with Ms Sonia Chahal wherein they asked questions ranging from boxing, health, fitness to her life’s mantra. Thereafter, the Meet was declared closed by our Chief Guest. With the lowering of flag and release of balloons the sporting extravaganza came to an end. The Vote of Thanks was proposed by Sports Captain Manan Bhatia and the National Anthem was sung by all. This Annual Athletic Meet gave the students an opportunity to prove their sporting abilities and win laurels.


    ARG/BBS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555273) Visitor Counter : 423
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil