      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi chairs the Human Rights Day Function, organised by National Human Rights Commission
      Posted On: 10 DEC 2018 6:37PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi today said here that the terrorists who kill innocent people don’t deserve any “cover or privilege” of human rights.


    Addressing the Human Rights Day Function, organised in New Delhi by National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Shri Naqvi said that it is unfortunate that some organizations and people are more interested in raising voice regarding “human rights” of these terrorists and those organizations who challenge the national security and kill innocent people.


    Shri Naqvi said that such terrorist organizations and some anti-social elementsconsider killing of civilians, attacking the security forces, spreading terror and conspiring to disturb peace of the world as their “human rights”.


    Shri Naqvi said that social, economic, religious and other human rights of every community are more safe and secure in India than any other democratic country of the world. Tolerance and communal and social harmony is in the DNA of India. Social and cultural harmony is the source of unity of India despite of various languages, religions and communities. We have to remain alert to ensure that no evil forces can weaken our strength of unity.


    NHRC Chairperson Justice Shri H L Dattu, senior officials and a large number of intellectuals from different fields attended the Human Rights Day Function.


    Shri Naqvi said that “Inclusive Growth” is our “Rashtraniti” and “Empowerment of All” is our “Rajdharma”. The Modi Government has been successful in creating an atmosphere of “development with trust” among all sections of the society without any discrimination during last about four-and-a-half years.


    Shri Naqvi said that the Government led by Prime Minister Shri NarendraModi followed the policy of “Empowerment without Appeasement” and “Development with Dignity”. Our Government has made every needy section of the society an equal partner of the development process. We have created the atmosphere of “development with trust”. But some people are unable to digest this atmosphere and they are trying to disturb the development process. The Modi Government will not allow anybody to disturb this atmosphere of “development with trust” and no negative agenda will be allowed to dominate our agenda of development.


    Shri Naqvi said that during the last 25 years, since its inception, the National Human Rights Commission has endeavoured to promote a culture of human rights. The Commission has established tremendous trust among the common people. The common man approaches the NHRC without any fear. Global network of National Human Rights Institutions have been accredited the NHRC with “A Status” throughout itssince its inception.


    Shri Naqvi said that the NHRC has always played an active role in protection of human rights of the people of the country. The NHRC also organises Camp Sittings and Open Public Hearings in different state capitals at regular intervals to ensure speedy disposal of cases. This ensures that the common people are not deprived of their rights.


    Shri Naqvi said that it is encouraging that the NHRC has selected 28 most backward districts in the country to spread awareness about human rights in the administration and to monitor the effectiveness of the various socio-economic welfare programmes of the Government. The Commission has also been visiting, State-wise, different districts to make an assessment of enforcement of various measures related to human rights and implementation of welfare schemes so as to come out with recommendations for the governments’, committed to ensuring good governance.


    ******


    RCJ/FH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555424) Visitor Counter : 614