      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Exploitation and Crimes against domestic workers
      Posted On: 12 DEC 2018 4:50PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Government has not enacted any separate law to protect the interest of domestic workers. A draft National Policy on domestic workers is under consideration of the Central Government. However the central Government has enacted the Unorganized Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008 for providing social security to all unorganized workers including domestic workers. The Act provides formulation of social security schemes viz. life and disability cover, health and maternity benefits & old age protection by the Central Government. The State Government are mandated under the Unorganized Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008 to formulate suitable welfare schemes for unorganized sector workers including domestic workers relating to provident fund, employment injury benefits housing, education schemes for children, skill up gradation of workers, financial assistance & old age homes.


    The Central Government in 2017 converged the social security scheme of Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana (AABY) with Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) to provide life and disability coverage to the unorganised workers, depending upon their eligibility. The converged PMJJBY/PMSBY scheme is for the beneficiaries in the age group 18-50 years and provides for coverage of Rs. 2 lakh, in case of natural death and Rs. 4 lakh, in case of accidental death. The converged schemes are being implemented through Life Insurance Corporation of India. A premium of Rs. 342 (330+12) per annum would be required for the converged schemes. The premium would be shared between the State Government and the Central Government in the ratio of 50:50. This Ministry has urged all the State/UTs Governments to give their financial concurrence to cover 50 percent of the premium for all eligible unorganized workers. Around 2.83 crore beneficiaries have been covered under this scheme. The Central Government has also launched the National Health Protection Scheme will cover 10 crore poor and vulnerable families providing coverage up to Rs. 5 Lakhs per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalization. This scheme will also cater to eligible domestic workers.


    Discussion is under way regarding a National Policy for domestic workers to protect them from exploitation. An advisory has also been issued to the State Government/UTs requesting them to take necessary steps for making legislation/policies for protection of domestic workers from exploitation by unscrupulous agents/ unregistered placement agencies, if necessary, by making their own Policy/Act.


    This information was given by Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employment in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555656) Visitor Counter : 492