      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Government is making every effort to stop stubble burning by farmers
      
      Promotion of Agricultural Mechanization for in-situ Management of Crop Residue in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and NCT of Delhi is being undertaken

      Posted On: 13 DEC 2018 4:11PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shri Radha Mohan Singh has said that government is making every effort to stop stubble burning by farmers. In addition, financial assistance is being provided to the farmers for management of crop residues. As a new initiative, promotion of Agricultural Mechanization for in-situ Management of Crop Residue in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and NCT of Delhi is being undertaken. The total outgo from the Central funds has been kept at Rs. 1151.80 crore. Speaking on the occasion of award distribution ceremony for the winners of essay writing contest organized on "Waste to Wealth” today, he said that there are many alternate methods for management of crop residue such as composting, fodder for animal feed etc. which not only help in proper management of agricultural wastes but also earn extra income for the farmers.


    He informed that millions of tonnes of garbage in the country come from agriculture and agricultural enterprise residues. According to a data, 70 percent of this residue is used in industrial areas and as domestic fuel. The remaining residue can be converted into biofuels and can also be used in energy production. Many studies have shown that biofuel, biodiesel and bio ethanol can be used as a co-fuel. Effective management of agricultural waste can bring wealth.


    The competition was organized to celebrate the 150 th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. There were three categories - First category was for students from class VII to XII; second for Graduate and its equivalent students and third for post-graduate and other research workers who sent their essays in both Hindi and English. The Ministry received a total of 1399 essays from the entire country in both languages, which were assessed by a three-member Expert Committee. 24 candidates (13 girls and 11 boys) were awarded today.


    *****


    RCS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1555823) Visitor Counter : 1070