      Ministry of Shipping

      Shri Nitin Gadkari flags off first container mainline vessel at Tuticorin
      
      Says it will be a game changer in container traffic of South India
      
      Mainline container vessel service at Tuticorin port will boost EXIM and save transshipment cost &time
      Posted On: 12 DEC 2018 7:19PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Shipping and Road Transport & Highways and Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation flagged off the first container mainline vessel from VoC Port (Tuticorin Port) along with Shri Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Chief Minister, Tamil Nadu. He said this will be a game changer in container traffic of South India . Shri P Radhakrishnan, Minister of State for Finance & Shipping and Shri Mansukh Mandaviya, Minister of State for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping, Chemical & Fertilizers also joined in through a video link.


    At present containers from Tuticorin to Far East countries viz Malaysia, Singapore, China and Hong Kong are transited by the feeder vessels to Colombo where they are further connected to the mother vessel . With Mainline call being done directly at Tuticorin, the re will be saving on account of the transshipment cost. EXIM trade will benefit and there will be a saving of approximately 50 USD per container as handling of c ontainer at Colombo will not be required. This service will give benefit to the importers and exporters in terms of saving transshipment cost and transit time.


    With the strategic location of the Port being so close to the East West Trade route and a draft of 16 m, the Port is poised to attract more mainline vessels and has the potential to become a transshipment hub of South India.


    In the last four years, Tuticorin Port has made investments to the tune of Rs. 1,500 Crore towards improvement of infrastructure with the focus to unlock efficiencies at the Port as well as add capacity to reduce logistics cost for EXIM and domestic trade under Sagarmala.


    “In order to make the Tuticorin port a mainline port we have redesigned the development project of Rs 2000 Cr and now the deepening of the port would be done in less than Rs 500 Cr, after which all vessels with draft of 16 meters can call on the port.”, said the Minister.


    “Tuticorin has huge potential to become a major industrial hub. We are planning to develop a 1000 acre industrial area similar to JNPT in this port. I would also like to reiterate that Tuticorin has been seen by customers as one of the most customer friendly port and trade in Tuticorin is very enterprising. Competitive Port tariff, improved infrastructure and customer friendly approach will make Tuticorin Port more reliable and competitive”, he added.


    In his address the Chief Minister Tamil Nadu , Shri Edappadi K. Palaniswami stated that today’s historic mainline service to far east countries will boost exports in Tamil Nadu. The initiative taken by the Port will support overall economic growth in the state.


    ******


    NP/MS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1555723) Visitor Counter : 970
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi