      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Regional Conference on ‘Good Governance- Focus on Aspirational Districts’ to begin tomorrow in Thiruvananthapuram
      Posted On: 09 DEC 2018 9:52AM by PIB Delhi


    The Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Government of India in association with Government of Kerala is organizing a Regional Conference on December 10- 11, 2018 at Thiruvananthapuram on ‘Good Governance - Focus on Aspirational Districts’. The Governor of Kerala Shri Justice (Retd.) P. Sathasivam will inaugurate the 2-day event tomorrow. The Chief Secretary, Government of Kerala, Shri Tom Jose and Shri K V Eapen, Secretary, D/o Administrative Reforms & Public Grievances, Government of India will address the Inaugural Session and Valedictory Session.


    Delegates from 9 states and 5 U.T.s from Western and Southern India will participate in the Conference. There will be 5 Technical sessions in the 2-day Conference. On the Day 1, eight Presentations will be made on Effective Governance and Transformation of Aspirational Districts which will be followed by Panel Discussions. On Day 2, six Presentations will be made on Good Governance Initiatives which were conferred Prime Minister’s Award for Excellence in Public Administration, National e-Governance Award and Common Wealth Association for Public Administration and Management (CAPAM) International Innovations Award. Additional Secretary DARPG Shri V. Srinivas will address the Valedictory Session.


    The Department has organized 30 Regional Conferences till date. This Conference is an effort to create a common platform to share experiences in the formulation and implementation of best practices in citizen centric governance, improved public service delivery through e-Governance, transparent, accountable and citizen-friendly effective administration.


    ********


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555289) Visitor Counter : 879
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil