      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Agricultural Marketing
      Posted On: 12 DEC 2018 12:06PM by PIB Delhi


    Although Agricultural Marketing is a State subject, however, the Union Government has taken necessary steps for strengthening, upgrading and expanding agricultural marketing facilities across the country including Madhya Pradesh. To expand marketing facilities for the farmers and to facilitate them to receive competitive and remunerative prices in transparent manner, Government has operationalised e-National Agriculture Market (e-NAM) with integration of 585 regulated markets across the country including 58 number of Madhya Pradesh. Under the scheme, apart from providing technical support, financial assistance for electronic weighing scale, computer IT equipments, assaying equipments, cleaning/ sorting/ grading equipments and bio- composting unit is also provided. To further expand the marketing facilities in State of Madhya Pradesh, it has been promoting direct purchase of farmers’ produce outside the market yard by the private company like ITC through establishment of purchase centres (ITC Chaupal) and undertaking contract farming.


    In Madhya Pradesh, the organised wholesale marketing of agricultural produce is being carried out by the network of 555 regulated market yards. In addition, Madhya Pradesh Government has prepared plan for development of about 1064 Haat Bazaars located nearer to farm gate by creating additional and required facilities through existing scheme of MGNREGA etc, which would facilitate farmers to directly sell their produce to consumer and bulk purchasers. Being proposal based received from States; there is no State-wise allocation of funds under e-NAM. However, Rs.17.40 crore has already been released to Madhya Pradesh for integration of 58 e-NAM Mandis.


    Further, Madhya Pradesh Government allocates Rs.125 crore per year from Kisan Sadak Nidhi Fund for improving marketing facilities in the State. State is also spending about Rs.150 crore for development of Fruits and Vegetables market yards.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.


    *****


    APS/RCS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1555567) Visitor Counter : 900