      Ministry of Tourism

      Fifteen destinations identified for development under the Ramayana Circuit;
      
      Two projects worth over Rs. 150 Crores sanctioned in the last two years under the Circuit: Shri K. J. Alphons
      
      Posted On: 17 DEC 2018 4:51PM by PIB Delhi


    Ramayana Circuit is one of the fifteen thematic circuits identified for development under the Swadesh Darshan scheme of Ministry of Tourism. The Ministry has initially identified fifteen destinations for development under the Ramayana Circuit theme namely Ayodhya, Nandigram, Shringverpur & Chitrakoot (Uttar Pradesh), Sitamarhi, Buxar & Darbhanga (Bihar), Chitrakoot (Madhya Pradesh), Mahendragiri (Odisha), Jagdalpur (Chattisgarh), Nashik & Nagpur (Maharashtra), Bhadrachalam (Telangana), Hampi (Karnataka) and Rameshwaram (Tamil Nadu).


    The details of projects sanctioned under the Ramayana Circuit theme of Swadesh Darshan during the last two years are as below:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Sl. No.  Name of the Project and Year                                                                                                                                                     Amount Sanctioned (Rs. in Crore)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
1.       Development of Ayodhya under Ramayana Circuit theme in Uttar Pradesh (2017-18)                                                                                                   133.31                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
2.       Development of Wayside Amenities in Buddhist Circuit and Ramayana Circuit: Varanasi-Gaya; Lucknow-Ayodhya- Lucknow; Gorakhpur-Kushinagar; Kushinagar-Gaya- Kushinagar (2018-19)  18.10                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          

    For the state of Chhattisgarh, the Ministry has sanctioned the project for Development of Tribal Tourism Circuit in Jashpur- Kunkuri- Mainpat- Ambikapur- Maheshpur -Ratanpur- Kurdar-Sarodadadar- Gangrel- Kondagaon– Nathiya Nawagaon- Jagdalpur- Chitrakoot- Tirthgarh in the year 2015-16 with a total sanction amount of Rs.99.21 crore.


    Submission of project proposals by the State Governments/Union Territory (UT) Administrations under the Swadesh Darshan Scheme is a continuous process. The projects for development under the scheme are identified in consultation with the State Governments/UT Administrations and are sanctioned subject to availability of funds, submission of suitable detailed project reports, adherence to scheme guidelines and utilization of funds released earlier.


    This information was given by Shri K. J. Alphons, Union Minister of State (I/C) for Tourism in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/JP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1556220) Visitor Counter : 544