      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      PM Shri Narendra Modi inaugurated 175 Km of sewerage network in Prayagraj, this will reduce 7.8 cr litres of sewage per day falling into Ganga
      
      PM also laid Foundation Stone for projects of sewerage management of Prayagraj
      
      NMCG has sanctioned financial assistance for Kumbh Mela for sanitation and cleanliness
      Posted On: 16 DEC 2018 7:28PM by PIB Delhi


    National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) furthered its effort to reduce pollution in river Ganga before Kumbha when Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi inaugurated projects in Prayagraj including 175 KM of sewerage network today. The projects will now carry 7.8 Cr litres sewage water per day to existing STPs (Sewage Treatment Plants) at Salori, Kodra & Ponghat for treatment which earlier ended up in Ganga.


    The projects were inaugurated by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi in the presence of Governor UP Shri Ram Naik, CM of UP Yogi Adityanath, Deputy CM Shri Keshav Prasad Maurya, Minister of Urban Development Shri Suresh K Khanna among other dignitaries.


    During the event, PM reiterated the commitment of the government towards clean Ganga and informed the public about various initiatives taken up under the Namami Gange program.


    Shri Narendra Modi also laid the foundation stone for two projects in the trans Ganga/Yamuna area under One City-One Operator scheme with sanctioned cost of Rs. 767.59 Cr . The project is based on Hybrid Annuity based PPP mode that includes Operations and Maintenance of all the sewerage infrastructure for 15 years. These projects include I&D (Intersection and diversion) of sewage network, 7 sewage pumping stations and 3 STPs of total capacity 72 Million Litres per Day (MLD) (Naini-42 MLD, Phaphamau-14 MLD and Jhusi- 16 MLD).


    With these projects, there will be comprehensive sewerage coverage of Prayagraj, including areas on the other side of the Ganga and Yamuna rivers.


    The sanctioned projects will also involve rehabilitation and Operations & Maintenance of existing sewage treatment infrastructure at the cost of Rs. 904 crores. Rehabilitation projects include six existing STPs with a total capacity of 254 MLD located at Naini, Numayadahi, Rajapur, Kodra, Ponghat and Salori and operations & maintenance of 10 existing sewage pumping stations.


    Already Sanctioned Projects


    Under Namami Gange Programme , 10 projects have been already sanctioned at an estimated cost of Rs. 2915.78 crore for creation of 779 Km sewerage network and construction of 8 STPs having total capacity of 191 MLD.


    4 projects have been completed during 2016 leading to the creation of sewage treatment capacity of 119 MLD and a laying of 129 km of sewerage network.


    2 Projects pertaining to Sewerage District A & B in Prayagraj are under advance stage of execution and are expected to be completed by March 2019. These projects will lead to creation of 456 Km of sewerage network and would feed to existing STPs at Naini and Numayadahi


    Kumbh Mela:


    Supporting the sanitation initiative of Government of UP during Kumbh Mela 2019, NMCG sanctioned a financial assistance of Rs. 113 crores for the construction of 27,500 toilets & 20,000 urinals. An additional Rs. 16.68 crore has been sanctioned for 'Paint My City’ and other such activities. The 'Paint My City’ campaign was appreciated by the PM as a commendable initiative to connect people with the city and make it clean and beautiful on the eve of the Kumbh. Rs. 3.6 crores has been allocated for 16,000 dustbins and lining bags. Bioremediation projects have been also sanctioned for 53 drains.


    *****


    NP/SP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556109) Visitor Counter : 492
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu