      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2018 4:56PM by PIB Delhi


    National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) has been made operational from the year 2014-15 which aims at making agriculture more productive, sustainable, remunerative and climate resilient by promoting location specific integrated /composite farming systems; soil and moisture conservation measures; comprehensive soil health management; eﬃcient water management practices and mainstreaming rainfed technologies.


    On Farm Water Management (OFWM) was implemented as one of the component of NMSA during 2014-15 with the objective of enhancing water use efficiency by promoting technological interventions like drip & sprinkler technologies, efficient water application & distribution system, secondary storage etc. Thereafter, these activities have been subsumed under the ‘Per Drop More Crop (PDMC)’ component of Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) during 2015-16.


    The PMKSY-PDMC mainly focuses on water use efficiency at farm level through precision/ Micro Irrigation (Drip and Sprinkler Irrigation). Besides, promoting precision irrigation and better on farm water management practices to optimize the use of available water resources, the component also supports micro level water storage or water conservation /management activities to supplement source creation. Since, 2015-16 an area of 30.69 lakh ha has been brought under micro irrigation so far. Rainfed Area Development Programme is implemented as a component under National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture since 2014-15 in the country. The programme focuses on Integrated Farming System for enhancing productivity and minimizing risks associated with climatic variability. Under this system, crops is integrated with activities like horticulture, livestock, fishery, vermi-organic compost, green manuaring, apiculture etc. to enable farmers maximising farm returns for sustained livelihood and mitigate the impacts of drought, flood or other extreme weather events with the income opportunity from allied activities. Since inception of the scheme, an area of 3.42 lakh ha has been brought under Integrated Farming System.


    Soil Health Management (SHM) is one of the components under National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA). SHM aims at promoting Integrated Nutrient Management (INM) through judicious use of chemical fertilizers including secondary and micro nutrients in conjunction with organic manures and bio fertilizers for improving soil health and its productivity, strengthening of soil and fertilizer testing facilities to improve soil test based recommendations to farmers for improving soil fertility.


    The activities include trainings and demonstrations on balanced use of fertilizers. Besides, “Soil Health Card” Scheme is under implementation in the country since, February, 2015 to provide Soil Health Card to all farmers in the country. Soil Health Card will provide information to farmers on soil nutrients status of their soil and recommendation on appropriate dosage of nutrients to be applied for improving soil health and its fertility.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Shri Parshottam Rupala.


    ******


    APS/RCS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556469) Visitor Counter : 1425