      Vice President's Secretariat

      Shri Ananth Kumar was known for his energy, enthusiasm and initiative: Vice President
      
      Mandatory neem coating of Urea was a historic contribution by him;
      
      Pays tributes to Late Union Minister, Shri Ananth Kumar
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2018 8:41PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that Shri Ananth Kumar was known for his energy, enthusiasm and initiative in whatever responsibility he was assigned to handle. He was addressing the gathering at the Condolence Meeting of Late Union Minister, Shri Ananth Kumar, here today.


    The Vice President said that Shri Ananth Kumar took active interest in students’ issues and politics and also participated in the movement led by late Shri Jaiprakash Narayan. He was first elected to the 11th Lok Sabha in 1996 and had been Member of that House for 6 consecutive terms from the Bengaluru South Lok Sabha Constituency, he said. Being a Member of Lok Sabha for 22 years without a break and being elected 6 times consecutively from an urban constituency with informed electorate speaks for his connect with the people he represented and his place in the hearts and minds of the people, he added.


    The Vice President said that as the Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers, the mandatory Neem coating of Urea was a historic contribution by him under the able guidance of the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi. His concern about affordable quality health care was also instrumental in expansion of Jan Aushadhi Kendras across the country, he added.


    Shri Naidu said that in the passing away of Shri Ananth Kumar, the country has lost a passionate social activist, a peoples’ representative who had worked hard for their welfare, a distinguished Parliamentarian, an able administrator and a committed social worker. ‘I pray for his soul rest in peace and convey my deepest confidences to the bereaved members of his family’, he added.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556894) Visitor Counter : 342
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi