      Ministry of Home Affairs

      International Cooperation on Disaster Management
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2018 4:57PM by PIB Delhi


    India plays an active role in global initiatives on disaster management. India is a signatory to the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction and is committed to achieve the priorities and the objectives through systematic and institutional efforts. With multi-dimensional initiatives and expertise, India is taking a leading role in strengthening regional cooperation among South Asian countries for reducing disasters. India is one of the participating countries and works closely with the United Nations International Strategy for Disaster Reduction ( UNISDR). India has been working closely with many countries for the exchange of ideas and expertise in disaster management.


    India had signed bilateral/ multilateral agreements with the several countries for cooperation in the field of disaster management like:

     1. Agreement between the Republic of India and the Swiss Confederation on Cooperation in the event of Disasters.
     2. Agreement between India and Russia on cooperation in the field of Emergency Management.

     1. SAARC Agreement on Rapid Response to Natural Disasters.

     2. Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Indonesia on cooperation in the field of Disaster Management.
     3. Joint Declaration of Intent (JDI) between India and Germany on cooperation in the field of Disaster Management.
     4. Memorandum of Cooperation (MoC) between the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India and the Cabinet Office of the Government of Japan in the field of disaster risk reduction.
     5. MoU between the Republic of India and the Govt. of Republic of Tajikistan on Cooperation in the field of Disasters Management.

    Government of India has partnership with various International Agencies in the field of Disaster Management such as United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR), The World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction (WCDRR), Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction (GPDRR), Asian Ministerial Conference for Disaster Risk Reduction (AMCDRR), United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA), United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination (UNDAC), International Search and Rescue Advisory Group (INSARAG), Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and


    Recovery (GFDRR), SAARC Disaster Management Centre - Interim Unit (SDMC-IU), Asian Disaster Reduction Center (ADRC), Asian Disaster Preparedness Centre (ADPC) and ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF) etc.


    Various International Meetings/Exercises have been hosted by this Ministry for the purpose of Capacity Building in the field of Disaster Management like:


    i. Government of India organized the South Asian Annual Disaster Management Exercise (SAADMex) from 23-26 November 2015, in New Delhi.


    ii. The Meeting of BRICS Ministers for Disaster Management was held on 22 - 23 August, 2016 in Udaipur, Rajasthan.


    iii. Government of India, in collaboration with the United Nation International Strategy for Disaster Reduction (UNISDR), hosted the Asian Ministerial Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction (AMCDRR) 2016 in New Delhi from 3-5 November 2016.


    iv. The Government of Republic of India hosted the first Annual Disaster Management Exercise for ‘Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation’ (BIMSTEC) countries (BIMSTEC DMEx-2017) on 10-13 October, 2017 in New Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR).


    v. National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) in collaboration with United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR), organized first of its kind International Workshop on Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (IWDRI) on 15-16 January, 2018 in New Delhi.


    vi. Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, organized the first India-Japan Workshop on Disaster Risk Reduction on 19-20 March, 2018 at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi.


    vii. The Government of India will organize a Joint Urban Earthquake Search and Rescue exercise of Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) member states to improve collective preparedness in March, 2019.


    This was stated by the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/NK/SS/PP/1271

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556471) Visitor Counter : 1595
    
    
    
    
    

5.