      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Steps taken by Government to promote use of Domestically Manufactured Drugs and Medicines
      
      4,571 Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Kendras openedacross the country: Shri Mansukh Mandaviya

      Posted On: 18 DEC 2018 2:13PM by PIB Delhi

    Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways, Shipping and Chemicals and Fertilizers, Shri Mansukh L. Mandaviya, while giving a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today,detailed the following steps taken by Government to promote the use of domestically manufactured drugs and medicines:

     1. National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Policy, 2012 (NPPP-2012) was notified with the objective to put in place a regulatory framework for pricing of drugs so as to ensure availability of required medicines – “essential medicines” at reasonable prices even while providing sufficient opportunity for innovation and competition to support the growth of pharma industry thereby meeting the goals of employment and shared economic well-being for all.
     2. In order to promote and to make available quality generic medicines at affordable prices to all through specific outlets, a scheme in the name of ‘Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana’ (PMBJP) is functioning across the country.
     3. In order to promote domestically manufactured drugs, the Government is providing financial support for research and development through Drugs & Pharmaceuticals Research Programme (DPRP) run by the Department of Science & Technology. The companies undertaking Research & Development activities are provided income tax benefits.
     4. The Drugs (Prices Control) Order, 2013, Para-32(iii) provides exemptions from price control to a manufacturer producing a new drug involving a new delivery system developed through indigenous Research and Development for a period of five years from the date of its market approval in India.
     5. The government vide its notification dated 28 th January, 2016 has withdrawn exemption of customs duty on certain categories on Bulk Drugs/APIs to provide level playing field to the domestic manufacturers.

    The Minister further said that in order to make generic medicines more accessible, the Department of Pharmaceuticals has requested all the States/Union Territories to explore and enforce the proposal of keeping a separate shelf/rack for generic medicines in every pharmacy in the country.


    Further, Government is successfully operating a scheme in the name of ‘Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana’ (PMBJP) for providing quality, unbranded generic medicines at affordable prices in the country. Under this Scheme dedicated outlets known as Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Kendra (PMBJK) are opened to provide generic medicines. As on 13.12.2018, 4,571 PMBJKs have been opened across the country. Under PMBJP Scheme a target has been set to open at least one PMBJP Kendra in every district of the country, Shri Mandaviya stated.


    *****


    KSP/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556408) Visitor Counter : 904
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

5.