      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr R S Sharma, Chairman, TRAI delivers CVC Lecture on “India’s Digital Leapfrog”
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2018 7:13PM by PIB Delhi


    The 38 th lecture of the “Lecture Series” organized by the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) was delivered by Dr R S Sharma, Chairman, TRAI, here today. The topic of the lecture was “India’s Digital Leapfrog”.


    Dr RS Sharma spoke on the development of the Aadhar platform, and of the reach and significance of this digital platform. He explained the difference between development of applications and the development of foundational digital platforms which use open standards, are open source, and fully inclusive in nature. The development of these platforms enabled the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi’s vision of Jan Dhan accounts, Aadhar as a foundational identity platform and the use of mobile telephones to transform governance and service delivery in India, better known by the acronym “JAM”.


    He said that India’s digital development would be powered by the “India Stack”, which he explained in detail, speaking of every layer of this stack and its significance. The layers explained included the Identity Layer, the Authentication Layer, the Payments Layer ( including the Unified Payments Interface- UPI as a concept) , the Paperless Layer ( Digital Locker, Digital Signatures explained as examples ) and finally the Consent Layer which protected the data of the citizen. Discussion of each layer was explained in great detail using many examples during the lecture. He stated that the vision of the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi was that many of India’s hard problems can be solved by use of technology.


    The lecture was followed by a very participative question and answer session.


    Full time and part time CVOs based in Delhi/NCR attended the lecture along with CMDs, Board of Directors and other officers of the vigilance administration. The lecture may be viewed online as it is webcast live through NIC. The web page link is available on www.cvc.nic.in .


    *******


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556886) Visitor Counter : 376