      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Empowered Steering Committee for Olympics
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2018 2:33PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Youth affairs & Sports had approved constitution of Empowered Steering Committee (ESC) vide notification dated 7.10.2017 after examination of the Interim Report submitted by Task Force constituted on 30.1.2017 for preparation of a comprehensive action plan, including short term and medium to long term measures for effective participation of Indian sportspersons in the next three Olympic games to be held in 2020, 2024 and 2028. ESC has not come into existence. For the present, Mission Olympic cell (MOC), headed by Director General, Sports Authority of India (SAI), has been entrusted, inter alia, with the responsibility of identifying elite sportspersons for support under the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS) to prepare for participation in Tokyo Olympics 2020. MOC is empowered to monitor/review the performance of the athletes selected for support under the TOPS from time to time for their continuance in TOPS.


    Preparation and training of Indian sportspersons and teams for better performance in Tokyo Olympics 2020 is being done in accordance with the Annual Calendar of Training & Competitions (ACTCs) prepared in consultation with the SAI and the concerned National Sports Federations. Accordingly, coaching camps, competition exposure in international sports events, wholesome nutritious diet, food supplements, sports equipments, state-of-the-art infrastructure, lodging, travelling facilities, services of reputed Indian and foreign coaches/supporting staff, scientific and medical support are being provided to the Tokyo Olympics 2020 probables.


    Further, under TOPS under overall ambit of the National Sports Development Fund, customized training is being provided to identified sportspersons at state-of-the art sports institutes/academies within the country and abroad. Besides, out of pocket allowance (OPA) of Rs. 50,000 per sportsperson per month is being given to the sportspersons included in TOPS to enable them to meet their contingent and miscellaneous expenses.


    This information was given by Minister of State (Independent Charge) forYouth Affairs and Sports Shri Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore Retd in a written reply to the Lok Sabha today.


    ******


    YKB/TFK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1556776) Visitor Counter : 303