      Vice President's Secretariat

      India and Zambia historically share warm and friendly relations: Vice President
      
      Welcome to Zambia as a member of the International Solar Alliance and hope for an early ratification of the Framework Agreement by Zambia;
      
      Interacts with Parliamentary Delegation from Zambia
      Posted On: 17 DEC 2018 7:44PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri Venkaiah Naidu has said that India and Zambia historically share warm and friendly relations based on common values such as commitment to democracy, liberty, equality and rule of law. He was interacting with the Parliamentary Delegation from Zambia led by Dr. Patrick Matibini, Speaker, National Assembly of Zambia who called on him, here today.


    The Vice President said that both India and Zambia are working together for the mutual benefit and prosperity of their people.


    Shri Naidu said that India was one of the first countries to recognize Zambia after its independence in 1964. Our warm and friendly bilateral relations have evolved and strengthened over the years and the visit of President of India to Zambia this year has given a fresh impetus to these ties, he added.


    The Vice President expressed his appreciation for Zambia’s unwavering commitment to democracy since its independence and the peaceful transfer of power in Zambia after every election. He also lauded Zambia for maintaining friendly and cordial relationships with all the 8 nations that surround it.


    Shri Naidu welcomed Zambia as a member of the International Solar Alliance and expressed hope for an early ratification of the Framework Agreement by Zambia. He also assured that India would do its best to promote renewable energy including solar technologies to enhance incomes and to safeguard global environment.


    The Vice President expressed pleasure that India-Zambia bilateral cooperation extended to a variety of sectors, such as health, education, capacity building, energy and infrastructure. India is willing to extend cooperation in mutually identified areas, he added.


    Shri Naidu also welcomed frequent exchanges between the two parliaments and said that such interactions would be beneficial in sharing experience & learning from each other’s best practices. He said that the Indian Parliament would be happy to associate with the Zambian Parliament in any specific area, including training of its officials in the institutional or technical human resource development.


    Shri Naidu thanked Zambia wholeheartedly for its continued support to India’s candidature to various international forums and UN agencies. He conveyed his best wishes for the peace, progress and prosperity of Zambia and well-being and good health of the friendly people of Zambia.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1556286) Visitor Counter : 437
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi