      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Empowerment of Economically Backward Classes
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2018 6:14PM by PIB Delhi


    A Centrally Sponsored Scheme namely Dr. Ambedkar Post-Matric Scholarship for Economically Backward Classes (EBCs) students is being implemented in entire country including Delhi with the objective to provide financial assistance to the students of Economically Backward Class studying at post-matriculation or post-secondary stage to enable them to complete their education. The scholarships will be open to Indian nationals belonging to General Category (Other than Schedule Caste, Schedule Tribe and Other Backward Classes) and the total income from all sources of the employed candidate or his/her parents/guardians in case of unemployed candidate shall not exceed Rs.1.00 lakh per annum.


    Another Scheme namely Dr. Ambedkar Scheme of Interest Subsidy on Educational Loan for Overseas Studies for OBCs/EBCs” is being implemented with the o bjective to award interest subsidy to meritorious EBC students so as to provide them better opportunities for higher education in abroad and enhance their employability. The total income from all sources of the employed candidate or his/her parents/guardians in case of unemployed candidate shall not exceed Rs.2.50 lakh per annum


    From Financial Year 2018-19,National Backward Classes Finance and Development Corporation (NBCFDC) has included Economically Backward Classes (EBCs) defined as persons with annual family income less than Rs. 1.00 lakh in its target group to provide them benefit of concessional loan and training for skill development for upgradation of their technical and entrepreneurial skills.


    Government of NCT of Delhi has not sent the proposal for release of funds under Centrally Sponsored Scheme named Dr. Ambedkar Post-Matric Scholarship for Economically Backward Classes (EBCs) students so far.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E-1/018-12-20

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556523) Visitor Counter : 794