      Ministry of Home Affairs

      “Internal Security scenario has vastly improved during the last four years”: Union Home Minister
      
      Shri Rajnath Singh says an Action Plan involving Veterans needed to revive national pride among the youth

      Posted On: 16 DEC 2018 1:54PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh has said the Internal Security scenario has vastly improved during the last four years. Addressing a Vijay Diwas function here today, he said the Left Wing Extremism affected districts have shrunk from 90 to just about 12 while there has been an 80% improvement in insurgency in the North-East. Shri Rajnath Singh also said the BSF has been given full freedom to retaliate effectively to ceasefire violations from Pakistan.


    The Union Home Minister said the Veteran Ex-Servicemen can play a key role in inculcating a sense of national pride among our youth. Recalling the heroics of Brigadier Mohammad Usman, Maha Vir Chakra awardee, and Major Somnath Sharma, India's first Param Vir Chakra, Shri Rajnath Singh lamented that the youth today has his idols in cricketers and film stars, but ask him to name Param Vir Chakra recipients, he will fail to recount even one. The Union Home Minister said marytrs like Chandrashekhar Azad and Bhagat Singh were all driven by passionate patriotism. Society has to stand up with the Veterans today and an Action Plan needs to be framed to preserve individual honour and nation's integrity among the citizens, he added.


    Shri Rajnath Singh said our Armed Forces proved in 1971 they have the capability to rewrite history and redraw maps. Indian Army has since emerged as a professional model before the world, he added.


    On the occasion, the Union Home Minister honoured families of martyrs and released the first quarterly newsletter of Veterans India association. Shri Rajnath Singh also declared to contribute his one month's salary to the organisation's corpus fund for martyrs’ welfare.


    *******


    BB/NK/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1556086) Visitor Counter : 607