      Ministry of Railways

      Steps taken for Safety of Railway Passenger
      Posted On: 17 DEC 2018 6:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Policing of Railways being a State subject, prevention of crime, registration of cases, their investigation and maintenance of law & order in Railway premises as well as on running trains are the statutory responsibility of the State Governments, which they discharge through Government Railway Police (GRP)/District Police. However, Railway Protection Force (RPF) supplements the efforts of GRP to provide better protection and security of passenger area and passengers. Cases of Indian Penal Code (IPC) crimes in Railways are registered and investigated by the concerned Government Railway Police.


    The following steps are being taken to control such incidents over Railways:-


     1. Surveillance is kept through CCTV cameras, provided at about 453 stations over Indian Railways, to ensure safety and security of passengers.

     2. Security Help Line number 182 is made operational over Indian Railways for security related assistance to passengers in distress.
     3. An Integrated Security System (ISS) consisting of surveillance of vulnerable stations through Close Circuit Television Camera Network, Access Control etc. has been sanctioned to improve surveillance mechanism over 202 railway stations.
     4. Frequent announcements are made through Public Address System to educate passengers to take precautions against theft, snatching, drugging and other offences.
     5. Through various social media platforms viz. twitter, facebook etc., Railways are in regular touch with passengers to enhance security of passengers and to address their security related concern.
     6. RPF & GRP personnel are deployed on important railway stations to ensure visible presence of security personnel and to take action against offenders.
     7. Regular Drives are conducted against offenders and the persons arrested are prosecuted under relevant legal provisions.
     8. Regular coordination is made with the State Police/GRP authorities at all levels for prevention of crime, registration of cases, their investigation and maintenance of law & order in Railway premises as well as on running trains.

    This information was given in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha.


    ****


    SVS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556264) Visitor Counter : 324
    
    
    
    
    

8.