      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Labour Minister announces compensation for Kins of victims of Mumbai Fire Accident
      
      Rs. 10 Lakhs for Families of those who lost their lives
      
      Rs. 2 Lakh for Seriously Injured, Rs. 1 Lakh for Minor injuries
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2018 1:31PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employment, Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar announced compensation of Rs. 10 lakh each to the families of those who lost their lives in the fire accident at ESIC hospital in Mumbai. Rs. 2 lakh each was announced for those who have serious injuries and Rs. 1 lakh each for those with minor injuries.


    The cause of fire is being ascertained. As per preliminary report, the building material lying at the ground floor of hospital for renovation work caught fire which led to generation of smoke. Eight persons are reported to have died due to suffocation in this tragic accident. Around 158 persons were injured in the fire accident out of which 57 are now discharged from the hospital. The admitted patients and their attendants were rescued and shifted to nearby hospitals with the help of firefighters, doctors & staff of hospital. Deputy Medical Superintendent, Dr. Reshma Verma was also taken to nearby hospital as she fainted due to suffocation while rescuing the admitted patients. The detailed report is awaited.


    Labour Minister held a meeting with officials of Labour Ministry and ESIC at Delhi and directed to extend all possible help to the kins of deceased and injured persons. A team of doctors from ESIC Delhi has also been rushed to Mumbai for this purpose.


    Shri Gangwar alongwith Secretary, Ministry of Labour & Employment and Director General, ESIC are visiting the hospital today evening to oversee the relief work and to meet the injured persons and kins of deceased.


    ****


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556388) Visitor Counter : 364
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Malayalam