      Ministry of Education

      Several scholarship schemes running successfully for students belonging to Scheduled Castes in Higher Education
      Posted On: 21 DEC 2018 5:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government through the following ongoing schemes provides scholarships for higher education to students belonging to Scheduled Castes:


    (i) Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme for SC Students .


    Under the scheme, scholarship towards tuition & compulsory non-refundable fees and maintenance allowance, is provided to the eligible Scheduled Castes students, for pursuing higher education. The Scheduled Castes students having family income up to Rs. 2.5 lakh per annum are eligible for scholarship.


    (ii) Central Sector Scheme of Top Class Education for SC Students:


    Under the scheme, full financial support is provided to eligible Scheduled Castes students for pursuing studies beyond 12th class in 220 top class institutions such as, Indian Institute of Management (IIMs), Indian Institute of Technology (IITs), National Institute of Technology (NITs), National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFTs), National Law Universities (NLUs), reputed Medial/Law and other institutes of excellence, etc. The Scheduled Castes students having family income up to Rs. 6.0 lakh per annum are eligible for scholarship.


    (iii) National Overseas Scholarship Scheme for SC:


    Under the scheme, assistance is provided to the selected Scheduled Caste, Denotified, Nomadic, semi-nomadic tribes, landless agricultural labourers and traditional artisan’s students, for pursuing Master level courses and Ph.D programmes abroad in specified fields of study. The Scheme is operated through Indian Missions abroad.


    (iv) National Fellowship Scheme for SC students


    The Scheme provides financial assistance to Scheduled Caste students for pursuing research studies leading to M.Phil., Ph.D. and equivalent research degree in universities, research institutions and scientific institutions. Under the scheme, 2000 Research Fellowships (Junior Research Fellows) per year is provided to the Scheduled Caste Students.


    Under the above schemes, there is no provision for ensuring placement of students after completion of higher education.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh yesterday in a written reply to a Rajya Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/RS-1187

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556994) Visitor Counter : 297
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi