      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog Releases SDG India Index: Baseline Report 2018
      Posted On: 21 DEC 2018 2:36PM by PIB Delhi


    A single measurable Index to map progress of States & UTs towards 2030 SDGs


    The NITI Aayog today released the Baseline Report of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) India Index , which comprehensively documents the progress made by India’s States and Union Territories towards implementing the 2030 SDG targets.


    The SDG India Index, which was developed in collaboration with the Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation (MoSPI), Global Green Growth Institute and United Nations in India, was launched by NITI Aayog Vice-Chairman Dr Rajiv Kumar, NITI Aayog Members Dr Ramesh Chand, Dr VK Paul and Dr VK Saraswat, CEO Shri Amitabh Kant, UN Resident Coordinator Mr. Yuri Afanasiev and MoSPI Secretary & CSI Shri Pravin Srivastava.


    NITI Aayog has the twin mandate to oversee the implementation of SDGs in the country, and also promote Competitive and Cooperative Federalism among States and UTs. The SDG India Index acts as a bridge between these mandates, aligning the SDGs with the Prime Minister’s clarion call of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, which embodies the five Ps of the global SDG movement – people, planet, prosperity, partnership and peace.


    The world is now into the third year of the SDG era. The SDGs are ambitious global development goals that address key aspects of universal wellbeing across different socio-economic, cultural, geographical divisions and integrate the economic, social and environmental dimensions of development.


    India’s National Development Agenda is mirrored in the SDGs. India’s progress in SDGs is crucial for the world as the country is home to about 17% of the world population.


    The SDG India Index tracks progress of all States and UTs on 62 Priority Indicators selected by NITI Aayog, which in turn is guided by MoSPI’s National Indicator Framework comprising 306 indicators and based on multiple-round consultations with Union Ministries/Departments and States/UTs.


    The Index spans 13 out of 17 SDGs. Progress on SDGs 12, 13 & 14 could not be measured as relevant State/UT level data were not available and SDG 17 was left out as it focuses on international partnerships.


    A composite score was computed between the range of 0-100 for each State and UT based on their aggregate performance across 13 SDGs , which indicates average performance of State/UT towards achieving 13 SDGs & their respective targets.


    If a State/UT achieves a score of 100, it signifies that it has achieved the 2030 national targets. The higher the score of a State/UT, the greater the distance to target achieved.


    Classification Criteria based on SDG India Index Score is as follows:

              o Aspirant: 0-49
              o Performer: 50-64
              o Front Runner: 65-99
              o Achiever: 100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
OVERALL       Aspirant                                                                                                                                                                                            Assam, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Performer     Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur,                                              
              Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Telangana, Tripura, Uttarakhand, West Bengal, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman & Diu, Delhi and Lakshadweep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Front Runner  Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Chandigarh and Puducherry                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Achiever      NA                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                

    The SDG India Index is available via an interactive dashboard which has cross-sectoral relevance across policy, civil society, business and academia. The Index is designed to function as a tool for focussed policy dialogue, formulation and implementation, moving towards development action pegged to globally recognisable metrics of SDG framework.


    The Index also supplements NITI Aayog’s continuous efforts towards encouraging evidence-based policy making by supporting States/UTs to benchmark their progress, identifying priority areas and share best practices.


    The SDG India Index will also help highlight crucial gaps related to tracking SDGs and the need for India to develop its statistical systems at National & State/UT levels. This shall lead to the index evolving and becoming more comprehensive over the coming years. The indicators shall be further refined and additional indicators will be added with improvement in data collection, reporting processes & methodology. NITI Aayog is also exploring potential for disaggregating data and developing capacity for real time monitoring and measuring incremental progress.


    Overall Findings:

                                                                            
Particular                   State                      UT                  
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
SDG India Index Score Range  42-69                      57-68               
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
Top Performer/s              Himachal Pradesh & Kerala  Chandigarh          
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
Aspirant                     Uttar Pradesh              Dadra & Nagar Haveli
                                                                            
                                                                            
      * Himachal Pradesh ranks high on providing clean water & sanitation, in reducing inequalities & preserving mountain ecosystem
      * Kerala’s top rank is attributed to its superior performance in providing good health, reducing hunger, achieving gender equality & providing quality education
      * Chandigarh leads because of its exemplary performance in providing clean water & sanitation, affordable & clean energy, generating decent work & economic growth, & providing quality education

    The full SDG India Index report can be accessed here: http://niti.gov.in/content/sdg-india-index-baseline-report-2018


    The interactive dashboard can be found here: http://sdgindiaindex.socialcops.com


    *****


    AKT/KP/SBP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556936) Visitor Counter : 3342
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
*