      Ministry of Railways

      Shri Manoj Sinha inaugurates curtain raiser event on “Powering India through Innovation and Technology in Railways”
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2018 4:47PM by PIB Delhi


    Minister of State of Railways & Minister of State (IC) of Communications, Shri Manoj Sinha inaugurated curtain raiser event on “Powering India through Innovation and Technology in Railways” organised by Ministry of Railways in association with “The Institution of Engineers (India)”. Member Rolling Stock, Railway Board, Shri Rajesh Agrawal, other Railway Board Members, Sr. Officials of Railways and other dignitaries from Ministry of Railways and The Institution of Engineers (India) were present on the occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Manoj Sinha said that he is very glad that the event is being organised. He said that Indian Railways has achieved several milestones overcoming many challenges and Engineers have played a vital role in this journey. He further added that organising such events will bring a new energy and vigour in development and progress of Railways. He urged the participants of the event to deliberate upon technologies which may help in accomplishment of projects of Indian Railways on time. He also asked the participants of the event to figure out major issues pertaining to Railways and come up with innovative solutions. In the end, he congratulated the organisers for organising the event.


    BACKGROUNDER:-


    This two months long event on “Powering India through Innovation and Technology in Railways” will comprise of activities carried out on more than 100 centres on IE India in association with a similar number of Railway Units. This will bring a new focus on technological advancement in the field of automation, renewable energy, robotics, advance signalling, advance bridge technology etc. Railways will form the central core of these efforts and highlights contribution of engineering in improving service to the citizens.


    Today, there is a mass movement in Indian Railways towards becoming an extremely passenger friendly Railway with large scale introduction of mechanized laundries, mechanized base kitchens and automatic train washing facilities. Indian Railways has introduced systems to monitor condition of train from trackside and on the train. Our trains are now more energy efficient with 3 Phase technology which is able to conserve a significant amount of energy while braking and feed it back to the grid. Railways has been pulling its best efforts to reduce carbon emissions by around 3.4 million tons per annum. Indian Railways are introducing water recycling plants, waste to energy systems in progressively increasing numbers. Several workshops of Indian Railways and major production units have started using roof tops for Solar Energy generation. Our ICF coach factory uses Wind Power to meet its demand and also supply to the Grid. Unique train roof based Solar generation system have also been developed and introduced by Indian Railways.


    The event will bring a unique partnership between several lakhs strong alumni of the IE India and Indian Railways to become the catalyst in Country’s development.


    *****


    SVS/MKV/AP/ENS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1556464) Visitor Counter : 344