      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      MoS Shri Shripad Yesso Naik and Dr. Jitendra Singh lay foundation stone of Institute of High Altitude Medicinal Plants (IHAMP) at Bhaderwah in J&K.
      Posted On: 15 DEC 2018 3:55PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH Shri Shripad Yesso Naik and Union Minister of State in Prime Minister's Office (PMO) Dr. Jitendra Singh today laid the foundation stone of Institute of High Altitude Medicinal Plants (IHAMP) at Bhaderwah in District Doda in J&K.


    The estimated cost of this prestigious project is Rs. 100 crore that is to be established in the lush green valleys of charming region of Bhaderwah. Speaking on the occassion Union minister Shri Shripad Yesso Naik said that the institute will be a pioneer in research about medicinal plants found at high altitude. Dr. Jitendra Singh in his address said that this project shall also become a major source of income for the farmers in cultivation of medicinal plants.


    Present on the occassion included Principal Secretary Health & Medical Education Govt. of J&K Sh Atal Dulloo, Joint Secretary Ministry of AYUSH Govt. of India Sh. Roshan Jaggi, CEO National Medicinal Plants Board Ministry of AYUSH Govt. of India Dr. Tanuja M. Nesari, MLA Bhaderwah Sh Daleep Singh Parihar, Director Indian Systems of Medicine J&K Directorate of Indian Systems of Medicine (ISM/AYUSH) J&K Dr. Phuntsog Angchuk, among others.


    Later both the ministers also laid the foundation stone for the establishment of AYUSH Hospital at Kishtwar. Shri Naik while addressing the gathering said that the people of this hilly region shall be provided improved medical facilities at this hospital. Dr. Jitendra Singh said the Union government led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is giving priority to the holistic development of Jammu & Kashmir and health sector is prime among them.


    *****


    BB/NK/NJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556052) Visitor Counter : 661