      Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers

      Adequate Availability of Fertilizers across States during Rabi Season 2018-19
      
      States are requested to ensure timely and uniform distribution within the State: Shri D.V. Sadananda Gowda

      Posted On: 21 DEC 2018 3:00PM by PIB Delhi

    “The possibility of any kind of shortage of Fertilizers is ruled out and all the States will get the best possible support from Department of Fertilizers (DoF) in terms of timely availability of fertilizers including Urea”, said Shri D.V. Sadananda Gowda here today, while informing about adequate availability of fertilizers across States during Rabi Season 2018-19.


    The Minister said that availability of fertilizers has remained comfortable in the country in the ongoing Rabi season. In case of urea, as on date, against the pro-rata requirement of 21.33 LMT for the month of December’18, the availability across the country is 25.06 LMT. Further, urea production in various plants is as per the target. At the same time,urea produced is being moved proactively as per the supply plan to each nook and corner of the country to fulfil the field demand, Shri Gowda added.


    In addition to indigenous urea, there is nearly one million tonne of imported urea at various ports (west coast & east coast) and more than a million tonne of imported urea is expected to arrive in the months of December’18 and January’19, the Minister informed.


    Keeping in view the peak phase of urea consumption, especially in the States like Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab etc, the Department of Fertilizers, in coordination with Ministry of Railways, has already accorded priority to urea movement from both the ports of West coast & East Coast. “We are getting full support from the Railways in terms of timely availability of rakes both at plants and ports”, Shri Gowda said.


    The Minister further informed that the Department of Fertilizers is in regular touch with the respective State Governments at the level of Chief Secretary, Principal Secretary (Agriculture) and senior State agriculture officers and monitoring the situation on day-to-day basis. “The Department of Fertilizers is fully geared up to address the field demand across all the States and any kind of emergent issues. However, at the same time the States are requested to ensure timelyand uniform distribution within the State, so that the farmer get the fertilizers on time”, Shri Gowda said.


    The Minister reiterated that the situation is being monitored on hourly basis for all the States by the concerned officials of DoF, Railways and State Governments. Further all the Urea suppliers have been advised to move the inventory on top most priority to address the field demand.


    *****


    KSP/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556940) Visitor Counter : 667
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Marathi , Hindi