      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Agreement to be Signed for New STP At Kanpur on Hybrid Annuity Model
      
      The Namami Gange Project Will Work Under one City one Operator Concept

      Posted On: 20 DEC 2018 6:38PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Nitin Gadkari will attend an event in New Delhi tomorrow, to sign a Concessionaire Agreement for Sewage Treatment Infrastructure at Kanpur. Ministers of State DrSatya Pal Singh and Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal will also be present on the occasion.


    The agreement will be signed between National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) , UP Jal Nigam and the private concessionaire - consortium of M/S ShapoorjiPallonji and Company limited & SSG Infratech Limited under ‘One City – One Operator’ concept, through Hybrid Annuity based PPP mode(HAM). Under this scheme the operator will be entrusted with the development of 3 new STPs at Unnao (1.3 Crore litres per day), Shuklaganj (0.5 Crore litres per day) and Pankha (3 Crore litres per day), rehabilitation of the existing sewage treatment infrastructure with capacity of 45.7 Crore litres per day, and Operation and Maintenance of all assets for 15 years under Hybrid Annuity based PPP mode. This will ensure single point accountability, desired performance, and long term sustenance.


    The work has already been awarded to the consortium of M/S ShapoorjiPallonji and Company Limited & SSG Infratech Limited at a cost of Rs 908 Crore. 401 Kms of sewerage network in sewage district I of Kanpur with 10 years of Operation and Maintenance at a cost of Rs 370.40 Crores is under construction and will be completed by July 2020. In Bithoor, a project to treat 0.2 Crores litres per day through constructed wetland technology has been taken up at an estimated cost of Rs 13.40 Crores and work will be completed in December 2019.


    Kanpur City has a current sewage generation of about 37.5 Crores litres per day and this is expected to increase to 46 Crores Litres per day in 2035 as per the population growth. The existing treatment capacity from 6 Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) is 45.7 Crore litres per day.Unnao, Shulaganj and Bithoor generate about 18.3 Crores litres per day of sewage.


    Industrial Pollution Abatement


    20 MLD Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) at Jajmau project at an estimated cost of Rs. 554 Crore (Phase-I) is under tendering and the work would start soon for treatment of sewage generated by Tannery industrial cluster which exist in Jajmau (380 units).


    Ghat Cleaning works: Projects worth of Rs. 6.07 Crores have been sanctioned forregular cleaning of all the ghats at Bithoor& Kanpur.


    River Surface Cleaning: A trash skimmer is deployed for the removal of floating trash from the river surface at Kanpur for 3 years at an estimated cost of Rs. 2.5 crore.


    Ghats & Crematoria: C onstruction / modernization of 24 Ghats and 3 Crematoria including provision for public amenities have been taken up in Kanpur &Bithoor at a cost of Rs. 47.39 crore.


    Diversion & Treatment of waste water from Sisamau and 5 Other Drains


    A major achievement in Kanpur city has been the diversion of waste water from Sisamau Drain. This drain has been a sewerage conveyance channel since 1890s. This drain has a network of multiple tributary drains with total length of approximately 13 km and discharges nearly 14 Crores litres per day of untreated sewage into river Ganga.


    Under NamamiGanage, NMCG has approved a project worth Rs 63.80 crores in 2016 for diverting the sewage from this drain along with other 5 drains - Permiya, Guptarghat, Dabka, Nawabganj and Muirmill to the Bingawan and Jajmau STP for treatment


    The SisamauNala has been diverted in two stages.


    Stage 1: Interception of Sisamamu drain at Bakar Mandi and its diversion, under gravity, to RakhiMandi Pumping Station and eventually to Bingawan STP. Work was completed in June 2018 and 8 Crores Litres per day sewage has been diverted to Bigawan STP for treatment.


    Stage 2: Interception of the SisamauNala at VIP Road and diversion to Jajmau STP through a newly created pumping station (RSPH Pumping Station). This diversion work has been completed in November 2018 and 6 Crores Litres per day sewage has been diverted to Jajmau STP for treatment.


    Among the other 5 drains to be intercepted as part of the project, work on 3 drains namely Dabka, Nawabganj and Muirmill has been completed while work on other two drains namely Permiya&Guptarghatnala will be completed by December 2018.


    Apart from these, various projects of ghats and crematoria development, bio-remediation of drains, river surface cleaning, ghat cleaning, afforestation, rural sanitation, public outreach activities have also been taken up in the city of Kanpur.


    In Uttar Pradesh, under NamamiGange, National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) has sanctioned, a total of 73 projects have been sanctioned at an estimated cost of Rs. 9,934 Crores. Out of which, 13 projects are complete and others are under various stages of implementation. In Kanpur zone, 3 projects of sewage infrastructure at an estimated cost of Rs. 1401.43 crore have been taken up for creating industrial & domestic sewage treatment infrastructure.


    ***


    NP/SKP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1556877) Visitor Counter : 531