      Ministry of Minority Affairs

      Skill Development Schemes Through Selected Project Implementing Agencies
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2018 11:46AM by PIB Delhi


    There is no proposal to open skill centres for minorities by the Ministry. In the restructured scheme, Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karyakaram (PMJVK) under innovative project, Hunar Hubs may also be taken up for construction for enabling artisans/entrepreneurs to carry out exhibitions/Melas/food-courts/skill training in MCD Head Quarters which may be taken up for construction with 100% funding by the Ministry. The Ministry under PMJVK has sanctioned a construction of Hunar Hub at Tura, a Minority Concentration Town of Meghalaya, at the unit cost of Rs. 531.00 lakhs. The asset will enable artisans/entrepreneurs to carry out exhibitions/Melas/Food Court/Skill Training in the identified Minority Concentration Area under PMJVK.


    Further, Ministry of Minority Affairs is implementing following Skill Development schemes through the selected Project Implementing Agencies (PIAs) of their existing centres:


    (i) “Seekho aur Kamao (Learn & Earn)”: This is a placement linked skill development scheme for minorities aimed at upgrading the skills of minority youth in various modern/traditional skills depending upon their qualification, present economic trends and market potential, which can earn them suitable employment or make them suitably skilled to go for self-employment.


    (ii) Nai Manzil: Scheme has been launched on 08 th August, 2015 with an aims to benefit the minority youth who do not have a formal school leaving certificate i.e. those in the category of school dropouts or educated in the community education institutions like Madarsas, in order to provide them formal education and skills, and enable them to seek better employment in the organized sector and thus to equip them for better lives.


    (iii) The Ministry is also implementing USTTAD scheme wherein, inter-alia capacities of in traditional arts/crafts are built with a view to increasing their market potentials.


    (iv) Additionally, the Maulana Azad Education Foundation under the Ministry also implements the Gharib Nawaz Skill Development Program on the lines of Seekho aur Kamao.


    This information was given by Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha yesterday.


    ***


    RCJ/FH/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556747) Visitor Counter : 490