      Ministry of Education

      UBA running successfully to bring transformational change in rural development process
      Posted On: 17 DEC 2018 5:42PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government has launched Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (UBA) on 11th November, 2014. In this initial phase of “Unnat Bharat Abhiyan” 143 Institutes were selected on challenge mode. Subsequently UBA 2.0 has been launched on 25 th April, 2018 and till now 1832 institutes are part of UBA.


    Unnat Bharat Abhiyan aims to link the Higher Education Institutions withatleast (5) villages, so that these institutions can contribute to the economic and social betterment of these village communities usingtheir knowledge base. Unnat Bharat Abhiyan is inspired by the vision of transformational change in rural development processes by leveraging knowledge institutions to help build the architecture of an Inclusive India. It also aims to create a virtuous cycle between the society and an inclusive university system, with the latter providing knowledge base; practices for emerging livelihoods and to upgrade the capabilities of both the public and private sectors


    Objectives of the scheme are (i) To engage the faculty and students of Higher Educational Institutions in understanding rural realities; (ii) Identify and select existing innovative technologies, enable customization of existing technologies and development of new technologies, or devise implementation methods for innovative solutions, as required by people; and (iii) To allow Higher Educational Institutions to contribute to devising systems for smooth implementation of various Government Programs.


    Currently 1832 Institutions covering 33 States/UT’s are participating under the scheme.


    In the National Conference of Vice Chancellors, it was decided to expand this scheme to all private and public Institutions. To facilitate, it has been decided that from 15 th December, 2018 the portal for registration of Institutes will be open on rolling basis for enrollment of Higher Education Institutions. Also, through UGC and AICTE, all Higher Education Institutions are motivated to be part of UBA.


    The details of Higher Educational Institutes and the villages adopted may be seen below:-

                                                                                                              
S.No.  Type of Institutes         Number of Institutes  Number of villages adopted by Participating Institutes
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                              
1      Technical Institutes       1027                  5135                                                  
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                              
2      Non-technical Institutes   805                   4025                                                  
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                              
       Total (Tech. + Non Tech.)  1182                  9160                                                  
                                                                                                              
                                                                                                              

    Further details regarding Participating Institutes are available in the website of Unnat Bharat Abhiyan and may also be explored from following link:-


    http://unnatbharatabhiyan.gov.in/Progress/progress_pi


    Under the scheme Unnat Bharat Abhiyan, one project coordinator from every participating institute has been appointed, apart from Project Coordinator various staff and students are also involved in UBA activities. The state-wise/Institution wise details of engaged Faculty of 1832 Higher Educational Institutions to understand rural realities are available in the below mentioned link::


    http://unnatbharatabhiyan.gov.in/Progress/progress_pi


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/LS-1085

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556247) Visitor Counter : 633