      Ministry of Rural Development

      Basic Facilities Under SAGY
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2018 6:53PM by PIB Delhi


    The details of the Gram Panchayats identified by the Hon’ble Members of Parliament (MPs) under SAGY, phase-wise are available on saanjhi.gov.in and can be accessed using the respective logins of Hon’ble MPs.


    Under the Saansad Adarsh Gram Yojana (SAGY) framework, the development of Gram Panchayats is envisaged through convergence and implementation of existing Government Schemes and Programmes under the administrative control of respective Ministries/ Departments without allocating additional funds. The Gram Panchayats adopted under SAGY through a participatory process under the guidance of Hon’ble Members of Parliament prepare Village Development Plans (VDP) containing prioritised time-bound activities to achieve holistic progress of the village. So far, 1151 Gram Panchayats have uploaded their Village Development Plans (VDP) on the SAGY website (http://saanjhi.gov.in/) containing 63,517 projects. Out of these, implementation of 32,282 (51%) projects has been completed as on 14th December 2018. As per the Panchayat Darpan data uploaded by 690 Gram Panchayats on the Saansad Adarsh Gram Yojana portal, remarkable achievements have taken place in many of them: 427 Gram Panchayats under SAGY have achieved 100% of Children Immunization (0-6 age group), 252 Gram Panchayats have reported 100% Institutional delivery, 526 Gram Panchayats have 100% of Days Mid Day Meal (MDM) coverage to schools. Similarly, 171 Gram Panchayats reported electricity connection to all Households and 91 Gram Panchayats have safe and secure Housing facility to all Households in the SAGY villages. Likewise, 160 Gram Panchayats have now e-Panchayat Service available at Gram Panchayats Office. Many Gram Panchayats have also made efforts in the area of ensuring social and financial security in their respective Gram Panchayats by enrolling every eligible individual to Government programmes like Jan Dhan Yojana (174


    Gram Panchayats), Atal Pension Yojana (58 Gram Panchayats), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (85 Gram Panchayats), RashtriyaSwasthyaBimaYojna (70 Gram Panchayats), Widow Pension (332 Gram Panchayats), Old Age Pension (323 Gram Panchayats). Also, the following initiatives have been inter alia taken for better implementation of the Scheme:


    The guidelines of as many as 26 Central Schemes have been amended or enabled to accord priority for the SAGY Gram Panchayats. A compilation of 223 Central Sector/ Centrally Sponsored and 1,806 State Schemes for convergence under SAGY for the benefit of Members of Parliament, District and Village level officials has been prepared.


    Ministry has published a document named ‘SAHYOG’ as an indicative guidance document with the essential information on the existing social security schemes collated from respective Ministries to enrich the knowledge of villagers and village level functionaries to achieve 100% enrollment into the social/ financial Security Schemes in SAGY Gram Panchayats.


    The Ministry of Rural Development has coordinated with other Central Ministries/ Departments for ensuring provision of four key basic services viz. power, drinking water, roads and education in all SAGY Gram Panchayats.


    The Ministry organised capacity building exercises for 373 SAGY functionaries from the Phase-II/III Gram Panchayats during April-June 2018 recognising that the implementation of SAGY requires highly motivated and knowledgeable personnel.


    Further, Ministry has met with the representatives of Industry and Professional Associations linked with Ministry of Corporate Affairs and oriented them on the opportunities presented by SAGY, Mission Antyodaya and other schemes for converging private / corporate investments with the government initiatives for the development of villages.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Rural Development, Shri Ram Kripal Yadav in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/SNC/AS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1556883) Visitor Counter : 724