      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Procurement of Rice
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2018 5:34PM by PIB Delhi


    There is no decline in the procurement of paddy in terms of rice during Kharif Marketing Season (KMS) 2018-19. The procurement of paddy in terms of rice during KMS 2018-19 (as on 12.12.2018) is 209.53 LMT, as compared to 191.84 LMT in KMS 2017-18 (as on 12.12.2017).


    No complaint of irregularities in procurement affecting farmers has come to the notice of Department of Food and Public Distribution, Government of India. Following steps are taken to ensure adequate procurement facilities, so that farmers are able to get minimum support price for their produce:


    Before the onset of each marketing season, Department of Food and Public Distribution, Government of India (GOI) holds a consultative meeting with the officials of Food Corporation of India (FCI), State Governments and others to make an assessment of availability of wheat and paddy/rice for procurement at MSP based on the prospects of production and market situation.


    Minimum Support Price (MSP) operations are given wide publicity through pamphlets, banners, sign boards radio, TV and advertisements through print & electronic media.


    Farmers are made aware of the quality specifications and purchase system etc. to facilitate the farmers to bring their produce conforming to the specifications.


    Procurement centres are opened by respective State Government Agencies/ Food Corporation of India (FCI), taking into account the production, marketable surplus, convenience of farmers and availability of other logistics / infrastructure such as storage and transportation etc. Large number of temporary purchase centres, in addition to the existing Mandis and depots/godowns are also established at key points for the convenience of the farmers.


    FCI and many State Governments have developed Online Systems for procurement.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, Shri C.R. Chaudhary in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    APS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556502) Visitor Counter : 416