      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Vehicles on Clean Fuels
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2018 4:46PM by PIB Delhi


    With a view to provide impetus to the manufacturing of Electric vehicles the Government has formulated a Mission Plan for electric vehicles (including hybrid vehicles) viz. National Electric Mobility Mission Plan 2020 (NEMMP 2020). As part of the mission, Department of Heavy Industry has notified a FAME India Scheme [Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India] for implementation with effect from 1st April 2015. As per the scheme, specific projects/proposal received under the different focus areas namely Technology Development (R&D); Pilot Projects; Charging Infrastructure are funded by the Government. The Phase-I of this scheme, which was originally for a period of 2 years commencing from 1st April, 2015, has been extended till 31st March, 2019 or till Notification of FAME-II, whichever is earlier.


    To promote alternative clean fuels and e-vehicles the Government has taken proactive steps to promote environment friendly vehicles which are innovative, ushering in proactive use of natural resources keeping in view the increasing pollution, oil consumption and expenditure in the country. The Government has issued various notifications specifying mass emission standards for Compressed Natural Gas, Biodiesel(B-100), flex-fuel (E 85) or (E100) and ethanol (ED 95), LNG and flex-fuel Methanol M15 or M100, Methanol MD 95 and duel fuel vehicles. The Government has also mandated mass emission standard for BS-VI throughout the country with effect from 1 st April 2020.


    Further, for promotion of electric vehicles, Government has notified for retro-fitment of hybrid electric system or electric kit to vehicles and has specified the type approval procedure of electric hybrid vehicles. The Government has notified that the registration mark for Battery Operated Vehicles to be on a Green background. The Government, vide S.O. 5333(E) dated 18th October, 2018 has also granted exemption to the Battery Operated Transport Vehicles and Transport Vehicles running on Ethanol and Methanol fuels from the requirements of permit.


    This information was given by Union Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways Shri Mansukh L Mandaviya in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556825) Visitor Counter : 658