      President's Secretariat

      President of India Lays Foundation Stone of Kevadia Railway Station in Narmada, Gujarat
      Posted On: 15 DEC 2018 3:40PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, laid the foundation stone of the Kevadia Railway Station in district Narmada, Gujarat today (December 15, 2018). Earlier in the day, the President visited the Statue of Unity and paid his respects to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his death anniversary.


    Addressing the gathering after laying the foundation stone of the Kevadia Railway Station, the President said that coming up of this station would speed up the development of the region. It would lead to an increased flow of tourists from across the country and beyond and make their travel to the ‘Statue of Unity’ faster as well as more convenient. He said that building the Kevadia Railway Station is a tribute by Indian Railways in honour of Sardar Patel.


    The President noted that apart from being a medium of transportation, Railways is crucial for economic development. Indian Railways not only connects various parts and regions of the country but also the hearts of people across the country. He was happy to note that the Kevadia Railway Station building will be the first green building of this railway line. It will have effective methods of water management with modern facilities. He expressed confidence that Kevadia Railway Station would emerge as a fine example of balancing the goals of development and environmental protection.


    Remembering Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his death anniversary, the President said that we consider him as an icon. As the Chief Minister of Gujarat, Shri Narendra Modi had resolved to build the world’s highest statue in his honour. And that resolution became reality in form of 182 meter tall statue of Sardar Patel. Iron used in the making of this statue has been donated by farmers and ordinary citizens from across the country. These contributions symbolise the immense respect for Sardar Patel in their hearts.


    While referring to the success of Sardar Sarovar Dam Project, the President lauded the efforts of the government and people of Gujarat for effective management of water resources. Due to their efforts, he said, water could be made available to people living in water deficient regions of the State such as Saurashtra and Kutch.


    *****


    AKT/KP


    Click here to access President Speech

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556050) Visitor Counter : 850
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati