      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Manual of Operating Practices for Trade Remedy Investigations and Handbook of Operating Procedures released by Commerce Minister
      Posted On: 17 DEC 2018 4:40PM by PIB Delhi


      

      Suresh Prabhu releasing Manual of Operating Practices for Trade Remedy Investigations


      Union Minister of Commerce& Industry and Civil Aviation,Suresh Prabhu, released the first ever Manual of Operating Practices for Trade Remedy Investigations and Handbook of Operating Procedures of Trade Defence Wing, in New Delhi today. The Minister also released bilingual brochures and Trade Remedial Measures – Frequently Asked Questions, for use in outreach programmes aimed at familiarizing industry about antidumping measures, countervailing measures and safeguard measures. E-Books of all publications were also launched by the Commerce Minister. Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, C.R. Chaudhary and senior officers of Department of Commerce were also present on this occasion .


      Commerce Minister said that India is one of the largest users of the trade remedies in the world and also a target of trade remedy actions by other countries. Heexpressed the hope that documentation of practices and procedures in the form of manual and handbook willinstil a greater sense of responsiveness, accountability in the current system of governance and also usher in uniformity and transparency in functioning of DGTR. The Minister said that these publicationsreflectIndia’scommitment to have an effective rule based international trade dispute resolution mechanism which is at par with the best in the world. He expressed hope that all stakeholders would find these publications useful.


      The manual will be of help to the officers of the Directorate and will serve as a source of training, guidance, and reference for those who are working in the organization and for future entrants. These publications have been designed, written and printed by the officers of DGTR with the support of Trade Policy Division in Department of Commerce and Centre for WTO Studies, Centre for Trade and Investment Law and Centre for Regional Trade.


      The Government had brought all trade remedial investigations and trade defence under one umbrella through the creation of Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) by a Notification in May, 2018. The Trade Defence Wing provides assistance to industry in all trade remedial investigations against India.


      ***


      MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556216) Visitor Counter : 464