      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore calls upon Central Police Forces to promote hidden sports talents in their respective Force
      
      Distributes trophies to the winner teams of 67th All India Police Athletics Championship 2018

      Posted On: 14 DEC 2018 7:26PM by PIB Delhi

    67 th All India Police Athletics Championship 2018 concluded here today, with the Minister of state (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports & Information and Broadcasting Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore distributing the trophies to the winning teams.He also presented medals to the participants of the 4x400 relay race.DG, CISF Shri Rajesh Ranjan and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    Congratulating the winners of various events, Col. Rathore said that Sports promote physical fitness, team spirit andleadership qualities which is vital for the Police Forces. He commended Central Industrial Security Force (CISF)for its discipline, training, alertness and setting new standards which is visible to the entire country. He also congratulated CISF on its successful completion of 50 years.


    Referring to the successful holding of Khelo IndiaSchool games in January this year, the flag ship programme of the central government, the Minister said that Khelo Indiahas brought a new revolution in the sports arena. He informed that 1500 sports talents have been identified & they will be imparted training for next 8 years with annual expenditure on each athlete of Rs. 5 lakh.Col. Rathore further stated that perception about Games and sports is undergoing massive change and urged all the police forces to promote hidden sports talentsin their respective forcesfrom all states.A souvenir was also released by the Hon’ble Minister on the occasion.


    The 5-day event (10 th to14th Dec.) was conducted in the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium. 34 teams consisting of about 1100 players & officials from Central Police Forces and State Police participated in the Championship.


    ******


    TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556032) Visitor Counter : 252