      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Young Sports Talent
      Posted On: 20 DEC 2018 2:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Identifying and developing new and young sports talent in the country is a continuous process being undertaken by the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports through relevant sports promotional schemes.


    The following initiatives have been taken by this Ministry for identification and nurturing of sporting talents including those from rural areas:


    i. The revamped “Khelo India – National Programme for Development of Sports” has a dedicated vertical ‘Talent Identification and Development’. The relevant provisions of the Scheme are given in Annexure.


    ii A National Sports Talent Search Portal (NSTSP) has been launched by the Sports Authority of India (SAI), where players, both boys and girls belonging to various sports disciplines can register themselves and upload their performance / achievements in different sports events through an online application process.


    iii The SAI has been implementing a number of sports promotional schemes across the country to identify talented sports persons in the age group of 8-25 years including those from rural areas and nurture them to excel at national and international competitions.


    Presently, under SAI Sports Promotional Schemes 14143 talented sportspersons (9843 boys and 4300 girls) are being provided with regular sports training in 27 sports disciplines.


    Further, under Khelo India Scheme vertical ‘Talent Identification and Development’, 1518 sportspersons have been identified (upto 07.12.2018) for support under the Scheme.


    Annexure


    Relevant provisions for ‘Talent Identification and Development’ under the Khelo India Scheme


    The National competitions involving schools, colleges, Universities and NSFs under Khelo India Scheme, National Championships, and National Sports Talent Search Portal of SAI, will provide a platform for identification of talented sports persons in priority Sports disciplines in which the country has potential/advantage. In addition to selection of prize winners, the duly constituted talent identification committee may also adopt globally accepted scientific methods to spot and identify talent in various sports disciplines. The identification of talented sportspersons will be done in a transparent manner through competitive performance and assessment made through scientifically designed battery of tests. Further, a National Talent Search Portal has been launched recently which will provide seamless access to upload individual achievements. In addition, the Gujarat model of mobile van will be adopted for carrying out scientific evaluation at remote places for better identification of the talented sportspersons. During the talent identification drive sporting talent hubs, discipline wise, including indigenous games, shall be identified and duly mapped. Efforts will be made through sports academies to conduct special programmes to encourage such specific sport / game in that area.


    Out of the talented players identified in priority sports disciplines at various levels through different avenues, best talents in those sports discipline will be identified by the High Powered Committee and provided annual financial assistance, at the rate of Rs.5.00 lakh per annum, for a period of 8 years under a Long Term Athlete Development Programme. Continuation of support to an individual athlete will be subject to his/her progress/performance in the identified sports discipline concerned, ensuring the best performers, having potential to excel at the highest level, are given continuous support and non-performers/ non achievers can be taken out of the system. This will ensure a sizable bench strength that the country is lacking at present. Additional funding requirement, if any, shall be met through mobilizing CSR support.


    An amount of Rs.10 crore annually will be earmarked for maintenance of the Online Portal, identification of sporting talents through different avenues, including through advanced scientific profiling, short listing of talents and recommending the best talents for providing support. Identification of sporting talent will involve conduct of pan-India trials involving about 50,000 to 1,00,000 children by Talent Scouts (to be engaged for the purpose), in association with States/UTs. An amount of Rs.50 crore will be earmarked annually for providing annual financial assistance, at the rate of Rs.5.00 lakh per annum for 1000 athletes, for a period of 8 years, to identified athletes, under a Long Term Athlete Development Programme. Thus, Rs. 60 crore (Rs. 50 crore for talent nurturing towards Training / Coaching, Consumables & Equipment, Sports Nutrition support, Sports Science Support etc., and Rs. 10 crore for maintenance of online portal, Identification of Talent through trials, shortlisting of identified talents through Scientific profiling etc.). In the second year, when additional 1000 athletes are added, Rs. 110 crore (Rs. 50 crore each for first year and second year athletes for their talent nurturing and Rs. 10 crore for talent search and development) and so on. The expenditure will be incurred on various components mentioned above and no fee/scholarship will be paid to the athlete.


    Department of Sports will provide financial assistance as well as overall guidance, supervision and monitoring. Implementation will be through SAI and involve State Governments as well as reputed athletes and private bodies. International experts shall also be engaged for project implementation.


    This information was given by Minister of State (Independent Charge) forYouth Affairs and Sports Shri Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore Retd in a written reply to the Lok Sabha today.


    ******


    YKB/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1556774) Visitor Counter : 342