      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      India – Turkey trade should be balanced and sustainable – Suresh Prabhu
      Posted On: 18 DEC 2018 3:38PM by PIB Delhi


    Commerce Minister holding bilateral meeting with Minister of Trade, Turkey in New Delhi


    Union Minister of Commerce & Industry and Civil Aviation, Suresh Prabhu, said that India will address all the concerns of Turkey, fromagri products, banking issues, trade deficit and greater investments. The Commerce Minister said this during the bilateral meeting held with the Minister of Trade of Turkey, Ms. RusharPekcan, in New Delhi today.


    During the bilateral meeting Suresh Prabhu said that he will lead a high level business delegation to Turkey in February next year and will work with his Turkish counterparts to make sure that all the issues being raised in the bilateral meeting by the Turkish side are addressed. The Commerce Minister requested the Minister of Trade of Turkey to organize the next India – Turkey Joint Committee for Economic and Technical Cooperation meeting as early as possible so that regular discussions on issues of concern between the two countries can be dealt with. Suresh Prabhu further said that India is excited to have a Comprehensive Trade Agreement with Turkey as early as possible.


    The Draft Joint Study Group(JSG) report, discussed by both countries in August 2018, needs to be finalized soon so that negotiations may begin. India has submitted its chapter to JSG and Suresh Prabhu requested Turkey to make their submission as early as possible.


    The Commerce Minister also informed the Turkish Minister that the proposal received from Turkey to deal in local currency is under consideration of the Finance Ministry of India.


    Suresh Prabhu informed the Turkish side that the Indian aviation sector is growing at 20%, which is the fastest growth seen in the aviation sector in the world.Hundrednew airports will be constructed in the next ten years with an investment of65-billion-dollar. He requested the world class Turkish construction companies to participate in the business of the growing aviation sector in India.


    Later Commerce Minister also addressed India – Turkey business forum in New Delhi where he said that India is committed to make bilateral trade balanced and sustainable for both countries. Turkey is an important trade and business partner and both countries can benefit from each other.


    India-Turkey bilateral trade has increased significantly in the last one and a half decade. The major Indian exports to Turkey include medium oils and fuels, man-made filaments and staple fibres, automotive spare parts and accessories and organic chemicals. Turkey’s exports to India are poppy seeds, machinery and mechanical appliances, iron and steel articles, inorganic chemicals, pearls and precious stones and metals and marble.


    In 2017-18 bilateral trade was to the tune of USD 7.2 billion. Turkey’s imports from India during 2017-18 amounted to USD 5 billion and Turkey’s exports to India during the same period were USD 2.2billion.


    FDI inflow from Turkey from 2000 to 2018 stood at USD 182.18 million in areas like construction, glass and machinerieswhereasoutward investment by India into Turkey between 1998 to 2017 has been USD 121.36 million.


    ***


    MM/ SB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1556431) Visitor Counter : 446