      Ministry of Railways

      Initiatives by Indian Railways for Improvement in Passenger Amenities and Cleanliness
      Posted On: 31 DEC 2018 3:33PM by PIB Delhi


    Some of the other major initiatives taken by Indian Railways towards improvement in passenger amenities and cleanliness in trains are as follows :

     1. Upgradation of coaches including toilets in identified rakes of existing trains under Project Swarn and Project Utkrisht, and introduction of improved passenger services such as Humsafar trains and Antodaya trains.
     2. Provision of dustbins is being done in non AC coaches also in addition to the AC Coaches.
     3. Provision of health faucets in all new AC and non-AC coaches, in addition to mug with chain arrangement.
     4. Pace of installation of Bio-toilets in Coaches has been intensified. It is planned to install bio-toilets in the entire BG coaching fleet of Indian Railways by 2019.
     5. Cleaning of coaches, including toilets, is done at both ends including mechanised cleaning through professional agencies at around 145 coaching depots.
     6. On Board Housekeeping Service (OBHS) has been provided in more than 1050 pairs of trains including Rajdhani, Shatabdi and other important long distance Mail/Express trains for cleaning of coach toilets, doorways, aisles and passenger compartments during the run of the trains.
     7. ‘Coach Mitra’ facility has been introduced in about 1000 pairs of OBHS trains. ‘Coach Mitra’ is a single window interface to register coach related requirements of passengers such as cleaning, disinfection, linen, train lighting, air conditioning and watering of coaches.
     8. To improve the quality of washing of bed linen, mechanized laundries have been set up at 57 locations in the railways.
     9. Pest control treatment of coaches and rodent control measures are regularly done as per schedule.

    This information was given in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha.


    ****


    SVS/MKV/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557916) Visitor Counter : 310
    
    
    
    
    

9.