      Ministry of Tourism

      MoU signed to develop a mobile Audio Guide App for five iconic sites
      
      Letters of Intent issued to seven agencies under ‘Adopt a Heritage’ Project for Vision Bidding

      Posted On: 27 DEC 2018 4:57PM by PIB Delhi

    The Minister of State (I/C) for Tourism, Shri. K J Alphons handed over a Memorandum of Understanding under the ‘Adopt a Heritage’ project to M/s Resbird Technologies for development of a mobile Audio Guide App for five iconic sites here, today. The five iconic sites for which the mobile Audio Guide App is to be developed are Amer Fort (Rajasthan), Kaziranga (Assam), Colva Beach (Goa), Kumarakom (Kerala) and Mahabodhi Temple (Bihar). During the function, the Minister also handed over the Letters of Intent to seven shortlisted agencies for consideration under the project in presence of Tourism Secretary, Shri Yogendra Tripathi.


    The Letters of Intent were issued to the following seven shortlisted agencies:

     1. M/s Mytrah Energy India Pvt. Ltd. for Aalampur Temple, Telangana
     2. M/s HEG India Pvt. Ltd. for Bhimbetka Rock Shelters, Madhya Pradesh
     3. Mr. Amit Pasricha for photography and documentation of lesser known monuments across India
     4. M/s Akshar Travels Pvt. Ltd. for Buddhist Caves, Uparkot, Gujarat and Rani ki Vav, Patan, Gujarat and Champaner Pavagarh Archaeological Park, Champaner, Gujarat
     5. M/s DH Patel & Co. (Kinsfolk group) for European tomb, near Katargam Darwaja, Surat, Gujarat and Lothal, Bhal, Gujarat
     6. M/s Dalmia Bharat Pvt. Ltd. for Khajuraho group of Monuments, Madhya Pradesh and Mahabalipuram Group of Monuments, Tamil Nadu
     7. M/s Quality India Tours Pvt. Ltd. for Maharaja Chhatrasal Museum Complex in Madhya Pradesh

    These agencies would become ‘Monument Mitras’ through the innovative concept of ‘Vision Bidding’, which will give them the opportunity to associate their CSR activities with a heritage site if the Vision Bid is selected.


    The “Adopt a Heritage: Apni Dharohar, Apni Pehchaan” project is a collaborative effort between the Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Culture and Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), and State/UTs Governments. It aims to involve public sector companies, private sector companies and corporate citizens/individuals to take up the responsibility for making our heritage and tourism more sustainable through development, operation and maintenance of world-class tourist infrastructure and amenities at ASI/ State heritage sites and other important tourist sites in India.


    The project had seen an encouraging response from corporate and individuals with over 600 registrations on the project website opting for major and lesser known heritage sites like Red Fort, Qutub Minar, Gandikota Fort, trek to Stok Kangri to name a few. The Ministry has previously issued Letters of Intent (LoI) in five ceremonies to 37 short listed agencies for their interest in 107 sites across India . As on date, ten Memoranda of Understanding have been executed with various Monument Mitras for development, operation and maintenance of tourist amenities at heritage and tourist sites across India.


    *****


    NB/JP/Tourism-27.12.2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557467) Visitor Counter : 808
    
    
    
    
    

7.