      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Foundation Stone Laying of three ESIC Dispensaries at Mayur Vihar Ph- I, Noida Phase-II and Sector - 22, Noida
      Posted On: 28 DEC 2018 6:43PM by PIB Delhi


    Foundation stone laying of ESIC Dispensary at Mayur Vihar Ph- I:


    Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Labour & Employment laid the Foundation Stone of 5 Doctors’ ESIC Dispensary at Phase-I, Mayur Vihar, New Delhi in the august presence of Shri Mahesh Giri, Member of Parliament, Lok Sabha, Shri Bipin Bihari Singh, Mayor, East Delhi Municipal Corporation, Ms. Kiran Vaidya, Dy. Mayor, East Delhi Municipal Corporation and Shri Raju Dhingan, MLA today.


    During his address, Shri Gangwar informed that the proposed 5 Doctors’ ESI Dispensary will be spread in a plot area of 6800 sqm. and will provide OPD and Laboratory services. Due to steady increase in attendance of patients and opening of Homeopathic Services, X-ray facilities, Physiotherapy service in the existing ESIC dispensary, this new dispensary is very much needed to provide better medical facilities to the beneficiaries of Mayur Vihar and surrounding areas.


    He also informed about recently launched “ Atal Bimit Vyakti Kalyan Yojna ” of ESIC. This scheme is a relief payable directly to the Bank Account of Insured Persons in case of unemployment and while they search for new engagement.He further informed about the decision to allow non-IPs to avail treatment at under utilised hospitals of ESIC after paying nominal charges. After construction of this dispensary, ESIC National Training Centre will also be shifted here.


    Shri Mahesh Giri, Member of Parliament, Lok Sabha in his speech welcomed the opening of new ESIC dispensary at Mayur Vihar and thanked Union Govt. for this.


    Foundation stone laying of ESIC Dispensaries at Noida Phase-II and Sector - 22, Noida:


    In a separate event held at Noida Phase-II Shri Gangwar laid the Foundation Stone of ESIC dispensaries at Noida Phase-II and Sector - 22, Noida in the august presence of Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Culture and Environment, Forest & Climate Change.


    Dr. Mahesh Sharma welcomed the opening of new ESIC dispensaries at Phase-II, Noida and Sector - 22, Noida. Dr. Sharma highlighted the importance of well being of workforce. He also raised a demand to establish an ESIC dispensary at Greater Noida for the workers residing there.


    During his address, Shri Gangwar informed about the latest initiatives of Central Govt. started for providing social security cover to workers. He also informed about the ongoing recruitment process under ESIC, in which around 5000 vacancies for different posts are being filled. He also assured to look into the demand of constructing a new dispensary in Greater Noida area.


    *****


    SKP/JK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557701) Visitor Counter : 280