      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog Releases Second Delta Ranking of the Aspirational Districts
      Posted On: 27 DEC 2018 1:38PM by PIB Delhi


    Aspirational Districts were ranked on improved performance over the months of June – October 2018


    Ranking includes, for the first time, validated data from Household Surveys


    The NITI Aayog today released the Second Delta ranking for the Aspirational Districts which measures the incremental progress made by them between June 1, 2018 and October 31, 2018, across six developmental areas of Health and Nutrition, Education, Agriculture and Water Resources, Financial Inclusion, Skill Development, and Basic Infrastructure.


    The ranking factors in validated data from Household Surveys conducted by NITI Aayog’s knowledge partners, namely, TATA Trusts and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (IDInsight). The Surveys were carried out in all Aspirational Districts during the month of June 2018 covering more than 1,00,000 households. These surveys were used to validate critical data-points and provide inputs for nine further data-points for which district-level data is not readily available at regular intervals.


    Releasing the Second Delta Ranking, Shri Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITIAayog said, “We have constantly endeavoured to ensure transparent, real-time measurement of qualitative development in Aspirational Districts through the use of third-party validated data. This will strengthen the spirit of competitive and cooperative federalism on the foundations of evidence-based policy making.”


    The delta ranking is computed in a transparent manner for combined improvements made during June and October 2018.


    
    In the overall ranking, the most improved districts are as follows:

                                   
Rank  District        State        
                                   
                                   
                                   
1     Virudhunagar    Tamil Nadu   
                                   
                                   
                                   
2     Nuapada         Odisha       
                                   
                                   
                                   
3     Siddharthnagar  Uttar Pradesh
                                   
                                   
                                   
4     Aurangabad      Bihar        
                                   
                                   
                                   
5     Koraput         Odisha       
                                   
                                   

    The Second Delta ranking also details the following districts as Least Improved over the period of June – October 2018:

                           
Rank  District    State    
                           
                           
                           
107   Kiphire     Nagaland 
                           
                           
                           
108   Giridih     Jharkhand
                           
                           
                           
109   Chatra      Jharkhand
                           
                           
                           
110   Hailakandi  Assam    
                           
                           
                           
111   Pakur       Jharkhand
                           
                           

    The districts which have shown great initiative and displayed a qualitative jump in their scores between June and October 2018, have been dubbed as ‘Fast Movers’:

                                          
District, State    June 2018  October 2018
                                          
                                          
                                          
Kupwara,           108        7           
Jammu and Kashmir                         
                                          
                                          
                                          
Ranchi,            106        10          
Jharkhand                                 
                                          
                                          
                                          
Siddharthnagar,    103        3           
Uttar Pradesh                             
                                          
                                          
                                          
Jamui,             99         9           
Bihar                                     
                                          
                                          
                                          
Fatehpur,          82         25          
Uttar Pradesh                             
                                          
                                          

    The delta ranking of the Aspirational Districts combines the innovative use of data science with pragmatic administration, keeping the district at the locus of inclusive development. This positioning is expected to aid the District Magistrates/Collectors to focus more on these sectors and improve their ranking in future.


    About ‘Transformation of Aspirational Districts’ programme


    Launched by the Prime Minister in January this year, the ‘Transformation of Aspirational Districts’ programme aims to quickly and effectively transform some of the most underdeveloped districts of the country.


    The broad contours of the programme are Convergence (of Central & State Schemes), Collaboration (of Central, State level ‘Prabhari’ Officers & District Collectors), and Competition among districts driven by a Mass Movement or a Jan Andolan . With States as the main drivers, this program will focus on the strength of each district, identify low-hanging fruits for immediate improvement, measure progress, and rank districts.


    The Government is committed to raising the living standards of its citizens and ensuring inclusive growth for all – SabkaSaath, SabkaVikas.


    To enable optimum utilization of their potential, this program focuses closely on improving people’s ability to participate fully in the burgeoning economy. Health & Nutrition, Education, Agriculture & Water Resources, Financial Inclusion & Skill Development, and Basic Infrastructure are this programme’s core areas of focus.


    After several rounds of consultations with various stakeholders, 49 key performance indicators have been chosen to measure progress of the districts. Districts are prodded and encouraged to first catch-up with the best district within their state, and subsequently aspire to become one of the best in the country, by competing with, and learning from others in the spirit of competitive & cooperative federalism.


    ***


    AKT/KP/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557434) Visitor Counter : 15739
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Tamil