      Ministry of Education

      UGC and AICTE have taken up Several initiatives to improve teaching quality in Higher Education
      Posted On: 31 DEC 2018 6:21PM by PIB Delhi


    Government is serious about improving the quality in teaching in higher education. In this regard, University Grants Commission (UGC) and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) have taken various initiatives. Some of these initiatives are as under:


    (i) Diksha - It is a platform for teachers which enables capacity building of all categories of teachers. It helps over 50 lakh teachers in improving the quality of education. Teachers upload their own material on the portal, which also offer online courses, allow sharing of best content, monitor progress and introduce energized text books with QR Code.


    (ii) Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme (TEQUIP)- This is a quality improvement program in technical education. In phase III, hill states of J&K, Himachal and Uttarakhand, 8 North-eastern States, Andaman Nicobar, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and Assam has got Rs.2,600 crore. This ensures bridging the regional gaps in technical education. 1200 IIT and NIT graduates have opted for 3 years teaching in educationally backward regions. They have resumed their duties in 53


    government engineering colleges where faculty vacancies were large. Thus 1,00,000 students get quality education which they were deprived off till recently.


    (iii) Global Initiative of Academic Networks (GIAN) – Under GIAN, 700 professors from 58 countries have so far conducted about 1120 courses in specialized topics for students in Indian Higher Educational institutions. More than 40,000 students and associated Indian Faculty has benefited from this international teaching exposure.


    (iv) Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya National Mission for Teachers Training (PMMMNMTT) – Under this scheme in-service training programs for more than 1,00,000 college and university teachers have been organized. Newly appointed teachers undergo six months pedagogical training, so they can make good rapport with students and the quality improves.


    (v) INTER UNIVERSITY CENTRES (IUCS) : To improve the standards of higher education and research, t he UGC establishes Inter-University Centres for Teachers Education within the university system under Clause 12(ccc) of the UGC Act.


    Annual Refresher Programme in Teaching (ARPIT) is a 40 hours programme with 20 hours of video content offered in a highly flexible format which can be done at one’s own pace and time. The programme has built-in assessment exercises and activities as part of the academic progression in the course. At the end of the course, there is a provision for terminal assessment which can be either online or written examination. The course offered under the ARPIT programme is treated as equivalent to one Refresher Course for the purposes of Career Advancement. This helps in assessment of teachers.


    AICTE has issued All India Council for Technical Education (Career Advancement Scheme for the Teachers and other Academic Staff in Technical Institutions) (Degree) Regulations, 2012. Each faculty member submits performance based appraisal system(PBAS) in a performa as evolved by the concerned institution/ University duly supported by all credentials as per the Academic Performance Indicator(API) guidelines set out in these regulations.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/LS-2993

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557968) Visitor Counter : 364
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu