      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Prime Minister launched website of Cyber Coordination Centre during DGP Conference
      
      Shri Narendra Modi announced institution of a national honour for National Unity
      
      Posted On: 23 DEC 2018 4:31PM by PIB Delhi


    This year’s Conference of Director Generals of Police held a special significance because it was organized at Kevadiya in Narmada district of Gujarat, under the shadow of the Statue of Unity. It is worth mentioning that it was Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel who, as the Home Minister of the Country, had inaugurated the first Conference of Inspector Generals of Police in Delhi in 1948. For this reason, Sardar Patel’s message of National Unity was the underlying theme of this year’s Conference.


    Drawing inspiration from Sardar Patel’s contribution to National unity, the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi announced the institution of a new national honour for National Unity on the pattern of Padma Awards. This will be awarded once every year. This Award would be open to every Indian who has contributed to national unity in any manner.


    The Prime Minister also released a commemorative postal stamp on the National Police Memorial. Prime Minister also released a special issue of Indian Police Journal on Police martyrdom, published by the BPR&D.


    The PM also suggested that a national level parade may be organized by Police forces of about 3-4 States near the Statue of Unity every year on 31 st October, the birthday of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. This day is also observed as National Unity Day. This need not be a traditional parade but may be a demonstration of Police capabilities.


    The Prime Minister also launched the website of the Cyber Coordination Centre. This is a one stop shop on all cyber related issues, whether it is cyber crime or cyber security. It would also act as bridge between law enforcement agencies on the one hand, and academia and private cyber security professionals on the other. The Conference also focused on improving cyber security in the country and on preparing the Police forces to prevent and investigate cyber crimes and financial frauds.


    Concluding the 3-day Conference, the Prime Minister lauded the contribution of the Police forces in maintenance of internal security scenario. The Prime Minister directed the Heads of Police forces to take steps towards creating a more responsive and sensitive Police force. The Prime Minister emphasized that coordination of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and central agencies with the State Police forces and coordination amongst neighbouring States was absolutely essential for successfully dealing with complex issues of crime prevention and management of law & order in the country.


    The Prime Minister advised the DGsP to make imaginative use of information technology to reach out to all sections of society through websites and apps to provide various Police related services and safety advisories. He highlighted the misuse of social media by anti-national forces for creating mass unrest and for radicalizing vulnerable youth in this context.


    A Large number of issues concerning internal security, Criminal Justice System, terrorism, Left Wing Extremism and bridging the gap between Police and public were discussed at the Conference. The focus of the Conference was on achieving better coordination amongst all the Police forces.


    The Conference entailed deliberations on the need to reform the criminal justice system of the country by bringing about the necessary changes in Police training and preparedness to investigate new age crimes. Capacity building of the Police forces in investigation, cyber crimes and crime against women were also discussed at the Conference. The Director Generals and other Senior Police officials highlighted the challenges being faced by law enforcement agencies due to misuse of social media to spread terror and child porn. They emphasized the need to improve compliance of the existing legal provisions with the help of all stakeholders.


    The Prime Minister arrived on 21 st December, and along with assembled DGs and senior officials of MHA, attended the colourful and well coordinated “Ek Bharat Sreshtha Bharat Parade” at the Statue of Unity where the flags of all security forces were carried and displayed by the Police Officers representing different States, Union Territories and Central Armed Police Forces. The Mahila Battalion of CRPF and the commandos of NSG and CRPF also gave a stirring performance at the parade on the theme of National Unity.


    Shri Rajnath Singh, Union Home Minister, inaugurated the Conference on 20 th December, after offering floral tributes to Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel at the Statue of Unity. In his inaugural address, he congratulated the assembled heads of State Police and DGs of Central Armed Police Forces on maintaining the safety and security of citizens and for bringing about significant improvements in the law & order situation in the country during last 12 months. He also honoured the SHOs of the best Police stations in the country.


    *****


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557090) Visitor Counter : 1445
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil