      AYUSH

      50-day Countdown begins for Unani Day 2019
      Posted On: 22 DEC 2018 11:34AM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Council for Research in Unani Medicine (CCRUM), will launch tomorrow a 50-day countdown for Unani Day 2019. During the next 50 days, the CCRUM and its regional institutes / centres would organize a host of activities and events as a run up to Unani Day which is celebrated on 11 th February every year. The countdown activities would include marathons, writathon, quiz competitions, public health talks, daily health tips for the general public, workshops, etc. The 23 institutes / centers of the CCRUM would start their functioning with a five-minute public talk on the role of Unani Medicine in the management of different diseases with the objective of creating awareness among the patients, their attendants and general public.


    Unani Day is a great occasion for the Unani fraternity which is celebrated in a great way throughout the country. To celebrate Unani Day 2019, the CCRUM would organize a two-day National Conference on Unani Medicine for Public Health, a ceremony for distribution of AYUSH Awards for Unani Medicine, an exhibition of industry and academia, an event for release of the CCRUM’s publications and many more events in the national capital.


    Unani Medicine has been playing an important role in public health especially in combating NCDs, lifestyle disorders and various chronic diseases by providing cost effective Unani treatment and quality products for patient healthcare.


    The National Conference will have dedicated sessions on lifestyle disorders and their management, Regimen therapy, mother and child care, geriatric care, integration and mainstreaming of Unani Medicine in public health and globalization of Unani Medicine. In the presence of dignitaries from different walks of life, the scientific deliberations by luminaries of Unani System of Medicine is expected to attract participation from experts, academia, researchers, and other related stakeholders of Unani Medicine from all over the country. The objective is to provide an excellent platform for sharing of knowledge and development of linkages between Institutes and organizations engaged in the promotion and development of Unani Medicine.


    11th February, the birthday of Hakim Ajmal Khan, was adopted as Unani Day by the Ministry of AYUSH, Government of India in 2016 in recognition of his contribution as an eminent Indian Unani physician. The Ministry of AYUSH also adopted a scheme for AYUSH Awards for Unani Medicine which has the provision of conferring 12 Awards each year in different categories - Best Research Paper Award, Young Scientist Award, Best Teacher Award, and Lifetime Achievement Award. The CCRUM celebrated first Unani Day in Hyderabad and second in New Delhi in 2017 and 2018 respectively.


    ***


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557049) Visitor Counter : 1653