      Ministry of Railways

      Measures to improve Quality of Food in Indian Railways
      Posted On: 27 DEC 2018 5:41PM by PIB Delhi


    To improve the quality of food served following measures have been taken:


     1. Upgradation of Base Kitchens/Kitchen Units.

     2. Installation of CCTV in Base Kitchens and their centralized monitoring.
     3. Sharing of live streaming of the Base Kitchens through website of IRCTC made operational.
     4. Deployment of Food Safety Supervisors.
     5. Examination of quality of food, hygiene and cleanliness in pantry cars by third party audit.
     6. Provision of E-Catering services at railway stations.
     7. Introduction of Optional Catering and Ready to Eat (RTE) Meals on selected trains.
     8. Upgradation and revision of a la carte Menu on selected trains.
     9. Display of Menu/Tariff list.
    10. Introduction of Eco-friendly Sugar Bagasse (Biodegradable) packaging material.
    11. Provision of Service trolleys in Rajdhani and Duronto trains.
    12. Provision of Hand sanitizers in Rajdhani/Shatabdi/Duronto trains.
    13. Meal Trays of bio-degradable material with air tight sealed cover for packing of meals from kitchens is being introduced initially on selected Rajdhani and Duronto trains.
    14. Introduction of Automatic vending machines on Humsafar trains.
    15. Provision of tablets to on board catering supervisors for passenger feedback and inspection applications.
    16. Qualification and experience of on board Catering Service Staff has been fixed.
    17. Introduction of Hand held PoS machine along with QR code on pilot basis on selected trains.
    18. Customer satisfaction survey by Third Party Agencies.
     1. Monitoring and supervision of catering service through Operation of centralized Catering Service Monitoring Cell (CSMC) toll free number 1800-111-321, Operation of All India Helpline No. 138, Twitter handle, CPGRAMS, E-Mail and SMS based complaints redressal.

    This information was made available in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha.


    ****


    SVS/MKV/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557494) Visitor Counter : 360
    
    
    
    
    

1.