      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ Ceremony of Alimco’s Auxiliary Production unit and Limb Fitting Center held in Ballabhgarh, Faridabad
      Posted On: 29 DEC 2018 5:05PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment attended the ‘BhoomiPujan’ ceremony function of ALIMCO’s Auxiliary Production Unit and State-of-the-Art Limb Fitting Center as the Chief Guest in Village Nawada,Tigaon, Ballabhgarh, Faridabad here today. The foundation stone for establishment of State-of-the-Art Rehabilitation Center for Fitment of Artificial Limbs and an Auxillary Production Unit of Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India (ALIMCO) was laid on 16 th June this year.


    The process for establishing ALIMCO’s State-of-the-Art Limbs Fitting CenterandAuxillary Production Unit is a result of efforts and initiative taken by Shri Krishna Pal Gurjar, as the demand of such facility was often requested by citizens of the region especially the Divyangjans. Chief Minister Haryana extended his support for this initiative and approved to lease out the appox. 5 Acre land at Village NawadaTigaon, Block Ballabhgarh, District Faridabad (Haryana) to ALIMCO at the lease rate of Rs. 1/- per Acre per year for establishment of State of Art Rehabilitation Center for fitment of artificial limbs.


    State-of-the-Art Limbs Fitting Center(LFC)is first of its kind rehabilitation facility that will be provided by ALIMCO which will be equipped hi-end machines for providing best and quality service to the Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjans).Contemporary Assistive Aids and Devices like Motorized Tricycle, Wheelchairs, Walking Stick and Crutches etc. will be manufactured in ALIMCO’s Auxillary Production Unit of Nawada, Faridabad.This new establishment will help to cater not only the Divyangjan of Faridabad but also the adjoining NCR area.


    ALIMCO is a “Not ForProfit” Central Public Sector Undertaking working under the administrative control of Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Govt. of India and has been manufacturing various types of aids & appliances on mass scale to meet the requirements of the Persons with Disabilities (PwDs), across the country. At present ALIMCO has 5Auxiliary Production Centres (AAPCs) situated at Bhubaneswar (Orissa), Jabalpur (MP), Bengaluru (Karnataka), Chanalon (Punjab) and a new production unit in Ujjain. The Auxiliary Production Centre of Faridabad will the sixth unit for manufacturing modern assistive device.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/MoSJ&E/29.12.2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557768) Visitor Counter : 421