      Ministry of Culture

      Ministry of Culture: Year End Review- 2018
      
      Two year long celebrations to mark the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi launched
      
      Mumbai's Victorian Gothic and Art Deco Building declared as World Heritage by UNESCO
      
      India hosts its first ever Theatre Olympics-2018 with participation of 25,000 artists from the globe across 17 cities
      
      Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsavs under the Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat matrix Celebrated
      
      Kabir Mahotsav held in Maghar, Uttar Pradesh in memeory of 15th century poet-saint
      
      Seva Bhoj Yojana of financial assistance to charitable religious institutions offering free community kitchens launched
      Posted On: 21 DEC 2018 6:00PM by PIB Delhi


    The mandate of the Ministry of Culture revolves around the functions like preservation and conservation of the country’s cultural heritage and promotion of all forms of art and culture, both tangible and intangible. The Ministry’s task is to develop and sustain ways and means through which the creative and aesthetic sensibilities of the people remain active and dynamic. The functional spectrum of this Ministry is wide ranging from generating cultural awareness at grassroots level to promoting cultural exchanges at international level.


    The year 2018 saw many events and efforts in fulfilling the mandate given and also further showcasing India’s Culture Richness and Heritage on International Platform. Beginning of two -year long celebrations to Commemorate150 Years of Gandhi Jayanti, 550th Birth Anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, Celebration of 75th Anniversary of Formation of Azad Hind Government, Birth Centenary celebration of Smt. Vijaya Raje Scindia, inauguration of Dharohar Bhawan- A new ASI Building Headquart at New Delhi, Path breaking Findings at the Excavation Site at Sanauli, Uttar Pradesh which caught attention of International experts and various events of Ek Bharth, Shresth Bharat were some of the important highlights for the ministry this year.


    THE SALIENT ACTIVITIES AND ACHIEVEMENTS DURING THE YEAR 2018

      * NAI hosted Special Exhibition to Commemorate the 70 years of Accession of Jammu and Kashmir to India

    The Minister of State for Culture (Independent Charge) and Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Mahesh Sharma inaugurated an exhibition on “INDIA @ 70: THE JAMMU & KASHMIR SAGA” on the occasion of 70 years of Accession of Jammu & Kashmir to India, in New Delhi on 11th January,2018. The month long exhibition was curated by the National Archives of India of


    Ministry of Culture . Through this interactive Digital Exhibition, the National Archives of India aimed to portray the historical narrative of the Kashmir Conflict, sensitizing the younger generation and creating awareness about the heroism, valour and sacrifice of our Armed forces and civilians.


      * Mumbai's Victorian Gothic and Art Deco Building declared as World Heritage by UNESCO


    In yet another landmark achievement this year , India’s nomination of the "Victorian and Art Deco Ensembles of Mumbai " has been inscribed on UNESCO's World Heritage list.


    This makes Mumbai city the second city in India after Ahmedabad to be inscribed on the World Heritage List. In the past 5 years alone, India has managed to get inscribed seven of its properties/sites on the World Heritage List of UNESCO. India now has overall 37 World Heritage Inscriptions with 29 Cultural, 07 Natural and 01 Mixed sites. While India stands second largest in number after China in terms of number of World Heritage properties in ASPAC (Asia and Pacific) region, it is overall sixth in the world.


      * 7th Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav held in KARNATAKA


    To celebrate the idea of unity in diversity, the Ministry of Culture organized the 7 th edition of the Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav under the Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat matrix in Karnataka beginning January 14, 2018. The State paired with Karnataka is Uttarakhand . The Mahotsav covered a profusion of art forms from classical and folk, music and dance, theatre to literature and the visual arts and offered the chance to experience the best in established and emerging virtuosity. A handloom and handicrafts-utsav was part of the event. The gastronomic culture of several partnering states was showcased through a food festival.


      * Sangeet Natak Akademi Awards presented by President of India


  * The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, presented the Sangeet Natak Akademi’s Fellowships (Akademi Ratna) and Sangeet Natak Akademi Awards (Akademi Puraskar) for the year 2016 at a function held at Rashtrapati Bhavan on January 17, 2018. Speaking on the occasion, the President said that art connects people with culture.


      * First ever International Kala Mela held in Delhi


    The First ever International Kala Mela was inaugurated by the Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu in New Delhi on 4 th February 2018. The International Kala with the aim to promote the spirit of Unity in Diversity and the relevance of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat. With a total of 325 exhibition stalls, it has more than 800 participants from across the globe. These participants were from countries such as China, Venezuela, Peru, Portugal, Srilanka, Poland, Tunisia, Mexico, Bangladesh, Trinidad, Tobago, Fiji, France, Papua New Guinea, Czechia, UK, Spain and Brazil. The Festival was organized from February 4 th , 2018 to February 17 th , 2018 at the IGNCA, New Delhi.


      * NSD, Ministry of Culture hosted the 8th Theatre Olympics


    The Vice President of India Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu inaugurated the 8th Theatre Olympics 2018 at the majestic Red Fort in New Delhi on 17th February, 2018. The Theatre Olympics 2018 travelled to 17 Indian cities with 450 shows, 600 ambience performances and 250 power packed youth forum shows with participation of 25,000 artists from the globe. The festival concluded on 8th April 2018, with a grand ceremony at the iconic Gateway of India in Mumbai.It was the first ever Theatre Olympics to be held in India.


      * Ganga Sanskriti Mahotsav- RAS BANARAS organised in Varanasi


    Celebrating the creative and cultural industries of Varanasi, the two day long Sanskriti Mahotsav organised by the Ministry of Culture “Ras Banaras – Swachhagrah – Bapu ko Kaaryaanjali” at Man Mandir and Assi Ghat began in Varanasi on 21 st Februray 2018 . Integrating the tangible and intangible heritage along the river-belt; different institutions/missions like the National Mission for Clean Ganga and Namami Ganga Jagriti Yatra, the academia, artists, artisans, writers, poets, environmental and cultural forums came together giving the cultural expressions to the conservation and protection of the river


      * 8th Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav held in Madhya Pradesh


    Continuing its endeavour to promote India’s Heritage, Ministry of Culture is organising a week long diversified cultural carnival ‘Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav’ in Madhya Pradesh that began at Maan Mandir Fort, Gwalior on 24th February,2018.. To celebrate our plural traditions, under the Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat matrix Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav in Madhya Pradesh was enjoined with Nagaland and Manipur as its pairing states. The festival Travelled in 2 cities of Madhya Pradesh i.e. Bhopal andIndore from 26 th February to 28th February 2018.


    Archaeological Survey of India’s excavations at the Sadiqpur Sanauli village of Bhagpat, Uttar Pradesh


    The Archaeological Survey of India under the Excavation Branch-II, undertook excavations at the Sadiqpur Sanauli village of Bhagpat, Uttar Pradesh, from the month of March 2018 onwards. Previously in 2004-05, Sanauli was excavated by ASI and found 116 burial remains. The present excavated area is about hundred & twenty mtrs away from the same.


    Total eight number of burial remains were unearthed in which three are Coffin burials, three secondary burial including one twin burial and two symbolic burials. All burials are unique having individual characteristics with some common features. Burial No.1, 3 and 6 are wooden coffin burials in which No.3 and 6 having copper plating and decorations. All burials have pottery, placed all around the skeleton generally big pots kept near the legs and bowls and flasks are arranged near the head indicating North West direction. These hint that the Burials belong to Warrior Class habitants and that they drove a Chariot powered by an animal. This discovery puts Indian Civilization on par with other ancient civilizations like Mesopotamia and Greece, where Chariots were extensively used. It is for the first time that Swords dating to this era has been found in a Burial Pit in India.


    These Preliminary findings reveal that based on the archaeological evidences, Sanauli Grave Culture goes back to around 2000 BCE to 1800 BCE (Copper Bronge age).


      * First ever International Print Biennale held in Delhi


    I n keeping with its role as the country’s National Academy of Art, the Lalit Kala Akademi hosted the first-ever International Print Biennale in the country with a record number of 17 countries taking part in it. The first-ever International Exhibition of Graphic Prints ‘ Print Biennale India 2018’ opened on 25th March,2018 at the Rabindra Bhavan Galleries of the Lalit Kala Akademi in New Delhi. A total number of 988 entries at the national level were received of which 127 have been chosen for display. The number of entries at the international level was 137 of which 50 artists have been selected. A total of 73 artworks of international artists are on display. While, the ‘Eminent Printmakers of India’ show consists of 98 artists were displayed at the NGMA galleries from Monday 26 th March till April 22 nd , 2018.


      * Madhavpur Mela Organised in Gujarat to celebrate the immortal journey of Rukumini from Arunachal Pradesh to Gujarat


    Madhavpur Mela- a diversified cultural festival celebrating the human connection and cultural linkages through the legend of Rukmini and Krishna as depicted in our oral, textual, visual and performing traditions was organised during 25th to 29th March,2018 witnessing folk dance - songs & shopping in full swing. The Mela was organised in the spirit of ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’ campaign of the Prime Minister and symbolized unity in diversity of the country and established the East to West connect.


      * Buddha Jayanti celebrated in the presence of Prime Minister in Delhi


    On the occasion of Buddha Jayanti 30th April,2018, the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi joined the celebrations at Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium, in New Delhi. Organised by the Ministry of Culture, Government of India and the International Buddhist Confederation (IBC), the celebrations was attended by the Minister of State for Culture (I/C), Dr. Mahesh Sharma, the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju , Ven Dr. Dhammapiya, Secretary General, International Buddhist Confederation (IBC) ; Buddhist monks and Buddhist representatives from various countries including Sri Lanka, Vietnam, Thailand as well as India among others..


      * President of India holds first meeting of NIC to celebrate 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, chaired the first meeting of the National Committee for the Commemoration of the 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, at Rashtrapati Bhavan on May 2, 2018. The Committee has a total of 125 members, including 116 from India and encompasses the President (as chair), the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Union Ministers, former Prime Ministers, Chief Ministers, senior MPs and political leaders from across party lines, and eminent Gandhians, social thinkers and activists representing a cross-section of Indian society and regional diversity. The Committee also has nine international members, including two former Secretaries General of the United Nations – Mr Kofi Annan and Mr Ban Ki-moon – and Nobel laureates Archbishop Desmond Tutu of South Africa and former US Vice-President Al Gore. Meeting was attended by 82 members of the Committee, including two from abroad.


      * Culture Minister laid the Indian Delegation SCO Summit held in Sanya, Hainan


    The Minister of State for Culture, Dr Mahesh Sharma led the Indian delegation to the 15th Meeting of the Cultural Ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Member States held in Sanya, Hainan province, on 16 th and 17 th May, 2018. India participated for the first time at the Meeting of Cultural Ministers of the SCO. Speaking at the meet, Minister of State for Culture, Dr. Mahesh Sharma said that India has a long history of cultural exchanges with China and other SCO member states. Joining the SCO has provided a new platform, greater space and opportunities for exchanges and cooperation, the Culture Minister added.


      * 9th Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav held in Tehri, Uttarakhand


    Continuing its endeavour to promote India’s rich cultural Heritage, Ministry of Culture organised 3 day long diversified cultural festival ‘Rashtriya Sanskriti Mahotsav’ festival which was inaugurated on 25th May,2018 by Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat, at Koti Colony, Near Tehri Lake, Uttrakhand,The North Zone Cultural Centre (NZCC), Patiala was entrusted with the responsibility as the nodal agency to carry forward the execution of the National Cultural Festival under the banner of the slogan “EK BHARAT SHRESHTHA BHARAT”.


    Kabir Mahotsav held in Maghar, Uttar Pradesh


    The two day ‘Kabir Mahotsav’ organized by the Ministry of Culture to commemorate the 500 th year of death anniversary (punya tithi) of 15 th century poet-saint Kabir was organised during 28th and 29th June,2018 with much fanfare in Maghar, Sant Kabir Nagar District of Uttar Pradesh. Artists and Artisans from all over the country with several cultural performances rejuvenated the tone of spiritualism through folk music and dance along with musical and theatrical performances. In its journey of 2 days in Maghar, Sant Kabir Nagar, Uttar Pradesh the festival was graced and addressed by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on 28th June,2018.The two day festival was organized by the Ministry of Culture to portray the glory of Kabir’s literature and his message of oneness uniting all sections of the society. Various folk music and dance along with musical and theatrical performances were presented in which artists and artisans from all over the country participated celebrating the plural traditions of Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat.


      * Five Diploma and Six Cerificate Courses introduced by IGNCA


    Country’s premier Arts organization- Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA)- an autonomous institution under the Union Ministry of Culture, Government of India introduced five diploma courses and 6 new Certificate Courses in art and culture and related subjects this year. Basic aim of these courses is to create arts and culture with all its dimension and information technology to design and develop content exploration system to intensify culture learning and visualisation.. The details of 5 one year Post Graduate Diploma evening courses introduced to attract the people towards Indian art and to nurture trained manpower in the related fields, in the academic year 2018-19 are-

     1. PG Diploma in Cultural Informatics
     2. PG Diploma in Preventive Conservation
     3. PG Diploma in Buddhist Studies
     4. PG Diploma in Digital Library and Data Management
     5. PG Diploma in Manuscriptology and Palaeography

    In addition to the above courses, IGNCA will be introducing 6 new Certificate Courses shortly:

     1. Academic Integrity and Research Ethics
     2. Open Access for Library and Information Science Professionals
     3. Open Access for Researchers
     4. Digital Library and Information Management
     5. Research Methodology
     6. Cinema Studies and Cultural Documentation
      * Prime Minister inaugurated Dharohar Bhawan- A new ASI BuildingHeadquartrer

    The Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi, inaugurated ‘Dharohar Bhawan’ - the new Headquarters building of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), - at 24, Tilak Marg in New Delhi on 12th July,2018..


    The new Headquarters building of ASI has been equipped with state-of-the-art facilities, including energy efficient lighting and rainwater harvesting. It includes a Central Archaeological Library with a collection of about 1.5 lakh books and journals. The library is a unique and valuable treasure trove in India and the World for those who are keen to undertake research work in the field of Archaeology, Religious and Cultural perspective of India, India’s ancient past and allied subjects.


    ASI Lifted the Ban on Photography


    The Archaeological Survey of India, an organisation under the Ministry of Culture, Government of India, in an order issued on 12th July,2018, decided to allow photography within the premises of all centrally protected monuments/sites.


      * Illumination of Red Fort


    The historic Red Fort came alive as it saw thefirst ever architectural illumination of its front fortification wall and the two important gateways Lahori Gate and Delhi Gate on 10th August,2018. The illumination ceremony was held in the presence of Minister of State for Culture (Independent Charge), Dr. Mahesh Sharma.The world famous 17th century Mughal era monument has been lit up with architectural lighting also known as ‘element illumination’ to enhance itsarchitectural beauty after sunset.


      * NAI hosted Exhibition on Banned Literature during Freedom Movement


    Minister of State for Culture (Independent Charge) and Minister of State for Environment Forest and Climate Change, Dr. Mahesh Sharma inaugurated an exhibition entitled ‘Prathibandhit Sahitya mein Swatantrata Sangram’ (Freedom Movement through Proscribed Literature) in the premises of National Archives of India, in New Delhi on 10th August. Exhibition is based on the unique collection of proscribed literature in its possession. This exhibition of proscribed literature was from vast collection of poetry and prose that portrays the nationalistic fervour prevalent in the days of freedom struggle. These were written in almost all the Indian languages such as Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, Marathi, Oriya, Punjabi, Sindhi, Tamil, Telugu Urdu, Assamese etc. which included speeches, articles, essays etc. and published in different parts of the country.


    Government of India Launches Seva Bhoj Yojana


    The Ministry of Culture, Government of India has launched the new scheme namely ‘ Seva Bhoj Yojna’ on 01.08.2018, with a total outlay of Rs. 325.00 Crores for Financial Years 2018-19 and 2019-20.


    The scheme envisages to reimburse the Central Government share of Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) and Integrated Goods and Service Tax (IGST)so as to lessen the financial burden of such as Religious / Charitable Institutions who provide Food/Prasad/Langar (Community Kitchen)/Bhandara free of cost without any discrimination to Public/Devotees.


      * President launched Logo and Portal for commemoration of 150th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind launched the logo and the web portal ( http://gandhi.gov.in/ ) for commemoration of 150 th birth anniversary of Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, at Rashtrapati Bhawan today.


    The webportal is participatory in nature and all the participating organizations will be able to upload their activities regarding commemoration on the website. It also has a unique feature Gandhipedia which will be a repository of Gandhian knowledge and will continue to grow with time.


    The two year long celebrations from 2 nd October, 2018 to 02 nd October, 2020 will be held across the country and all over the globe to mark the 150 th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.


      * Birth Centenary celebration of Smt. Vijaya Raje Scindia


    The Government of India decided to celebrate the birth centenary of Smt. Vijaya Raje Scindia, Rajmata of Gwalior, from 11 October 2018 to 11 October 2019. A commemorative coin of Rs. 100 denomination and commemorative postage stamp is proposed to be released in her honour during the commemoration period.


      * Rejuvination of Lake and Illumination of Purana Qila inaugurated by Dr. Mahesh Sharma


    The rejuvenated lake and illumination of Purana Qila was inaugurated by Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State (I/c) for Culture on 3rd October, 2018 in the presence of Smt. The Archaeological Survey of India has initiated several developmental works at Purana Qila since May 2018, which include refurbishment of the moat to the west and northwest of the fort, illumination, landscaping the area, development of a Central Antiquity Museum, upgradation and repairs of existing pathway, installation of publication counter, installation of publication counter, introducing e-ticketing system with turnstile arrangement, conservation of excavated remains, development of garden, parking facility and souvenir shop for the benefit of visitors.


      * Foundation stone laid for Museum on Prime Ministers of India in Delhi


    A “Museum on Prime Ministers of India” is to be set up in Delhi. Union Minister for Culture Dr. Mahesh and Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Shri Hardeep Singh Puri laid the Foundation stone for proposed Museumat Teen Murti Estate, in New Delhi, on 15th October,2018.


    The proposed Museum is to depict Modern India through collections relating to each of the Prime Ministers of India, their lives, works and significant contributions made towards nation building. It will provide an interactive and informative experience to the visitors and youth of India through state of the art audio-visual technology and effective modes of communication.


      * Celebration of 75th Anniversary of Formation of Azad Hind Governmentin the Presence of Prime Minister


    Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi on 21st October,2018, hoisted the National Flag at Red Fort and unveiled the plaque to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of formation of Azad Hind Government, formed by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. The commemoration of this significant historical event was also attended by Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State for Culture(I/c), Shri Chandra Kumar Bose, nephew of Netaji, Shri Lalti Ram, INA Veteran and Brig. R.S. Chikkara.Prime Minister congratulated the nation on the proud occasion of 75 th anniversary of formation of Azad Hind Government.


      * Tagore Culture Award Declared for the years of 2014, 2015 & 2016


    The Tagore Award for Cultural Harmony for the years 2014, 2015 & 2016 was conferred on the doyen of Manipuri dance Sh. Rajkumar Singhajit Singh; Chhayanaut (a cultural organization of Bangladesh) and on one of India’s greatest sculptors, Sh. Ram Vanji Sutar, respectively.The Jury under the Chairmanship of Prime Minister, Sh Narendra Modi and comprising of the Chief Justice of India, Justice Ranjan Gogoi, Shri N. Gopalaswami & Dr. Vinay Sahasrabuddhe after detailed discussions on 24 th October, 2018 unanimously decided to select Sh. Rajkumar Singhajit Singh, Chhayanaut and Sh. Ram Vanji Sutar to be the recipients of the Tagore Award for the years 2014, 2015 & 2016 respectively, in recognition of their outstanding contribution to cultural harmony.


      * 550th Birth Anniversary Celebration of Shri Guru Nanak Dev ji


    Government of India has decided to commemorate 550 th Birth Anniversary of Shri Guru Nanak Dev Ji from November, 2018 at national as well as international level in a befitting manner. The Year long Celebration starting Novmber 23rd this year will include a number of commemorative as well as constructive activities will be taken up during the commemoration period. A number of religious activities like kirtan, katha, prabhat pheri, langar and educational activities such as seminars, workshops, lectures etc. will be organised. SGPC, Amritsar will be the knowledge partner of the Government of India. Commemorative coin and postage stamp will also be released.Chairs in the name of Sh. Guru Nanak Dev Ji will be set up in UK and Canada. An international seminar will also be organised. A National Institute of Inter Faith Studies will be set up in Punjab.


      * South Asia Regional Peace Conference organised by GSDS


    Gandhi Smriti and Darshan Samiti (GSDS), has organized a 3 day ‘South Asia Regional Youth Peace Conference’ in partnership with UNESCO- MGIEP and Standing Together to Enable Peace from November 28-30, 2018. The conference held at Gandhi Darshan, Rajghat, Delhi, India. The conference was organized to mark the beginning of celebration of 150 th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.


    ****


    NB/PS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557020) Visitor Counter : 7678
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Bengali , Tamil
    
    
    

*