      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      15044 ITIs functioning in the Country
      Posted On: 31 DEC 2018 3:39PM by PIB Delhi


    There are 15044 Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) functioning in the country, affiliated with National Council of Vocational Training.


    Directorate General of Training under Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship has been making continuous efforts to improve the quality of training being offered by the ITIs functioning in the country, which includes:


     1. Prescribing new Affiliation Norms for ITIs for quality training.

     2. Regular inspection of ITIs and de-affiliation of ITIs to weed out ITIs not conforming to the NCVT norms & standards.
     3. ISO 29990 Certification of ITIs to raise the overall quality and standards.
     4. Grading of ITIs to evaluate their performance.

     1. Introduction of new trades & removal of obsolete trades for industry relevance.

     2. Regular up-gradation of training content of ITI curriculum as per industrial requirement
     3. Aligning the course of CTS to National Skills Qualification Framework (NQSF)
     4. Implementation of ‘Dual System of Training’ in ITIs leading to better ITI – Industry linkage.
     5. Training and re-training of ITI Instructors.
     6. Up gradation of infrastructure of ITIs through following centrally funded schemes:
     1. World Bank assisted Vocational Training Improvement Project (VTIP).
     2. Up-gradation of 1396 Government ITIs through PPP.
     3. Up-gradation of existing Government ITIs into Model ITIs.

    Vocational Training is a concurrent subject under the Constitution wherein the Central Government is entrusted with the responsibility of formulation of policy, laying down training standards, norms. New ITIs (Govt./Pvt.) are setup under administrative control of concerned State Directorate/Union Territory. DGT has been taking prompt action on receipt of proposal from the State/ UT for opening of new ITIs.


    T his information was given by Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri AnantKumar Hegde in a written reply to the Lok Sabha today.


    ******


    YKB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557920) Visitor Counter : 237
    
    
    
    
    

3.