      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Khelo India Scheme to achieve mass participation and promotion of excellence in sports
      Posted On: 27 DEC 2018 2:40PM by PIB Delhi


    The revamped Khelo India Scheme was launched during the financial year 2017-18 with a view to achieving the twin objectives of mass participation and promotion of excellence in sports. The vision of the revamped Khelo India is to infuse sports culture and achieve sporting excellence in the country. The mission as stated in the revamped scheme is to encourage sports for all thus allowing the population across gender and all age groups to harness the power of sports through its cross-cutting influence, namely, holistic development of children & youth, community development, social integration, gender equality, healthy lifestyle, national pride and economic opportunities related to sports development.


    Under the Khelo India the identified sports talents will be given the option to join SAI National Sports Academies, State Sports Academies or Sports Academies established by private sector. Grants-in-aid will be provided for establishment, operation and maintenance of sports academies in respect of identified disciplines to Sports Authority of India, State Governments or to private sector or sports person under Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode for facilitating and supplementing Long Term Athlete Development (LTAD) programme (for 8 years). The best academies might be at National, Regional or State level, both in public and private sector. Academies will be identified for need-based support, both recurring and non-recurring, by inviting proposals from suitable entities. A system would be developed for rating of academics to facilitate selection of appropriate academics for support. At least one academy for Para Athletes will be supported.


    This information was given by Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Youth Affairs and Sports Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore (Retd) in a written reply to the Lok Sabha today.


    ******


    YKB/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557442) Visitor Counter : 472
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi