      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Guidelines issued to ensure transparency in Selection of Sportspersons
      Posted On: 27 DEC 2018 2:40PM by PIB Delhi


    The development and promotion of various disciplines of sports including selection of players for various national and international sports competitions is the responsibility of the concerned National Sports Federations (NSFs). The NSFs work in an autonomous environment and the Government is not directly involved in their functioning, including selection of sports persons. However, to ensure transparency in selection process Government has issued guidelines according to which selection of sportspersons for major international events is to be done by a Selection Committee.


    Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports (MYAS) through Sports Authority of India (SAI) has been implementing various sports promotional schemes to tap sports talents throughout the country irrespective of their financial status. Under the Schemes – SAI Training Centres (STC), Special Area Games (SAG), sports talents belong to rural, tribal, coastal, hilly and backward areas of the country are selected. The selected trainees are provided financial support in the form of expert coaches, sports equipment, boarding and lodging, sports kit, competition exposure, educational expenses, medical/ insurance and stipend as per the approved scheme norms.


    Under the Scheme of Assistance to National Sports Federations, the Government supports the identified sportspersons, including those from weaker sections of society/teams for intensive coaching through national coaching camps, foreign exposures / competitions etc.


    Further, under Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS), customized training is being provided to identify sportspersons at the state-of-the-art sports institutes/ academies within the country and abroad.


    This information was given by Minister of State (Independent Charge) forYouth Affairs and Sports Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore (Retd) in a written reply to the Lok Sabha today.


    ******


    YKB/TFK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1557440) Visitor Counter : 349
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam