      Ministry of Education

      Prize money for National Inter School Band Competition will be increased from Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 50,000 from next year - Shri Prakash Javadekar
      Posted On: 21 DEC 2018 7:28PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri Prakash Javadekar graced the National Inter School Band Competition event as a Chief Guest today at New Delhi. Former Chief of the Naval staff Admiral R. K. Dhowan was the guest of honour at the event. The Union Minister distributed prizes to the winning teams. While speaking on the occasion Shri Javadekar announced that winning amount for the first prize will be increased from present amount of Rs.20, 000 to Rs. 50,000 from next year. Prize money for the second and third rank will also be increased accordingly. He congratulated all the winners and participants for their tremendous efforts and performance. He urged all the parents to encourage their children to participate in such events. He further said that those students who do practice for such events they have better concentration on studies therefore parents should not get worried about their studies.


    16 Winning teams comprising around 400 students from the Zonal Inter School Band Competitions held in 6 zones across the country and schools from Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan & Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti competed at the National Level Competition at Thyagaraj Stadium, New Delhi.


    The Department of School Education and Literacy had started the Inter School Band Competition in the year 2017. The competition is organized at three levels viz. State, Zonal and National. A separate competition is held for boys and girls teams. The winning teams of the 6 zones, one each of boys and girls, competed in the National Level competition. The KVS and NVS have also conducted their own competitions in the similar pattern and 2 winning teams, one boys and one girls team competed at the National Level event. The programme concluded with a group performance by all the participating students.


    The Inter School Band Competition provide a national platform to the students to display their skills like timing, rhythm and synchronization while working together and capturing the essence of ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’. At the same time they will have an opportunity to showcase their talent before a large audience. This will help inculcate the spirit of patriotism and unity among school students that comes with performing in a band.


    *****


    NB/AKJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557035) Visitor Counter : 198