      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog to Release Second Delta Ranking under the Aspirational Districts Programme
      Posted On: 26 DEC 2018 4:43PM by PIB Delhi


    NITI Aayog will release the Second Delta Ranking of the Aspirational Districts Programme (ADP) tomorrow, i.e. December 27, 2018. Shri Amitabh Kant, CEO NITI Aayog will release the Second Delta Ranking under ADP and brief the media on this occasion.


    The ranking will measure the incremental progress made by districts between June 1, 2018 and October 31, 2018.


    The districts have been ranked in a transparent basis on parameters across Health & Nutrition, Education, Agriculture & Water Resources, Financial Inclusion & Skill Development, and Basic Infrastructure through key performance indicators. The rankings are based on the data that is publicly available through the Champions of Change Dashboard, which includes data entered on a real-time basis at the district level.
    The rankings, for the first time, will also factor in inputs from household survey conducted by NITI Aayog’s knowledge partners, namely, TATA Trusts and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF).


    The Aspirational District Programme was launched by the Prime Minister on January 5, 2018. It aims to rapidly transform the districts that have shown relatively lesser progress in key social areas and have emerged as pockets of under-development, thereby posing a challenge to ensure balanced regional development.


    The first Delta ranking for the Aspirational Districts was released in June 2018.It ranked the Aspirational Districts on improved performance across five developmental areas of Health and Nutrition, Education, Agriculture and Water Resources, Financial Inclusion and Skill Development, and Basic Infrastructure, over the months of April and May 2018, on the basis of self-reported data.


    ****


    AKT/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557374) Visitor Counter : 2138
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Malayalam