      Ministry of Education

      Several steps have been taken up to promote minorities’ education in the country
      Posted On: 31 DEC 2018 6:26PM by PIB Delhi


    The details of new steps taken to promote education of minorities are :-

     1. Schemes of Pre-Matric Scholarships, Post-Matric Scholarships, Merit-cum-Means based Scholarships, Maulana Azad National Fellowships, Naya Savera – Free Coaching & Allied scheme and Maulana Azad Education Foundation that are meant for educational empowerment of notified minority communities. To facilitate the same periodic reviews are undertaken with State Governments / UT Administrations and banks. The Naya Savera – Free Coaching and Allied Scheme is implemented through Government / Private Coaching Institutions empanelled by Ministry of Minority Affairs (MOMA). The Government has also taken action for involving independent monitors in this regard. Besides, Maulana Azad National Fellowship (MANF) implemented by University Grants Commission (UGC) under Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode is also meant to promote education of minorities.
     2. Scheme of Support for minority students clearing prelims conducted by Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) / Staff Selection Commission (SSC) / State Public Service Commissions (PSCs), etc. is implemented by the Ministry of Minority Affairs by calling applications from the candidates selected in the preliminary examinations conducted by them. The candidates are verified with the help of their admit card of preliminary examination results, etc., and the funds are transferred directly to their bank accounts.
     3. The guidelines of USTTAD (Upgrading the Skills and Training in Traditional Arts / Crafts for Development) provide for conduct of concurrent monitoring and random checking of physical and financial reports on the Management Information System (MIS) through independent agency.
     4. The guidelines of Seekho aur Kamao (skill development initiative for minorities) provide for conduct of concurrent monitoring and random checking of physical and financial reports on the Management Information System (MIS) through an independent agency.
     5. Multi-sectoral Development Programme (MsDP): Under Prime Minister’s New 15 Point Programme for the Welfare of Minorities (PM’s New 15-PP), an Oversight Committees at the District and State levels monitors the progress of implementation of MsDP. At the Central level, there is a three tier monitoring mechanism to review the progress of implementation of MsDP. The Empowered Committee (EC) in MOMA, under the chairmanship of Secretary, Ministry of Minority Affairs, serves as the oversight committee to monitor the progress of implementation of MsDP.
     6. Scholarship Scheme for Jammu & Kashmir have been launched by MHRD, to encourage the youth from J&K to take advantage of the educational institutions outside the State and provide them an opportunity to interact with their counterparts from the rest of the country and be a part of the mainstream. 5000 (2070 General Courses, 100 Medical Courses, 2830 Professional Courses) scholarship are provided annually.

    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/LS-3131


    

    
    (Release ID: 1557976) Visitor Counter : 498
    
    
    
    
    

6.