      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Inauguration of renovated & upgraded 100 beded ESI Hospital in Bhubneswar
      Posted On: 24 DEC 2018 5:56PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi dedicated the renovated and upgraded 100 bedded ESI Hospital, Bhubaneswar (Odisha) to the Nation from IIT Campus, Bhubaneswar along with the basket of different projects of Govt. of India on 24.12.2018 (Monday).


    The other dignitaries to grace the occasion were Professor Ganeshi Lal, Governor, Odisha, Shri Naveen Patnaik, Chief Minister, Odisha, Shri Jual Oram, Minister of Tribal Affairs, Govt. of India, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Govt. of India and Dr. (Prof.) Prasanna Kumar Patasani, MP, Bhubneswar.


    In his address, the Prime Minister said that the existing 50 bedded ESI Hospital Bhubaneswar has been renovated & upgraded to 100 bedded hospital with a project cost of Rs. 73 crore (aprox.). Equipped with all the modern facilities, this hospital will provide good medical care to beneficiaries under ESI Scheme of Bhubaneswar area. He said that the Central Govt. is working to provide the good quality medical care to every citizen of India. For this purpose, Wellness Health Centres are also being opened under ‘Ayushman Bharat Yojana’ to provide medical care in the remotest part of India.


    The other projects inaugurated/foundation laid during the event were of Ministry of Road Transport & Highways, Ministry of Human Resource Development, Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas, Govt. of India, etc.


    ESI Scheme in India


    The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation is a pioneer Social Security organization providing comprehensive social security benefits like reasonable Medical Care and a range of Cash Benefits in times of need such as employment injury, sickness, death etc. The ESI Act applies to premises/precincts where 10 or more persons are employed. The employees drawing wages up to Rs.21, 000/- a month are entitled to health insurance cover and other benefits, under the ESI Act. The Act now applies to over 10.33 lakh factories and establishments across the country, benefiting about 3.43 crores Insured Persons/Family Units of workers. As of now, the total beneficiary population of ESI Scheme stands over 13.32 crores. Ever since its inception in 1952, the ESI Corporation has, so far, set up 154 Hospitals, 1500/148 Dispensaries / ISM Units, 815 Branch/Pay Offices and 64 Regional & Sub-Regional/Divisional Offices.


    *****


    RCJ/FH/JK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557237) Visitor Counter : 353