      Ministry of Power

      Hundred percent household electrification achieved in 25 states
      
      2.39 crore households connected since the launch of Saubhagya scheme

      Posted On: 31 DEC 2018 6:29PM by PIB Delhi

    The Nation has achieved yet another milestone in the power sector with completion of electrification in hundred percent household in 25 states at the year end.


    Now, only about 10.48 Lakh households are left to be electrified in 4 States viz., Assam, Rajasthan, Meghalaya and Chhattisgarh. These States are also taking all concerted efforts to achieve, at the earliest, saturation of household electrification in their respective States.


    The Minister of State (IC) for Power and New & Renewable Energy Shri RK Singh congratulated all these States for achieving this herculean task. Taking note of the volume of electrification work that was completed in UP, Shri Singh thanked Shri Shrikant Sharma, Energy Minister, UP during a meeting with him here today.


    Since launch of Saubhagya, in the State of Uttar Pradesh 74.4 Lakh willing households have been electrified and State Government has declared saturation of all 75 districts. Government of Uttar Pradesh has launched a special campaign in all parts of the State to identify any left out un-electrified households and to provide electricity connections to such households. Under the campaign, a special vehicle ‘Saubhagya Rath’, is moving around in villages/towns and any left out households may approach them to avail electricity connection under the scheme. Also, any left out household requiring electricity connection may dial 1912 to avail the facility.


    Government of India launched ‘Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana’ (Saubhagya) in Sept. 2017 to achieve the goal of universal household electrification in the country by 31st March 2019. The scheme envisages to provide last mile connectivity and electricity connections to all remaining households in rural as well as urban areas. The Government with the support of State Power Departments and DISCOMs have already connected about 2.39 Crore households since launch of scheme.


    *******


    MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557979) Visitor Counter : 1099
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi