      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Expert guidance to scale up the performance of Elite players at Olympics
      Posted On: 31 DEC 2018 3:16PM by PIB Delhi


    Expert guidance to scale up the performance of elite players at Olympics has been taken from time to time. In the recent past, three different expert committees namely, Expert Committee on Sports Sciences (2011), Olympic Task Force (2017) and Core Committee on Sports Sciences (2016), having sports scientists as members, have deliberated on various aspects of sports science services and delivery to elite athletes including preparation for Olympic 2020, 2024 and 2028.


    Mandate of Expert Committee on Sports Sciences, 2011 was to do gap analysis of the existing sports science set-up at Sports Authority of India (SAI) as well as the requirements in the sports sector as a whole to enhance performance of our sportspersons and support excellence in sports.


    This Committee also deliberated on the issues of Sports Nutrition as a special requirement for athletes to improve performance and aid recovery and rehabilitation from injuries.


    Olympic Task Force was mandated, inter alia, to prepare a Comprehensive Action Plan, including short-term, medium-term and long-term measures for effective participation of Indian sportspersons in the Olympics to be held in 2020, 2024 and 2028.


    Core Committee on Sports Sciences deliberated on the requirements of sports science infrastructure, latest technology & equipements and specialized manpower to be posted for providing sports science cover to athletes across various levels of participation. This Committee also prepared a template of sports science set up right from district to state and regional level.


    The Olympic Task Force, constituted with specific mandate of preparing a Comprehensive Action Plan, including short-term, medium-term and long-term measures for effective participation of Indian sportsperson in the Olympics to be held in 2020, 2024 and 2028, has submitted its final report and provided strategic steps to win more medals in Olympics.


    The Committee has recommended to adopt a threefold strategy that is Athlete Centric, Coach-led and System Driven approach for podium finish.


    This information was given by Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Youth Affairs and Sports Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore (Retd.) in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha today.


    ******


    YKB/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557909) Visitor Counter : 327