      Vice President's Secretariat

      Develop a constructive attitude and follow the developmental agenda: VP;
      
      Instil the feeling of ‘nation first’ among the youth: VP;
      
      Youth must become partners in national development: VP;
      
      Liberate society from stereotypes and mischief:VP.
      
      Presents Yashwant Rao KelkarYuvaPuraskar
      Posted On: 29 DEC 2018 6:31PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M Venkaiah Naidu has asked students, youth and politicians to develop a constructive attitude towards development of the nation. He furthercautioned that a destructive attitude would not do good for the nation and its people. ‘Youth are the future of any nation and they must work towards shaping India that is free of hunger, discrimination and inequalities based on cast creed and gender’, he added.


    Shri. Naidu said that student organizations such as VidyarthiParishad must instil the feeling of ‘nation first’ among the youth and encourage them to actively participate in national development.


    Shri Naidu said that youth participation in governance can bring about the desired changes in the society and asked the youth to become volunteers in taking the benefits of government programs and policies to the beneficiaries.


    He also said that youth must be trained in disaster relief activities and skill development programs so that their service can be utilized to supplement the efforts of government agencies.


    The Vice President presented the awards instituted in the memory of Yashwant Rao Kelkar at the 64 th National Conference of Akhil Bharatia Vidyarthi Parishad in Ahmedabad, Gujarat and said that the awards recognize the achievements of young social and political activists and inspire others to take up activities in the interest of the nation and thereby become partners in nation building.


    The Vice President said that the youth must abandon maladies like humiliation of women, casteism and come out of the burdens of unimpressive stereotypes to keep democratic creativity alive.


    The Vice President said that the young India’s aspirations and their united efforts would determine the future of the country. Shri Naidu asked the youth to preserve, protect and promote India’s rich culture, tradition and values. He also stressed the need to liberate society from stereotypes and mischief.


    Expressing his strong faith in the secular values of India, Shri. Naidu said that secularism was safe in India because it is ingrained in the country’s DNA. ‘Tolerance is at the core of India’s value system’, he said.


    On this occasion, Vice President lauded the program of introducing students from North-Eastern States to other states of the country by the Student Council.


    The Governor of Gujarat, Shri OP Kohli, Education Minister of Gujarat, Shri Bhupendrasinh Manubha Chudasama and thousands of students from all the states attended the 64 th National Conference of Akhil Bharatia Vidyarthi Parishad.


    ********


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557774) Visitor Counter : 401
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati