      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      ‘Sadaiv Atal’—Samadhi of Bharat Ratna & Former PM Atal Behari Vajpayee to be dedicated to the Nation tomorrow--reflects his personality as a Poet, Humanist statesman& a Great Leader
      
      Central Samadhi platform comprises nine square black polished granite solid stone blocks, capped with a ‘Diya’ in centre--number nine represents Navarasas, Navaratras &Navagrahas
      
      Samadhi enclosed by nine bas-relief walls with inscriptions of Prose/ Poetry of Atalji which can be read while taking a Pradakshina On outer circular path
      
      Initiative to develop his samadhi was taken up by “Atal Smriti Nyas Society” formed by Eminent Persons
      
      Stones from various parts of country used in construction of Samadhi - emphasizing unity in Diversity
      
      Samadhi completed by CPWD--entire cost borne by ‘Atal Smriti Nyas Society’

      Posted On: 24 DEC 2018 2:59PM by PIB Delhi

    “Sadaiv Atal’, the Samadhi of Bharat Ratna & former PMSh Atal Behari Vajpayee which will be dedicated to the nation on 25 th Dec, 2018-- reflects Atalji’s personality as a poet, humanist, statesman & a great leader. The central Samadhi platform comprises of nine square black polished granite solid stone blocks, capped with a ‘diya’ in the center. The number nine holds significance and represents the navarasas, navaratras and navagrahas. The placement of the nine square Samadhi is in a circular lotus shaped pattern. The nine-square platform is accessed in four cardinal directions by pathways made in white composite tiles so that the floor does not get heated. The Samadhi is enclosed by nine bas-relief walls which have inscriptions of the prose/ poetry of Atalji which can be read by the visitor while taking a pradakshina on the outer circular path.


    Atalji’s thoughts and vision are a source of great inspiration to the people of the Country. In order to enable the people to pay their respects to the great soul, an initiative to develop his Samadhi was taken up by the Society -“Atal Smriti Nyas Society” (registered under the Societies Registration Act XXI of 1860) formed by eminent persons. The founding members of the Society include Smt. Sumitra Mahajan, Shri Lalji Tandon, Shri O.P Kohli, Shri Vajubhai Rudabhai Vala, Shri Vijay Kumar Malhotra, Shri Ram Lal Ji and Shri Ram Bahadur Rai.


    A vacant piece of land has been made available near Rajghat for the Samadhi by the Govt, which the Society would develop and maintain at their own costas a public place. The earmarked land for the Samadhi will continue to remain with the Government.


    Stones from various parts of the country-- emphasizing unity in diversity have been used in the construction of the Samadhi. The Main Samadhi stone is monolithic zed black sourced from the best quarries of Khammam, Telangana. The parikrama area is laid in white composite tiles, which does not get heated in the sun. Diya, which is centrally placed on the top of Samadhi is made up of leather finish black granite sourced from Khammam and the flame of Diya is made in Crystal with LED lights placed inside. The inner petals, the outer petals and the area in between the intersection of petals which form a part of outer parikrama are laid in colour composition of Crystal Yellow and Neo Copper granite which are sourced from the best quarries of Abu Road, Rajasthan. Pathways are laid in leather finish black granite.


    The Samadhi has been completed by CPWD at a total cost of Rs. 10.51 Crores. The entire cost of construction of the Samadhi has been borne by the Atal Smriti Nyas Society.


    *****


    RJ/KGS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1557154) Visitor Counter : 776
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi