      Vice President's Secretariat

      Every child should be encouraged to take up some form of sporting activity: Vice President
      
      Sports should become an essential element of education;
      
      Compliments Ace Badminton Player P.V. Sindhu for her accomplishments;
      
      P.V. Sindhu meets Vice President
      Posted On: 24 DEC 2018 2:07PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu complimented Ace Badminton Player Ms. P.V. Sindhu for her recent victory where she has scripted history by becoming the 1st Indian to win BWF World Tour Finals. She made all of us proud, he said after interacting with Ms. Sindhu and her family members who called on the Vice President, in Hyderabad today.


    Shri Naidu appreciated Ms. Sindhu for being consistent with her performance and said that she was a role model for youngsters. The youth must draw inspiration from her dedication, hard work, and passion for the game, he added.


    Talking about the importance of sports, and physical activity in improving the overall personality of a human being, the Vice President said that every child should be encouraged to take up some form of sporting activity from early days. He said that participating in sports will instill confidence, team spirit and helps children to become better human beings.


    Saying that it was essential to be a healthy nation to become a wealthy and prosperous nation, the Vice President stressed the need for the younger generation to stay healthy to take active participation in the development of our nation. We must remember that it is essential to be a healthy nation to become a wealthy and prosperous nation, he added.


    Shri Naidu complimented Badminton coach Shri Pullela Gopichand and all those training the sports talent in our nation and lauded their efforts in mentoring the sportsmen and athletes. He also complimented Ms. P.V. Sindhu’s parents for supporting her career throughout.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557141) Visitor Counter : 535
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Tamil