      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot Awards Certificates to Interns of Internship Programme on Community Service
      Posted On: 31 DEC 2018 2:46PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment awarded certificates to the Intern students of “ Internship Programme on Community Service” at its culmination function organized by Dr. Ambedkar Foundation here today. Smt. Neelam Sawhney, Secretary, Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, senior officials of the Ministry and youth entrepreneur, Ms. Annu Meena were present on the occasion.


    Addressing on the occasion, Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot said that the internship programme is a very useful and praiseworthy initiative as it will sensitize the students about national integrity, affection towards the nation and is deciding their role in social and economic development of the country.


    An internship programme for the students of some reputed institutions from Delhi and NCR was organized in Dr. Ambedkar International Centre from 17-31 December, 2018. In all, 114 students have participated in this programme out of which 73 are from General category, 20 from Other Backward Classes, 14 form Scheduled Caste, 6 from Scheduled Tribes and 4 students are Divyaangs. The purpose of internship programme was to sensitize the students about national integrity, fraternity, affection towards the nation, deciding their role in social and economic development and to get inspiration from on-going constructive work in society.


    The Internship programme was greatly enriched by generous association with very distinguished and senior civil servants, civil society leaders, eminent academicians and others. Many officers from different departments of the Government of India and intellectuals from many institutions delivered lectures in the training programme on subjects like ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’, Indian Constitution, Development from village to society and community services.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/SJ&E/ 31-12-2018

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557903) Visitor Counter : 262
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi