      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Promotion of Manufacturing Sector
      Posted On: 27 DEC 2018 11:49AM by PIB Delhi


    The growth of manufacturing sector as measured by the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) with base year 2011-12, has been consistently increasing over the past three years and the current year.


    Growth rate (in per cent) of manufacturing sector, as per Index of Industrial Production

                                                                                            
Year                                2015-16  2016-17  2017-18  2018-19                      
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                               (April-October) (Provisional)
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
Growth                              2.8      4.4      4.6      5.6                          
                                                                                            
                                                                                            
                                  
Source : Central Statistics Office
                                  
                                  

    The Make in India initiative was launched in 2014, which aims at promoting India as an important investment destination and a global hub in manufacturing, design and innovation. This initiative also aims to create a conducive environment for investment, development of modern and efficient infrastructure, opening up new sectors for foreign investment and forging a partnership between Government and industry through a positive mind set. With the objective to create an assured domestic demand for manufacturers who are genuinely making in India, an enabling provision to promote domestic value addition in public procurement has been made by issuing the Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order 2017 (amended on 28.05.2018)


    Overall performance of manufacturing sector is an interplay of several factors like domestic demand, demand for exports, level of investment and prevailing prices. Several steps to boost domestic manufacturing are being taken as part of schemes such as Start-up India, Ease of Doing Business, Modified Industrial Infrastructure Upgradation Scheme, Business Reform Action Plan and Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) Policy. Further, Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) policy and procedures have been simplified and liberalized progressively.The Government has notified North East Industrial Development scheme (NEIDS) to continue benefits for the industrial units in North Eastern Region and Industrial Development Schemes for J&K, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The scheme for budgetary support to the eligible units located in the States of J&K, Himachal Pradesh, North Eastern States including Sikkim under GST regime has also been notified.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Commerce and Industry, C. R. Chaudhary, in a written reply in the Lok Sabha.


    ***


    MM/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557426) Visitor Counter : 1043