      Ministry of Science & Technology

      Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inaugurate 106th Indian Science Congress (ISC)-2019 on 3rd January in Jalandhar, Punjab.
      
      Union Cabinet ministers including Science &Technology Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan and Textile Minister SmritiIrani, Nobel Laureates, eminent Scientists from across the world to attend the mega event.
      Posted On: 30 DEC 2018 3:25PM by PIB Delhi


    World’s largest science meet ‘Indian Science Congress (ISC)-2019’is going to be held from 3rd to 7th January 2019, in Jalandhar, Punjab. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 106th edition of ISC-2019, based on the theme ‘Future India: Science and Technology’ on 3rd January. PM Modi will also address about 30,000 delegates including many Nobel Laureates, Union Cabinet Ministers of India, science policymakers, administrators, eminent scientists, young men-women researchers & school children from across India & abroad. During the five day long congress, around 100 plus conferences and events of scientific and technology origin will also be held, where eminent personalities from DRDO, ISRO, DST, AIIMS, UGC, AICTE, and many elite universities of the USA, UK, India and other countries will participate. Union Cabinet ministers including Science and Technology Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan and Textile Minister SmritiIrani will also attend the event.


    Union Science and Technology Minister, Dr. Harsh Vardhan believes that the 106 th edition of Science Congress with its theme of FUTURE INDIA – Science and Technology would help showcase what is being done, what can be done and what would define the future of Science and Technology in India. “Government’s aim is to deliver the benefits of Science & Technology to the last man in the society and scientists being a pivot should put their heart and soul into finding new solutions to the problems facing the nation and improve the quality of life of common man.”, said Dr. Harsh Vardhan in his message.


    The event will play a pivotal role in stimulating scientific research effort and raising the scientific temperament in the country and the world. The Nobel Laureates who will be participating include German-American biochemist Prof. Thomas Sudoph, who has been awarded the 2013 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for work on vesicle trafficking; a Hungarian-born Israeli biochemist and Nobel laureate in Chemistry Prof.Avram Hershko; and, a British born physicist Frederick Duncan Michael Haldane who has been awarded 2016 Nobel Prize in Physics.


    General President, Indian Science Congress Association (ISCA) Dr Manoj Kumar Chakrabarti believes that 106th session of ISC will be a milestone for the future development of India since it is going to provide a great platform to exchange ideas and innovations among young minds. Chancellor of Lovely Professional University, where the five-day long Congress is going to be held, Mr Ashok Mittal expresses his happiness on organizing one of the foremost scientific events of the world, which interests the international scientific community. Mr Mittal added, “a special ‘Solar powered Multi-Seated Driver-Less Bus’ is also designed and created by our engineering students, and this will ferry PM Modi to the ISC venue. It is the only second time for a University of Punjab to organize this herculean science spectacle.


    To be inaugurated on the 2nd day of ISC, 4th January 2019, Children’s Science Congress will target 10-17 years of children for carrying forward innovation and research in science to a next level. Near 150 science projects finalized by DST are to be showcased, and children will also have the opportunity to listen, interact with eminent scientists and Nobel Laureates.


    On the third day of ISC, two-day Science Communicators’ Meet- 201 9 will be inaugurated, where the main aim will be to brainstorm ways of dissemination of scientific information and inculcation of scientific attitude among masses. Various Journalists from top media-houses would also be a part of communicators’ meet.


    With inauguration on 5th January, ‘ Women’s Science Congress’ will showcase the contribution of women in Science, Technology and the Society. Here, renowned women scientists and leaders from Government, academia and industry, who are decision-makers will be delivering lectures and participate in panel discussions for promoting talent among women. In addition, there would be 14 Plenary Sessions chaired by science and technology stalwarts, which will be an added bonanza for the gathered science community.


    Other major attraction of ISC-2019 will be ‘Pride of India’ Expo to be organized separately under six gigantic stalls specially raised at LPU Campus. Exhibition organization is to popularize science amongst the youth to further prepare brilliant scientists and innovators of tomorrow. Major exhibitors include CSIR, ISRO, DAE, ICMR, DST, DRDO, ICAR and more.


    There will be many interesting things which will be showcased during different days of the science congress and the science congress will witness about 30,000 people from diverse sectors of the science community from top educational institutions, industry and allied areas of India and other countries.


    ***


    GK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557799) Visitor Counter : 1764
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Tamil