      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      YEAR ENDER-7-UT, RERA,DD& CPWD 2018- Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs
      
      34,893 Real Estate Projects &27,073 Real Estate Agents Registered Under RERA -- 28 States/Uts notify rules under RERA
      
      Real Estate Regulatory Authority set up in 28 States/Uts --21 States/Uts Set Up Real Estate Appellate Tribunal
      
      6 States in Ner Arunachal, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Manipur, Sikkim & Nagaland Are Notifying Rera Rules Soon, J&K notifies RERA
      
      536 kms of metro rail lines operational in 10 cities --13 new metro projects for 248 kms at a cost of rs. 68,021 crore approved
      
      3 new projects of 66 kms worth rs. 16,408 crore approved in 2018 --around 650 kms of metro rail projects under implementation-- 750 kms of metro rail systems & 373 kms of RRTS under planning
      
      I-Metros-A Platform to exchange ideas, pooling of knowledge & Sharing of Experience, Best Practices Launched in March 2018
      
      To Promote “Make In India” & Indigenization of various Metro Rail System, Standard Specifications Issued
      
      Amendments to mpd-2021 notified to provide relie

      Posted On: 28 DEC 2018 11:39AM by PIB Delhi

    URBAN RENAISSANCE:


    REJUVENATING & TRANSFORMING


    INDIAN CITIES, BEING ACHIEVED THROUGH


    INFUSION OF MORE THAN RS.6,85,758 CR


    The Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs has embarked upon one of the most ambitious programmes undertaken in the world for Urban renaissance for rejuvenating and transforming Indian cities through a number of initiatives including infusion of more than Rs. 6,85,758 crore for ensuring citizen friendly urban areas. The transformation has been undertaken by way of implementing key urban reforms, projects for urban rejuvenation including augmenting the urban transport by way of new metro lines . The Ministry is also vigorously pursuing reforms in the real estate sector for the benefit of homebuyers by ensuring implementation of RERA in all parts of the country.


    RERA (REAL ESTATE (REGULATION AND DEVELOPMENT) ACT, 2016 (RERA)


    Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 (RERA) , passed in March, 2016 brought in a transformative legislation to ensure regulation and promotion of real estate sector in an efficient manner and to protect the interest of home buyers. The updated status of RERA is as follows:


    28 States/UTs have notified rules under RERA (except- Jammu & Kashmir, 6 North Eastern States (Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and Sikkim), West Bengal has enacted its own Act i.e. Housing & Industry Regulation Act (HIRA), however state has been advised to notify the rules under Real Estate (Regulation & Development) Act, 2016.


    28 States/UTs have set up Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Regular - 15, Interim - 13). 21 States/UTs have set up Real Estate Appellate Tribunal (Regular -09, Interim – 12). Regulatory Authorities of 23 States/UTs have operationalized their websites under the provisions of RERA. A total of 34,893 Real Estate Projects and 27,073 Real Estate Agents have registered under RERA across the country.


    Regional Workshops on the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act 2016 (RERA) were organised in the Western(Pune), Southern(Chennai) Northern(Delhi) and Eastern(Ranchi) regions of the country involving all the stakeholders including home buyers, real estate developers, financial institutions, Real Estate Regulatory Authorities and Real Estate Appellate Tribunals. The workshops provide a platform for discussion, learn best practices and suggest way forward.


    Municipal bonds of Rs. 2,709.90 crore were issued in 2018 by Hyderabad (2 tranches of Rs. 200 crore and Rs. 195 crore), Indore (Rs. 139.90 crore), Amaravati (Rs. 2,000 crore), and Bhopal (Rs. 175 crore). This is expected to help cities meet their financing requirements and supplement the budgetary resources made available to them.


    URBAN TRANSPORT


    Metro Lines Commissioned/Operational


    At present, about 536 kms of Metro Rail lines are operational in 10 cities i.e. Delhi & NCR, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Chennai, Jaipur, Kochi, Lucknow, Mumbai and Gurugram. Since May, 2014 to till date, about 287 Kms of metro rail lines have been commissioned in Delhi & NCR, Bangalore, Chennai, Kochi, Lucknow, Mumbai, Jaipur, Hyderabad and Gurugram. In 2018 (from January, 2018 to till date), about 110 Kms of metro rail lines have been commissioned in Delhi & NCR, Hyderabad and Chennai.


    Metro Projects approved


    Since May, 2014, 13 new metro projects with a total length of about 248 Kms at a total cost of Rs. 68,021 crore have been approved for Nagpur, Ahmedabad, Gurugram, Lucknow, Chennai Extension, Pune, Delhi Metro Extensions, Noida – Greater Noida, Bhopal and Indore. In 2018 itself, 3 new projects with a length of about 66 Kms at a total cost of Rs. 16,408 crore have been approved for Bhopal, Indore and Delhi Metro Extn from Noida City Centre to Noida Sector 62.


    Metro Inauguration


    Foundation of 6 metro projects has been laid since May, 2014, for Nagpur, Pune, and 4 lines in Mumbai. Several new metro lines have been inaugurated since May, 2014 in Delhi, Hyderabad and Kochi. Delhi Metro extension from Mundka to Brigadier Hoshiyar Singh (11.18 Km) and Delhi Metro extension from Escort Mujesar to Raja Nahar Singh Ballabgarh (3.205 km) was inaugurated during 2018. Around 650 kms of metro rail projects are at various stages of implementation in Delhi & NCR, Kolkata, Bangalore, Chennai, Kochi, Jaipur, Mumbai (including State initiatives by MMRDA), Hyderabad, Nagpur, Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Pune, Noida, Bhopal and Indore. About 750 kms of metro rail systems and 373 km of Rapid Rail Transit Systems (RRTS) are under planning in various cities .


    In order to promote “Make in India” and indigenization of various metro rail system, standard specification of rolling stock, signalling system, electrical & electromechanical metro rail components and civil engineering structures have been issued. Further, eligibility criteria for procurement of rolling stocks has also been issued. I-Metros (Indian Metro Rail Organisations’ Society) - a platform to exchange ideas, pooling of knowledge and sharing of experience, best practices, innovations etc. among the Indian metro rail companies to nurture excellence in performance was launched in March 2018.


    DELHI DIVISION


    In order to provide relief to the citizens from the ongoing sealing drive amendments to the Master Plan for Delhi-2021 have been notified on 21.06.2018, to revise the Development Control Norms for Shop-cum Residential Plots and Godown clusters existing in non-confirming areas. These amendments have paved way for regularization of the misuse of premises and unauthorized constructions in eligible cases by providing for additional FAR in eligible cases while at the same time taking care of issue such as parking spaces, greenery, accessibility to fire services, infrastructure requirements and convenience of inhabitants.


    The validity of the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second Act, 2011, has been extended upto 31.12.2020, providing continued protection to certain forms of unauthorised developments from punitive action and at the same time allowing time to the Government, urban local bodies and other organisations involved to take a balanced and well considered view on policies, norms and strategies for orderly implementation of plans regarding these unauthorised developments.


    A Special Task Force (STF) under the Chairmanship of Vice Chairman, DDA has been constituted on 25.04.2018, with members from various organisations viz. MCDs, NDMC, Delhi Police, GNCT of Delhi, Central Ground Water Board, ASI, DJB, etc. to comprehensively address the problems of illegal constructions and encroachments on public lands, parking spaces, roads, pavements, etc .


    The Private Land Policy to regularise the privately-owned land in Delhi has been finalised and notified by DDA on 04.07.2018 . The long pending land pooling policy, which basically aims at providing affordable housing to the residents of Delhi, has been notified by the Ministry on 11 th October, 2018 and the regulations to implement the policy have been notified by DDA on 24 th October, 2018.


    In-situ development project under Public Private Partnership at Kathputli colony in Delhi is expected to be completed during 2019. Under the project a total of 2,800 EWS flats are being constructed to rehabilitate the jhuggi dwellers on in-situ basis by the developer entity on Public Private Partnership mode.


    During the year 2018, s everal projects involving funding from the UDF were approved( 80% of the cost is met by MOHUA). These include upgradation of District Centres at Nehru Place at a cost of Rs 162.79 crores; Upgradation of District Centre at Bhikaji Cama at cost of Rs 72.54 crore; Solid Waste Management Project for three Municipal Corporations of Delhi (North, South and East) at a cost of Rs 236.44 crores; SW Drain at Sector 8 Dwarka to cater to discharge of Airport at a cost of Rs 88.56 crores. The foundation for construction of flyover passes between Northern Mahipalpur bypass road and Airport road near Hanuman Mandir and inauguration of Skywalk/ FoB at ITO crossing and Grade Separator at Rani Jhansi Road was also undertaken during the year.


    ESTATES


    “Sampada 21” has been implemented wherein 21 services offered by the Directorate have been fully computerized and all such applications are received online. A new website of the Directorate of Estates has been developed for computerised issue of No Demand Certificate/Retention/Allotment for Vigyan Bhawan/ 5 Ashoka Road and for marriage purposes. Online payment against License Fees and Damages through Debit Cards by the allottees has also been introduced. Full Computerization of License Fee realization/DE-II Form submission and acceptance of allotment/ No Demand Certificate/Rent Bill/Authority Slip has further eased the interaction of officers with the DoE.


    A Module for online application for granting eligibility for all the Ministries/Departments of the Govt. of India for GPRA has been launched w.e.f. 02.07.2018. The Mobile application of GPRA(m-Awas) which was launched in April 2018, enables the users to register themselves with Directorate of Estates and bid for the houses of their choices and check their status in the allotment/waiting lists. New GPOA building at Allahabad has been constructed and office space measuring 37636 sq. ft. allotted to 8 offices. New Holiday Homes at Bhubaneswar and Jaisalmer have been completed and placed for online booking on the web portal of the Directorate of Estates. In order to promote digitization of cash receipts, the POS terminals have been installed at 64 Holiday Homes/Guest Houses/ Touring Officers Hostels under the Directorate of Estates.


    Amendments have been made in the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971 to speed up eviction of the unauthorised occupations from the Government Premises in 2015.


    L&DO has initiated a process to integrate GIS data with e-dharti portal which will integrate the legacy drawings i.e. cadastral maps and the lease plans in the MIS system, namely e-Dharti and make it GIS enabled. This will improve the efficiency of the existing system and add elements of transparency and obviate physical interface between lessees and this office. So far, the record of 25,736 properties out of approx. 65,000 has been digitized.


    Digitization of Physical Progress of Works (e-MB) Module of PFMS


    The Government’s construction major, Central Public Works Department(CPWD) underwent a major digital transformation last year , which enabled payments of around Rs. 20,000 crore per year electronically . This was done by networking all the 400 field offices of CPWD across the country through a special integrated CDDO module of PFMS portal ensuring digital payments. CPWD, thus, becomes the first organization of a civil Ministry to become digital at the field level . A massive exercise in 2018 involving digitisation of physical progress of works(e-MB) module of PFMS was evolved to enable online real time monitoring of physical progress of any work/project undertaken by any CPWD division in the country.


    The e-MB Module, launched in April, 2018, is the first integrated web based module in Civil Ministries to monitor and track both the financial progress i.e. utilization of funds in projects, along with related physical progress captured through e-MB as per schedule of various items of works. The e-MB Module has been successfully implemented in all CPWD Divisions across country. It has improved transparency & accountability by tracking both the financial progress and the actual physical progress of around 8000 works/projects implemented by CPWD across the country in more than 400 offices, including remotest areas.


    In order to maximize the digital and cashless transactions in the Ministry and move towards 100% digitization of payments, Smart Cards have been introduced from 13th April, 2018 onwards for Imprest payments . A total 1364 cards have been issued to various departments under MoHUA. To ensure maximum digital collection of receipts, during the financial year 2018-19 PoS Machines have been installed in MoHUA by three accredited banks of MoHUA,.e. State Bank of India, IDBI and Axis Bank. A total of 69 POS Machines have been installed in Holiday Homes, Touring Officers’ Hostels and Guest Houses of CPWD, L&DO offices and publication offices etc.


    CPWD has been assigned works valued at Rs. 5749 crore relating to Ministry of Human Resource Development for their upcoming projects of IITs, IIITs, IIMs and IISER. Works of Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana(PMSSY) valued at Rs 1472 crore and Border Road work at high altitudes along Indo China Border valued at Rs 3069 crore has also been assigned to CPWD besides works related to HRIDAY at Gaya, Badami, Amritsar and Varanasi.


    For promoting usage of new technologies of construction, CPWD has issued notifications adopting 10 new building construction technologies and issued a Schedule of Rates for the new technologies. CPWD has emphasized use of construction and demolition waste in building construction. To help the use Schedule of Rates for paver blocks and concrete blocks from recycled C & D waste have also been issued.


    Dynamic façade lighting of Rashtrapati Bhawan and buildings along Ghats at Varanasi has been another achievement made by CPWD. Treating energy efficiency as Mantra, CPWD has provided rooftop mounted solar power plants on all feasible GPOA through.


    *******


    RJ/KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1557554) Visitor Counter : 2906
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Bengali , Kannada