      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Conference on Capacity Building Reforms and Integrated Government Online Training (iGOT) by Department of Personnel & Training with Cadre Controlling Authorities (CCAs) and Central Training Institutes (CTIs)
      Posted On: 04 FEB 2020 7:58PM by PIB Delhi


    1. The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) is the nodal Department for training of Government functionaries and is primarily responsible for formulating policies with regard to capacity building and strengthening the Human resources within the government. National Training Policy (NTP)-2012 lays a deep emphasis on building capacities of the Government officers/officials who are responsible for undertaking planning, implementation and monitoring of various development schemes, which subsequently ensure timely, efficient, and quality implementation of priority schemes of Central/State Governments.


    2. It has been decided to widen the scope and coverage of the initiative of Integrated Government Online Training (iGOT) programme which was launched in December 2018 to augment the existing training mechanism with on-line module based training coupled with certification with the objective of making training inputs available to Government officers/officials on-sight and on-flexi time basis.


    3. In order to familiarize the CCAs and the CTIs with the new capacity building framework (Digital) being built to deliver online content and how the CCAs and CTIs should be part of it and to explore / examine the training requirements of Government officers / officials at various levels of hierarchy, a conference was organized by DoPT under the chairmanship of Principal Secretary to the Hon’ble Prime Minister on 04th February, 2020 at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi.


    4. The welcome address was delivered by Dr. C. Chandramouli, Secretary, DoPT explaining the theme of the Conference. Additional Secretary, Shri Srinivas Kathikitala discussed the details of the project and the strategy for it’s implementation.


    5. Dr. P. K. Mishra, Principal Secretary to Hon’ble Prime Minister inaugurated the said Conference. Dr. Mishra also delivered the key note speech on the occasion elaborating that new digital capacity building framework iGOT 2.0 seeks to start with a learning transformation agenda as a means of capacity enhancement of India’s all civil services. Within a wider framework of learning transformation, the Government has instituted iGOT 2.0, a comprehensive online learning platform that will enable cadre controlling authorities, domain departments and both Central and State Training Institutions to deliver training in online, face-to-face and blended manner.


    On the occasion of the Conference a Consultation Paper on ‘ Approach to Strategy and Implementation of iGOT 2.0 ’ was also released by Dr. Mishra. iGOT 2.0 will play a major role towards achieving a comprehensive and systematic capacity building initiative for India’s all civil services in the light of the current challenges. The iGOT 2.0 is built keeping the officials at its core.


    6. Shri Rajiv Gauba, Cabinet Secretary addressed the participants in the valedictory session. In his valedictory address he emphasized that the Capacity Building initiative (iGOT 2.0) envisages the very objective of reforming the ecosystem of bureaucracy and inculcate a culture of learning. He commended Dr. Chandramouli and Shri K. Srinivas on this path breaking initiative. He was of the view that there are difficulties in imparting training like officers are not being able to spared, lack of resources etc. Technology enables us to undertake a quantum jump by providing scope, content etc. He emphasized to revisit and revamp the content of training.

      * He stated that the concerted efforts by the government which has led to a one-stop shop for capacity building with focus on more than 2 crore government officials, is very well poised to revolutionize the bureaucratic layer of the country.

    7. 59 CCAs & 21 CTI’s who administer nearly 50,000 senior civil servants participated. The aim of capacity building is also break silos, promote collaboration & deliver real time, curated content utilising digital technologies.


    8. Framework signals a shift away from Rule Based Bureaucracy to Role-Minded Bureaucracy. Expanding the coverage of training to upto Group C, the approach democratises learning in Government.


    9. Two technical Sessions were also held during the above Conference viz Technical Session 1: Onboarding CCAs and Technical Session 2: Demonstration of iGOT 2.0 Platform & Onboarding requirements in collaboration with DoPT’s knowledge partners.


    10. Shri Junaid Ahmad, Country Director, World Bank and Shri Sabyasachi Mitra, Deputy Country Director, Asian Development Bank also addressed the Conference and emphasized that the World Bank Group and Asian Development Bank support the vision of a unified and new/strengthened civil service for India.


    11. The Conference ended with vote of thanks by Ms. Rashmi Chowdhary, Joint Secretary (Training).


    ******************************


    VG/SNC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601956) Visitor Counter : 456
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

*