      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Free Medicine and Healthcare facilities
      Posted On: 04 FEB 2020 1:32PM by PIB Delhi


    As per National Cancer Registry Programme (NCRP) of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the estimated incidence of cancer cases reported in the country during the three years is given below:

                                                                    
Year                                 2016       2017       2018     
                                                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
Estimated Incidence of cancer cases  14,51,417  15,17,426  15,86,571
                                                                    
                                                                    

    The data regarding skin diseases in the country is not maintained centrally.


    Health is a State subject. The Central Government, however, supplements the efforts of the State Governments to prevent and control cancer and to provide affordable and accessible care. The Government is implementing National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular Diseases and Stroke (NPCDCS), with focus on strengthening infrastructure, human resource development, health promotion & awareness generation, early diagnosis, management and referral to an appropriate level institution for treatment.


    To tackle the challenge of Non Communicable Diseases (NCD), including cancer, 616 NCD Clinics at District level and 3,827 NCD Clinics at Community Health Centre level have been set up under NPCDCS. Population level initiative for prevention, control and screening for common NCDs (diabetes, hypertension and common cancers viz. oral, breast and cervical cancer) has also been rolled out under the National Health Mission (NHM) in over 215 districts. Screening of common NCDs including three common cancers i.e. oral, breast and cervical is also an integral part of service delivery under Ayushman Bharat - Health and Wellness Centres. Under NHM support is provided to States/UTs to provide free essential medicines and diagnostic services for primary and secondary health care needs. Several measures have been taken to discourage the use of tobacco products, which is one of the key risk factors of Cancer, besides initiative to promote healthy lifestyles through healthy eating and regular physical activity.


    To enhance the facilities for tertiary care of cancer, the Central Government is implementing Strengthening of Tertiary Care for Cancer Scheme, under which setting up of 19 State Cancer Institutes and 20 Tertiary Care Cancer Centres have been approved. Further, Oncology is also one of the focus areas in case of new AIIMS and many upgraded institutions under PradhanMantriSwasthyaSurakshaYojana (PMSSY). Setting up of National Cancer Institute at Jhajjar in Haryana and strengthening of Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute, Kolkata, are also steps in the same direction.


    Cancer is diagnosed and treated at various levels in the health care system. In Government hospitals, treatment is either free or highly subsidized. Treatment of cancers is also available under Ayushman Bharat – Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY). Besides this, Affordable Medicines and Reliable Implants for Treatment (AMRIT) Deendayal outlets have been opened at 195 Institutions/Hospitals with an objective to make available Cancer and Cardiovascular Diseases drugs and implants at discounted prices to the patients. Under the umbrella scheme of Rashtriya Arogya Nidhi, financial assistance is provided to families living below threshold poverty line for their treatment, including treatment of cancer, in Government hospitals.


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Sh Ashwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601831) Visitor Counter : 392
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu