      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Comprehensive Sexuality Education
      Posted On: 04 FEB 2020 1:31PM by PIB Delhi


    Government of India is implementing the Adolescence Education Programme (AEP) through State AIDS Control Societies in coordination with SCERT using a 16 hours curriculum based module developed by NCERT; for adolescents in both inside and outside formal schools.


    The programme aims to empower adolescent learners to acquire knowledge of their needs and concerns related to the period of adolescence and develop life skills that enable them to practice informed and responsible behaviours. Adolescents are equipped with accurate information, knowledge and skills in the specific contexts of the process of growing up and prevention of HIV/AIDS.


    Besides this, there is comprehensive integration of the adolescent health needs and concerns into the school education and teacher education system. The target groups of AEP are all learners studying at the secondary and senior secondary level in government, local body and government-aided schools and learners of open schooling systems. Orientation and sensitization is also provided to identified out-of-school adolescents and youth for awareness regarding life skills education.


    Under School based approach of Rashtriya Kishor Swasthya Karyakram (RKSK), there is emphasis on preventive and promotive activities among school going adolescents. A dedicated 24 hour curriculum has been developed which will be rolled out in the country in a phased manner. Two school teachers will be identified and trained as Health & Wellness Ambassadors in every school. They will act as a resource for transacting weekly activity-based health promotion message in the schools.


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Sh Ashwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601829) Visitor Counter : 559
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu