      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Dr Harsh Vardhan: a pragmatic, holistic and people's Budget
      
      "Focus on holistic health, medical infrastructure and medical education"

      Posted On: 01 FEB 2020 5:35PM by PIB Delhi

    Hailing the Budget 2020-21 as landmark budget, Union Minister for Health & Family Welfare Dr. Harsh Vardhan termed it as pragmatic, visionary, progressive and a people’s budget, as it aims to be built on three prominent and fundamentalpillars of an Aspirational India to boost the standard of living; economic development for all; and building a humane and compassionate society with SabkaSaath, SabkaVikas . Thanking the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modiji and the Finance Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman, Dr. Harsh Vardhan further said that this is an inclusive budget which is pro-poor, pro-farmer, pro-downtrodden and for the development of all the sectors and the country at large. “It will lay the foundations for fulfilling the vision of the Hon. Prime Minister for a New India”, he stated, here today.


    Dr. Harsh Vardhan stated that the budget estimates for the Departmentfor Health and Family Welfare show an appreciable increase of 3.75%, while there has been a 10% hike in the allocation for the Department for Health Research. This indicates the strong focus of the government on the health sector. Overall, the health sector has been allocated Rs. 69,000/- cr, he stated.The Budget has positioned health as a prime mover in the journey of development and growth of the country, he added.


    The Union Minister stated that the focus in Budget 2020 is on medical infrastructure, human resources in the health sector, and holistic health & wellness. As part of strengthening the medical infrastructure, the government will support creation of hospitals in those aspirational districts, particularly in the two and three tier cities, which do not have empaneled hospitals under Ayushman Bharat PMJAY. This shall be under PPP mode with a viability gap funding support. In addition, 6500 projects under National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) include projects of healthcare for all. Also, to address the shortage of qualified doctors (specialist and general practitioners), it is proposed to attach a Medical College with existing District Hospitals in PPP mode. Those states that fully allow the facilities of the hospital to the medical college and wish to provide land at a concession would be able to receive viability gap funding from the Centre, he added.


    Budget 2020 has sharpened the focus on skilling and upgradation of medical human resources, the Union Minister stated. Under National Board of Examinations, large hospitals with sufficient capacity will be encouraged to train Resident doctors in DNB / FNB.Bridge course for nurses and paramedics for equivalence with foreign courses will designed by the Ministry of Health and Skill Development together with professional bodies.


    Dr HarshVardhan stated that the “TB HaregaDeshJeetega” campaign has received a boost in the Budget. This shall strengthen our resolve and commitment to end tuberculosis by 2025.


    With emphasis on holistic health, the Budget underscores the importance of positive, preventive and primitive health with support for Mission Indradhanush, Fit India campaign, digital linkage of all Ayushman Bharat Health & Wellness Centres (to help wide use of tele medicine), Dr Harsh Vardhan stated.


    ****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601544) Visitor Counter : 407
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi