      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Oil Refining Capacity
      Posted On: 03 FEB 2020 3:09PM by PIB Delhi


    Oil Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs)/Joint Venture (JV) refineries have plans for capacity addition including investment in greenfield refineries. The refining capacity is expected to increase from 249.4 MMTPA currently, to about 443 MMTPA by 2030.


    Government has decided that Bharat Stage-VI (BS-VI) emission standards fuels will be implemented across the country w.e.f. 01.04.2020 and supply of BS-VI fuels in National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi has been started w.e.f. 01.04.2018. Government has also started supply of BS-VI auto fuels in 20 Districts of Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh & Haryana. To meet the incremental demand of petrol and diesel, refineries have capacity expansion/upgradation plan including for supply of BS-VI quality petrol and diesel. Government has also notified the National Policy on Biofuels-2018 on 8.6.2018. The goal of the Policy is to enable availability of bio fuels to increase blending. An indicative target of 20% blending of ethanol in petrol and 5% blending of biodiesel in diesel is proposed by 2030. The goal is to be achieved by reinforcing ongoing ethanol/biodiesel supplies through increasing domestic production, setting up Second Generation bio refineries, development of new feedstock for biofuels, creating suitable environment for biofuels and its integration with the main fuels etc.


    Petroleum & Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) is the authority to grant authorization to the entities for the development of City Gas Distribution (CGD) network in Geographical Areas (GAs) as per PNGRB Act, 2006. In order to expand natural gas availability across the country, PNGRB identifies GAs for authorizing the development of CGD network in synchronization with the development of natural gas pipeline connectivity and natural gas availability.


    This information was given by the Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas Shri Dharmendra Pradhan in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    YKB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601705) Visitor Counter : 499
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu