      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Health Minister and Cabinet Secretary hold review meetings on Novel Coronavirus
      
      Flight Passengers from Thailand and Singapore to be universally screened in addition to those from China and Hong Kong
      
      Posted On: 01 FEB 2020 7:33PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of Health & Family Welfare Dr. Harsh Vardhan chaired a review meeting on preparedness for management of Novel Coronavirus with senior officers of the Ministry, here today.


    Cabinet Secretary also held a high level review meeting on the preparedness for Novel Coronavirus with Secretaries of Health, Civil Aviation, Textiles, Pharmaceutical, DHR, and Dte. General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). Cabinet Secretary has held five review meetings so far.


    As of today, 52,332 passengers from 326 flights have been screened. Total of 97 symptomatic travellers picked up by the IDSP have been referred to the isolation facilities. 98 samples have been tested of which 97 have been found to be negative. The earlier positive case found in Kerala is being monitored and is stable.


    In addition, Secretary (HFW) had a video conference to review the process of screening passengers from different countries. Apart from passengers coming from China and Hong Kong, passengers coming on flights from Singapore and Thailand shall also be universally screened at the airports, hence forth.Shri Pradeep Singh Kharola, Secretary (Civil Aviation), Health Secretaries from all States for the 21 airports, Airport Public Health Officers from these airports, along with representatives from Bureau of Immigration, Customs Department were present.


    The 324 incoming Indian citizens from Wuhan, China have reached today. Of these, 104 are housed at ITBP Chawla Camp and 220 are in Manesar. They are being effectively monitored.


    ****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601589) Visitor Counter : 739
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi , Bengali