      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Benefit to Farmers
      Posted On: 04 FEB 2020 5:53PM by PIB Delhi


    Agriculture is a State subject. However, the Government of India supports and facilitates development and progress of the Agriculture sector through various Centrally Sponsored and Central Sector Schemes. A list of Schemes is as follows:-

                                                                                      
S.No.  Name of the Scheme                                                             
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
1.     Interest Subsidy for Short Term Credit to Farmers                              
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
2.     Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana-NCIP                                          
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
3.     Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana-Per Drop More Crop                        
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
4.     Implementation of Market Intervention Scheme/Price Support Scheme              
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
5.     Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay Sanrakshan Abhiyan                                 
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
6.     Pradhan Mantri Kisan Maan Dhan Yojana                                          
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
7.     Income Support Scheme –PM-Kisan                                                
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
8.     Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana                                                  
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
9.     Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture                             
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
10.    National Mission on Oilseeds and Oil Palm                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
11.    National Project on Promotion of Organic Farming                               
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
12.    National Project on Management of Soil Health & Fertility                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
13.    Organic Value Chain Development of NES Region                                  
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
14.    National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (RADP & Climate change)           
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
15.    Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana                                               
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
16.    National Project on Agro-Forestry                                              
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
17.    National Bamboo Mission                                                        
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
18.    Sub-Mission on Agriculture Extension                                           
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
19.    National E-Governance Plan-Agriculture-Information Technology                  
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
20.    Sub-Mission Seeds & Planting Material                                          
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
21.    Sub-Mission on Agricultural Mechanization                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
22.    Promotion of Agricultural Mechanization for in-situ Management of Crops Residue
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
23.    Sub-Mission on Plant Protection and Plant Quarantine                           
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
24.    Integrated Scheme on Agriculture Cooperation                                   
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
25.    Integrated Scheme on Agricultural Marketing                                    
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
26.    National Food Security Mission                                                 
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
27.    Integrated Scheme on Agriculture Census and Statistics                         
                                                                                      
                                                                                      

    Recently, the Government has initiated the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) Scheme, launched on 24.2.2019 to provide income support to all small and marginal landholder farmer families across the country, subject to certain exclusions, to enable them to take care of expenses related to agriculture and allied activities as well as domestic needs. The Scheme provides a payment of Rs. 6000/- per year in three 4-monthly instalments of Rs. 2000/- to the farmers’ families with cultivable land holding up to 2 hectare, subject to certain exclusions relating to higher income groups. The ambit of the Scheme has now been expanded to cover all farmers in the country irrespective of the size of their land holding.


    Further, the Government has recently approved a pension scheme for all small and marginal farmers (SMF) in the country, subject to certain exclusion clauses, with a view to provide them a social security net as they have minimal or no savings to provide for old age and to support them in the event of consequent loss of livelihood. The scheme provides for payment of a minimum fixed pension of Rs. 3,000/- per month to eligible farmers on attaining the age of 60 years. It is a voluntary and contributory pension scheme, with entry age of 18 to 40 years. The beneficiary can opt to become a member of the Scheme by subscribing to a Pension Fund, managed by the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC). For example, the beneficiary is required to contribute Rs. 100/- per month in the pension fund at median entry age of 29 years, with matching contribution of Rs. 100/- by the Central Government.


    The Government of India continuously evaluates the performance of all Centrally Sponsored and Central Sector Schemes which contribute to the objective of doubling of farmers income by 2022. Impact and concurrent evaluations of Schemes are carried out to rectify shortcomings. As a result of such an evaluation, the RKVY scheme was revamped as RKVY-RAFTAAR to focus on pre and post harvest management, value chain linked project and Innovation and Agri-entrepreneurship development.


    The new initiatives, programmes and plan schemes have contributed to improving the quality of life of farmers, especially small and marginal farmers.


    Agriculture is a State subject. However, the Government of India supports and facilitates development and progress of Agriculture sector through various Centrally Sponsored and Central Sector Schemes. Under Centrally Sponsored Schemes, funds are released to the State Government, which implements the schemes as per guidelines.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601907) Visitor Counter : 1482