      Ministry of Finance

      Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure will enhance Climate change adaptation with a focus on Disaster Resilient Infrastructure: Finance Minister
      
      Government intends to close old thermal power plants to address high levels of Carbon emission
      
      States to be encouraged to formulate and implement plans to ensure cleaner air in cities with population above one million
      
      Rs 4400 crore earmarked for clean air initiatives to be formulated by states

      Posted On: 01 FEB 2020 2:11PM by PIB Delhi

    Emphasizing the Government’s aim to enhance climate change adaptation with a focus on Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs unveiled various proposals in Union Budget 2020-21 related to Environmental sector today.


    While presenting the Union Budget 2020-21 in Parliament today, the Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs, Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman stated that the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI) with its Secretariat in Delhi was launched in September 2019. She further said that “This Global Partnership will help in addressing a number of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as well as aims of Sendai Framework. It will enhance climate change adaptation with a focus on disaster resilient infrastructure”.


    The Finance Minister further underlined Government’s efforts towards achieving the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) submitted under Paris Agreement, 2015 while keeping Developmental imperatives of a country in mind. She further assured that India’s commitments as action will be executed in various sectors by the concerned departments and ministries through normal budgeting process.


    Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman highlighted the issue of high levels of carbon emission by old thermal power plants. The Finance Minister also discussed Government’s proposal to close such plants and use the vacated land for alternative purpose .


    The Finance Minister also expressed concern about the lack of availability of clean Air in cities having population above one million. She further elaborated Government’s intent to encourage States to formulate and implement plans to ensure cleaner air. Rs 4400 crores are earmarked for this initiative for period of 2020-21 and the parameters for incentives would be notified by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change soon .


    *****


    RM/BB/SG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601436) Visitor Counter : 520
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu , Tamil , Malayalam