      Prime Minister's Office

      PM announces setting up of 'Shri Ram Janma Bhoomi Tirtha Kshetra' trust
      
      Independent Trust to take all decisions for construction of a magnificent Ram Temple in Ayodhya, says PM
      
      PM applauds the character shown by the people of India
      
      All communities living in India are members of one big family, PM

      Posted On: 05 FEB 2020 1:42PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi today announced in parliament a trust to oversee the construction of a Ram Temple in Ayodhya, as ordered by the Supreme Court.


    “On the basis of the SC direction My Government has today given approval to proposal for creation of 'Shri Ram Janma Bhoomi Tirtha Kshetra' trust. The Trust will be free to take all decisions regarding creation of a magnificent RamTemple in Ayodhya ”, the PM said.


    #Cabinet has today given approval to proposal for creation of 'Shri Ram Janma Bhoomi Tirtha Kshetra' trust
    
    The Trust will be free to take all decisions regarding creation of a magnificent #RamTemple in #Ayodhya: PM @narendramodi#cabinetdecisions pic.twitter.com/dYoGZT0yKr

    — PIB India (@PIB_India) February 5, 2020

    Decision in line with the Supreme Court's historic verdict on Ayodhya


    PM said that on the directions of the Honourable Supreme Court, the Government requested UP Government to allocate 5 Acres of Land to the Sunni Waqf board, and the State Government acceded to the request.


    We all know the historical and spiritual significance that is attached to Lord Ram and Ayodhya, in the Indian ethos, spirit, ideals and culture.


    “Keeping in mind the construction of the magnificent Ram Temple and the spirit of the devotees who would come to pay obeisance to Ram Lalla, in future the Government has taken another important decision. It has decided that whole of the approx 67.703 acre acquired land will be transferred to thus created Sri Ram Janma Bhoomi Tirtha Kshetra trust”, PM added.


    PM applauds the character shown by the people of India


    Prime Minister further praised the maturity shown by the country in maintaining peace and harmony following the Honourable Supreme Court’s decision on the Ayodhya issue.


    PM @narendramodi praises the mature behavior exhibited by people of the country after the 9th November #SupremeCourt judgement#Rammandir #ayodhya pic.twitter.com/Y9BeidyLP5

    — PIB India (@PIB_India) February 5, 2020

    He reiterated the same in a separate tweet where he said, “the people of India displayed remarkable faith in democratic processes and procedures. I salute the 130 crore people of India”


    After the verdict on the Ram Janmabhoomi issue came out, the people of India displayed remarkable faith in democratic processes and procedures. I salute the 130 crore people of India: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 5, 2020

    All communities living in India are members of one big family


    PM stated that we are all members of one family. This is the ethos of India. We want every Indian to be happy and healthy. Guided by ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’ we are working for the welfare of every Indian.


    We are all members of one family. This is the ethos of India.
    
    We want every Indian to be happy and healthy.
    
    Guided by ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’ we are working for the welfare of every Indian: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 5, 2020

    “Together, let us all work in the direction of building a grand Ram Mandir”, PM added.


    *****


    VRRK/ VJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1601984) Visitor Counter : 1448
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Bengali , Tamil , Kannada , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Punjabi , Gujarati , Malayalam