      Ministry of Railways

      Signalling System
      Posted On: 05 FEB 2020 5:18PM by PIB Delhi


    Signalling System enhances safety in train operations. Updation and replacement of equipments in use, over Indian Railways is a continuous process and are undertaken based on its condition, operational needs and availability of resources.


    In order to further improve safety in train operation and generate additional line capacity, modernization of Signalling System has been taken in hand. Following major steps have been taken.

     1. 6010 (96% of total stations) Stations on Indian Railway have already been equipped with modern Electrical/Electronic Signalling Interlocking System.
     2. Electronic Interlocking are being adopted on a large scale to derive benefits of digital technologies in train operation and to enhance safety. So far 1814 stations have been provided with Electronic Interlocking upto 31.12.2019.
      * III. Axle Counters for Automatic clearance of Block Section (BPAC) are provided to ensure complete arrival of train without manual intervention before granting line clear to receive next train and to reduce human element. These systems have been provided on 5563 block sections upto 31.12.2019.
      * IV. In order to increase line capacity to run more trains & lower per unit cost of train operations on existing High Density Routes of Indian Railways, Automatic Block Signaling is a cost effective solution. As on 31.12.2019, Automatic Block Signaling has been provided on 3181 Route km.
     1. Enhancing Safety at Level Crossing Gates has been a major area of concern. Safety gets enhanced by interlocking level crossings with Signals. Indian Railways have provided interlocking with Signals at 11552 Level Crossing Gates to enhance the safety at Level Crossings as on 31.12.2019.

    Modernization of Signalling System is proposed to be taken up on High Density Routes of Indian Railways including Golden Quadrilateral (GQ) and Golden Diagonal (GD) Route. The work includes provision of Modern Train Control System.


    As a prelude to modernization, work of signalling system on Indian Railways, four works totaling 640 Route km at total cost of ₹ 1,609 crores have been sanctioned in Supplementary Works Programme 2018-19 in following sections for extensive trials.

                                                  
SN  Section                  Railway              
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
1   Nagpur – Badnera         Central Railway      
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
2   Renigunta -Yerraguntala  South Central Railway
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
3   Vizianagaram - Palasa    East Coast Railway   
                                                  
                                                  
                                                  
4   Bina - Jhansi            North Central Railway
                                                  
                                                  

    Tenders for the works have since been opened and are under evaluation. M/s RailTel is the nodal agency for executing the work.


    Two works of Raising of speed to 160kmph on existing New Delhi – Howrah and New Delhi – Mumbai routes have been sanctioned including modernization of Signalling. Detailed estimates are being prepared by concerned nodal railways (Western Railway for Delhi – Mumbai route and North Central Railway for Delhi – Howrah route).


    An indigenous Automatic Train Protection (ATP) System namely Train Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) has been developed by Indian Railways in association with Indian manufacturers.


    The system has been installed on Lingampalli – Vikarabad – Wadi & Vikarabad - Bidar section (250 Route km) of South Central Railway.


    Further works on additional 1199 Route km on South Central Railway are also in progress. The System shall provide protection against Signal Passed at Danger (SPAD).


    Works for implementation of Centralised Traffic Control (CTC) System to improve line capacity and efficient management of train operations from a central location covering large sections, have also been taken up.


    This information was given by the Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SG/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602069) Visitor Counter : 467
    
    
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
1.