      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Health Secretary reviewed the Novel Coronavirus disease situation
      Posted On: 08 FEB 2020 5:40PM by PIB Delhi


    Ms. Preeti Sudan, Secretary (HFW) took a review on the current situation today with concerned officials. She discussed the present status and preparedness on the issues of spread of novel Coronavirus disease.


    Universal screening for all flights from Singapore and Thailand besides Hong Kong and China is already ongoing at earmarked aero-bridges.The screening of passengers is now on in all 21 airports, International Seaports and border crossings. As of now 1636 flights and 176703 passengers were screened so far at 21 Airports. Ministry of Health & Family Welfare is extending all the possible support to the States/UTs in order to combat the situation arise due to Novel Coronavirus.


    Adequate IEC activities like hoardings at the State’s borders, pamphlet distribution, announcements etc. are being undertaken to spread awareness about the symptoms and precautions. Orientation of the medical personnel and health officials is being conducted regularly. Special Gram Sabhas are being organised to boost awareness and sensitisation regarding the Novel Coronavirus diseases, its symptoms, preventive measures, reporting etc.in the border villages. The States/UTs are being put on alert and adequate stock of Personal Protection Equipment and masks is available with the States/UTs. 7994 persons are presently under community surveillance in 32 States/UTs. The containment and prevention activities are being taken up on utmost priority. All the states are continually strengthening their rapid response teams to counter any eventuality.


    1449 samples have been tested and 1446 samples were found negative except for 3 samples which had tested positive already from Kerala.


    ****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602534) Visitor Counter : 898
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali