      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Fit India Movement
      Posted On: 06 FEB 2020 12:48PM by PIB Delhi


    For the Fit India Movement, the Government is playing the role of a catalyst so that Fit India become a people’s movement. Fit India is a people centric movement to be run on voluntary basis with participation of as many citizens as possible. The main objective of Fit India Movement is to create awareness amongst all the citizens of India about fitness and its importance in daily life through sports, yogasan, walking, cycling, dancing or any other physical activity.


    Traditional rural and indigenous games generally exist in informal setup and do not have adequate leaders to represent. Government’s emphasis on promotion of rural and indigenous games has encouraged leadership and formalization of the same.


    The following initiatives have been taken by the Government to promote the traditional rural and indigenous games in the country:


     1. Mallakhamb, Kalaripayattu, Gatka and Thang-Ta are being supported under the vertical of ‘Promotion of Rural and Indigenous/Tribal Games’ under the Khelo India Scheme.


     1. Total amount of Rs.10.85 crore have been sanctioned for the year 2019-20 for infrastructure development, equipment support, appointment of coaches, training of coaches and scholarships.


     1. Out of 335 Medal Winners of Indigenous Games, 247 recommended athletes by the 04 NSFs are receiving scholarships amounting to Rs.10,000/- per month per athlete.


    iv. Kho-Kho and Kabaddi disciplines were included in Khelo India Youth Games 2020 held at Guwahati. Kabaddi discipline has been included in the first edition of Khelo India University Games being held in Bhubaneshwar from February 22 nd to 1 st March, 2020.


    This Information was given by the Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports, Shri Kiren Rijiju in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    YKB/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602182) Visitor Counter : 661
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Bengali
    
    
    

1.