      Ministry Of Law & Justice

      Draft New Delhi International Arbitration Centre (NDIAC) Rules issued for public consultation
      Posted On: 12 FEB 2020 1:34PM by PIB Delhi


    The New Delhi International Arbitration Centre (NDIAC), Act 2019 was enacted with a view to provide for the establishment and incorporation of the New Delhi International Arbitration Centre for the purpose of creating an independent and autonomous regime for institutionalised arbitration and to make it a hub for institutional arbitration and to declare the New Delhi International Arbitration Centre to be an institution of national importance. The Act replaced the ordinance on the subject which had come into force on 2nd March, 2019.


    As per section 5 of the Act, NDIAC will be headed by a Chairperson, who has been a Judge of the Supreme Court or a Judge of a High Court or an eminent person, having special knowledge and experience in the conduct or administration of arbitration, law or management, to be appointed by the Central Government in consultation with the Chief Justice of India. Besides, it will also have two Full-time or Part-time Members from amongst eminent persons having substantial knowledge and experience in institutional arbitration, both domestic and international. In addition, one representative of a recognized body of commerce and industry shall be nominated on rotational basis as a Part-time Member. The Secretary, Department of Legal Affairs, Ministry of Law & Justice; Financial Adviser nominated by Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance and Chief Executive Officer, NDIAC will be ex-officio Members.


    Section 23 of the Act provides for the Secretariat to the Centre inter- alia comprising Registrar, Counsel and other officers & employees etc.


    In this regard, the Department of Legal Affairs has prepared the following draft Rules:


     1. The New Delhi International Arbitration Centre (the terms and conditions and the salary and allowances payable to the Chairperson and Full-time Members) Rules 2020.

     2. The New Delhi International Arbitration Centre (the travelling and other allowances payable to Part-time Members) Rules 2020.
     3. The New Delhi International Arbitration Centre (the number of officers and employees of the Secretariat of the Centre) Rules 2020.
     4. The New Delhi International Arbitration Centre (the qualifications, experience, method of selection and the functions of the Registrar, Counsel and other officers and employees of the Centre) Rules 2020.

    The Government intends to consult all stakeholders in the process. A copy of the aforesaid draft Rules have been uploaded on the website of the department of Legal Affairs ( http://legalaffairs.gov.in/ ). Accordingly, DoLA has commenced public consultation on the draft rules with the timeline of submission of comments by 14 th March, 2020.


    ****


    MM/BK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1602902) Visitor Counter : 1395
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi
    
    
    

4.