      Prime Minister's Office

      North East is becoming a major growth engine in the country says the Prime Minister
      
      Decades old Bodo Crisis by resolved by bringing all stakeholders on board
      
      Prime Minister Replies in Lok Sabha to the Motion of Thanks on President’s Address
      Posted On: 06 FEB 2020 5:48PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister in his reply in Lok Sabha to the Motion of Thanks to the President’s Address said that the North East is no more a neglected region.


    He said thanks to the efforts of the Government work has been done in several sectors and that today the North East is a major growth engine of the country.


    “People in the North East now do not feel that Delhi is a distant place. Now the government is at their door step. Our Ministers and officials are regularly visiting the region”, he said.


    Prime Minister said his Government worked on providing electricity, railway connectivity, mobile connectivity and various other aspects of development of the region.


    Referring to the recently signed Bodo Accord, the Prime Minister said that it had been done by bringing on all stakeholders together with a sincere effort to resolve the decades old crisis.


    Prime Minister said that mere procrastination of the issue resulted in the deaths of atleast 40000 people in the decades old unrest.


    “However this time we have brought all the stakeholders together and the accord is clear that there are no more pending issues of the crisis” he said.


    इस बार के बोडो समझौते में सभी हथियारी ग्रुप साथ आए हैं। सबसे महत्वपूर्ण बात इसमें लिखा है कि इसके बाद बोडो की कोई मांग बाकी नहीं रही है। आज नई सुबह भी आई है, नया सवेरा भी आया है, नया उजाला भी आया है। और वो प्रकाश, जब आप अपने चश्मे बदलोगे तब दिखाई देगा: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    इस बार के बोडो समझौते में सभी हथियारी ग्रुप साथ आए हैं। सबसे महत्वपूर्ण बात इसमें लिखा है कि इसके बाद बोडो की कोई मांग बाकी नहीं रही है। आज नई सुबह भी आई है, नया सवेरा भी आया है, नया उजाला भी आया है। और वो प्रकाश, जब आप अपने चश्मे बदलोगे तब दिखाई देगा: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    चाहे बिजली की बात हो, रेल की बात हो, हवाई अड्डे की बात हो, मोबाइल कनेक्टिविटी की बात हो, ये सब करने का हमने प्रयास किया है - पीएम @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    नॉर्थ ईस्ट में पिछले पांच वर्ष में जो दिल्ली उन्हें दूर लगती थी, आज दिल्ली उनके दरवाजे पर जाकर खड़ी हो गई है - पीएम @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    Let us talk about the Northeast. For years, distance became a reason to ignore this region. Things have changed now.
    The Northeast is becoming a growth engine. Great work has been done in so many sectors. Ministers and officials are regularly visiting the region: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    ****


    VRRK/VJ/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602276) Visitor Counter : 774
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Odia , Tamil , Kannada