      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Steps Taken by the Ministry of Home Affairs for Police Modrenization
      
      CCTNS active in 15152 out of 15985 police stations across the country
      
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2020 3:10PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri G Kishan Reddy, in a written reply in Lok Sabha to a question regarding modernization of police forces said that this is a continuous and ongoing process. While ‘Police’ and ‘Public Order’ are State Subject as per schedule VII to the constitution of India, in order to supplement the efforts of the States for equipping and modernizing of their police forces, under the scheme of ‘Assistance to States for Modernisation of Police’ {erstwhile scheme of Modernisation of Police Force (MPF)}, the States have been provided central assistance for training gadgets, advanced communication, police buildings, police housing, mobility, and forensic equipment etc. as per the proposals of the State Governments in accordance with their strategic priorities and requirements.


    The Union Government has created an all India digital network –Crime & Criminal Tracking Networking System (CCTNS) in 15152 out of 15985 police stations of the country which has digitised police processes like registering complaints, FIRs, Investigation details, etc. 100% FIRs are being recorded in 14,992 police stations. In addition, the Government has launched Interoperable Criminal Justice System (ICJS) which integrates the process of speedy justice by facilitating data-exchange between the courts, police, prosecution, jails and the forensic laboratories.


    With a view to achieve the objectives of completion of police investigation within two months of filing FIR by police for sexual assaults, Government has facilitated monitoring of timelines in police investigation through the Investigation Tracking System for Sexual Offences (ITSSO) Portal, using CCTNS data. ITSSO is available to law enforcement agencies and gives details on pending cases. The Government has also launched a National Database of Sexual Offenders (NDSO) for law enforcement officers. NDSO allows tracking of repeat and habitual sex offenders as well as initiate preventive measures against sexual offences. A cyber crime portal is also functional.


    *****


    VG/SNC/HS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602767) Visitor Counter : 548
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Bengali , Bengali