      Ministry of Education

      Various steps have been taken to increase the employability of graduates-HRD Minister
      Posted On: 10 FEB 2020 6:44PM by PIB Delhi


    AICTE in association with various organisations carries out an employability Skill Test of pre-final and final year graduate students of AICTE approved institutions annually. The results have indicated that there has been a constant rise in employability of engineering graduates in India over the last 5-years.To increase the employability of graduates in the country, Ministry of Human Resource Development is working along with Sector Skill Councils (SSCs) under National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) to undertake Apprenticeship/Internship embedded degree programmes with core focus on development of knowledge, skills, aptitude and on-job training. Some of the sectors like Logistics & Retail have commenced Degree Apprenticeship programmes in 15 institutions. Further, 52 MoUs have been signed between Media & Entertainment Skills Council (MESC) and Colleges/Universities for offering specialized courses for students in Media & Entertainment Sector. Also, the Logistics Sector Council is in the process of aligning with 50 colleges for further running courses in Agri supply- chain & Aviation, apart from the PG Diploma in Data Science (Logistics) and BBA (Logistics). Ministry is also working with other sector skill Councils under the Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship.


    In addition, to boost the vocational education in the country, 3 schemes are being implemented by University Grants Commission (UGC) under National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF) which are Community Colleges (since 2013-14), B.Voc Degree Programme (since 2014-15) and Deen Dayal Upadhayay (DDU) Kaushal Kendra (since 2015-16). There are 188 Community Colleges, 289 Institutions offering B.Voc Degree Programmes and 68 DDU Kaushal Kendras in which 68,663 students are enrolled in various skill programmes. Also, All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has introduced the Vocational Degree/Diploma Programs under NSQF for AICTE approved Institutions. In the year 2019, AICTE has given approval to 473 institutions to run vocational courses with intake of 35,450 students.


    Also, Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship is implementing a flagship scheme known as Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) 2016-20 with an objective to provide skilling to one crore people under Short Term Training (STT) and Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) across the country for four years i.e. 2016-2020 with an outlay of 12,000 crore. Also, a committee was constituted in 2018 for preparing short term and medium term perspective plan, with a view to improve employability of Engineering graduates in India. The Committee recommended that:

     1. Courses on nine emerging technologies like AI, DATA Science, IOT, Cyber Security Robotics, Design, Quantum Computing, AR/VR, Block Chain and 3d Printing and should be introduced in UG Engineering Courses.
     2. Greater focus on multi-discipline course by reducing seats in conventional disciplines and converting existing seats into these courses.
     3. A Model Curriculum has been prepared in associationwith NITTTR Chandigarh in the above 9 (nine) Technologies.

    The quality measures being taken by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to increase the employability of graduates in the country, particularly engineering graduates are as follows:


    (i) Preparation of outcome based model curriculum for Diploma, Undergraduate (UG) and Post Graduate (PG) courses in Engineering and PGDM/MBA Courses.


    (ii) Introduction of 3 week induction program for students to be offered right at the commencement of the 1st year at UG level in Engineering.


    (iii) Setting up of Induction Cell at AICTE to monitor the induction activities and National Level Coordination Committee to coordinate training of Faculty members on ‘Student induction Program’.


    (iv) Exam reforms and formulation of comprehensive teacher’s training. 8 modules are proposed for incumbent as well as in service teachers.


    (v) Mandatory internship, Revision of model curriculum, and Industry readiness accreditation.


    (vi) Wheebox Employability Skill Test (WEST) being held for all pre-final and final year graduates of AICTE approved institutions to identify the core strengths of students and certify the same.


    The information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602691) Visitor Counter : 449
    
    
    
    
    

3.