      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Affordable access to Technology at the doorsteps of the farmers
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2020 3:48PM by PIB Delhi


    To make available costly and bigger advance farm machinery at the door steps of the farmers on rent basis, Custom Hiring Centres (CHC) are promoted through a dedicated scheme Sub Mission on Agricultural Mechanization (SMAM); under which subsidy is provided @ of 40% of the project cost to individual farmer upto a project cost of Rs.60 lakh and 80% to the group of farmers up to a project cost of Rs. 10 lakh. A special consideration for the farmers of North Eastern Region (NER) is available, 95% subsidy upto a project cost of Rs. 10 lakh is provided to group of NER farmers for establishment of Custom Hiring Centres. For establishment of Hi-tech and Hi-value agricultural machinery CHC, assistance @ of 40% of the project cost to individual farmer upto a project cost of Rs.250 lakh is provided.


    T o address air pollution due to crop burning, a new Central Sector Scheme on ‘Promotion of Agricultural Mechanization for In-Situ Management of Crop Residue in the States of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and NCT of Delhi’ (CRM) for the period from 2018-19 to 2019-20 has been launched. Under the scheme to establish Custom Hiring of in-situ crop residue management machinery a financial assistance @ 80% of the project cost is provided to the farmers.


    The Government has developed and launched Multi lingual Mobile App “CHC- Farm Machinery” which helps the farmers for getting rented farm machinery and implements through Custom Hiring Service Centers (CHC) in their area. As on date, 44,607 CHCs with 1,39,319 Agricultural machinery for renting out are registered on this Mobile app. Total 1,14,461 farmers as users are registered on this Mobile App.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shri Narendra Singh Tomar in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/PK/BA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1602377) Visitor Counter : 864