      Prime Minister's Office

      Small towns are the foundation of New India, says Prime Minister in Rajya Sabha in his reply to the motion of thanks on the President's Address
      
      100 more airports to be developed by 2024, says PM
      
      
      Posted On: 06 FEB 2020 7:10PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi addressed the Motion of Thanks for President's Address today in Rajya Sabha. Prime Minister said that the aim of $ 5 trillion economy is ambitious but we have to think big and move ahead. “Let me reassure you that India's economy is strong. India is pursuing a dream of $ 5 trillioneconomy with full speed and full potential”, the Prime Minister said.


    Prime Minister emphasised that to fulfil the dream$ 5 trillion economy the government is focussing on village and city infrastructure, MSMEs, textiles, technology and tourism.Several steps have been taken to take all these sectors forward. All the processes including tax structure have been simplifiedto give momentum to Make in India. These steps will ensure new enthusiasm in the country about manufacturing.The merger policy in the banking sector has already started yielding meaningful results.


    Small towns are the foundation of New India


    Prime Minister stated that the most aspirational youth of the country lives in the small town which is also the foundation of the new India.“Today more than half of the digital transactions in the country are taking place in small cities. Half of the startups being registered in the country are in Tier-2, Tier-3 cities. That is why we are focussing on the construction of modern infrastructure in Tier-2, Tier-3 cities at a rapid pace. Highway and rail connectivity are being rapidly improved”, the Prime Minister said.


    100 more airports by 2024


    Prime Ministersaid that recently250th route was launched under UDAN scheme. This has made air connectivity affordable and accessible in 250 small cities of India.“From independence to 2014 where there were only 65 operational airports in the country, they have increased to more than 100 in the last 5 years. The target is to develop 100 more airports by 2024, mostly in Tier-2, Tier-3 cities”, Prime Minister said.


    There is no question of thinking small.

    
    Pessimism and gloom do not help us.
    
    We talk about a five trillion dollar economy. Yes, the aim is ambitious but we have to think big and think ahead: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    निराशा देश का भला कभी नहीं करती, इसलिए 5 ट्रिलियन डॉलर की इकोनॉमी की बात का सुखद परिणाम यह हुआ कि जो विरोध करते हैं, उन्हें भी 5 ट्रिलियन डॉलर की बात करनी पड़ती है। मानसिकता तो बदली है हमने: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    आज छोटे स्थानों पर डिजिटल ट्रांजैक्शन सबसे ज्यादा देखने को मिल रहा है और आधुनिक इन्फ्रास्ट्रक्चर के निर्माण में भी टियर-2, टियर-3 शहर आगे बढ़ रहे हैं : PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    VRRK/VJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602309) Visitor Counter : 612
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Assamese , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada , Malayalam