      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh says US-India Defence Relationship transforming from traditional buyer-seller to a collaborative one that can be the biggest of the century
      
      Shri Rajnath Singh also Visits the U.P Pavilion at the DefExpo

      Posted On: 06 FEB 2020 3:14PM by PIB Delhi

    Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh, today sought to synchronise the export capability of US defense sector with the ever-expanding opportunities in the defence manufacturing sector available in India to take the relationship between the two countries towards a collaborative approach from traditional 'Buyer-Seller'.


    Speaking at a seminar organized during ongoing DefExpo2020 in Lucknow by the US-India business Council (USIBC), Shri Rajnath Singh r eferred to several key agreements signed in 2 + 2 Dialogue during his recent trip to USA and said “Indo-US relationship will move towards collaboration approach from traditional 'Buyer-Seller'. I am confident that this relationship will be more dynamic and vibrant in future”.


    He added “the U.S. is one of the largest defense exporters for India and the world. At the same time, the defence manufacturing sector in India is growing at rapid pace. In such a situation, our collaboration can prove to be the biggest collaboration of this century”.


    While assuring the businesses that the reforms that have been made, would continue, he urged the business community to take maximum advantage of them and invest in India.


    He appreciated the role played by the USIBC in improving trade relationship between the two countries.


    Later, Raksha Mantri visited the UP State’s pavilion. While appreciating the support extended by the state government in organizing DefExpo at such a huge scale, he hoped that the investment opportunities would increase in the state with the establishment of defence corridor in Uttar Pradesh.


    He said that, the Prime Minister's aim of taking Indian economy to 5 $ trillion required focussed approach and that Uttar Pradesh being the largest state of the country had a major role to play, in terms of its economic contribution.


    ABB/SW/GP/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602205) Visitor Counter : 493
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu , Marathi