      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Improving Soil Productivity and Fertility
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2020 3:50PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government has introduced Soil Health Card (SHC) Scheme to assist State Governments to provide soil health cards to all farmers across the country once in a cycle of 2 years. Soil Health Card provides information to farmers on nutrient status of their soil along with recommendations on appropriate dosage of nutrients to be applied for improving soil health and its fertility.


    To increase acceptability of SHC by farmers, during 2019-20, a pilot project ‘Development of Model Villages’ has been taken up where soil samples collection has been taken up at individual farm holding with farmer’s participation instead of sample collection at grids being done earlier.


    Government is recommending soil test based balanced and integrated nutrient management through conjunctive use of inorganic and organic sources of plant nutrient to sustain good soil health. In this regard advisories are issued to farmers from time to time.


    Under Soil Health Card (SHC) scheme, financial assistance is provided to state governments for the following training of farmers, demonstrations on farmer fields and organizing farmer melas:

     1. Training of farmers @ Rs. 24,000/- per training for 2 days with 30 or more participants. So far, 1946 farmer trainings have been sanctioned to states.

     1. Organizing field demonstration @ Rs. 2,500/- per ha demonstration. So far, 5.50 lakh demonstrations have been sanctioned to states.


     1. Organizing farmer melas / campaigns @ Rs. 1.00 lakh per farmer mela / campaign. So far, 7425 farmer melas / campaigns have been sanctioned to states.


    In addition Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) also impart training, organizes front line demonstrations to educate farmers on this aspect.


    This information was given in a written reply by the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shri Narendra Singh Tomar in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    APS/PK/BA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602379) Visitor Counter : 1061
    
    
    
    
    

1.