      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      National Health Policy with Emphasis on EWSs
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2020 3:12PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government has formulated the National Health Policy, 2017, which aims at attainment of the highest possible level of good health and well-being, through a preventive and promotive health care orientation in all developmental policies, and universal access to good quality health care services without anyone having to face financial hardship as a consequence.


    One of the key principles of the policy is to reduce inequity which would mean affirmative action to reach the poorest. It would mean minimizing disparity on account of gender, poverty, caste, disability, other forms of social exclusion and geographical barriers.


    The policy also recognizes the special health needs of tribal and socially vulnerable population groups and recommends situation specific measures in provisioning and delivery of services.


    To encourage doctors working in remote and/or difficult and/or rural areas, Medical Council of India with the approval of Central Government, has amended the Post Graduate Medical Education Regulations, 2000 to provide :-


     1. 50% of the seats in Post Graduate Diploma Courses shall be reserved for Medical Officers in the Government service, who have served for at least three years in remote and/or difficult and/or rural areas. After acquiring the PG Diploma, the Medical Officers shall serve for two more years in remote and/or difficult and/or rural areas; and

     2. Incentive at the rate of upto 10% of the marks obtained for each year in service in remote and/or difficult or rural areas upto the maximum of 30% of the marks obtained in the entrance test for admissions in Post Graduate Medical Courses.

    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Sh Ashwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha here today.


    ****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602769) Visitor Counter : 634
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

2.