      Ministry of Railways

      Railway stations with world class facilities
      Posted On: 05 FEB 2020 5:33PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Railways has planned for redevelopment of railway stations through Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Limited (IRSDC), Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) and other Central Government agencies, through simplified procedures and for longer lease tenure. Accordingly, IRSDC and RLDA are undertaking the techno-economic feasibility studies of stations. Based on the outcome of the feasibility studies, the stations are planned to be taken up for redevelopment, in phases.


    The facilities proposed in a redeveloped station include congestion free non-conflicting entry/exit to the station premises, segregation of arrival/departure of passengers, adequate concourse without overcrowding, integration of both sides of the city wherever feasible, integration with other modes of transport systems e.g. Bus, Metro, etc., user friendly international signage, well illuminated circulating area and sufficient provision for drop off, pick up & parking etc.


    The work of redevelopment is in advanced stage of progress at Gandhinagar (Western Railway) and Habibganj (West Central Railway) railway stations. Contracts have been awarded for redevelopment of Gomtinagar (North Eastern Railway), Anand Vihar (Northern Railway), Bijwasan (Northern Railway) and Chandigarh (Northern Railway) railway stations.


    Railways have planned for redevelopment of major railway stations by fixing developers. Private developers have shown interest where tenders for redevelopment of station have been floated like Habibganj (Bhopal), Gandhinagar (Gujarat), Gomtinagar, Anand Vihar, Bijwasan, Chandigarh etc.


    No Memorandum of Understanding for redevelopment of railway stations exists between India and other countries.


    Station redevelopment is also planned through the following schemes:

     1. Jointly by Ministry of Railways and other Ministries of Government of India.
     2. By involving Public Sector Undertakings of Central Government.
     3. In cooperation with State Governments.

    This information was given by the Minister of Railways and Commerce & Industry, Shri Piyush Goyal in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    SG/MKV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602101) Visitor Counter : 387
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

3.