      Prime Minister's Office

      PM's reply to the motion of thanks on the President's Address in the Lok Sabha
      
      People want Speed ​​and Scale, Determination and Decisiveness, PM
      
      Agriculture budget has risen five times, says PM
      
      Government’s vision is greater investment, better infrastructure and maximum job creation
      
      Posted On: 06 FEB 2020 5:07PM by PIB Delhi


    Replying to the Motion of Thanks to the President’s address in Lok Sabha, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi said that President Ram Nath Kovind's address instills a spirit of hope and it presents a roadmap for taking the nation ahead in the times to come.


    “His address comes at a time when we enter the third decade of the century. Rashtrapati Ji’s address instils a spirit of hope and it presents a roadmap for taking the nation ahead in the times to come”, PM said.


    Prime Minister said that now people of the country are not ready to wait. They want Speed ​​and Scale, Determination and Decisiveness, Sensitivity and Solution. Our Government has worked at a fast pace and the result is that in five years 37 million people have bank account, 11 million people have toilets in their home, 13 million people have cooking gas in their homes. Today dream of 2 crore people to have a home of their own is realised. Long wait to own a home has ended for 40 lakh people in over 1700 illegal colonies of Delhi.


    Agriculture budget has risen five times


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi said that increasing the farmer's income is our priority. The issues of higher MSP, crop insurance and irrigation related schemes were pending for decades. We raised the MSP to one and half times and spent one lakh crore rupees spent to complete the stalled irrigation projects.


    “More than five and a half crores of farmers joined the Pradhan Mantri Crop Insurance Scheme; farmers were paid a premium of thirteen and a half crore rupees, insurance claims of more than 56 thousand crores are settled”, PM added. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi said that the agriculture budget has risen five times during the government's tenure. "PM-KISAN Samman Yojana is transforming the lives of many farmers. A sum of Rs 45,000 Crores have been transferred and several farmers have benefitted due to this. In this scheme there are no middlemen and no extra file-work," he said.


    Our vision is for greater investment, better infrastructure and maximum job creation


    Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Lok Sabha said that his government has kept the fiscal deficit in check. "Price rise is also under check and there is macro-economic stability," he added.


    Shri Modi dwelt on the many steps taken by the Government to increase the confidence of investors and strengthen the economy of the country.


    “We have taken many initiatives in: Industry Irrigation Social infra Rural infra Ports Water ways”, he said.


    “Stand up India and Mudra are adding prosperity in the lives of many. Substantial number of the Mudra beneficiaries are women. Under Mudra Yojana loans more than 22 crore rupees have been approved benefitting crores of youth.”


    “Government is working on labour reforms and that too after consulting the labour unions”, Prime Minister added.


    Prime Minister said, “For us infrastructure is a combination of aspirations and achievements, about connecting people to their dreams, people's creativity to consumers. Infrastructure is connecting a child to her school, a farmer to the market, a businessman to his customers. It is about connecting people to people.”


    Dwelling further on the subject the Prime Minister said that among the things that will drive India's progress is next-generation infrastructure.


    “In the earlier days, infrastructure creation brought "economic opportunities" for a select few. Not any more. We have made this sector transparent and are working to boost connectivity”, he said


    In the coming days we are going to invest over Rs 100 Lakh Crore in the Infrastructure Sector and this would boost growth, economy and employment”, he said.


    The President of India has talked about agriculture and farmer welfare extensively.

    
    The issue of higher MSP was pending for decades. We had the honour of solving this long-standing demand.
    
    The same applies to crop insurance and irrigation related schemes: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    We have kept the fiscal deficit in check.
    
    Price rise is also under check and there is macro-economic stability: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    Investors का भरोसा बढ़े, देश की अर्थव्यवस्था को मजबूती मिले, इसके लिए भी हमने कई कदम उठाए हैं: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    Our vision is:
    
    Greater investment.
    
    Better infrastructure.
    
    Increased value addition.
    
    Maximum job creation: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    Among the things that will drive India's progress is next-generation infrastructure.
    
    In the earlier days, infrastructure creation brought "economic opportunities" for a select few. Not any more.
    
    We have made this sector transparent and are working to boost connectivity: PM

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    We are working on labour reforms and that too after consulting the labour unions: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    हम आने वाले दिनों में 100 लाख करोड़ का इन्फास्ट्रक्चर प्रोजेक्ट लेकर आगे बढ़ रहे हैं। इन्फ्रास्ट्रक्चर के विकास से इकॉनोमी और रोजगार को बढ़ावा मिलता है : PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    ************


    VRRK/ VJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1602243) Visitor Counter : 452
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada