      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative Report
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2020 4:54PM by PIB Delhi


    The information regarding Oxford Poverty and Human DevelopmentInitiative Report are available in the public domain ( https://ophi.org.uk/multidimensional-poverty-index/global-mpi-2019/ and http://hdr.undp.org/en/2019-MPI ). The report observes that in India, there were 271 million fewer people in poverty in 2016 than in 2006, which shows improvement in status. The report noted that of the 10 selected countries for which changes over time were analysed, India and Cambodia reduced their Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) values the fastest—and they did not leave the poorest groups behind.


    The Government of India accords high priority to the issue of poverty alleviation in India. Ministry of Women and Child Development has accorded high priority to the issue of malnutrition and is making serious efforts to eradicate malnutrition. Several schemes with direct as well as indirect interventions to address the problem of malnutrition among women and children are being implemented as direct targeted interventions across the country like Anganwadi Services, Scheme for Adolescent Girls (SAG) and PradhanMantriMatruVandanaYojna (PMMVY) under the Umbrella Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) Scheme. These schemes are universal and open to all the eligible beneficiaries. Further, Government has set up POSHAN Abhiyaan on 18.12.2017 commencing from 2017-18. The goals of POSHAN Abhiyaan are to achieve improvement in nutritional status of children from 0-6 years, adolescent girls, pregnant women and lactating mothers in a time bound manner with fixed targets.


    This information was given by the Minister of Women and Child Development, Smriti Zubin Irani, in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602408) Visitor Counter : 891
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu