      Prime Minister's Office

      Abrogation of Article 370 is based on the Government’s faith and trust in the People J&K
      
      Replies in the Lok Sabha to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address

      Posted On: 06 FEB 2020 4:48PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister said that the abrogation of the Article 370 has led to the complete integration of Jammu & Kashmir with the rest of the country.


    Shri Narendra Modi was today replying in the Lok Sabha to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address.


    Prime Minister described Jammu and Kashmir as the Crown of India and that the real identity of J&K is its Egalitarian attitude towards all faiths and its Sufi Tradition.


    Prime Minister said that the region cannot be left behind and only referred to as one that it is ridden with Guns, Bombs, Terror and Separatism.


    Referring to the 19th January 1990, Prime Minister said several people had to lose their identity as they had been evicted from J&K.


    In his long reply, the Prime Minister dwelt at length the situation plaguing the region and said that the Article 370 of the Constitution was abrogated with full faith in people of J&K and that the development of the region is at a great speed.


    Prime Minister said the restrictions imposed on the region are being removed and that the Union Ministers are going to various of parts of the UT and getting direct feed back from the people and that the Government would definitely act upon the feedback.


    Prime Minister said that his Government is committed to work for the welfare of the people of J&K and for its all round development.


    Prime Minister said that Ladakh would be developed as a Carbon Neutral Union Territory.


    कश्मीर भारत का मुकुट-मणि है : PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    Who made Kashmir only about land grabbing?
    
    Who made Kashmir's identity only about bombs and guns?
    
    Can anyone forget that dark night of January?
    
    In reality, Kashmiri identity is closely linked with harmony: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    Those who are talking about respect for the Constitution never even implemented it in Jammu and Kashmir for so many decades: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 6, 2020

    ******


    VRRK/VJ/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602230) Visitor Counter : 787
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada