      Ministry of Education

      Government is running various schemes to promote research studies-Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’
      Posted On: 10 FEB 2020 6:43PM by PIB Delhi


    To increase the volume of research studies and provide incentives for the same, Government has introduced many schemes/programmes, including the following:

     1. Prime Minister Research Fellowship (PMRF) Scheme for promotion of research in the frontier areas of science & technology. It seeks to incentivize a maximum of 3,000 most talented students from recognized Universities/Institutions who will be selected as per PMRF guidelines to enrol in the Ph.D program in IITs/IISc/IISERs/CUs by providing attractive rates of fellowship @ Rs.70,000/- per month for the first two years, Rs.75,000/- per month for the 3rd year, and Rs.80,000/- per month in the 4th and 5th years. In addition, a research grant of Rs.2.00 lakh per year for a period of 5 years will be given to each fellow to meet the cost of presenting research papers.

     1. The University Grants Commission (UGC) is providing financial assistance to the Ph.D scholars under the schemes of Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) and Senior Research Fellowship (SRF) in Science, Humanities and Social Sciences (NET), Swami Vivekanand Single Girl Child Fellowship for research in Social Science, Maulana Azad National Fellowship for Minority Students, National Fellowship for Scheduled Castes (SCs) and National Fellowship for Other Backward Classes (OBCs), wherein fellowship @ Rs.31000/- per month is provided for first 2 years as JRF followed by Rs.35000/- per month for remaining tenure as SRF. In addition to the fellowship, admissible HRA & contingency grants are also provided.


     1. Scheme for Trans-disciplinary Research for India’s Developing Economy (STRIDE) for Humanities and Human Sciences.


     1. Impacting Research Innovation and Technology (IMPRINT) for technical research.


     1. Impactful Policy Research in Social Science (IMPRESS) for social sciences research.


     1. Scheme for Promotion of Academic and Research Collaboration (SPARC) for joint research with Foreign Universities; and


     1. National Doctoral Fellowship (NDF) scheme to promote research culture and collaborative research between Institute and Industries leading to start-ups in AICTE institutions.


    The information was given by the Union Minister for Human Resource Development, Shri Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ in a written reply in the Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/AKJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1602689) Visitor Counter : 387
    
    
    
    
    

1.