      Vice President's Secretariat

      Violence not acceptable in a democracy – Vice President
      
      Calls for an education system based on India’s values, ethics and rich history
      
      CAA pertains to persecuted refugees from neighbouring countries; it has nothing to do with Indian citizens – Vice President
      
      Calls for preservation and promotion of Indian languages,
      
      Interacts with the students and staff of PSG Institutions in Coimbatore
      Posted On: 21 FEB 2020 4:26PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India Shri M Venkaiah Naidu today said that violence was not acceptable in a democracy and observed that those encouraging violence were doing at the cost of the nation.


    Addressing students and faculty of PSG institutions at Coimbatore today, the Vice President said that dissent was essential in a democracy but not disintegration. Stating that protests have to be conducted in a peaceful and democratic manner, he said “No one​ can​ speak against the unity and integrity of the country”.


    The Vice President called for an education system that upholds India’s values, ethics and makes the students aware of our rich cultural heritage and history. He said that children should be taught the life histories of great personalities such as VeerapandiyaKattabomman, V. O. Chidambaram Pillai, Subramania Bharathi, PasumponMuthuramalingaThevar to inspire them.


    Stressing the need for ​​preservation and promotion of Indian languages, Shri Naidu called for providing primary education in the child’s mother tongue. He also appealed to people to use their mother tongue at home and in their communities.


    Shri Naidu urged people to first study and understand the CAA legislation. It has nothing to do with Indian citizens and it pertains to refugees who have been persecuted on religious grounds in neighboring countries, he said.


    Referring to revocation of Article 370 and Reorganization of Jammu & Kashmir State, he said that Article 370 was a temporary provision and it was revoked after a thorough debate in the Parliament.


    Referring to the comments being made by certain countries on revocation of article 370 and other issues, Shri Naidu said that they should mind their own affairs and should stop commenting on India’s internal matters.


    The Vice President reminded the students that India was once known as Vishwaguru and was the global hub of knowledge with students from all corners of the world studying at Nalanda and learning centres of excellence.


    Shri Naidu asked the youth to shun negativism and adopt a constructive and positive approach towards life and strive to make India Vishwaguru once again.


    Observing that there was no dearth of talent or skills among the youth of the country, Shri Naidu said that several reputed multinational organizations such as Microsoft, Google are being headed by Indians.


    Calling upon both the government and the private sector to ensure access to quality education at affordable rates to students, particularly from the downtrodden and marginalized sections, he said that education alone has the power to bring about a change in lifestyles and empower people.


    Shri Naidu also stressed the need to leverage the huge demographic opportunity in the country with 65 percent of the population below 35 years, the Vice President said that the youth must be trained to create employment as well as entrepreneurial opportunities and make India the global hub of human resource.


    Describing the founder of PSG institution, Shri PS Govindaswamy Naidu as a visionary and compassionate human being, the Vice President appreciated his act of dividing his properties into four parts even as he had only three sons. He kept the fourth portion for charitable deeds. The country needs more and more such organizations that help the poor and the marginalized sections, the Vice President said.


    Shri Karthikeyan, President, PSG Institutions, Shri L Gopalkrishnan, Managing Trustee, faculty members, staff and students of PSG students were present at the event.


    Following is the full text of the speech –


    “ I am happy to be here and interact with students of PSG college of Arts & Science.


    I compliment the PSG and Sons Charities Trust for providing education for lakhs of students, mostly from the weaker sections through their educational institutions over the years.


    PSG founder, PS Govendaswamy Naidu had shown his concern for the underprivileged through his charitable deeds and not by mere words.


    While he has three sons, he divided his properties into four parts so that the activities of the Trust could be run by the apportioned portion. The country needs more and more such organizations to cater to the requirements of the poor and marginalized sections


    I am happy to know that around 48 full-time and part-time programs in science, engineering, and management are being offered at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels by the 11 engineering & technology, computer applications, management sciences, basic sciences and humanities departments.


    I am happy to learn that more than 505 research scholars are pursuing research programmes for Ph.D./MS/M.Tech degrees.


    Dear Sisters and Brothers


    Education or learning should be a continuous process. As said in Tirukkural-


    “Learning is the true imperishable riches; all other things are not riches.”


    Education is central to the development and improvement of the lives of people. Education develops the human personality in all its dimensions -- intellectual, physical, social, cultural, moral and spiritual. Education should not be limited or restricted to the classroom experience. Efforts must be made to make it a holistic learning experience.


    The Indian approach to education includes the spiritual aspect of the development and does not restrict itself to individual or material achievements.


    Indian culture and its traditions based on Vedas and Upanishads described education as a tool to realize true knowledge and a way to understand the absolute.


    Given the importance of education in once life, it has been accorded the highest priority in Indian tradition and culture. Guru, the teacher was given the status of God.


    India’s education system followed the concept of Gurukula, where great attention was paid to the development of the child’s character.Teachers or Gurus laid stress and emphasis on the integral development of an individual’spersonality.


    The Gurukula system of education promoted disciplined life, instilled morals, ethics, and values of Indian civilization. Teachers used to tell the students to always ‘Speak the truth. Abide by dharma.’


    As you all are aware, education enables people to break the shackles of poverty.


    An education system that upholds India’s values, virtues of civilization and inculcates a sense of oneness and compassion is the need of the hour. At the same time, it should equip the students to face modern day challenges by imparting the requisite Knowledge and skills.


    Dear Students


    Even 72 years after Independence, we are yet to achieve 100% literacy rate. There has to be concerted efforts from both the government and the private sector to ensure accessibility of quality education at affordable rates to students, particularly from the downtrodden and marginalized sections of the society.

     1. Private educational institutions must supplement the government’s efforts in making India a 100% literate country.

    It empowers people to overcome challenges such as poverty, hunger and helps in promoting inclusive and equitable economic growth. Education alone has the power to bring in a change in lifestyles and empower the people. In a way, education is key to the sustainable development of a human being.


    Dear Sisters and Brothers


    India is on the cusp of a major transformation. Reforms undertaken by the Central Government and the progress being registered by several State Governments are making India the fastest-growing large economy in the world. However, to meet the rising aspirations of our young population, there is a need to achieve and sustain the growth momentum.


    Universities and Higher education institutions have a greater role in shaping the future of the nation.


    We need to leverage the huge demographic opportunity we have as the youth who constitute about 65% of the entire population. Youth must be trained to create employment as well as entrepreneurial opportunities and at the same make India a global hub of trained human resource.


    It is the pious responsibility of institutions of higher learning to provide good quality education at par with top international institutions. They must strive to become hubs of learning and innovation.


    There is an urgent need to align education policies, curricula, and training programs in the context of the 21st-century technology-dependent market scenario. The education system must integrate skilling to maximize the benefits of globalization. Schooling and Skilling must go together.


    It is time that educational institutions focus more on the assimilation of diverse information, problem-solving, decision making and analysis and shun rote methods. Promoting research in a big way, establishing linkages with Industry to give exposure to students passing out of these institutions must be paid adequate attention.


    I call upon educational institution and teachers to provide their valuable inputs to government on the new education policy. The policy should highlight aspects such as Indian history, culture, values and ethos.


    Dear Students,


    Indian was known as Vishwa Guru once upon a time. We must strive to achieve that status once again. We have the abilities. There is no dearth of skills among people. We need to recognize, nurture and encourage them. They will excel. The recent success stories in Kambala sport are exemplifies the hidden Indian talent. Many of our Indians are heading the leading organizations in the world. For example


    1. Google CEO is an Indian
    2. Microsoft CEO is an Indian
    3. Citigroup CEO was an Indian
    4. SoftBank Vision Fund CEO is an Indian
    5. Adobe CEO is an Indian
    6. NetApp CEO is an Indian
    7. PepsiCo CEO was an Indian
    8. Nokia CEO is an Indian
    9. MasterCard CEO is an Indian
    10. DBS CEO is an Indian
    11. Cognizant CEO was an Indian
    12. Novartis CEO is an Indian
    13. Conduent CEO was an Indian
    14. Diageo CEO is an Indian
    15. SanDisk CEO was an Indian
    16. Motorola CEO was an Indian
    17. Harman CEO is an Indian
    18. Micron CEO is an Indian
    19. Palo Alto Networks CEO is an Indian
    20. Reckitt Benckiser CEO is an Indian
    21. Ryiteinc CEO is an Indian


    22. IBM CEO is an india


    23. IMF Chief Economic Advisor is an Indian


    My Dear Students,


    Education in arts and humanities shape the thinking of the youth and enable them to build the livable, equitablesocieties.


    I also urge educational institutions to promote the spirit of voluntarism and community service among students.


    You must shun negativism and develop a positive and constructive outlook towards life and ensure they eschew the obstructive and destructive means. Educational institutions must promote healthy and constructive debates among students on all issues of national and international importance. Always remember that violence and hatred have no place in a democracy. Dialogue and debate are the best available forms to resolve any conflict, dispute or disagreement.


    My Dear Students,


    All of you are the future of the nation it is in the interest of the nation that this young population stays healthy.


    The rise in Non-communicable Diseases, primarily cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, cancer, and diabetes are responsible for 71% of deaths worldwide, causing 15 million deaths in the prime of people’s lives - between the ages of 30 and 70 years - creating a global health epidemic that calls for immediate action.


    Rise in Non-communicable diseases is a growing threat to global health, especially for developing countries such as ours.


    I urge the younger generation to shun sedentary lifestyle and eating junk food.


    Dear youngsters,


    Before I conclude, today being the International Mother Language Day, I urge all of you to always speak in your mother tongue at home. In fact, I have been appealing to all state governments to make it mandatory the teaching of all subjects in mother tongue up to primary/ high school level. It is our collective responsibility to protect and preserve all our languages. Please remember that language is the lifeline of culture.


    Let me recall, in this context, the wise words of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, he said “children taught in a foreign language are forced to memorize the words without understanding and when cramming power increases, understanding power decreases.” In 1946 while addressing the convocation of Nagpur University he further elaborates on the theme of mother tongue education in the following words: “Your university has shown that where there is a will there is a way. I hope you will follow this well thought plan with determination and when Indian language is used as medium you will see that a lot of time of students saved, their intelligence blossoms and minds become sharp.”


    Promotion of mother tongue as medium of instruction is the need of the hour.


    I appreciate the PSG institute of technology and its promoters for their contribution to the society by way of educational institutions. I am happy that the Private sector has been supporting governments' efforts in areas such as education, healthcare, and others.


    PSG family is one of the shining examples of share & Care which is the core of the Indian Philosophy. Country needs many more such families to join the service of the Nation.


    I compliment PSG & Sons’ Charities Trust for helping needy students through their educational institutions. The charitable and philanthropic work undertaken by PSG and Sons Trust is truly commendable and worthy of emulation by others. Apart from their remarkable philanthropic work, providing value based education and maintaining standards are the hallmarks of the PSG institutions.


    Jai Hind.”


    *****


    VRRK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603947) Visitor Counter : 539
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi
    
    
    

1.