      Ministry of Shipping

      “Arth-Ganga” will channelize economic activity along the banks of Ganga River
      
      Developing waterways has deep impacts on both the Ecosystem and the Banks of the Rivers
      
      Shri Mansukh Mandavia said that Withimplementing the mantraof Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, ‘Reform, Perform and Transform’ Cargo volume on Ganga will be increased by 4 times with special focus on developing inland waterways
      
      Arth-Ganga project will boost economic development and inclusive growth for farmers, small traders and villagers
      Posted On: 13 FEB 2020 6:06PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Mansukh Mandaviya, Minister of State for Shipping (Independent Charge), Chemical, and Fertilizers while addressing the press conference highlighted that Inland Waterways is one of the most important pillars of “Arth-Ganga”project, which will result into inclusive growth and play a key role in generation of enormous employment opportunities in the National Waterways stretch.


    During the address Minister Mandaviya stated that, “Almost half of the Indian population lives around Ganges River belt in which about 1/5th of all India’s freight originates and 1/3rd terminates in the states around Ganges Belt.”


    Ministry of Shipping has taken several initiatives in last few years which has resulted into substantial growth in-terms of increasing Inland Cruises from 3 to 9, Cargo from 30,00,000 MT to 70,00,000 MT, and Vessels in-flow from 300 to 700.


    A lot of activities like developing of small jetties by Ministry of Shipping have been carried out for the beneficial for small communityespecially for farmers, traders and general public in the 1400km stretch of National Waterway - 1 from Banaras to Haldia. The Farmers will get a better return for their produce as the transportation of goods would become easier and cost effective by this. It will improve ‘Ease of Living’ and ‘Ease of Doing Business’.


    Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) is deploying small floating jetties and ten (10) Ro-Ro vessels for easier and cost-effective transportation of goods/cargo as shown below:


    Also, during the address Minister Mandaviya said that Ministry of Shipping is developing Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) Freight Village and Sahibganj (Jharkhand) Industrial Cluster-cum-Logistics Park with an objective of creating synergy with Inland Waterways at the cost of Rs. 200 crores. This will create enormous direct and indirect employment, giving an economical boost in this particular area.


    ShriMandaviyaalso added that, India as a nationis always supporting Nepal in its economic transformation. National Waterway - 1 will act as a main conduit of connection with Nepal in a trilateral manner,i.e. from Varanasi toNautanwa(280km), KaughattoRaxaul (204km) andSahibganjto Biratnagar (233km). Earlier Nepal was connected by Kolkata and Visakhapatnam Ports for transporting cargo. Now, Inland Waterways, particularly NW-1 will be allowed under Treaty for Transit of Cargo between Government of India and Government of Nepal. It will save logistic cost anddecongest Kolkata Port as well.


    ****


    YKB/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603107) Visitor Counter : 1112
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali , Gujarati