      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister to visit Varanasi on the 16th February 2020
      
      To Dedicate to the Nation the DeendayalUpadhyay Memorial& Unveil Statue
      
      To Flag Off the Mahakaal Express Linking 3 Jyotirling Pilgrim Centres – Varanasi, Ujjain and Omkareshwar
      
      To launch / dedicate several developmental projects including a 430 Bed Super-Speciality Government Hospital in Varanasi
      Posted On: 14 FEB 2020 2:09PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi would be visiting Varanasi, his Parliamentary Constituency on a day’s visit on the 16th of February 2020.


    Prime Minister is scheduled to participate in the Closing Ceremony of the Centenary Celebrations of Shri Jagadguru Vishwaradhya Gurukul. Shri Modi shall also be releasing the translated version of the Shri Siddhant Shikhamani Granth in 19 languages.


    Dr Chandrasekhar Shivacharya Mahaswami, Head of the Gurukul said the Prime Minister would also release a mobile app of the Granth.


    Shri Narendra Modi later shall be dedicating to the nation the Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Memorial Centre. At the event the Prime Minister shall also unveil the 63 feet Pancha Loha Statue of Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya. This is the largest statue of the leader in the country. Over 200 artisans were working day & night for the last one year to complete the statue.


    The Memorial Centre shall also have the engravings of the life and times of Pt. Deendayal Upadhyaya. About 30 Odisha craftsmen and artists worked on the project during the last year.


    Prime Minister later at a Public function shall be dedicating to the nation over 30 projects. This includes a 430 bed super speciality Government hospital at Kashi Hindu Vishwavidyalaya (BHU), and a 74 bed psychiatry hospital at BHU.


    Prime Minister shall also be flagging off the IRCTC’s Maha Kaal Express through video link. The train will connect the 3 Jyotirling Pilgrim Centres – Varanasi, Ujjain and Omkareshwar. This would be first overnight journey private train in the country.


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi shall also inaugurate the two day 'Kashi Ek Roop Anek' exhibition at Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Hastakala Sankul. Prime Minister will interact with buyers and artisans coming from different countries of the world including America, England and Australia. 'Kashi Ek Roop anek' will showcase products from over 100 artisans from all over Uttar Pradesh. Artists and weavers at the event will also be imparted skills for improving the quality and branding of their wares suitable to the larger national and international markets.


    ******


    VRRK/VJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603184) Visitor Counter : 1363
    
    
      Read this release in: Tamil , Kannada , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Malayalam