      Ministry of Communications

      Department of Telecommunications Announces ‘5G Hackathon’
      Posted On: 21 FEB 2020 6:13PM by PIB Delhi


    In its endeavour toidentify and promote applications relevant to India in the 5G realm, the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has launched ‘5G Hackathon’ in association with a number of government, academia& industry stakeholders. Aimed at shortlisting India focussed cutting edge ideas that can be converted into workable 5G products and solutions, the Hackathon will be spread across three phases beginning from February 21, 2020 and culminate in a grand felicitation ceremony at India Mobile Congress on October 16, 2020. Winners of the various phases will share a total prize pool of INR 2.5 Crores, and an unique opportunity to scale and implement their 5G applications to make them market ready with the support of DoT, MeitY and a number of leading industry, academia, Telcos/OEMs.


    5G technology provides quantum leap over 4G in terms of speed, peak data rate, latency, spectrum efficiency and connection density. Most distinct feature is applications in different economic verticals. 5G Hackathon will convert innovating ideas in to products and solutions in different verticals and develop India specific Use cases around 5G. Various phases of the Hackathon broadly include preliminary submission of ideas, selection of 100 best ideas, mentorship and support from the Hackathon partners, development of solutions/products, selection and testing of 30 best solutions/ products on 5G trial network followed by felicitation of the 3 best ideas during India Mobile Congress (IMC), 2020. Participants can develop 5G solutionsfrom across 10 categories including Healthcare, Education & Governance, AgriTech & Livestock, Environment, Public Safety & Disaster Management Enterprise, Smart Cities & Infrastructure, Cyber Security, Banking, Finance & Insurance, Logistics & Transportation, Multimedia & Broadcast, among others.


    The 5G Hackathon is open to developers, students, start-ups, SMEs, academic institutions & registered companies in India & NRIs. Stakeholders can participate as individuals or as a team to present use cases for the 5G network in the Indian context.


    A jury comprising of academicians, industry leaders and subject experts from around the countrywill be established to facilitate assessment and shortlisting of submissions. The details of Hackathon can be seen on the website www.5ghackathon.in.

      * In association with Niti Aayog, MEITY, Digital India, Startup India, MSME, C-DoT, DST, TCOE India, TEPC, TSDSI, COAI, India Mobile Congress, KPMG, Academic Institutions IITs/IIIT/REC, Industry etc.
      * Total prize money INR 2.5 crore spread across three phases
      * For more information visit: www.5ghackathon.in

    *** *****


    RJ / RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603981) Visitor Counter : 2204
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

*