      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Dr. S Jaishankar to inaugurate Indian Pavilion at 70th Berlin International Film Festival
      
      Indian Delegation to Berlinale 2020 to promote Ease of Filming in India
      Posted On: 18 FEB 2020 12:43PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Government of India, in collaboration with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) is participating at the ‘ 70 th Berlin International Film Festival’. The festival will be held from 20 th February to 1 st March 2020 in Berlin, Germany. The film festival will also see an India Pavilion which will provide a platform to popularize Indian cinema in the overseas market and facilitate new business opportunities.


    This year in Berlin, three Indian feature films as well as one short documentary film have been selected, namely Pushpendra Singh’s Laila Aur Satt Geet , Prateek Vats’ Eeb Allay Ooo! , Akhsay Indikar’s “ Sthalpuran ” and Ekta Mittal’s short documentary “ Gumnaam Din” .


    Dr. S Jaishankar, Minister of External Affairs will inaugurate the Indian Pavilion at Berlinale.


    India seeks to promote its films across linguistic, cultural and regional diversity and establish multiple international collaborations in the space of distribution, production, filming in India, and script development technology through its participation at Berlinale 2020 .


    The Indian delegation, through various interactions, seeks to promote the ease of shooting films in India through Film Facilitation Office (FFO) that facilitates Single Window Clearance for filmmakers and provides the platform for ‘ Cinematic T ourism’ in India. The delegation will exhibit India as a post-production hub and promote collaborations for films with international production houses.


    The A udio- V isual S ervices sector has been recognized as one of the C hampion S ervices S ectors by the Government of India with an aim to promote India as a leading destination source for Media and Entertainment.


    Government delegation to Berlinale will facilitate international participation for the 51 st edition of International Film Festival of India (IFFI) 2020, Goa. IFFI aims at providing a common platform to the cinemas across the world to project the excellence of the art of film making.


    The delegation has meetings scheduled with officials from countries including Israel, South Africa, New Zealand, Spain, Brazil, Portugal, France, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, United States of America and Rwanda. The delegation will meet with officials from Locarno Film Festival, Sundance Film Festival, Venice International Film Festival, Cannes Film Festival, Raindance Film Festival, Edinburgh International Film Festival, Annecy International Animation Festival, among others.


    India enjoys comparative advantage in several aspects of the filmmaking process. It has a strong domestic film industry across the country and is home to world class technicians and equipment and diverse location choices to shoot any type of film.


    With over 1,800 feature films produced in the country, more than 900 television channels, 500 million internet users, 500 million smart phone users, India’s vibrant media and entertainment (M&E) industry provides attractive growth opportunities for global corporations.


    *********


    SC/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603511) Visitor Counter : 639
    
    
      Read this release in: Kannada , Punjabi , Hindi , Marathi , Gujarati , Urdu , Bengali , Malayalam