      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister delivers Keynote Address at India Action Plan 2020 Summit
      
      Says Government has hit a century in decision making in the last 8 months
      
      Says Process Centric Tax System is being replaced with Citizen Centric Tax System
      
      Says media should play a major constructive role in building New India
      
      Says Every Citizen should fulfil their duties to India attain new heights
      
      Posted On: 12 FEB 2020 9:15PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi delivered the keynote address at India Action Plan 2020 Summit hosted by theTV Channel Times Now Summit here today.


    Shri Modi said the World’s youngest nation, India, is also charting out an Action Plan for the new decade and that the Young India is in no mood to go slow.


    PrimeMinister said the Government has embraced this spirit and had hit a century in decision making in the last months.


    He also said that these changes have infused new energy at every level of society, filling it with confidence.


    The Prime Minister said that today the poor of the country are feeling confident that they can improve their standard of living, remove their poverty and farmers are confident of increasing their income in farming.


    5 Trillion Dollar Economy - Focus on Small Cities and Towns :


    “India aims to expand its economy to 5 trillion dollars in the next five years. “It is better to set a target and strive towards it. This goal is not easy but not impossible to achieve”, he said.


    He said that to achieve this goal, it is very important that the Manufacturing sector is strengthened in the country along with the increase in the country’s exports and that the Government has taken several initiatives towards this.


    The Prime Minister said that amidst these efforts, India faces more challenges being an emerging economy along with the ups and downs in the Global economy.


    He emphasized that for the first time, a government has focused on the economic growth of small cities as well making them new growth hubs.


    Improving the Tax System:


    The Prime Minister said, “Every government has been very hesitant to improve the tax system. There was no change in this for years. Now we are moving from a Process Centric Tax System to a Citizen Centric Tax System. India will join the select countries, where the taxpayers charter is implemented. The charter will clearly define the rights of taxpayers.”


    The Prime Minister urged every Indian to introspect the issue of people evading taxes and the double whammy it is posing to the honest taxpayer. He urged all citizens to be responsible citizens and pay their taxes.


    He urged the media to play a constructive role in building a prosperous India.


    He said, “When everyone fulfils their duties then there would be no problem left to be solved. Then the country would get a new strength, new energy. This would take India to new heights in this decade”


    ***


    VRRK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603032) Visitor Counter : 914
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil