      Finance Commission

      Finance Commission constitutes High Level Expert Group on Agriculture Exports
      Posted On: 17 FEB 2020 6:35PM by PIB Delhi


    The Fifteenth Finance Commission has decided to constitute a High Level Expert Group on Agriculture Exports in pursuance of its ToR i.e, to recommend measurable performance incentives for States to encourage ari exports as well as to promote crops to enable high import substitution. The composition of the group is as below:


    (i) Shri Sanjiv Puri, Chairman and Managing Director, ITC - Chairman


    (ii) Ms. Radha Singh, Former Agriculture Secretary – Member .


    (iii) Representative of Ministry of Food Processing Industries – Member.


    (iv) Chairman, Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), Ministry of Commerce and Industry – Member .


    (v) Shri Suresh Narayanan, CMD, NESTLE India – Member .


    (vi) Mr. Jay Shroff, CEO-UPL Limited – Member .


    (vii) Shri Sanjay Sacheti, Country Head India-Olam Agro India Ltd. – Member .


    (viii) Dr. Sachin Chaturvedi, Director General, RIS – Member .


    The Terms of Reference of the Committee are :


    · To assess export & import substitution opportunities for Indian agricultural products (commodities, semi processed and processed) in the changing international trade scenario and suggest ways to step up exports sustainably and reduce import dependence.


    · To recommend strategies and measures to increase farm productivity, enable higher value addition, ensure waste reduction, strengthen logistics infrastructure etc. related to Indian agriculture, to improve the sector’s global competitiveness.


    · To identify the impediments for private sector investments along the agricultural value chain and suggest policy measures and reforms that would help attract the required investments.


    · To suggest appropriate performance-based incentives to the state governments for the period 2021-22 to 2025-26, to accelerate reforms in the agriculture sector as well as implement other policy measures in this regard.


    The Committee can seek assistance of any other institution or entity as considered appropriate for completion of the work. The Committee will submit its recommendations within three months for further consideration of the Commission.


    ******


    MC


    

    
    (Release ID: 1603469) Visitor Counter : 951
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi