      Ministry Of Law & Justice

      Cabinet approves Constitution of 22nd Law Commission of India for a term of three years
      Posted On: 19 FEB 2020 4:41PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has approved Twenty-second Law Commission of India for a period of three years from the date of publication of the Order of Constitution in the Official Gazette.


    Benefits


    The Government will have the benefit of recommendations from a specialised body on different aspects of law which are entrusted to the Commission for its study and recommendations, as per its terms of reference.


    The Law Commission shall, on a reference made to it by the Central Government or suo-motu, undertake research in law and review of existing laws in India for making reforms therein and enacting new legislations. It shall also undertake studies and research for bringing reforms in the justice delivery systems for elimination of delay in procedures, speedy disposal of cases, reduction in cost of litigation etc.


    The Law Commission of India shall, inter-alia,: -

     1. identify laws which are no longer needed or relevant and can be immediately repealed;
     2. examine the existing laws in the light of Directive Principles of State Policy and suggest ways of improvement and reform and also suggest such legislations as might be necessary to implement the Directive Principles and to attain the objectives set out in the Preamble of the Constitution;
     3. consider and convey to the Government its views on any subject relating to law and judicial administration that may be specifically referred to it by the Government through Ministry of Law and Justice (Department of Legal Affairs);
     4. Consider the requests for providing research to any foreign countries as may be referred to it by the Government through Ministry of Law and Justice (Department of Legal Affairs);
     5. take all such measures as may be necessary to harness law and the legal process in the service of the poor;
     6. revise the Central Acts of general importance so as to simplify them and remove anomalies, ambiguities and inequities;

    Before finalizing its recommendations, the Commission will consult the nodal Ministry/ Department (s) and such other stakeholders as the Commission may deem necessary for the purpose.


    Background


    The Law Commission of India is a non-statutory body constituted by the Government of India from time to time. The Commission was originally constituted in 1955 and is re-constituted every three years. The tenure of twenty-first Law Commission of India was upto 31st August, 2018.


    The various Law Commission have been able to make important contribution towards the progressive development and codification of Law of the country. The Law Commission has so far submitted 277 reports.


    The 22nd Law Commission will be constituted for a period of three years from the date of publication of its Order in the Official Gazette. It will consist of:

     1. a full-time Chairperson;
     2. four full-time Members (including Member-Secretary)
     3. Secretary, Department of Legal Affairs as ex-officio Member;
     4. Secretary, Legislative Department as ex officio Member; and
     5. not more than five part-time Members.

    ******


    VRRK/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603641) Visitor Counter : 525
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Tamil
    
    
    

5.