      Prime Minister's Office

      PM unveils Statue & Dedicates to the Nation the Deendayal Upadhyay Memorial
      
      Flags Off the Mahakaal Express
      
      Launches projects worth ₹ 1250 Crore
      
      21st century India is working for Antyodaya: PM

      Posted On: 16 FEB 2020 4:17PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi unveiled the Statue of Deendayal Upadhyay and dedicated to the nation the Deendayal Upadhyay Memorial in Varanasi. He also flagged off the third corporate train Mahakaal Express which links 3 Jyotirling Pilgrim Centres – Varanasi, Ujjain and Omkareshwar. He inaugurated 36 developmental projects including a 430 Bed Super-Speciality Government Hospital and laid foundation stone for 14 developmental projects.


    Addressing a gathering at Pt. Deendayal Upadhyay Memorial Centre in Varanasi, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi said that today this region is further strengthening the significance of its name 'Padaav' by joining itself to the memorial site of Pt. Deendayal Upadhyay. It will develop into a stage where service, sacrifice, injustice and public interest will all come together. Now with this memorial place and garden built here, PM said that the grand statue installed here will continue to inspire generations to follow the the ethics and thoughts of Deen Dayal Ji.


    The Prime Minister said that Deen Dayal Upadhyay Ji showed us the path of Antyodaya, which is the rise of the last person in the society. Taking inspiration from this idea PM said that 21st century India is working for Antyodaya. He added that on this holy occasion, about Rs.1250 crore worth of projects which have been launched, will benefit the entire Purvanchal, including Varanasi. “All these projects are part of the resolution of rejuvenation going on in the entire Purvanchal including Kashi for the last 5 years. In these years, development works worth about Rs. 25 thousand crores have been completed or in progress in Varanasi district,” he said.


    The Prime Minister said that the government has given top priority to roads, highways, waterways, railways, especially regarding infrastructure. “These development works are not only taking the nation forward, but also generating employment opportunities, especially tourism-based employment, which has great potential in Kashi and surrounding areas,” he said. He further said that a few days ago, the President of Sri Lanka who came here was mesmerised with the divine atmosphere here.


    The Prime Minister said that on this holy occasion, the Kashi-Mahakal Express connecting Baba Vishwanath's city with Omkareshwar and Mahakaleshwar is also flagged. The foundation stone of the super-specialty hospital which was laid in BHU, in the second half of 2016, is now inaugurated. “In just 21 months, this 430-bed hospital is ready to serve the people of Kashi and Purvanchal,” he added. In line with the Deen Dayal Ji’s thoughts that self-reliance and self-help should be at the center of all schemes, the Prime Minister said that efforts are constantly being made to bring these ideas into the government's plans and the government's culture.


    Prime Minister stressed that the government is continuously working to reach the last person in the society, to bring the benefits of development to them. “Now the situation is changing and now the last man in the society is given top priority,” he added.


    ******


    VRRK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603342) Visitor Counter : 641
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada