      Ministry of Culture

      Minister for Culture & Tourism, Shri Prahlad Singh Patel and President of Portuguese Republic Mr. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa jointly inaugurate Cha-Chai, an installation of art work of Joana Vasconcelos at National Museum, New Delhi
      
      This exhibition will further strengthen the cultural bonds between two countries: President of Portuguese Republic

      Posted On: 14 FEB 2020 7:01PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister for Culture & Tourism Shri Prahlad Singh Patel and President of the Portuguese Republic Mr. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa jointly inaugurated the Cha-Chai, an installation of art work of Joana Vasconcelos at National Museum in New Delhi today.


    Union Minister of Culture welcomed the President of the Portuguese Republic and artist Joana Vasconcelos and said that the installation represents the five o’clock tradition of serving tea in Portugal that originated in the 17th century. He further said that India and Portugal are collaborating to develop various cultural projects in India.


    Speaking on the occasion the President of Portuguese Republic said that the ‘tea pot’ art work is symbolic depicting cultural bridges between people and people to people relation. He added that the century old 5 pm tea is a family tradition in Portugal that strengthens family bonding. He also said that this exhibition will further strengthen the cultural bonds between two countries.


    This exhibition brings Cha-Chai, a wrought-iron sculpture shaped as a teapot, by the renowned artist, Joana Vasconcelos. The ‘Tea Pot’ and its iron railings represent the bridge between urban and rural landscape. The aroma of tea, as depicted by the installation, takes visitors to a memorable journey from this physical world to a surreal world. Century old, long lasting connection between Portugal and India shines through tea or chai. The Portuguese adopted chá (Sha) as their word for it, incredibly close to the Indian chai.


    On this occasion artist Joana Vasconcelos conveyed her thanks to National Museum for exhibiting her artwork in the museum. The installation in the front lawn of the museum will remain open to public till 30.06.2020.


    *******


    NB/AKJ/OM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1603274) Visitor Counter : 421
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi