      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      MoS (PP) Dr Jitendra Singh chairs review meeting of Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions
      
      Dr Singh highlights major reforms undertaken in (DoP&T), DoP and DARPG since May 2019

      Posted On: 26 FEB 2020 6:04PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State for Development of North Eastern Region (I/C), Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space Dr Jitendra Singh today chaired a comprehensive review meeting of the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions and all the agenda items of the three departments were taken.


    Dr. Singh also highlighted some of the major reform measures taken since May 2019. The major highlights are mentioned below:


    (DoP&T)

     1. RTI Amendment Act, 2019 – The RTI Act, 2005 was amended to provide enabling provisions of administrative nature for making rules regarding tenure and service conditions of the Chief Information Commissioner and Information Commissioners of the Central Information Commission as well as State Chief information Commissioner and State Information Commissioners of the State Information Commission. Consequently, the rules relating thereto were also notified on 24.10.2019 in the official gazette .
     2. Appointment of Chief Vigilance Commissioner - Shri Sanjay Kothari, ex-IAS selected for the post of Chief Vigilance Commissioner and Shri Suresh N. Patel to that of Vigilance Commissioner, Central Vigilance Commission.
     3. Appointment to the post of Chief Information Commissioner - Shri Bimal Julka, ex-IAS, selected to the post as Chief Information Commissioner and Ms. Amita Pandove as Information Commissioner, Central Information Commission.
     4. Common Foundation Course for all Civil Services Officers – The course started for all AIS and other Group A officers, selected through the Civil Service Examination. The Hon. PM interacted with 425 officer trainees from 20 Servcies on 31.10.2019 at Kevadia, Gujarat.

    Department of Pensions and Pensioners’ Welfare

      * Integrated Grievance Cell & Call Center was inaugurated on 20 th June, 2019 for pensioners with the objective to provide easy access to pensioners in registering their grievances and getting resolution in speedy manner. This centres also working as pressure on the departments to resolve the problems of the elderly pensioners.

      * All India Pension Adalat was organized on 23.08.2019 by various Ministries and Departments all over the country. Hon’ble MoS (PP) interacted with the nodal officers and the pensioners present at these Pension Adalats through live video conferencing. More than 50 centers were connected through live video conferencing with the event being organized in Delhi. Around 4,000 cases were resolved in a single day.


      * During October 2019, countrywide awareness campaign on Digital Life Certificate (DLC) was conducted by associating Pensioners’ Association in 24 cities namely, Madurai, Chennai, Trivandrum, Vadodara, Mumbai, Delhi, Noida, Bangalore, Mysore, Lucknow, Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Jaipur, Thrissur, Kolkata, Ranchi, Allahabad, Dehradun, Balasore, Jalandhar, Ahmedabad, Pune, Guwahati, Jammu and Chandigarh.


      * As a step towards ease of living for pensioners living abroad , this office brought out consolidated instructions vide OM No 12/5/2020-6363 dated 20.2.2020 on submission of life as well as commencement of family pension without insisting them to be present in person before pension paying branch in India.


    Achievements of DARPG


    (e-GOVERNANCE DIVISION)

     1. Centralized Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (CPGRAMS):

    At present, the Department has undertaken CPGRAMS Reforms. The CPGRAMS reforms has been developed to ensure user friendly lodging of grievance by a citizen and enable a navigation of the grievance to reach the field office responsible for resolution of the same. CPGRAMS Reforms will streamline grievances so that the grievances may reach the rightful redressal Office, surpassing the line office. The broader salient features of the CPGRAMS Reforms 7.0 are that the revised system is citizen friendly as there is a questionnaire guided registration process. On 5 th November, 2019 in the National Workshop on CPGRAMS Reforms held at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi, the CPGRAMS Reforms was launched by the Hon’ble Minister in the Departments of Telecommunications and Financial Services (Banking & Insurance Division). The Hon’ble Minister also launched the CPGRAMS reforms in the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Ministry of External Affairs, Department of School Education on 12 th February, 2020 in the National Workshop on e-office & launch of CPGRAMS Reforms.


    2 . Regional Conferences are organized on specific themes in association with various State/Union Territory Governments with a view to bring National and State level organizations along with other stakeholders including NGOs, intelligentsia, media etc. on the same platform to share experiences in the formulation and implementation of good governance practices. During this financial year three Regional conferences were orgnaized. First two day Regional Conference on the theme: “Replication of Good Governance Practices in UT’s of J&K and Ladakh” in collaboration with the Government of Jammu & Kashmir & Ladakh was organized on November 15-16, 2019 at Jammu. Another two-day Regional Conference was organized on 30th November – 01st December, 2019 on the theme ‘Ek Bharat Shreshta Bharat’ with focus on ‘Jal Shakti and Disaster Management’, in collaboration with Governments of Tamil Nadu and Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir at Jammu. The third Regional Conference on the theme ‘Improving Public Services Delivery – Role of Governments” was held on December 21-22 , 2019 at Nagpur in collaboration with the Government of Maharashtra. Till date, the Department has organized 34 Regional Conferences.


    22nd National Conference on e-Governance (NCeG) (8th-9th August, 2019 in Shillong, Meghalaya)


    The 22 nd National Conference on e-Governance was organized in Shillong, Meghalaya on 8-9 th August, 2019. This was the first time the event took place in North-Eastern part of the country. About 450 -500 delegates attended the Conference. An Exhibition was also organized during the event to showcase the awarded and other initiatives which have excelled in the field of e-Governance.


    The theme of the Conference was “ Digital India: Success to Excellence” .


    23rd National Conference on e-Governance (NCeG) (7th-8th February, 2020 in Mumbai, Maharashtra)


    The 23 rd National Conference on e-Governance was organized in Mumbai, Maharashtra on 7 th -8 th February, 2020. The theme of the Conference was “India 2020: Digital Transformation ” . An Exhibition including Wall of Fame showcasing the awarded and other best practices of the country was also organized during the Conference.


    Hon’ble MOS (PP) has released the Good Governance Index (GGI) on Good Governance Day i.e. on 25.12.2019


    *****


    VG/SNC


    .

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604449) Visitor Counter : 255
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

1.