      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President felicitates three Padma Awardees from Telangana including the ace badminton player Ms PV Sindhu
      
      
      Advises the youth to develop a positive and constructive attitude in life
      
      Vice President inaugurated medical camp at Swarna Bharat Trust Hyderabad

      Posted On: 22 FEB 2020 5:37PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu today felicitated three Padma Awardees from Telangana - ace badminton player Ms PV Sindhu, innovative farmer Shri Chintala Venkat Reddy and well known Sanskrit and Telugu poet Shri Vijayasarathi Sribhashyam, at a function organized by Swarna Bharat Trust, Hyderabad today.


    Ms Sindhu is a recipient of Padma Bhushan the other two were awarded Padma Shri by the government recently.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Vice President lauded their achievements in their respective fields. The felicitation was meant to give inspiration to others to emulate these three Padma awardees. It is the recognition of their merit, Shri Naidu said and added that recognizing and respecting the talent is part of Indian culture.


    Shri Naidu, who also inaugurated a medical camp expressed his concerns over the rising incidences of Non Communicable Diseases in the country and urged the doctors and the media to create awareness among the people, particularly the youngsters on the need of taking preventive measures.


    He pointed out that sedentary lifestyle and unhealthy food habits were mainly responsible for NCDs and urged the youth to shun eating junk food and take up physical activity on daily basis to remain fit.


    Observing that programs like Fit India, Yoga and Swachh Bharat Mission were meant to ensure good health and hygiene for all, Shri Naidu called upon the youth to adopt these programs and turn them into people’s movements.


    He also stressed the need for living in harmony with nature and focus on water conservation efforts.


    He urged the youth not to support those indulging in violence and asked them to develop a positive and constructive attitude in life. Quoting the three word mantra of ‘Reform-Perform-Transform’ given by the Prime Minister, Shri Naidu asked the youth to work towards the transformation of the country in all spheres.


    On this occasion, certificates were also distributed to the trainees who completed their courses at Swarna Bharat Trust.


    Chairman Swarna Bharat Trust, Shri Kamineni Srinivas and Hyderabad Chapter President of Swarna Bharat Trust, Shri Krishna Prasad were among those present on the occasion.


    ****


    VRRK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604043) Visitor Counter : 411
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi