      Ministry of Defence

      BAY of Bengal Offshore Sailing Expedition (BBSE)
      Posted On: 23 FEB 2020 9:49AM by PIB Delhi


    Indian Naval Sailing Vessels Mhadei and Tarini set sail for the Bay of Bengal Offshore Sailing Expedition on 22 February 2020 from the Indian Naval Ocean Sailing Node at Goa. The expedition was flagged off by Rear Admiral SJ Singh, Commandant Naval War College, Goa. This would be the maiden major mixed crew sailing expedition of the Indian Navy with crew composition of five naval officers including two women officers in each boat, covering a total distance of 6,100 Nautical miles each and will be at sea for 55 days. Captain Vipul Meherishi, Skipper Tarini would be the Expedition Leader and Captain Atool Sinha would be Skipper Mhadei. The Skippers for the expedition are accomplished yachtsmen who have brought laurels to the navy and the country by winning medals, both at national and International level competitions.


    The prolonged voyage of nearly three months during this expedition would showcase harnessing of renewal energy namely wind energy to propel the boats. The expedition is also in pursuance of the GOI mission of ' Nari Shakti ' providing opportunity to women officers at par with men. The expedition also aims to enhance the level of cooperation and camaraderie between the littoral nations in the Bay of Bengal whilst exhibiting the IN expertise in the domain of ocean sailing. The sailing vessels as part of the expedition would make replenishment halts at ports of Phuket, Yangon, Chittagong and Colombo, wherein interaction with various state officials would be conducted including harbour sorties for visiting dignitaries.


    Mhadei and Tarini inducted in the Indian Navy on 08 February 2009 and 18 February 2017 respectively have been the vessels of choice for the naval expeditioners in various sailing expeditions, including three circumnavigations and thus have thousands of miles tucked under their belt. Mhadei has successfully completed two circumnavigations, three Cape to Rio trans-Atlantic races and several other expeditions around various continents. The vessel has covered in excess of 1,36,000 nautical miles. Tarini created history in 2017-18 when six Indian Naval women officers sailed the vessel on maiden circumnavigation voyage titled Navika Sagar Parikrama. She thereafter also participated in mixed crew Kochi to Seychelles sail training expedition during 10 th anniversary celebration of the IONS.


    The Bay of Bengal Offshore Sailing Expedition will generate goodwill amongst the visiting nations and inspire participation in the forthcoming BIMSTEC Sailing Expedition being planned with mixed crew of member nations onboard Indian Naval Sailing Vessels.


    VM/ MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604066) Visitor Counter : 1017
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi