      Vice President's Secretariat

      Vice President urges the Union and State governments to link employment with local languages
      
      Teacher’s role paramount in shaping the life of a student- Vice President
      
      Calls for ending every kind of social discrimination
      
      Inculcate respect for women among children from an early age – Vice President
      
      Secularism is in the blood and veins of every Indian & minorities are more secure in India than any other country- Vice President
      
      Says Bharat Mata Ki Jai means the ‘Jai of 130 crore Indians’
      
      Inaugurates the Platinum Jubilee celebrations of Andhra Vidyabhi Vardhani Educational Institutions, in Warangal

      Posted On: 23 FEB 2020 3:11PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu today urged the Union and State governments to mandatorily link employment upto a level with the local languages to promote the use of mother tongues in the country.


    Inaugurating the Platinum Jubilee celebrations of Andhra Vidyabhi Vardhani (AVV) Educational Institutions, in Warangal today, the Vice President also emphasized the need to promote the use of Indian languages in the administration. This will not only bring the administration closer to the people but also help in preservation of our rich linguistic heritage, he said.


    Quoting Sardar Patel, Shri Naidu said that unless a child understands the language of instruction properly, he will not be able to understand the subject being taught in that language.


    Stressing the need for value-based education, Shri Naidu said that education should focus on overall development of the students by imparting morals, ethics and age old civilizational values of the country. A teacher has prominent role after parents in shaping the life of a student, he said.


    Emphasizing the need to end every kind of social discrimination, the Vice President called for a mindset change in the society. He said that the children should be taught to be respectful towards girls and women from an early age.


    Highlighting that Indian culture shows great respect for women, the Vice President said that it was evident from the fact that all rivers in the country are named after women.


    Describing ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’ as the essence of Indian culture, Shri Naidu said that secularism is in the blood and veins of every Indian and minorities are more secure in India than any other country of the world. Respecting all religions and 'Sarva Dharma Sambhav' is our culture and we should continue to follow it, he added.


    Appreciating India’s rich spiritual heritage Shri Naidu said that Bharat Mata Ki Jai means the ‘Jai of 130 crore Indians’.


    He exhorted the youth to develop 4Cs – Character, Capacity, Conduct and Caliber, and asked them to be hardworking and disciplined to achieve success in life. Shri Naidu also advised them to shun sedentary lifestyle and keep physically fit.


    Objecting to some countries’ tendency to comment on India’s internal matters, the Vice President asked them to refrain from advising India on its internal affairs. Pointing out that India was the largest parliamentary democracy , he said it was capable of managing its own affairs.


    Stressing that peace was a prerequisite for development, the Vice President said that in a democracy, everyone has a right to dissent and protest but it should be done in a peaceful manner. He asked the youth to develop positive attitude in life and be constructive and not obstructive in their approach.


    Expressing his concern over the fast depleting water resources, the Vice President stressed the need for protecting lakes and traditional water bodies.


    “Earlier every village used to have different water bodies for different purposes, but we neglected these traditional water conservation methods”, he said. Shri Naidu also appreciated the work being done by the Telangana government for the irrigation development in the state.


    On this occasion, the Vice President released the souvenir of the institute and lauded the contributions of philanthropist and founder of AVV institutions, Shri Chanda Kanthaiah, particularly his love for Telugu during Nizam rule and his initiatives for starting Telugu Medium Schools.


    Home Minister of Telangana, Shri Mohammad Mahmood Ali, Panchayati Raj Minister of Telangana, Shri Yerrabelli Dayakar Rao were among the dignitaries who graced the occasion.


    ****


    VRRK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604086) Visitor Counter : 368
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi