      Ministry of Education

      MoS HRDShri Sanjay Dhotre inaugurates the exhibition on clean air technologies at IIT Delhi
      
      The exhibition showcases clean air technologies developed by IIT Bombay, IIT Ropar, IIT (ISM) Dhanbad and IIT Delhi
      
      The Government of India is making serious efforts to drastically reduce pollution levels in the country: Shri Dhotre

      Posted On: 25 FEB 2020 5:32PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State for Human Resource DevelopmentShri Sanjay Dhotre inaugurated the exhibition organised by Centre of Excellence for Research on Clean Air technologies at the Indian Institute of Technology Delhi today. The exhibition showcases clean air technologies developed by IIT Bombay, IIT Ropar, IIT (ISM) Dhanbadand IIT Delhi. IIT Delhi showcased the work it had carried out in the area of clean air through start-ups incubated at IIT Delhi namely Aerogram and Kriya Labs.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Sanjay Dhotre emphasised that in an age of environmental concerns, the need is to accord highest priority to civic awareness regarding clean environment. He said that the government is entirely committed to the cause of fighting the rising air pollution levels in the country and is taking all possible measures to spread awareness on clean air issues and providing all possible support for the development and promotion of clean air technologies in the country.


    He assured that the Government of India is making serious efforts to drastically reduce pollution levels in the country on a continuous basis and is determined to deal with this problem in its totality. He further said that it is important for every citizen and every organization to make concerted efforts by joining in the national effort to fight the rising air pollution in our country, be it through legislations, implementation of policy measures, enforcement of pollution laws, awareness campaigns and by leveraging the power of low cost indigenous clean air technologies developed by our research institutions such as the IITs. The Government of India is committed towards technology development, technology industrialization, global cooperation and investment in Research and Development. Shri Dhotre also highlighted the need for preventive steps before we are left with no choice other than finding solutions.


    He emphasised that such exhibitions provided opportunities for showcasing the high calibre research being carried out at our institutions of national importance in critical areas such as Air Pollution and also provided excellent platforms for collaboration between various stakeholders in this important area so that the benefits could be reaped by the country as a whole.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/OA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604317) Visitor Counter : 503
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi