      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Indian Delegation at Berlinale 2020 discusses collaboration with Jerusalem International Film Festival
      Posted On: 22 FEB 2020 10:09AM by PIB Delhi


    On the second day of Berlinale 2020, the Indian delegation met with a number of representatives from the Global Film industry who expressed their interest in working with India and keenness to participate for the 51st IFFI International Film Festival of India


    The Delegation met with Mr Lior Sasson, Head of Operations (Israel Film Fund) and Artistic Director of Israeli Pavilion, Ministry of Culture and Sports, State of Israel. Mr Sasson expressed interest in exploring opportunities fir future collaboration with IFFI 2020. The two sides also discussed scope of working together to showcase India as a focus country at the Jerusalem International Film Festival, Israel and their participation at IFFI 2020.


    The Delegation had a meeting with Ms Makhosazana Khanyile, Chief Executive Officer, National Film & Video Foundation of South Africa (NFVF). During the meeting, Ms Khanyile expressed her willingness to work with India on animation, Gaming and VR/ AR sector and IFFI. She also emphasised on developing strategies with India on exchange of skills, both digital and gaming. National Film Development Corporation (NFDC, India) has a co-production treaty with NFVF.


    Indian Delegation also interacted with Ms Wendy Bendred, Right Stuff; Mr Claas Danielsen, CEO, MDM Online (German Film development board and Film Fund); Ms Mukhlisa Azizova, Chairman of Uzbekistan National Film Commission; Mr Mathew Takata, Senior Manager Feature projects international, Sundance Film Institute and Mr Marc Baschet, Co-producer, Movie - Lunchbox and representatives of Spain, among others.


    The Indian Pavilion at Berlinale has been organized by the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting in association with Confederation of Indian Industry. Over 40 Indian film companies are participating at Berlinale 2020.


    SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604013) Visitor Counter : 487
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Punjabi , Gujarati , Malayalam