      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Doordarshan India gears up for Global Coverage of President Trump’s Visit to India
      Posted On: 23 FEB 2020 4:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Doordarshan has deployed a vast fleet of High Definition(HD) OB Vans and cameras distributed across multiple locations in the three cities of Ahmedabad, Agra and New Delhi to generate the Live Feed for DD India which will be distributed globally.


    Doordarshan, the Television Network of Prasar Bharati - India’s Public Broadcaster, is all set for global coverage of ‘Namaste Trump’ event and US President Trump's visit to India through its English News Channel “DD India”.


    Apart from the major American and European TV News Networks who will be carrying the global live feed of DD India, the event will also be available in Korea through DD India on the myK Platform as well as in Bangladesh via satellite. International viewers will be able to watch DD India’s live feed through YouTube ( https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCGDQNvybfDDeGTf4GtigXaw ) and through Prasar Bharati’s Global Digital Platform – NewsOnAir available on Android and iOS Platforms.


    Doordarshan’s deployment in Ahmedabad comprises one OB Van at the Airport with 16 cameras and two OB Vans at Sardar Patel Stadium (Motera Stadium) with 24 Cameras. 45 Cameras have been deployed for the coverage of road show. One production control room with connection to 45 Cameras for road show is set up at Indira bridge enroute to stadium. Another OB set up with loose 7 cameras is made at Sabarmati Ashram. All the four production control panels at Airport, Indira Bridge, Stadium and Sabarmati are linked via Optical Fibre Cables to be uplinked to Delhi. The coverage involves more than 50 Kms of Optical Fibre , nearly 100 camerapersons and as many for production and management of the technical infrastructure.


    At Agra, a 10 Camera HD production set up is deployed for road show with 3 HD DSNGs. At Delhi, one HD OB Van with 10 Cameras and 2 HD DSNGs are deployed at Rashtrapati Bhawan for ceremonial reception, Guard of Honour and banquet in the evening. One HD OB with 8 cameras and 2 HD DSNGs are deployed at Hyderabad house for bilateral talks and signing of MOUs. One HD DSNG deployed at Airport Delhi for arrival and departure coverage. Two HD DSNGs are also deployed at Rajghat.


    With this extensive deployment, Prasar Bharati’s global English news channel, DD India, is all set to provide a bird’s eye view of the much awaited multi-city two day visit of President Donald Trump to India.


    SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604096) Visitor Counter : 513
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Gujarati