      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      NHAI safeguards the commuting of FASTag users: Charges double the defaulters
      
      Collected Rs. 20.0 crore from defaulters

      Posted On: 23 FEB 2020 6:20PM by PIB Delhi

    RFID based FASTag, an electronic toll collection system implemented by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), has proved to be instrumental in easing lives of commuters on National Highways within two months of its nationwide implementation.


    Over 1.55 crore FASTags have been issued through multiple Point of Sale (PoS). NHAI has been observing increased sale rate of FASTags which is a clear indication of this digital system being accepted well. As a result, FASTag transaction has crossed a landmark count of 4.0 million per day.


    In order to give prime importance to its existing FASTag users, dissuade defaulters and further encourage adoption of FASTags by NH commuters, vehicles without FASTags entering into FASTag lane are being charged double the toll fee. Till now, a total number of 18.00 lakh vehicles defaulted by encroaching FASTag lanes across India has resulted a double charge cash toll accumulation of about Rs. 20.0 cr.


    As a measure, it has also resulted in smooth and hassle-free movement of FASTag users on highways. The implementation of FASTags across the country has met with the desired response so far. The adoption of FASTags also means that it has brought in the much-needed transparency in collection at the toll booths.


    In order to further increase digital collection of user fee via FASTag at NH fee plazas, NHAI has recently waived off the FASTag cost of Rs. 100/- for NHAI FASTag from 15 February 2020 to 29 February 2020. Any road users can visit any authorized physical point-of-sale locations with a valid Registration Certificate (RC) of the vehicle and get a NHAI FASTag free of cost.


    _______________


    MS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1604104) Visitor Counter : 524
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi