      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister Shri Amit Shah chairs a meeting with Political Parties and Senior Officials on the issue of recent violence in Delhi
      
      Adequate forces already on the ground in affected areas; situation under control: Shri Shah
      
      Maintain restraint and rise above party lines: Shri Shah appeals to all political parties
      
      Avoid spreading rumours and unverified information: Shri Shah appeals to the Public and Media
      
      Re-activate local peace committees: Shri Shah to Delhi Police Commissioner
      
      Posted On: 25 FEB 2020 5:08PM by PIB Delhi


      Union Minister of Home Affairs Shri Amit Shah today chaired a meeting on the prevailing situation in Delhi. The Lieutenant Governor of Delhi Shri Anil Baijal and the Chief Minister of Delhi Shri Arvind Kejriwal were also present, along with senior officials and representatives of political parties. Shri Shah appreciated the participation of all parties and urged them to exercise restraint, rise above party lines to tackle the situation.


      Shri Shah said that the borders of Delhi with the states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have been under surveillance for the last three days and Delhi Police has been taking adequate steps, like checks and other precautionary measures in view of the upcoming Supreme Court hearing relating to issues pertaining to Citizenship Law. Shri Shah said that additional forces may be deployed in affected areas, as per requirement. He urged political parties to avoid provocative speeches and statements which could flare up the situation.


      Shri Shah noted that the professional assessment is that the violence in the capital has been spontaneous. He expressed confidence in Delhi Police and said that the force has shown maximum restraint to get the situation under control.


      Shri Shah appealed to all to desist from spreading rumours, and said that political parties should cooperate with police to quell these rumours and dispel fear among public. He also appealed to the public at large and media to communicate responsibly and avoid spreading rumours. He asked the Police Commissioner of Delhi to have senior police officers present in Police Control Rooms so that rumours can be dispelled as quickly as possible.


      Shri Shah spoke of the need to re-activate local peace committees and said that those committees should include representatives of all sections of society, religions and eminent local persons. Shri Shah urged political parties to ask their local representatives to hold meetings in sensitive areas and instructed senior police officers to visit vulnerable police stations at the earliest. He added that special officers would be deployed in affected areas. Feedback on the issue has been taken from local representatives and incorporated for further course of action after discussions with Lieutenant Governor and the Delhi Police Commissioner.


      Shri Shah noted that the Delhi Police is a professional organization and is adequately empowered to be able to decide on the amount of force needed to diffuse tensions where necessary. Those present in the meeting expressed grief on the death of Head Constable Ratan Lal, who was killed in action yesterday.


      Condolence Letter from Union Home Minister to Head Constable Late Ratan Lal's Family


      *****


      VG/SNC/HS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1604308) Visitor Counter : 2532
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali , Tamil