      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Indian Delegation discusses India’s participation at Cannes Film Market 2020 and Strategic Positioning of IFFI at Cannes Film Festival
      Posted On: 23 FEB 2020 9:46AM by PIB Delhi


    The Indian Delegation at Berlin International Film Festival met Ms Maud Amson, Head of Sales & Operations, Marche Du Film, Cannes Film Festival and Mr Arnaud Menindes, Sales & Operations - Advertising at Marché du Film, Cannes Film Festival regarding Government of India’s participation at the Cannes Film Market 2020. The discussion involved positioning India much more strategically at Cannes. Cannes expressed their collaboration and participation for the 51st edition of IFFI.


    The Delegation also met with Heads of renowned Film Festivals, Film Commissons, International Producers like Ms Mariëlle Poupelin, Specialist International Business Development, Telefilm Canada; Mr Enrico Vannucci, Deputy Executive Director, Eurimages; Mr Kai Nordberg, Making Movies OY; Ms Adriane Freitag, Executive Manager, Cinema do Brasil; Mr Lefteris S. Eleftheroiu, Senior Officer, Head of Film Unit, Invest Cyprus, Ms Katalin Vajda, Festival Manager, National Film Institute, Hungary Mr Luis Chaby Vaz, President of Board - ICA Instituto do Cinema e Do Audiovisual, Portugal and Mr Sergio Scapegini, Italian Producer. Mr Scapegini expressed that the Italy would actively consider participating and collaborating with India for the 51st edition of IFFI. He also underlined that the participation would pave-forward for more proactive ties between the two nations.


    The Indian Delegation, through these interactions, promoted the 51st edition of IFFI and ease of shooting films in India through Film Facilitation Office that facilitates Single Window Clearance for film-makers and provides a platform for ‘film tourism’ in India through the website www.ffo.gov.in . The Delegation also explored opportunities regarding co-production with India and collaborations for films with international production houses.


    Ministry of Information & Broadcating, in collaboration with Confederation of Indian Industry, is participating at the Berlin International Film Festival (Berlinale) 2020 in Germany.


    ****


    SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604065) Visitor Counter : 384
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Gujarati