      Prime Minister's Office

      PM distributes Aids & Assistive Devices to Divyangjan and Senior Citizens at a mega distribution camp (Samajik Adhikarta Shivir) in Prayagraj Uttar Pradesh
      
      It is the responsibility of the government that every person is benefited, every person gets justice: PM
      
      In the last 5 years, about 9 thousand Mega Camps have been setup: PM

      Posted On: 29 FEB 2020 1:42PM by PIB Delhi

    In the biggest ever “Samajik Adhikarta Shivir”, the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today distributed Assistive Aids and Devices to nearly 27,000 Senior Citizens & Divyangjan at a mega distribution camp at Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh.


    The mega distribution was organised for empowering the Senior Citizens under the Rashtriya Vayoshri Yojana-RVY and under ADIP Schemes of the Government of India.


    Addressing the gathering, the Prime Minister quoted the age old maxim in Sanskrit, “स्वस्ति: प्रजाभ्यः परिपालयंतां. न्यायेन मार्गेण महीं महीशाः (Swastih Prajaabhyah Paripaalayantaam, Nyaayena MaargeNa, Maheem Mahishaah)” meaning it is the duty of the Government to get equal justice.


    हमारे यहां कहा जाता है- स्वस्ति: प्रजाभ्यः परिपालयंतां. न्यायेन मार्गेण महीं महीशाः!
    
    यानि सरकार का ये दायित्व है कि हर व्यक्ति का भला हो, हर व्यक्ति को न्याय मिले।
    
    यही सोच तो सबका साथ, सबका विकास, सबका विश्वास के मंत्र का भी आधार है: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 29, 2020

    Prime Minister said, “This maxim is the basis for the philosophy of Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas Sabka Vishwaas. With this spirit, our government is working to the welfare & development of each and every one in the society. It is my government’s first priority to protect the interests of 130 Crore Indians whether Senior Citizens, Divyangjan, Tribals or the downtrodden”.


    Referring to the mega camp of distribution of aids and devices the Prime Minister said it is a part of the Government’s effort to provide better living to one and all.


    "During the time of earlier governments, such distribution camps were hardly organised, and such mega camps were very rare. In the last five years, our government has set up about 9,000 camps in different parts of the country," he said.


    Prime Minister said in the last five years the Government has distributed over Rs 900 Crore worth of aids and devices to the Divyangjan.


    पिछली सरकार के पाँच साल में जहां दिव्यांगजनों को 380 करोड़ रुपए से भी कम के उपकरण बांटे गए, वहीं हमारी सरकार ने 900 करोड़ रुपए से ज्यादा के उपकरण बांटे हैं। यानि करीब-करीब ढाई गुना: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 29, 2020

    Prime Minister said, “ In the development of a New India, it is essential that there is an equal participation by the Divyangjan Youth and Children. The Government is encouraging them be it the Industrial Sector, Service Sector or in the field of Sports and Games”.


    “Ours is the first Government which has enacted the “Rights of Persons with the Disabilities Act”, through this we have expanded the categories of disabilities from 7 to 21. We have also increased the quota of reservation for Higher Education from 3% to 5% for the Divyangjan”


    उच्च शिक्षा संस्थानों में दाखिले के लिए भी उनका आऱक्षण 3 प्रतिशत से बढ़ाकर 5 प्रतिशत कर दिया गया है।
    
    अपने दिव्यांग साथियों का कौशल विकास भी हमारी प्राथमिकता रही है: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 29, 2020

    The Prime Minister said that in the last five years, many buildings in the country, more than 700 railway stations and airports, have been made accessible to the disabled. The remaining ones will also be made accessible by linking to the Sugamya Bharat Abhiyan, he added.


    बीते चार-पाँच वर्षों में देश की सैकड़ों इमारतें, 700 से ज्यादा रेलवे स्टेशन, एयरपोर्ट, दिव्यांगजनों के लिए सुगम्य बनाई जा चुकी हैं। जो बची हुई हैं, उन्हें भी सुगम्य भारत अभियान से जोड़ा जा रहा है: PM @narendramodi

    — PMO India (@PMOIndia) February 29, 2020

    This is the biggest ever distribution camp conducted in the country in terms of the number of beneficiaries covered, number of appliances distributed and value of aids and appliances distributed.


    In the mega camp, over 56,000 Assistive Aid and Devices of different types will be distributed free of cost to over 26,000 of beneficiaries. The cost of the Aids and Devices is over Rs 19 Crore.


    The objective is to provide assistance through these aids and devices to the daily living and socio – economic development of the Divyangjan and the Senior Citizens.


    ***


    VRRK/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1604733) Visitor Counter : 589
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Assamese , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada