      Prime Minister's Office

      PM addresses 9th Episode of ‘Mann Ki Baat 2.0’
      
      Indian youth is taking great interest in science and technology : PM
      
      Says a few days ago, history was scripted in Ladakh

      Posted On: 23 FEB 2020 4:15PM by PIB Delhi

    Addressing the 9th Episode of ‘Mann Ki Baat 2.0’, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi said the young India is increasingly taking a keen interest in Science & Technology. Lauding the enthusiasm of the youngsters, he said, “When I was in Bengaluru during Chandrayaan-2, I witnessed immense enthusiasm & fervor on the part of the children present there. There was no sign of drowsiness from any angle. In a way, they kept awake throughout the night. One can never forget their inquisitiveness when it came to Science, Technology and Innovation”.


    Sharing his thoughts in Mann Ki Baat today, the Prime Minister said, to give a fillip to this enthusiasm in children & young people and to encourage scientific temper in them, recently a facility has been made to watch rocket launching at Sriharikota. This facility has been made open for all and can be booked online. He also urged the Principals & Teachers of all schools to avail of this benefit in times to come.


    In this context, he lauded ISRO's 'Yuvika' programme which integrates the youth with science. ‘Yuvika' stands for ' Yuva Vigyani Karyakram and was launched for school students in the year 2019. This program is in consonance with our vision, "Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan, Jai Vigyan, Jai Anusandhaan’, he added. Prime Minister Modi also called for young students to join the programme by visiting “www.yuvika.isro.gov.in”.


    The Prime Minister applauded the efforts of the scientists of CSIR and Indian Institute of Petroleum, Dehradun, who developed the technology to fly an aircraft with bio-fuel. He said that their efforts also empower the ‘Make in India’ mission. He said that history was made when an Indian Air Force AN-32 aircraft took off from Leh's Kushok Bakula Rimpochee Airport with a mixture of 10% Indian Bio-jet fuel and this was the first time that this mix was used in both engines. He said the bio-jet fuel was prepared from non-edible tree borne oil which was procured from various tribal areas of India. These efforts will not only reduce carbon emissions but may also reduce India's dependence on crude oil imports, he added.


    ***


    VRRK/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604092) Visitor Counter : 292
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Tamil , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati