      President's Secretariat

      President Hosts President of Myanmar; Says Myanmar Stands at the Confluence of India’s ‘Neighbourhood First’ and ‘Act East Policy’
      Posted On: 27 FEB 2020 9:00PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, received His Excellency U Win Myint, the President of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, at Rashtrapati Bhavan today (February 27, 2020). He also hosted a banquet in his honour.


    Welcoming President Myint on his first ever visit to India, the President said that India attaches the highest priority to its partnership with Myanmar. Myanmar stands at the confluence of India’s ‘Neighbourhood First’ and ‘Act East policy’. India-Myanmar partnership is at the heart of India’s vision to create a connected and cooperative neighbourhood.


    The President said that a peaceful, united, federal, democratic and prosperous Myanmar is in India’s core national interest. India wishes to expand its partnership with Myanmar in key dimensions like energy, transportation, digital connectivity, tourism and heritage management. India is ready to provide more assistance, including developing training centres and new socio-economic infrastructure in rural areas.


    The President said that India appreciates Myanmar’s assurances that Myanmar would not allow groups that are inimical to India’s interests to operate from its territory. India also appreciates the enhanced coordination and cooperation from the Myanmar Army in maintaining the security of our borders.


    Subsequently, in his banquet speech, President Kovind said that to foster sustainable peace, we must ensure a peace dividend through prosperity. Connectivity is already expanding, through the building of roads, use of waterways, upgradation of ports and increase of bilateral air services. We need to widen such connectivity to include energy as well.


    Click here to see the President's speech


    ***


    VRRK/VJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604612) Visitor Counter : 440
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi