      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Government to launch campaign from 1st- 7th March to observe IWD 2020 on 8th March
      
      7 Themes identified for 7 Days
      
      Contribution of Women in all fields to be celebrated
      Posted On: 29 FEB 2020 4:16PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministries of Women and Child Development, Information & Broadcasting and other Ministries of Govt. of India like Health &Family Welfare (H&FW), Human Resource Development (HRD), Agriculture & Farmer’s Welfare (A&FW), Rural Development (RD), Housing and Urban Affairs (HUA), Finance ,Defence and Home are launching a campaign to observe International Women’s Day (IWD) 2020 as a run-up to 8 th March, celebrated as International Women’s Day all over the world.


    The campaign has a theme for all the days beginning from 1 st March, 2020. The themes that are being observed are: education, health and nutrition, empowerment of women, skills &entrepreneurship and participation in sports, special circumstances, rural women &agriculture and urban women.


    A special program by celebrity chef, Sanjeev Kapoor will be telecast by Doordarshan from 1 st -7 th March,2020 highlighting special recipes of healthy and nutritious food for women during pregnancy and lactating period.


    Fourteen women oriented Hindi movies will be telecast on Doordarshan from 1 st -7 th March, 2020. Some of the films that will be telecast are Sarabjeet, Raazi,Tumhari Sulu and Parineeta.


    Doordarshan is also organising special programmes to commemorate the contribution of women members of the Indian Constituent Assembly to honour their contribution in the foundation of the Indian Republic.


    DD Kisan will telecast programs on women agriculturists, inventions in agriculture by women, the role of women in animal husbandry and food processing. The regional units of the News Services Division of All India Radio will also conduct extensive programmes from Sunday, 1 st March,like talk shows, features and exclusive programmes for women.


    The M/o H&FW is organising camps for women on health and wellness and Anaemia.


    The M/o HRD in collaboration with the University Grants Commission (UGC) is conducting round tables on women empowerment on the 7 themes in about 40 central universities around the country.


    Road shows are being organised by M/o Housing and Urban Affairs during this period on Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) in Lucknow, Patna and Thiruvananthapuram to educate and inform women on how to benefit from the PMAY scheme.


    On 7 th Marchthe M/o Rural Development is organising an event in New Delhi where women Self-Help Groups (SHGs) will be invited to interact and discuss various issues related to the Self-Help Groups with Minister and senior officials.


    Ministers and Secretaries of various Ministries and experts from different fields will be writing articles in their areas of specialization related to women.


    All regional units of the Press Information Bureau are organising round tables on the 7 themes at different universities, colleges and institutes all across the country. Field outreach programmes are also being organised by PIB and Bureau of Outreach and Communication in different districts of India right from the North-East region to Maoistinsurgency affected district of Chhattisgarh.


    *****


    MM/NP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604741) Visitor Counter : 1713
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi