      Prime Minister's Office

      Prime Minister to lay foundation stone for the Bundelkhand Expressway on 29th February, 2020
      
      To launch 10,000 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) all over the country on the same day

      Posted On: 27 FEB 2020 5:05PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi shall lay the foundation stone for the Bundelkhand Expressway at Chitrakoot on the 29 th of February 2020.


    The Expressway will be supplementing the nodes of the Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor announced by the Government of India in February 2018.


    The UP State Government is constructing the Bundelkhand Expressway which will pass through the districts of Chitrakoot, Banda, Hamirpur and Jalaun. This expressway will link the Bundelkhand area to the national capital Delhi through Agra-Lucknow expressway and Yamuna expressway as well as play a vital role in the development of Bundelkhand region.


    The 296 Km long Expressway is expected to benefit Chitrakoot, Banda, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Jaloun, Oraiyah and Etawah districts.


    India has huge defence equipment requirements spanning from land systems, ships and submarines to fighter aircraft, helicopters, weapons and sensors. The requirements are worth over USD 250 billion by 2025.


    In order to fulfil these requirements, the government had announced setting up of Defence Industrial Corridor at Uttar Pradesh during the Investors Summit on 21st Feb 2018 at Lucknow.


    The Central government has set up the Corridor with identification of six nodes initially. These are Lucknow, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Aligarh, Kanpur, Agra out of which two nodes are being created in Bundelkhand region at- Jhansi and Chitrakoot. In fact, the biggest cluster would be created at Jhansi.


    The land which was not being cultivated has been purchased in both Jhansi and Chitrakoot. The poor farmers of the region have got benefitted from this.


    Next-gen Infrastructure for a better tomorrow!
    Delighted to be laying the foundation stone for the Bundelkhand Expressway at Chitrakoot. This expressway will be the harbinger of progress for youngsters in the region and will also help the Defence Corridor coming up in the state.

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) February 28, 2020

    Launching of Farmers Producer Organisations (FPOs)


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi shall also be launching 10,000 Farmers Producer Organisations all over the country at Chitrakoot, on that day.


    Nearly 86% of farmers are small and marginal with average land holdings in the country being less than 1.1 hectare. These small, marginal and landless farmers face tremendous challenges during agriculture production phase such as for access to technology, quality seed, fertilizers and pesticides including requisite finances. They also face tremendous challenges in marketing their produce due to lack of economic strength.


    FPOs help in collectivization of such small, marginal and landless farmers in order to give them the collective strength to deal with such issues. Members of the FPO will manage their activities together in the organization to get better access to technology, input, finance and market for faster enhancement of their income.


    Though the report of ‘Doubling of Farmer’s Income’ (DFI) has recommended formation of 7,000 FPOs by 2022 towards convergence of efforts for doubling the farmers’ income, the central Government announced the creation of 10,000 new FPOs to ensure economies of scale for farmers over the next five years.


    In Union Budget, 2020-21, Government also proposed adopting a cluster approach for horticulture produce through the strategy of “one district one product” for promoting value addition, marketing and export.


    The Narendra Modi Government has hence launched a new dedicated Central Sector Scheme titled "Formation and Promotion of Farmer Produce Organizations (FPOs)" with clear strategy and committed resources to form and promote 10,000 new FPOs.


    Coming together for a vibrant agriculture sector.
    
    From Chitrakoot tomorrow, 10,000 Farmers Producer Organisations all over the country would be launched. These would help farmers by ensuring access to tech, financial support, markets and more. https://t.co/Pww3gX3dKg

    — Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) February 28, 2020

    *********


    VRRK/SH


    

    
    (Release ID: 1604547) Visitor Counter : 763
    
    
      Read this release in: Kannada , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Punjabi , Gujarati , Tamil