      Vice President's Secretariat

      The Vice President calls for cultural renaissance
      
      Stresses the need to pass on our age-old wisdom and knowledge to future generations
      
      Askes everyone to practice Yoga for health, inner peace and self-control
      
      Asks youth to fight against the evils of corruption, casteism, illiteracy and poverty
      
      Inaugurates Maha Shivratri Celebrations at Isha Yoga Center, Coimbatore
      Posted On: 21 FEB 2020 10:01PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu today called for renewed effort towards a cultural renaissance by promoting our rich cultural and spiritual heritage.


    Addressing a huge gathering at Isha Yoga Center, in Coimbatore on the occasion of Maha Shivaratri today the Vice President said that India is the only country which believes in ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam- the whole world as a family’.


    Shri Naidu highlighted that our ancient sages and rishis have guided and enlightened the people of this land through their knowledge and wisdom. He called upon the need to pass this treasure of wisdom to next generations.


    Mentioning the twelve Jyothirlingas spread all over the India, the Vice President said that this exemplifies that India has always been a single cultural entity since ancient times.


    Emphasising the relevance of Lord Shiva in modern times, the Vice President said that present day lifestyle and high pressure work routines are making our lives stressful leading to increased levels of frustration, irritation and impatience.


    In such a competitive world, the Vice President said, the people are increasingly turning to Yoga as it not only improves health but brings inner peace. It helps to achieve self control through unity between body and mind, Shri Naidu said.


    The Vice President said that Yoga is an art and science and should not be viewed from any political or religious prism.


    Describing that Shiva as ‘Neelakantha’ who consumed Halahala – the poison to save the world, Shri Naidu appealed to the youth to fight against the poison of social evils such as corruption, casteism, illiteracy and poverty inflicting the modern day society.


    Mentioning Lord Shiva’s love and closeness to nature, mountains and animals, the Vice President asked everyone to love and live with nature.


    Describing the respect for nature as a specialty of Indian culture, he called for adopting sustainable development practices.


    “We should benefit from nature without being exploitative”, he said.


    Shri Naidu appreciated Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev ji for his noble initiatives such as ‘Rally for River’ and ‘Cauvery Calling’. the Vice President said that Sadhguru reminds us of our ancient sages and Rishis.


    “He has the rare ability to explain complex concepts easily. He is a guru who reaches out to the people with the message of hope, of peace and positive thinking”, Shri Naidu said.


    He called upon the people to develop positive attitude in life and shun violence and destructive tendencies. He appealed to the people to take an oath on the occasion of this Maha Shivratri to bring peace, harmony and prosperity in the world.


    On this occasion, the Vice President also released the book titled ‘Death – An Inside Story’ written by Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev ji and witnessed the light and sound show on Lord Shiva.


    Governor of Himachal Pradesh, Shri Bandaru Dattatreya, Chief Minister of Puduchery, Shri V. Narayanaswami, Union Minister for Jal Shakti, Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare, Shri Ashwani Chaube, Tamil Nadu Minister for Animal Husbandry, Shri Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan, Tamil Nadu Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development, Shri S.P. Velumani, Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev and devotees from across India and world were present on the occasion.


    Following is the full text of the speech –


    “Om Namah Shivaya!


    Sisters and brothers,


    I am very pleased to be amidst all of you on this holy occasion of Maha Shivaratri today.


    It is the day to pay respects to Lord Shiva, to meditate, to be one with our inner self.


    This day also marks the shift of seasons, from the cold to the lively spring and brightness.


    Shiva is also known as Mahadev – the greatest God.


    And true to His greatness, Lord Shiva is associated with so many spiritual thoughts in Hinduism.


    He is Adi Yogi, the first yoga guru.


    He is Nataraja, the Lord of Dance.


    He is Rudra, the ferocious destroyer of evil.


    He is Dakshinamurthy, the great teacher.


    As Swami Vivekanda said - "He is the Great God, calm, beautiful, and silent! and I am His great worshipper.”


    And just like Swami Vivekananda, there are innumerable worshippers and devotees of this kind.


    The twelve Jyothir lingas epitomizing the Lord Shiva are spread all over the India. From Somnath in west to Baidyanath in east, from Kedarnath in north to Rameshwaram in South, Shiva is everywhere.


    The presence of twelve Jyothir lingas exemplifies that India has always been a single cultural entity since ancient times.


    We have to preserve this great culture of our great civilization. We have to pass it to our future generations. Festivals like Maha Shivratri and events like this are an important medium to imbibe our age old cultural values among the youth.


    I congratulate Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev ji for organizing Maha Shivaratri celebrations on such a grand scale.


    Relevance of the Lord Shiva and qualities he epitomizes can not be overemphasized in present day world.


    Present day lifestyle and high pressure work routines are making our lives stressful and anger and hatred are discolouring discourses across the world today.


    There is increased competition in every field. Children have pressure to succeed and people are judging one’s success with his materialistic possessions.


    It has led to increasing the levels of frustration, irritation and impatience in the world.


    A WHO report tells us that India has the highest suicide rate in the South-East Asian region. Also, the suicide is the second leading cause of death among 15-29-year-olds globally.


    What is happening to the world?


    Where are we headed to?


    We need peace in life, in our thoughts, in actions. We need calmness, control over one’s emotions.


    This world needs happiness.


    And certainly material gains alone can not bring happiness. There is something more to it…. and that is exactly what Shiva teaches us.


    Adiyogi is the one who first transmitted the yogic science to humanity. Here I stand before the towering 112-foot face of Adiyogi. He is an inspiration and are presentation that yoga is not about belief. It is a technology to transform yourself.


    I see people here from different backgrounds, countries, of different religions and regions. Sadhguru and Isha have made Mahashivratri a truly global festival.


    It is not just people on the spiritual path who are drawn to Adiyogi. It is because of yoga’s scientific basis and effectiveness that the United Nations has included Yoga in its roadmap to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. It is also praiseworthy that the United Nations has recognized the importance of this great ancient Indian system by celebrating 21 st June as International Day of Yoga.


    This huge enthusiasm for Yoga and spirituality is because these methods do not need any faith or belief. This is a science. If you just apply it in your life, it will work wonderfully.


    The great art & science of Yoga, believed to have descended from the Adi Yogi Shiva is gaining popularity world over. Yoga brings not only health but inner peace and joy too. It helps to achieve unity between body, mind and soul. Yoga also teaches self-control.


    I appreciate the noble efforts for Yoga promotion by Sadhguru and other great sages of India.


    Lord Shiva gives the message of social harmony as well.


    A popular name for Shiva is Neelakantha who consumed Halahala – the poison to save the world from its harmful effects.


    Only Shiva could have done this because His heart is filled with the infinite compassion for the mankind.


    Today the poison of corruption, casteism, illiteracy and poverty is inflicting the society.


    I call upon the every youth to come forward and take lead in fight against these social evils and take the nation on the path of prosperity, peace and harmony.


    Swami Vivekanada has also said that,


    “He who sees Shiva in the poor, in the weak, and in the diseased, really worships Shiva. He who has served and helped one poor man seeing Shiva in him, without thinking of his caste, or creed, or race, or anything, with him Shiva is more pleased than with the man who sees Him only in temples.”


    Another specialty of Lord Shiva is that he always loves and stays close to nature. Snow clad peaks of Himalayas are his abode. He is accompanied by natural elements and animals such as snakes, the moon, the Ganga and Nandi.


    This respect for nature and harmonious coexistence with all living beings is a specialty of Indian culture. If we will not love nature, nature will also stop loving us. Therefore, we have to ensure that our development journey should be sustainable. We should benefit from nature without being exploitative.


    I appreciate Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev ji for his noble initiatives such as ‘Rally for River’ and ‘Cauvery Calling’. I am told that Cauvery Calling will support farmers in planting 2.42 billion trees through agro forestry and bring one third of Cauvery basin under tree cover.


    India has a long, illustrious legacy of seers who have given us glimpses of divinity through their vision and voice. We have innumerable “gurus” who provide the glimmer of enlightenment to fellow human beings. They shower words and thoughts that quench spiritual thrust. They are our constant source of inspiration making our lives more meaningful, more fulfilling and more harmonious.


    To such Gurus we say ‘Tasmai shri gurve namah’.


    Sadhguru reminds us of such ancient sages and Rishis. He has the rare ability to explain complex concepts easily. He is a guru who reaches out to the people with the message of hope, of peace and positive thinking.


    We need many more such Gurus who reach out to common people and communicate with them in a language easily understood by all and guide them. Sadguru has been taking this up as his mission over many years now.


    It is his spiritual energy that has attracted so many of us here to celebrate Maha Shivratri today.


    Dear Sisters and Brothers,


    Before I conclude, today being the International Mother Language Day, I urge all of you to always speak in your mother tongue at home. In fact, I have been appealing to all state governments to make it mandatory the teaching of all subjects in mother tongue up to primary/ high school level. It is our collective responsibility to protect and preserve all our languages. Please remember that language is the lifeline of culture.


    As we light up our homes and temples on this auspicious night, let us pray to Shiva to bestow upon us the wisdom and courage to fight many evils within ourselves and outside.


    May He bless us with the energy to do good deeds.


    Om Namah Shivay!”


    *****


    VRRK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604012) Visitor Counter : 355
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi