      Ministry of Shipping

      Shri Mansukh Mandaviya commissions Indian Coast Guard’s Offshore Patrol Vessel ICGS Varad;
      
      ICGS -Varad to enhance Coast Guard’s capability to monitor and maintain vigil of Indian maritime borders.

      Posted On: 28 FEB 2020 4:44PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State for Shipping (I/C)& Chemical s a nd Fertilizers Shri Mansukh Mandaviya commissionedIndian Coast Guard’s Offshore Patrol Vessel ICGS Varad today in Chennai. Indian Coast Guard officials, officials of Ministry of Shipping and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    Shri Mansukh Mandaviyawas accorded ‘Guard of honour’ parade aspart of commissioning ceremony of ICGS Varad. He appreciated and congratulated the efforts and endeavours of the Indian Coast Guard and wished for its progress.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Mandaviya said, “Ministry of Shipping is working in close co-ordination with Indian Coast Guard for collaborative efforts to secure the maritime interest and security of the nation.Indian Coast Guard ships will be given priority for berthing and infrastructural requirements at all Indian ports”.


    Commissioning of ICGS Varad will enhance the ICGS fleet of ships which will contribute in monitoring and constant vigil for coastal security of Indian maritime borders.


    The newly commissioned ICGS Varad with gross tonnage of 2100 tons is 98 mtrslong and has 15 mtrs breadth. The endurance of the vessel is 5000 nautical miles, with a maximum speed of 26 Knots. The ship is propelled by 2 diesel driven engines of 9000 KW each, with low level fuel consumption, high TBO and comply to IMO Tier-II norms. The ship will be fitted with one CRN -91 and two 12.7 mm guns and will be capable of carrying an Integral Twin Engine Helicopter which will enhance its operational, surveillance, and search & rescue capability.


    An exponential growth of ship-building industry is perceivedas ICGS Varad has been built indigenously by M/s L&T that will contribute immensely towards the vision of Make in India.


    ***


    YB/AP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1604667) Visitor Counter : 587
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi