      Ministry of Science & Technology

      DBT Foundation Day Celebrations
      
      India rated among top 12 biotechnology destinations in the world

      Posted On: 25 FEB 2020 3:12PM by PIB Delhi

    Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science & Technology, Government of India, New Delhi is celebrating its 34th Foundation Day on 26th February, 2020 at the National Institute of Immunology (NII), New Delhi .


    The Minister for S&T, Earth Sciences and MoH&FW, Dr. Harsh Vardhan will be the Chief Guest and give away the Awards. Department since its inception has instituted various awards to encourage and recognize the contribution of scientists working in various research institutes, universities, scientific organizations, national laboratories etc at different levels across the country. Various awards instituted by DBT are now considered under an overarching umbrella as DBT BRITE Awards [ B iotechnology R esearch I nnovation and T echnology E xcellence Awards]. The Department has renamed few awards in honour of outstanding scientists of our country who have immensely contributed to the Indian Science and been an inspiration to scientific fraternity across the globe.


    DBT BRITE Awards constitutes the following awards hosted by DBT:

     1. Har Gobind Khorana-Innovative Young Biotechnologist Award
     2. S. Ramachandran-National Bioscience Award for Career Development
     3. Janaki Ammal Natioanl Women Bioscientist Award
     4. Tata Innovative Fellowship Award
     5. Biotechnology Social Development Award

    The DBT Foundation day lecture will be delivered by eminent scientist Padma Shri Dr. D Balasubramaian, Emeritus Director, LV Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad.


    The biotechnology sector in India has evolved over the last three decades and has made significant contribution in various sectors especially health, agriculture etc. Due to enormous support received both from government & private sector biotechnology sector has seen a rapid growth amounting to an annual growth rate of nearly 20%. India is rated among top 12 biotechnology destinations in the world.


    It is the demand for biotechnology products and services that has been the fulcrum for setting an ambitious target of US$150 billion by 2025. Looking at the growth prospects, biotech sector plays a significant role in addressing major global challenges in sectors like health care, agriculture, energy, live stock etc. Since, our focus is on innovation and R&D, the Foundation Day of DBT is the right occasion to discuss what are the ways and strategies to be implemented to achieve set target or at least reach near the defined goals.


    To do so, we need to nurture talent and reward them for their excellence so that they keep working towards nation building. Department since its inception has instituted various awards to encourage and recognize the contribution of scientists working in various research institutes, universities, scientific organizations, national laboratories etc at different levels across the country.


    *****


    SNC/KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604277) Visitor Counter : 672
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali , Tamil
    
    
    

5.