      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Health Secretary reviews action taken and preparedness with the concerned States/UTs on COVID-19 through video conference
      Posted On: 29 FEB 2020 5:33PM by PIB Delhi


    Ms. Preeti Sudan, Secretary (HFW) chaired a video conference with Health Secretaries from States/UTs along with senior officials of National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Airport Public Health Officers (APHOs) to review their preparedness for prevention and management of COVID-19, here today. Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan is reviewing the status, actions taken and preparedness of States/UTs everyday.


    Secretary (HFW) stated that while various precautionary measures have been undertaken in close coordination with the concerned ministries at the central level and the States/UTs, with the evolving global scenario, especially in countries such as Iran, Italy and South Korea, there is a need for States/UTs to maintain high vigil and be alert with respect to the protocols for community surveillance, and screening at the airports and check-posts. She underscored the importance of sturdy and effective community surveillance measures. In addition, she also advised States/UTs to ensure that necessary protocols for collection and testing of blood samples is followed.


    States/UTs have been again advised to provide the requisite manpower to strengthen the APHOs at the airports, and at the check-posts. States/UTs were also urged to ensure that all necessary Personal Protective equipment (PPE), masks, etc., are in adequate supply, and adequate isolation wards are kept in readiness. Secretary (HFW) also urged them to enhance awareness in the community on the preventive measures and also popularise the state control room numbers. Specific review of J&K and Ladakh was taken w.r.t returnees from Iran. Their surveillance and community risk communication was stressed upon.


    ****


    MV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1604746) Visitor Counter : 792
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi