      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      India explores opportunities for co-production and collaborations in films with International counterparts
      Posted On: 24 FEB 2020 10:36AM by PIB Delhi


    Members of the Indian delegation including Joint Secretary (Films), Ministry of I&B , Smt TCA Kalyani; Addl. DG, Directorate of Film Festivals, Shri Chaitanya Prasad met representatives of European Film Market(EFM). The delegation and EFM representatives held elaborate discussions on the significance of 51 st IFFI. The discussions included recent policy initiatives of Government of India to ensure ‘Ease of Filming’ including setting up of a single window system- Film Facilitation Office- and its web portal www.ffo.gov.in for online application for shooting films in India.


    Later in the day the Indian Delegation met Mr Matthijis Wouter Knol, Director European Film Market (EFM). Mr Knol, said that the stakeholders of EFM would actively consider participating in the 51st IFFI. He also underlined that the participation would pave a way forward for a more proactive interaction between the Indian stakeholders and the industry with the organizers of Berlinale in future. He expressed hope that there will be more active participation from the Indian Government and other stakeholders in the future editions of Berlinale.


    The delegation also met heads of prominent Festival and Film Commissions including Ms Veronique Encrenaz, Head of MIFA, Festival International Du Film D’Animation D’Annecy (CITIA); Ms Emma Boa, Senior Projects Manager, Edinburgh International Film Festival; Mr Elliot Grove, Founder, Raindance Film Festival; Ms Irina Safletea, DG Connect, Creative Europe Media, Mr Marco Muller, Producer, among others.


    The representatives from Raindance and Edinburgh Film Festivals talked about opportunities of future collaboration with IFFI 2020 and discussed scope of working together to showcase India at their prominent festivals. Ms Encrenaz, Head of MIFA (CITIA) offered her participation and support for IFFI 2020. The representatives from Creative Europe Media expressed their interest to work with India and discussed taking up progressive developments regarding the India- European Co-production treaties, incentives schemes, etc.


    Taking forward deliberations on the co-production between India & Germany, the successful story of partnership between Mr Sunil Doshi’s Alliance Media and Pluto Film, Germany, for distribution and production of the film “The Bra”, was noted. The internationally acclaimed film, directed by Veit Helmer, had also featured in IFFI 2018.


    “We are very excited to have found an exciting partner in Alliance Media led by Mr Sunil Doshi, to distribute and adapt our acclaimed film - The Bra. We are looking forward to its adaptions, keeping in mind the socio-cultural fabric of India” said Pluto Films, Germany.


    Ministry of I&B in collaboration with Confederation of Indian Industry, is participating in the Berlin International Film Festival 2020 being held from 20th February, 2020 in Berlin, Germany. An India Pavilion has been set-up at the Festival to act as a platform to popularize Indian Cinema in overseas market and facilitate new business opportunities.


    **********


    SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1604122) Visitor Counter : 522
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Tamil