      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Workshop on National Nutritional Month
      Posted On: 23 SEP 2019 6:25PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 23, 2019


    A one-day workshop was organised today by Food and Nutrition Board, Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India & Save the Children to mark the occasion of National Nutrition Month-2019. Representatives from various Government Departments & Civil Society Organisations (International and National) were present.


    Shri N. N. Tiwari, Deputy Technical Advisor, Department of Women & Child Welfare highlighted the importance of observing Nutrition Month and the components of the National Nutrition Mission. He described how undernutrition affects the overall development process of the country. He emphasised on the supply and consumption of micro-nutrients and importance of using fortified & blended food.


    Smt Debashmita Bhaumik from Save the Children spoke about the importance of multi-sectoral approach towards reducing under nutrition through community managed systems and mechanisms.


    Shri Anupam Dutta - Assistant Director, Directorate of ICDS, GOI opined that undernutrition is a social problem. Dr. PapriNayek, Deputy Assistant Director of health, Govt. of West Bengal and Smt Runa Roy Chatterjee - Assistant Director, ICDS, Govt. Of West Bengal also spoke on the occasion.


    During technical session, eminent speakers included Prof MadhumitaDobe, All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health. She presented the nutritional priorities of a child for the first 1000 days. Dr. Parbati Sengupta - State Coordinator, BPNI, spoke on Complementary Feeding and targeted Counselling.


    The major discussion during these sessions included multi-sectoral convergence and holistic approach to address malnutrition as well as the underlying causes of malnutrition.


    ******


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1585911) Visitor Counter : 13
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali