      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Youth of West Bengal will take lead in Drug Abuse Prevention
      Posted On: 24 SEP 2019 3:13PM by PIB Kolkata


    Drug abuse has been rampant among youth in West Bengal, especially students. Even children aged 12 years abuse drugs orally and by the time they are in their twenties, take to intravenous drugs. Many starts by smoking cannabis when at school and later shift to ecstasy and even heroin and brown sugar to get a ‘definite high’.


    There are so many reasons which lead to this situation. Illiteracy, ignorance, hereditary characteristics and social and cultural environment of the community are some of the main reasons lead to this situation. However, Due to this drug menace, even the historical city of Kolkata is faced with severe problems. Addiction to drugs and alcohol has led to collapsing of family life, economy and the education of the children. In addition to the above there is also the risk of spreading HIV/Aids in West Bengal. The users of drugs and liquor could be categorized into three groups.


    Those who are addicted to drugs & liquor.


    Those who use drugs & liquor.


    Those who will use drugs & liquor.


    To create awareness on drugs abuse as well as to develop and promote voluntary efforts in the areas of drugs abuse prevention, Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan, West Bengal launched linkages, facilitating advocacy, and promoting networking programmes in the field of drug demand reduction in West Bengal. These programmes are supported by National Institute of Social Defence, Govt. of India. A total of 200 training / sensitization programs will be organized in collaboration with the youth clubs at the block level in this year.


    As a part of the said initiative, a two-day ToT on Drug Abuse Prevention is being organized by NYKS West Bengal at state level in collaboration with NIC Institute of Technology, Rajarhat, Kolkata from 22/09/2019 to 23/09/2019. This programme aims to develop a cadre of trainers for the prevention of drug abuse in West Bengal.


    Shri Nabin Kumar Naik, State Director, NYKS, West Bengal, Ms Prerna Chowdhury of NISD, New Delhi, Prof Dr. Kalyan Kumar, President, NIC Institute of Technology, were present in the inauguration programme of the said ToT.


    Total 45 youths including 18 women from 17 districts are being attended the programme. The youth will be made aware and educated. The entire training is marked by Participatory Approach. The NISD accredited Facilitators will impart the training to unearth the pent-up potential of the participants. After completion this ToT, the trainees will train the youth at the district as well as block level to prevent drug abuse.


    Nabin Kumar Naik, State Director, NYKS, WEST BENGAL.


    CG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586007) Visitor Counter : 7