      Department of Space

      SCIENCE CITY HOSTS LECTURE ON EXPLORING SPACE AND BEYOND
      Posted On: 26 SEP 2019 10:41PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 26, 2019


    Science City when it hosted a popular lecture for students, in association with American Centre, Kolkata today. The chief speaker was Ms. Ann Devereaux, Spacecraft System Engineer at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) and the Lead Flight System engineer for the Mars 2020 Rover.


    At the outset, Shri Subhabrata Chaudhuri, Director, Science City, talked about her early childhood visits to Kennedy Space Centre that inspired her to take up this career. Citing her example, he advised the students to visit Science City more often, as hands-on interaction of exhibits help one understand the core concepts of Science in a lucid manner.


    Shri Chaudhuri added that even when all Indians were anxious about the fate of landing of Vikram Rover on Moon, Ann was also waiting with bated breath. After the event, she sent a massage-‘I just wanted to let your team back in India know that myself and lot of my colleagues have been watching the landing coverage of ‘Chandrayaan-2’ with great interest. Though it looks like there might have been problems, there’s of course always hope. And we humans always learn things, even from our failures. I was going to suggest, I would be happy to work in some thoughts on time NASA and JPL have had failures and how we learned from them and ultimately get better-and that we all learn from each other as well.”


    During her deliberation, Ms. Devereaux focused on Mars Science, Mars/Moon human exploration, exo-planet explorations, deep Space engineering with a focus on STEM education for school students. She also hoped for future collaboration with Indian Institutions like ISRO.


    The programme was also attended by Ms. Monica Shie, Director, US Consulate General, Kolkata.


    *********


    CG/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586363) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali