      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Five-day exhibition to celebrate the 150 years of Mahatma Gandhi and essence of his teachings inaugurated
      Posted On: 24 SEP 2019 3:31PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 23, 2019


    In observance of 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, a five-day exhibition, organized by the Regional Outreach Bureau (ROB), Kolkata under the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting was inaugurated here today. The programme in reverence of Mahatma Gandhi is being organized in collaboration with the National Service Scheme (NSS) Unit of the Rabindra Bharati University at the Jorasanko campus of Rabindra Bharti University. The exhibition displaying the teachings and the morals of Mahatma Gandhi will continue till September, 27. The exhibition will openat 10 in the morning and will continue till5 in the evening. About 100 photographs in40 illustrative panels depicting the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi in various stages of his life have been put up. These are important aspect of awareness to the visitors visiting the gallery, particularly the school children.


    Smt. Jane Namchu, Additional Director General, PIB, Kolkata in her welcome address emphasized about the role and teachings of Mahatama Gandhi and Rabindra Nath Tagore in the freedom movement of the country.


    Smt. Alaknanda Roy, well known danseuse spoke in detail about the life and teachings of Gandhiji. She said that both Gandhiji and Rabindra Nath Tagore had similar vision on style of teaching about the philosophy of life and empowering the people for development of the nation. She spoke at length about the Gandhian models of development of rural populace. She told about the role of artisan in development of rural areas. She emphasized that the country’s growth cannot be complete without farmers’ welfare.


    On a request by Smt. Roy to make Gandhiji’s messages available in audio format, Professor Somnath Sinha, Cordinator, NSS Unit of the Rabindra Bharati University assured her that Gandhiji’s messages will soon be available in audio format for ease of understandability for the rural populace.


    Shri AKA Lakra, Director, ROB, Smt. Priyanka Charan, Assistant Director, DD News among others were also present on the occasion.


    *******


    SB/MSA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586009) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali