      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Union Government to Provide Rs 150 Crore for Expansion of NILD
      
      President of India to Inaugurate a Special Rickshaw Tomorrow Designed to Help PwDs Visit NILD for Treatment: Dr. Thawar Chand Gehlot

      Posted On: 30 SEP 2019 10:16PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, September 30, 2019


    The Union Minister of Social Justice & Empowerment Dr Thawar Chand Gehlot has disclosed that the Union Government headed by Shri Narendra Modi will be providing National Institute for Locomotor Disabilities (NILD) Rs 150 crore for its expansion. He stated this today in the Institute while briefing media on the activities of President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind tomorrow, as he will be visiting the institute.


    Shri Gehlot said, the persons with disabilities have been given a new nomenclature by Prime Minister-Divyangjan, and they are an integral part of the country. He pointed out that without their development; the development of the country remains half-hearted. The Minister also stated that the President will visit NILD tomorrow, to see the inmates of the Institute, specially the children who have received benefits from the institute as well as those people with disabilities who have received the help from NILD to be self-employed. The institute help the persons with disabilities to be self-sufficient in all respects, the minister reiterated. Last year nearly 28, 000 people have been made self-sufficient by this institute, by giving special training informed the minister.


    The president tomorrow will inaugurate a special rickshaw designed for the divyangjans who visit the institute for treatment. He will be in NILD for nearly one hour, stated the minister.


    The Joint Secretary of the ministry Smt Radhika Chakravarthy stated that the ministry is in the thought of setting up rehabilitation centres which will be multi-sensory, integrated, especially for children from 0 to six years to examine the nature of disabilities and help them go to schools for proper education.


    *******


    CC/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586801) Visitor Counter : 28
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali