      Ministry of Science & Technology

      WORKSHOP ON SKILL DEVELOPMENT-2019
      Posted On: 26 SEP 2019 3:34PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, September 26, 2019


    A ‘Workshop on Skill Development’ was organized by the Skill and Innovation Promotion Group, CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur, on 25 th September 2019. The Workshop was inaugurated by Prof. (Dr.) Harish Hirani, Director, CSIR-CMERI, Durgapur. The Workshop was attended by Faculties from 39 colleges. During the Workshop elaborate presentations were given on the activities of the AdMAC, C-CAD, Solar PV, Metrology, NDT, CoEFM, IT and Water Purification Technologies. The presentations were followed by a highly-engaging Interactive session between the Faculties and the Scientists of CSIR-CMERI.


    Prof. (Dr.) Harish Hirani, Director, CSIR-CMERI, Durgapurin his Welcome Address stated that this is a ‘Golden Opportunity to provide Hope for the Younger Generation’ as the objective of Skill Development Workshops like these is to boost the employability potential of the massive demographic potential that our Nation possesses. 65% of Jobs will be created when the Skill Sets in the Youth are catalyzed.


    We need to develop a Vibrant Ecosystem which will be attuned to the varying dynamics of the Industry. Teachers have the humongous responsibility as Leaders of Skill Development and harness the potential of the Youth, for National Development. Dr. Hiranialso urged the Young Scientists to develop products with innovative features at par with the latest Industrial Standards. Correlation and Codependence in research activities always delivers better results. Thus, Interdisciplinary approach must be promoted. Dr. Hirani concluded the program by stating that the Future of the Nation is ‘Skill Development’ and we should leave no stone unturned to achieve the objective of the Skill India Mission of the Government of India.Dr. Hirani also urged all the participating faculties to visit different labs of the Institute and have exposure to the state-of-the-art facilities available in the Institute.


    *********


    CG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1586269) Visitor Counter : 6
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali