      Ministry of Defence

      Raksha Mantri visits NCC Republic Day Camp, felicitates braveheart cadets
      Posted On: 22 JAN 2018 7:31PM by PIB Delhi


    Raksha Mantri Smt Nirmala Sitharaman visited NCC Republic Day Camp 2018 today and conferred Raksha Mantri Padak and Commendation Cards to NCC Cadets for their exemplary performance and devotion to duty at an impressive 'Investiture Ceremony' held at Cariappa Parade Ground, Delhi Cantt.


    In her address, the Raksha Mantri complimented the NCC for doing exceptional work towards Swachhata Abhiyan . She complimented the NCC fraternity for making an invaluable contribution towards National integration and Nation Building through multifarious activities of NCC. Speaking on the occasion, Smt Sitharaman said, “The youth of independent India are extremely fortunate that such an organisation exists in our country which devotes vast amount of resources towards their personality development. The NCC infuses and nurtures qualities like leadership, secularism, patriotism, selfless service, discipline, hard work and other character building qualities in the youth of the country.”


    She said that the NCC is doing a yeoman service to the nation by transforming the ‘Youth of the Nation’, which has the largest and youngest population profile in the world. A Contingent of smartly turned out NCC cadets drawn from the three wings namely the Army, Navy and the Air Force presented an impressive Guard of Honour to the Raksha Mantri.


    Raksha Mantri Padak was instituted in 1989 and since then it is awarded to the most deserving cadet every year for bravery or exceptional service of highest order. This year the Raksha Mantri Padak has been awarded to Cadet Priya of Uttar Pradesh Directorate, Raksha Mantri Commendation Cards have been awarded to CWO Bhuvnesh Rathore of Rajasthan Directorate, Capt Arundati J Patel of Andhra Pradesh & Telangana Directorate and Cadet Soumarjit Ghosh of West Bengal & Sikkim Directorate. Talking about the winners, the RM said, “I would like to compliment you for all these wonderful achievements. These achievements will no doubt attract large number of young and enthusiastic students to join the NCC. I am sure these young achievers would bring laurels to our country in the times to come.”


    The Raksha Mantri also inspected the well-laid out Flag Area, prepared by the cadets from all 17 NCC Directorates, depicting various social awareness themes. She was given a crisp brief by the cadets on their respective models. Raksha Mantri also visited the ‘Hall of Fame’, a proud possession of NCC with display of rich archival collection of alumni photographs, models and other achievements of the NCC.


    Smt Sitharaman along with other distinguished guests later witnessed a spectacular cultural programme by the talented cadets in the NCC auditorium. She was earlier received by the DG NCC Lt General B S Sahrawat.


    NAo/Nampi/DK/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517452) Visitor Counter : 1684