      AYUSH

      International Homeopathy expert Ms. Rachel Roberts meets Shri Shripad Naik
      Posted On: 21 JAN 2018 7:18PM by PIB Delhi


    Ms. Rachel Roberts, international expert of Homeopathy from Homeopathy Research Institute and Faculty of Homeopathy, U.K. called on Shri. Shripad Yesso Naik, Union Minister of State (IC), for AYUSH in Goa today. In the meeting, Ms. Roberts told the Minister that the international homeopathic community looked up to India for the integrated healthcare model being adopted by India. She said every person should have the freedom of choosing the treatment method for their health, and that India was a fine example of how it can be made possible. Ms. Roberts aims to interact with the Homeopathic community during her visit and learn more about the Homeopathy sector in India, particularly the institutionalization of Homeopathy in public health. The Minister welcomed her to India and assured her of full support of the Ministry in helping her meet the purpose of her visit.


    In this regard, Ministry of AYUSH has approved of six meetings being held by Central Council for Research in Homoeopathy (CCRH), an autonomous body of Ministry of AYUSH that undertakes scientific research in Homoeopathy, in Delhi (25 th and 27 th Jan), Kolkata (29 th Jan) and in Kottayam (Kerala) on 31 st Jan and 1 st February. These meetings would provide an opportunity for exchange of homoeopathy knowledge and expertise between India and U.K, as well as for professional collaborations which can be used to secure the future of Homoeopathy worldwide. The aim of these meetings is to project the accurate image of Homoeopathy by showcasing the advantages of using Homoeopathy in public health delivery model. The deliberations will also address the challenges in Homoeopathy bei ng faced in the international arena.


    CCRH will also be running exclusive screenings of a one-hour film titled ‘Just One drop’ on Homoeopathy during the meetings.


    ***


    SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517352) Visitor Counter : 1294