      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Lecture by Smt Sumitra Mahajan, Hon’ble Speaker, Lok Sabha
      Posted On: 18 JAN 2018 8:28PM by PIB Delhi


    The 27th lecture of the “Lecture Series” organized by the Commission was delivered by Smt Sumitra Mahajan, Hon’ble Speaker, Lok Sabha here today on the topic “My Experiences as a Representative of People”.


    The distinguished speaker spoke about the need for society to introspect and look within itself in order to change attitudes towards corruption, and to further the positive ideal of ethical conduct. Her address drew inspiration from India’s traditional ideals in this regard and she discussed a wide range of issues using examples from traditional Indian spiritual thought as well as from her experiences as a representative of the public. She opined that society must look inwards at itself for inspiration in order to promote good conduct, both in the public as well as private spheres of life. The importance of prevention as being more effective than punishment was emphasized in her lecture. She also spoke of the need to examine instances of spending more than known sources of income in order to detect corruption.


    The audience was told of many interesting instances of her experiences as a public representative, which served to highlight the need for society to introspect upon the decline in ethical values and the need to promote integrity in public life. The duties and responsibilities of a public representative were also explained using many examples from her interactions with people from all walks of life. She felt that we ourselves are collectively responsible for this social change and we must draw inspiration from our own culture and ideals in order to do so.


    Her initiatives towards setting up the Speakers Research Initiative in Parliament and the importance to training for members of Parliament were also discussed during the course of the lecture. The lecture was followed by a lively question and answer session.


    Invited dignitaries from the Government of India, CMDs , Directors and senior executives of Central Public Sector Enterprises and full time and part time CVOs based in Delhi/NCR attended the lecture along with and other officers of the vigilance administration. The lecture was available for online viewing as it was webcast live through NIC. The link to the recorded webcast is available on the Commission’s website www.cvc.nic.in .


    ****


    PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1517152) Visitor Counter : 998
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu