      Ministry of Finance

      Rajaswa Gyan Sangam, 2017 – Curtain Raiser
      Posted On: 31 AUG 2017 5:49PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) and the Central Board of Excise & Customs (CBEC) have been holding annual Conferences of senior officers for a number of years. In 2016, for the first time, a joint Conference of the two Boards was held under the umbrella of “Rajaswa Gyan Sangam” which was inaugurated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister. This year also, a joint Conference of the two Boards is scheduled to be held on 1 st and 2 nd of September, 2017 at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi, which will be inaugurated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister in the presence of the Union Finance Minister and Ministers of State(Finance). The Valediction Function will be held on 2 nd of September, 2017.


    The Rajaswa Gyan Sangam, 2017 will be attended by the senior officers of CBDT and CBEC. For the first time ever, senior officers of the Finance Department of the States and Union Territories will be attending this two day event. There will be several Joint Sessions of the officers of the two Boards. One of the plenary sessions will be addressed by Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev on the first day when he will be speaking on “Inner Engineering – Technologies for Well Being”. Sh. K V Chowdary, Central Vigilance Commissioner will address the joint session on the second day.


    The objective of the Conference is to enable a two-way communication between the policy-makers and the senior officers in the field offices with a view to increase revenue collection and facilitate effective implementation of law and policies in key result areas. Apart from the joint sessions, separate Technical Sessions of each Board will be held during the two-day Conference. Issues arising in implementation of policies and strategies to achieve targets in core functional areas will also be discussed. Such issues inter alia include HR issues, Litigation Management, Strategies for Revenue Maximisation, Tax Evasion, Taxpayer Services, GST and Customs Reforms and Modernisation.


    ***


    DSM/SBS/KA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1501389) Visitor Counter : 140