      Ministry of Railways

      ER Performs Record Sale of Scrap Worth Rs. 29 Cr. During Lockdown through E-auctions
      Posted On: 03 AUG 2020 7:47PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 03 August, 2020


    While the deadly Coronavirus Pandemic lockdown brought everything to a halt and adversely affected the earnings of the railways due to the non-operations of the trains in full capacity, the wheels of striving for the best at Eastern Railway (ER) are kept on. In another new achievement unlocked by ER, the Materials Management department of ER initiated new ways to enhance the earnings through sale of unserviceable materials (Scrap) released from various activities of the railways during the harsh times of Coronavirus Pandemic. ER has sold scrap materials worth Rs. 29 Crore in the lockdown, under the dynamic leadership & able guidance of Shri Suneet Sharma - General Manager of ER & Shri Ajai Kumar Dubey – Principal Chief Materials Manager, ER.


    The Materials Management Dept. of ER identified all the scrap lying along the track lines and workshops in the months of April to July 2020 by all the Divisions under the direction of General Manager of ER. The sale of the scrap started in the month of June 2020 and till now the scrap worth Rs. 29 crore has already been sold. The dept. held e-auctions two times every month in Belur Scrap Yard, depots at Jamalpur & Halishahar & in divisions at Howrah & Sealdah in a transparent manner. These auctions were 100% online, where anybody from any corner of the country could participate. Released materials from the track such as unserviceable rails, sleepers and condemned locomotives, coaches, wagons and unserviceable released ferrous and non-ferrous materials from various Sheds and Workshops were sold in these e-auctions.


    Under the directives of General Manager Shri Suneet Sharma and Principal Chief Materials Manager Shri Ajai Kumar Dubey, ER has set its target to make the Zonal Railway completely scrap-free. It is worthwhile to mention that ER has achieved the highest ever scrap sale of Rs. 348 crore during the previous year which is the best ever performance of ER in its history. ER endeavours to achieve 100% scrap-free status of all its workplaces by the end of current year.


    ER has also started use of TMS (Track Management System) for Scrap Management. This is a giant leap towards paperless working. Asansol Division has already offered online three lots of total 132 MT of Engineering Scrap for the first time through this system.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1643219) Visitor Counter : 24