      Ministry of Education

      IIT Kharagpur brings Global Academia to Retrospect on Gandhian Thoughts
      Posted On: 07 AUG 2020 6:22PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 07 August, 2020


    IIT Kharagpur is organizing an international e-symposium in association with the top global universities to commemorate the completion of the 150th Birth Anniversary celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi. Academics from various universities in the USA, UK, Australia, Canada, New Zealand and Gandhian experts from India including professors from IIT Kharagpur will deliberate on ‘Gandhian Thoughts and Philosophy’ through webinars spanning over selected days in August 2020.


    The Union Ministry of Education (formerly, Ministry of Human Resources Development) has undertaken an initiative to commemorate the completion of the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Higher educational institutions have been entrusted to organize online events in association with the foreign universities listed under the SPARC programme of the Ministry. IIT Kharagpur decided to take the message to the world especially at a time when almost 200 countries across the world are witnessing tremendous stress due to the pandemic crucially affecting the quality of life and socio-economic environment.


    “Amidst all the uncertainties, bewilderment and isolation, we are seeking motivation and hope to look beyond the pandemic. As we are journeying through this challenge, we draw our inspiration from Mahatma Gandhi who carried on relentless struggle in different spheres of life. He was not only the tallest leader of the Indian freedom movement but has been the role model for many world leaders, in matters of fundamental rights, self-reliance, compassion and much more. In this pandemic situation, meditating on the thoughts and philosophy of the Mahatma is all the more significant,” said Prof. Virendra Kumar Tewari, Director, IIT Kharagpur.


    The webinars are scheduled on August 8 with Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA and Gandhi Forum, India, August 15 with Tufts University, August 20 with University of Manchester, UK and University of Texas Arlington, USA, August 27 with University of Leeds, UK, University of Melbourne, Australia, University of Auckland and Massey University, New Zealand, and August 28 with the University of Alberta and University of Toronto, Canada.


    The themes include Sarvodaya-Universal Upliftment or Progress for All and Swavalamban-the Quest for Self-reliance, Gandhian Legacies in the World Today, Branding Gandhi, Gandhian Economics for Growth in India: From Atma Nirbhar Bharat to Sarvodaya, Philosophy of Gandhian Economics, Gandhipedia: a one-stop portal for browsing Gandhian literature, life-events and his social network. The event has already attracted more than a thousand participants from across the globe.


    For more information and registration one may visit: https://kgpchronicle.iitkgp.ac.in/e-symposia-gandhi-thoughts-philosophy/


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1644149) Visitor Counter : 1