      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      National Education Policy Calls for Best of Minds to become Teachers
      
      Re-structuring, Re-organising, Revamping, Rejuvenating, the Four Key Areas where Importance is Given in National Education Policy: Swami Atmapriyananda
      
      Evolving Need-based Farming Technologies to make Farmers Self Reliant Necessary says IIT Director

      Posted On: 09 AUG 2020 6:40PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, 09 August, 2020


    The eminent educationists of the city have hailed the National Education Policy-2020, announced by the Union Education Ministry a few days ago today in a webinar organised by the Press information Bureau, Kolkata today. According to Swami Atmapriyananda, pro-Chancellor, Ramakrishna Vivekananda Mission Educational and Research Foundation, the education system that was dreamt by Swami Vivekananda is on the anvil now. Swamiji dreamt of an education system which will be a mixture of age-old tradition along with the modern scientific knowledge, which has been given proper honour to evolve a new education system today. ‘Give them back the lost individuality’, the utterance of Swami Vivekananda is hoped to be coming to reality following complete re-structuring, re-organising, revamping and rejuvenating the prevalent education system, said Swami Atmapriyananda in his speech hailing the National Education system.


    Professor Virendra Kumar Tewari, Director, IIT, Kharagpur, in his observations stated that the basic needs of the farming community should be considered while evolving technological knowhow for the agriculture sector of the country who provide us food for sustenance. He appreciated the research levels going on in the country and reiterated that it is not less than the research going on in other parts of the world. Hence, the National Education Policy, 2020 will act as a catalytic agent towards future innovations, stated professor Tewari.


    Professor Dr Ambuj Mahapatra, former Dean and DSc Computer Science, IIM, Joka stated that the education is now becoming job-oriented and a student may seek a subject according to his or her choice, thus projecting the total openness of the National Education Policy-2020.


    According to Dr. Biplab Lohachoudhury, Professor and Head, Centre for Journalism and Mass Communication, Visva-Bharati, Santiniketan said, the National Education Policy calls for the best of the minds to become teachers from the school to the University. He added that it's the first time in independent India, following the foot-steps of Tagore, points out that all the teachers are equally important and should be respected equally. The new policy for the first time recognises master artisans, craftsmen, farmers, weavers and other traditional occupation experts as teachers to take classes in schools in proposed cluster schools.


    Professor (Dr.) Chittaranjan Mandal, former Chairman, Central School service Commission, WB and former Professor, physics, Jadavpur University spoke in length about the structure of the classes in the preparatory, Primary, middle level and above that and appreciated the division of the classes as indicated in the National Education Policy. Professor Aloke kumar, the Visiting Professor of Calcutta University in the Journalism & Mass Communication Department discussed the governance portion of the National Education Policy and opined for forming school clusters as a step towards globalisation of resources and knowledge sharing.


    Professor (Dr) Mallinath Mukhopadhyay, Associate Professor, Economics, St. Xaviers College thrusted upon the bringing back the economically disadvantaged students into the mainstream following the advices of Swami Vivekananda that if poor people fail to reach education, education should reach them. He also appreciated the multiple entry-exit point that has been given prominence in the National Education Policy.


    The webinar was attended by doctors, school teachers, college and university teachers and the journalists of the media.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1644610) Visitor Counter : 1
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali