      Ministry of Science & Technology

      CSIR-CMERI Arranges Webinar on New Technologies for Various Products Related to COVID-19 for MSMEs
      Posted On: 08 AUG 2020 5:08PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 08 August, 2020


    Prof.(Dr.) Harish Hirani, Director, CSIR-CMERI and Shri Vishwa Mohan Jha, Director, MSME-DI, Patna, discussed upon the latest CSIR-CMERI developed COVID 19 technologies with the focus of Water Purification Technologies in a Webinar held on Friday (August 7, 2020).


    Prof.(Dr.) Hirani gave a thorough and highly analytical presentation on the array of CSIR-CMERI technology interventions. He also stated that our primary focus should be to invest in building the local talent pool so that India is ready to handle the influx of S&T and Manufacturing demand in the most capable manner, which, will help in sustaining the local communities as well as create bespoke Socio-Economic solutions for the region-specific problems. India can achieve new heights through carefully developed Design Thinking which emphasizes building strong fundamentals for a regionally diverse nation like India, he added.


    The main objective of this Webinar is to make the industries/ entrepreneurs under MSME aware about the technologies developed by CSIR-CMERI, provide total engineering solutions and the facilities available in CSIR-CMERI.


    Prof (Dr.) Hirani stated that the most important reason for flooding in urban areas is choked Drainage Systems. He added that the CSIR-CMERI developed Mechanized Drainage Cleaning system can solve this perennial problem through innovative technological solutions. Prof (Dr.) Hirani pointed out that the CSIR-CMERI complete Water Purification Technologies can help in easing the Water Contamination related woes of Bihar through cost-effective and energy efficient water purification solutions. According to him, the High Flow Rate Iron, Arsenic and Fluoride removal technology can help in effective purification and management of Water Resources in both Urban and Rural scenarios.


    Shri Vishwa Mohan Jha, Director, MSME-DI, Patna expressed his willingness to work together for the development of the nation through the intervention of the technologies of CSIR-CMERI.


    It is to be mentioned that the CSIR-CMERI developed Water Purification technologies have already been transferred to 47 MSMEs, which showcases its tremendous popularity and acceptability. The Space Rationalized Solar technologies and the Smart Lighting systems can revolutionize energy efficient power resource management.


    The Plasma Arc Medical Waste Disposal System can substantially help in the disposal of the large quantities of disposable masks which are creating a lot of trouble for the Civic Waste Management Authorities. The technology of Intelli MAST, Hospital Care Assistive Robotic Device, Touchless-Soap-cum Water Dispenser and Battery Operated Disinfectant Sprayers & Mechanized Ventilator with Oxygen Concentrator were exhibited thoroughly. It is to be mentioned already such anti-COVID 19 technologies have been transferred to 13 MSMEs.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1644405) Visitor Counter : 1