      Ministry of Home Affairs

      BSF CELEBRATES 74TH INDEPENDENCE DAY IN BARAK VALLEY ASSAM
      Posted On: 15 AUG 2020 6:18PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August 15, 2020


    On the occasion of “74 th Independence Day”, Mizoram & Cachar Frontier, BSF celebrated the Independence Day with full zeal and enthusiasm. In the morning of 15th August’2020, Shri Sunil Kumar, IPS, Inspector General, M&C Frontier solemnly unfurled the National Flag at BOP Tesua Ex-7 Battalion Border Security Force. Battalions and Sectors under the command of this Ftr also celebrated this auspicious day at their respective locations, keeping in mind the pandemic situation and ensuring all covid-19 protocols.


    On this auspicious occasion, 10 Kms walk was organized at every establishment in Mizoram and Cachar Frontier under the “FIT INIDA MOVEMENT”.


    Adhering to the finest traditions of the force and paying highest respect to the Martyrs, who laid down their lives selflessly for the sake of the country to achieve freedom, IG, Mizoram & Cachar Frontier visited Malegarh War Memorial to pay homage to the Martyrs of Sepoy mutiny 1857 and laid wreath over there.


    The IG, Mizoram & Cachar Frontier conveyed his best wishes to the Officers and Jawans. While congratulating all the Border Men, mentioned the struggle of freedom fighters, who sacrificed their lives for India’s Freedom. He urged all under commands to perform their duties with full dedication, devotion and honesty to keep secure the India Border.


    Sweets were exchanged with the Border Guards Bangladesh by Shri Sunil Kumar, IPS, IG BSF on the Indo-Bangladesh border at ICP Sutarkandi as a goodwill gestures between the two Border Guarding Forces.


    BSF despite battling covid-19 pandemic, in order to ensure heightened security and vigil at the International border, has launched special Ops alert for which manpower at all the BOPs has been augmented by pulling additional troops from Headquarters.


    Related photographs are attached herewith for publication in your esteemed newspaper/ media channel.


    CG/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1646139) Visitor Counter : 32