      Ministry of Education

      MAKAUT STARTS “CENTRE FOR DIGITAL HEALTHCARE TECHNOLOGY"
      Posted On: 17 AUG 2020 10:31PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, 17 th August, 2020


    Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (MAKAUT) has started a modern state-of-the-art centre on Digital Health and Bio-Medical Technology “Centre for Digital Healthcare Technology” , on 15 th August, 2020. The day coincides with the launching of National Digital Health Mission by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi from the ramparts of the Red Fort.


    The new innovative centre, promises to foster e xcellence and achieve success in the spheres of innovative healthcare technologies. This is a maiden innovative endeavor, uniquely the first and fore-runner in the state of West Bengal.


    The centre will promote and inculcate cutting edge research and academic programmes on emerging domains of Digital Health, Tele-medicine, Robotics, Bio-Medical Engineering and Technology - attuned to advanced teaching, training, research, capacity building and empowerment - for medical and healthcare professionals desirous to make forays onto this emerging and evolving subject.


    It was the long cherished dream of the Vice Chancellor of MAKAUT, Prof (Dr.) Saikat Maitra, to moot and finally establish such an inter-disciplinary centre on bio-health that would lead us to fountains of deep learning on Digital Health, Telemedicine, Data Mining, Robotics, Artificial Intelligence, Innovative and Disruptive technologies . The centre will henceforth function on a digital platform with a pre-planned and structured mandate. There will be definitive goals and inter- and intra-disciplinary approaches in the variegated domains of health analytics. The centre will welcome the superior participation, guidance and mentorship of a wide plethora of clinical experts, medico-technologists, and information scientists.


    SDG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1646571) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali