      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Re-inventing Positive, Factual & Almost Objective News Presentation are Positive Aspects of Government Media, says Visva-Bharati Journalism Head
      
      Government Media Provides Factual News to get away from Panic Dissemination, Opines a Government Media Expert
      
      Private Media Disseminate Actual News taking Government Facts, Visiting the Spot and Interviewing Concerned Persons, Opines a Daily’s Senior Journalist

      Posted On: 21 AUG 2020 5:28PM by PIB Kolkata

    Kolkata, August 21, 2020


    The way of dissemination of news has changed a lot in the wake of the outbreak and rapid spread of Corona pandemic in the country. To discuss on the subject, Press Information Bureau along with the Field Outreach Bureau, Chuchura today organised a webinar on the ‘Dissemination of news by government Media and Private Media During Covid 19 Pandemic’ today where various media personalities from both Government and private media participated along with the two noted academicians.


    The Professor and Head of the Centre for Journalism & Mass Communication, Dr. Biplab Loha Choudhury said, the journalism at this juncture requires to be more citizen-centric, taking into account the factual, positive and almost objective news presentation as is done by the Government media. Another academician, Dr Uma Shankar Pandey, the Associate Professor of Surendranath College for Girls, delineated with the statistics of the rapid spread of Corona and the pace of the gradual growth of viewership of the electronic media.


    According to Shri Snehasis Sur, News Correspondent, Doordarshan, the Government media provides factual and the exact news, maintaining relevant health protocols, independence and ethics to keep its audience away from the panic. He even stated in detail the TRP rate of the news telecasted in comparison with the advertisements as well as other popular serials.


    The Former Head of News unit, All India Radio, Kolkata, Shri Dibyendu Das spoke about the collective effort in disseminating news empathetically as followed in Akashvani, Kolkata as a step towards commitment to the people to avoid infodemic.


    Shri Pulakesh Ghosh, the eminent journalist and Special Representative of Uttarbanga Sangbad stated that the private news media always present the actual news taking Government facts and figures and spot visiting as well as interviewing the concerned persons. Shri Saibal Biswas, representative, Satyajug pointed that the journalists of private media should avoid keeping gaps in news presentation.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1647635) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali