      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Union Labour Minister Asks Labour Bureau to Increase its Outreach through Digitisation
      Posted On: 20 AUG 2020 5:49PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August 20, 2020


    The Union Minister of State (independent charge) for Labour and Employment, Shri Santosh Gangwar has asked the Labour Bureau to increase its outreach by way of total digitalization of its processes and use of Data Analytics & Artificial Intelligence in its day-to-day operations. He further instructed to increase Labour Bureau outreach through opening of more Regional Offices and State Regional Offices in the country, while launching the official logo of the Labour Bureau, an attached office of the Union Ministry of Labour at New Delhi today. Shri Heeralal Samariya, the Ministry Secretary, Shri D P S Negi, the Director General, Labour Bureau and other senior officers of the Ministry were present on the occasion.


    Lauding the efforts, Shri Gangowar stated that the Labour Bureau was established as a Directorate of Cost of Living at Shimla in the year 1941 with the objective of conducting Family Budget Enquiries and compiling the Cost of Living Index Numbers for important centres in the country on a uniform basis. The mandate of Labour Bureau is to act as a storehouse of important economic indicators like Consumer Price Index for Industrial worker, Agriculture & Rural Labour Numbers for Industrial, Agricultural and Rural Labourers; wage rate indices and data on employment/unemployment, industrial relations, socio-economic conditions in the organized and unorganized sector of industry etc. he added.


    Both the Minister & the Secretary (L&E) informed that the century old 44 Labour Acts are being subsumed in four codes, out of this wage code is already enacted & three codes i.e. The Social Security, Industrial relations & occupational Safety, Health and working conditions have already been introduced in the Lok Sabha and once enacted, India’s ranking on “Ease of doing business” will go very high and the country will be a dream destination for Investment. The Labour Bureau, they stated, would collect data in a seamless way for this necessary provisions in codes & rules will be provided to give Statutory Powers to the Labour Bureau.


    The newly launched logo represents that it is a data-based organisation dealing in data related to workers and work. The logo also represents the three goals that Labour Bureau strives to achieve in producing quality data i.e. Accuracy, Validity and Reliability. Blue wheel is a cog wheel representing work, choice of blue color signifies that we deal with blue collar workers, the graph is not going upwards alone as in real world data has ups & downs because it captures ground reality. A tricolored Graph, matching the colors of the National flag, along with wheat ears, signifying the fruit of rural agricultural labour, has been beautifully placed in the logo.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1647328) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali