      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Reaching Masses following Innovative Ways to make People Aware of Corona Menace
      Posted On: 25 AUG 2020 5:44PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August 25, 2020


    Despite regular awareness efforts of the Government to minimise the steady growth of the Corona graph, in the country, West Bengal still remains a matter of worry for both the State and Central Governments. However, the status of some of the districts of the State are improving day by day, so far as the number of people getting infected with Corona, North 24 Parganas is still a reason of worry for the State administration. In this situation, like many other ministries of the Union Government, the Information & Broadcasting Ministry is coming up with laudable efforts to gear up awareness among the masses of West Bengal about this deadly disease and how to remain away from it. Besides organising webinars, disseminating news on the same to all the media of the State about the constructive efforts of the Union Government to curb the menace by Press Information Bureau, Kolkata, the Regional Outreach Bureau of the Ministry, more particularly, the Field Outreach Bureau (FOB) offices, Chuchura and Medinipur took innovative means to make people aware of the disease.


    The FOB, Chuchura came out with a tableau- mobile awareness vehicle on the road to disseminate messages on Corona like putting on a mask while going out or keeping social distancing and washing hands at frequent intervals. The vehicle moved in different areas of Chuchura, Hooghly and its adjacent areas till night. Besides, the officials of the Bureau distributed leaflets on the same at Khadinamore, Chuchura. The Field Publicity Officer, Shri Sandipon Dasgupta even addressed the local people and the passersby about the various negativities of Corona and how to combat it.


    In another move, the FOB, Medinipur distributed leaflets and put banners comprising the messages of how to fight the deadly disease amongst the social groups, volunteers and self-help groups in the interior areas of Sabang block, Paschim Medinipur through the Nehru Yuva Kendra (NYK). The NYK volunteer Shri Nandan Manna came out with this Samaritan aid, while organising a mask and sappling distribution programme.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1648523) Visitor Counter : 5
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali