      Ministry of Railways

      DRM, SEALDAH HIGHLIGHTS ACHIEVEMENTS OF SEALDAH DIVISION THROUGH WEB PRESS CONFERENCE
      Posted On: 27 AUG 2020 5:15PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August 27, 2020


    Shri S. P. Singh, Divisional Railway Manager, Eastern Railway (ER), Sealdah held a Web Press Conference on Wednesday at the DRM Building, Sealdah. Speaking on the occasion, he discussed the improvement in average speed of goods trains, introduction of Shramik special and Passenger special trains.


    Shri Singh also discussed in detail about the Parcel Special trains introduced from the Division which carried 3220 tonnes of essential commodities during April – July, 2020. Moreover, to maintain the supply chain during COVID-19, 1020 Nos. of inward rakes and 252 rakes (700 wagons) outward traffic were dealt by the Division from April – July, 2020.


    Shri Singh pointed out the various passenger amenity works undertaken by the Division and the facilities commissioned for Divyang passengers, safety measures for lady-passengers and the alternate ticketing arrangements. He informed that Prinsep Ghat station is the ladies operated station since March 8, 2020. He also discussed various measures for the improved train operations and informed about the sectional speed enhancement in five sections of the Sealdah Division. He also communicated about the major infrastructural works for further improvement of safety of passengers & assets and different security measures adopted by the Division.


    Shri Singh mentioned about the different steps for green initiatives. He informed about the new avenues for increasing earnings of the Division including leasing of godowns, Family Mall at Sealdah station, Executive Lounge, AC VIP Lounge, Health Kiosk and Sanitiser Automatic Vending Machine. He spoke of the container traffic service to Bangladesh via Patrapole, parcel services introduced recently to Bangladesh via Gede and Petrapole, newly modified Goods Rakes for automobile consignment and increase in interchange of goods trains. He also discussed the various steps taken for COVID prevention as well as the Swachhta drive. He said, to increase the business share of Railways, Business Development Units were formed at Sealdah Division from July 20, 2020. He also narrated the growth of the Division in maintaining the supply chain of the essential goods. While delineating on the beautification activities, he mentioned about the various measures adopted for beautification of the Sealdah Division including modernised platform ceiling, decoration of platform walls, illumination of the station premises as per the Airport standard, renovation of Executive Lounge, Retiring Room and Dormitory (by IRCTC), introduction of additional Static Catering Units, Vertical Garden etc.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1648972) Visitor Counter : 1