      Ministry of Education

      ‘National Education Policy 2020’ to bring paradigm shift in education and help encourage Education Ecosystem to be AatmaNirbhar, opines Experts
      Posted On: 23 AUG 2020 1:56PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August 23, 2020


    National Education Policy 2020 to bring paradigm shift in education system and help encourage the education ecosystem to be AatmaNirbhar, experts opined in a Webinar organised by Press Information Bureau, Kolkata on the topic today. Experts from Technology, Industry along with academicians deliberated and discussed about the potential of National Education Policy from the economic, technology and policy perspective.


    An informative webinar on ‘National Education Policy 2020’ organised by PIB Kolkata.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri J. S. Rajput, Padma Shri awardee, former director of the National Council of Educational Research and Training, UNESCO awardee of Jan Amos Comenius Medal and Maharshi Veda Vyas Award of the Government of Madhya Pradesh, explained the rationale of the decision of the Government. Hailing the decision of the Government, he said that the decision would be of help from perspective of students, teachers, schools, colleges and education ecosystem. Shri Rajput mentioned about the challenges and potential in the implementation as he opined that the quality of education in arena of higher education would improve once the National education policy is implemented. He said that the equitable and holistic development with learning for all is the bedrock of the education reform. Research and Development quality in higher education sector would also experience a positive growth, he said.


    Shri J. S. Rajput, Padma Shri awardee, former director of the National Council of Educational Research and Training, UNESCO awardee of Jan Amos Comenius Medal and Maharshi Veda Vyas Award of the Government of Madhya Pradesh, explaining the rationale of the decision of the Government on National Education Policy 2020.


    Shri KG Suresh, Dean, School of Modern Media, University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Dehradun and former Director General, Indian Institute of Mass Communication, New Delhi, said that it WIN-WIN scenario for all in the value chain, with emphasis on Students and teachers with the implementation of National Educational Policy. He said that it is pertinent to mention that Educational efficacy and efficiency is quintessential for development of talent and human resources in the country. He said that promotion of Indian languages and culture along with equitable usage of technology help bring about paradigm change in the education sector.


    Shri KG Suresh, Dean, School of Modern Media, University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Dehradun and former DG, IIMC, New Delhi, said that it WIN-WIN scenario for all in the value chain, with emphasis on Students and teachers with the implementation of National Educational Policy.


    Shri Arimardan Singh, Additional Director General, PIB Ranchi said just as health sector, investment and reforms in education sector are a welcome initiatives. He said that the National Education Policy exemplifies the vision of Swami Vivekananda of ‘Education as the manifestation of perfection already in man’. Referring to the teachings of Nobel laureate Shri Rabindranath Tagore and Mahatma Gandhi, he said open school learning and vocation training as part of mainstream education would help develop holistically the personality of students. He said Mahatma Gandhi’s vision of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’ can be attained with collaborative learning and teaching with best global standards of education.


    Shri Arimardan Singh, Additional Director General, PIB Ranchi said just as health sector, investment and reforms in education sector are a welcome initiatives.


    Dr. Tandra Pal, Professor, HOD, Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, NIT Durgapur, said that Information and communications technology (ICT) and Computer training for students with vocational training and multidisciplinary education to play a pivotal role in students’ learning process.


    Dr. Tandra Pal, Professor, HOD, Dept. of Computer Science and Engineering, NIT Durgapur, said that Information and communications technology (ICT) and Computer training for students with vocational training and multidisciplinary education to play a pivotal role in students’ learning process.


    Shri Krishan Rai, Associate Professor, Dept. of Humanities and Social Sciences, NIT Durgapur said that the initiative has emphasis on Learning, problem solving and development of cognitive potential in children. He said that the decision is going to help in Aatmanirbar Bharat and all in all on Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat. Shri Rai said that education sector has huge FDI potential in India and for foreign universities and colleges leading to human resource development and progress of the country. He said that Central Government initiative of Poshan Abhiyaan is also an add-on to the nutritional and holistic development of children.


    Shri Krishan Rai, Associate Professor, Dept. of Humanities and Social Sciences, NIT Durgapur said that the initiative has emphasis on Learning, problem solving and development of cognitive potential in children.


    Dr. Mirza Asmer Beg, Professor, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh enumerated the pertinent aspects of National Education Policy related to Higher Education Institutions, integration of vocational education and multiple entry and exit, Multidisciplinary Education and Research Universities (MERUs) to be at par with IITs, IIMs, role of National Educational Technology Forum.


    Dr. Mirza Asmer Beg, Professor, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh enumerated the pertinent aspects of National Education Policy related to Higher Education Institutions, Multidisciplinary Education and Research Universities (MERUs) to be at par with IITs, IIMs.


    Responding to a question asked by a student Shri Tirthakrit Mukherjee, on Industry and Potential of the National Education Policy for development of education system and for students to be entrepreneurial, Shri Saurav Chakrabarti, VP, Tata Teleservices Ltd. and Shri Taranjit Singh, MD JIS Group, said that the education reforms are in synergy with AatmaNirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan, which can be a potent game changer in the education sector. They said that the latest initiatives and decision would eventually lead to specialisation in technology and management arena, playing pivot role in country’s growth and development.


    Shri Saurav Chakrabarti, VP, Tata Teleservices Ltd. and Shri Taranjit Singh, MD JIS Group, said that the education reforms are in synergy with AatmaNirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan, which can be a potent game changer in the education sector.


    Md Kamil Mallick, Assistant Teacher,Thikribari High School, Goalpokhar, Uttar Dinajpur, mentioned about the education reforms expected in the primary education sector with the implementation of National Education Policy. He said that initiatives on NEP 2020 has emphasis on public investment in Education sector to reach 6 percent of GDP, National Curriculum Framework for Teacher Education, current 10+2 system to be replaced by a 5+3+3+4 curricular structure corresponding to ages 3-8, 8-11, 11-14, and 14-18 years.


    Shri Sanyuk Banerjee, Advocate, District Judges Court, Purbo Bardhamaan and Abdur Rahman Mallick, Advocate, Delhi High Court said that reforms in education sector is in line with the essence of Constitution of India – Right to Life with Human Dignity and a welcome initiative in that endeavour.


    Shri Sanyuk Banerjee, Advocate, District Judges Court, Purbo Bardhamaan said that reforms in education sector is in line with the essence of Constitution of India – Right to Life with Human Dignity and a welcome initiative in that endeavour.


    Abdur Rahman Mallick, Advocate, Delhi High Court and Md Kamil Mallick, Assistant Teacher,Thikribari High School, Goalpokhar, Uttar Dinajpur speaking on the occasion.


    The entire webinar was planned and coordinated by Shri Samrat Bandyopadhyay, Deputy Director (M & C), PIB, Kolkata. Along with eminent journalists and other government senior officials from Doordarshan Kolkata, All India Radio Kolkata, PIB Ranchi were also present on the occasion.


    The entire webinar was planned and coordinated by Shri Samrat Bandyopadhyay, Deputy Director (M & C), PIB, Kolkata.


    SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1648019) Visitor Counter : 30