      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Tea Board India in Promotional Activities through Virtual Medium to Upheld Indian Tea in Domestic & International Markets
      Posted On: 27 AUG 2020 4:40PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August 27, 2020


    Tea Board India, a statutory body under the Union Ministry of Commerce & Industry, initiated a slew of promotional activities through the virtual medium of webinars, virtual B2B meets, video conferences etc. in order to facilitate the tea business, both in the domestic sphere and the export sector, keeping in mind the current scenario in the wake of the global pandemic.


    A Virtual B2B meet of Indian Tea Exporters with importers and other stakeholders of Egypt were organized jointly by Embassy of India, Cairo and Tea Board India recently. The underlying principle behind organizing this B2B meet was to develop networking opportunities and to generate the requisite business leads for Indian tea exporters to Egypt. About 60 delegates participated in this meet where various possibilities for increasing Indian tea exports to Egypt were discussed.


    On the domestic front also, a virtual B2B meet was organized by Tea Board India few days ago with the overall objective of turning low-tea drinking States of India into promising markets where the potential for consumption of tea is quite high.The webinar attracted wholesalers and retailers from Uttar Pradesh and NCR so that they could engage in hard core business with the sellers from the Northeast.


    This domestic B2B meeting was the first in a series to be organized in the four States of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha as part of an attempt by Tea Board India to aggressively promote Indian tea in the domestic and international markets.


    Further, an Interactive Meeting was also held via video conferencing with the major exporters and Associations on the issue of the “Way Forward for Indian Tea Exports in the Current Situation.” The meeting was chaired by Shri P.K. Sahoo, Deputy Chairman, Tea Board India.


    These were the first of the series of virtual meetings organized in the wake of the global pandemic to facilitate tea trade. More such meetings will be organized in the coming months to address the issues related to both domestic, international tea trade and other requirements of the Indian tea industry.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1648954) Visitor Counter : 3
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali