      Ministry of Railways

      DRM, MALDA HIGHLIGHTS ACHIEVEMENTS OF MALDA DIVISION IN WEB PRESS CONFERENCE
      Posted On: 25 AUG 2020 5:58PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August 25, 2020


    Shri Yatendra Kumar, Divisional Railway Manager, Malda attended a Web Press Conference on Monday (August 24, 2020) at DRM’s Office, Malda. Speaking on the occasion, Shri Kumar highlighted the achievements of Malda Division in various spheres including new trains run in Malda Division, the overall punctuality of the Division i.e. 94.78% during April – July 2020 in comparison to 81.68% during the corresponding period of last year. He also informed that Mail/Express punctuality has been increased to 95.16% in the period between April and July 2020 as compared to 82.80 during the corresponding period of last year. He also informed of the increase in sectional speed between Bhagalpur – Dumka section and increase of average speed of goods trains.


    
    Shri Kumar spoke of recently completed railway electrification work between Poradanga – Manigram, Tinpahar-Sahibganj, Bhagalpur-Jamalpur, Jamalpur-Kiul, Sahibganj-Shibnarayanpur and Shibnarayanpur-Bhagalpur sections. He added that there was an increase of berths & seats in five Mail/Express trains on permanent basis and in eight Mail/Express trains on temporary basis. Shri Kumar informed about two escalators that had been provided at Malda Town station, Monumental National Flag and Airport standard lighting at Malda Town station. He spoke about the improvement of circulating area at Malda Town, Jangipur, Khaltipur, Nimtita and Sujnipara, provision of additional water coolers at Malda Town, New Farakka and Jangipur stations.
    
    Shri Kumar also informed about the on-board housekeeping system in six trains, bio-toilets (230), mechanized laundry and green initiatives over Malda Division. He discussed the Shramik special trains, PPE Kits and other major activities of public importance. Isolation coach, PPE training programme and thermal screening facility provided at 4 important stations of the Division were also discussed. To maintain the supply chain during COVID-19, 1488 outward rakes and 1336 inward rakes were dealt from April to July 2020.


    
    According to Shri Kumar, the Malda Divisional Business Development unit was set up during July 2020 to interact with the prospective customers to resolve the issues promptly and attract new goods/parcel traffic.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1648535) Visitor Counter : 1