      Ministry of Railways

      ER DIVISIONS & WORKSHOPS ORGANISE ‘FIT INDIA FREEDOM RUN’
      Posted On: 24 AUG 2020 5:00PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August 24, 2020

    Consequent upon the directive of the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports, Govt. of India and Eastern Railway (ER) organized ‘Fit India Freedom Run’ in all its Divisions & Workshops. The concept of such a run is to spread awareness for maintaining fitness of body & mind so that one may run/walk along the route of his/her choice at a time that suits him/her. One may even take breaks during such runs/walks. Basically, one runs his own race and times at his own pace. To make the initiative successful, all ER’s employees and their family members were encouraged to participate in this run.


    ‘Fit India Freedom Run’ was organized in ER’s Asansol Division on August 24, 2020 in the presence of Shri S. S. Gehlot, Additional General Manager, ER, Shri Sumit Sarkar, Divisional Railway Manager, Asansol, Shri M. K. Meena, Additional Divisional Railway Manager, Asansol along with branch officers, RPF personnel, members of Divisional Sports Association (including Football & Cricket players) and large number of staff of Asansol Division. Shri S. S. Gehlot, Additional General Manager, ER flagged off the ‘Fit India Freedom Run’ from Asansol station, covering en route Railway colonies concluding at TRS Shed, Asansol.


    On August 22, 2020 ‘Fit India Freedom Run’ was organized in ER’s Malda Division where Shri Yatendra Kumar, Divisional Railway Manager, Malda, Shri S. K. Bhagat, Additional Divisional Railway Manager, Malda, other branch officers and staff and Divisional Sports personnel organized a run at Vidrohi Railway Ground, behind the DRM/Malda bungalow.
    
    ER employees & their families are actively participating in Fit India Freedom Run from August 15, 2020 which will continue till October 2, 2020, with directives to each individual for keeping total Kms covered till October 2, 2020. Till August 23, 2020, 19780 participants including employees & their families earned a total run of 59340 Kms. ER target is at least 1000000 (One Million) Kms, and two lakh participants i.e., one employee + one @ at least earned 5 Kms by each participant in 45 days. ER Sports Association (ERSA) is sure to surpass the internal targets with support & guidance of team ER.
    
    ‘Fit India Freedom Run’ has already been organized by Howrah Division of ER under the leadership of Shri Ishaq Khan, Divisional Railway Manager, Howrah, where a large number of eminent sports personalities participated.
    
    Similar initiatives for freedom run also took place in Sealdah Division of ER and all the three Workshops i.e. Jamalpur, Kanchrapara and Liluah to spread the same message.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1648208) Visitor Counter : 2