      Ministry of Railways

      INDIAN RAILWAYS OFFERS VARIOUS ATTRACTIVE DISCOUNT SCHEMES FOR DOING BUSINESS
      Posted On: 29 AUG 2020 7:03PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August 29, 2020


    South Eastern Railway (SER) as per the guidelines given by the Railway Board has already set up Business Development Unit (BDU) at its Headquarters, Garden Reach, Kolkata and four Divisions namely, Adra, Kharagpur, Chakradharpur and Ranchi to attract the business community especially those who still now prefer to other modes of transportation. The Business Development Unit headed by Chief Freight Transportation Manager, SER, Garden Reach has been coordinating with the businessmen, trade bodies, freight aggregators and logistic companies on a regular basis.


    The steps taken by Indian Railways to fetch new traffic and to ease transportation through rail are given as under:-


    1. Average speed of freight trains almost doubled as compared to last year


    Concessions and discounts granted:


    2. Busy Season Surcharge (@15%) withdrawn from October 1, 2019


    3. Long-Lead Concession of 15% to 20% granted to coal, iron-ore, and finished steel


    4. Short-Lead Concession of 10% to 50% granted to all traffic, except coal and iron-ore


    5. Terminal Access Charge Concession (50%) granted at Group-III terminals


    6. Container and Automobile traffic exempted from payment of Stabling Charges till October 31


    7. 5% and 25% discount on Haulage Charges to loaded and empty Containers respectively


    8. Concession to bulk/loose Fly-ash and Industrial Salt


    Steps to decrease congestion at terminals:


    9. No restrictions on booking of freight to any of the goods-sheds or terminals


    10. Alternate Goods-shed Policy launched to decongest busy goods-sheds (no Terminal Charges levied)


    11. Private Freight Terminal and Private Siding policies liberalized


    12. No limit on Co-users in Private Sidings


    Steps to increase ease-of-doing-business with Railways:


    13. Free-time relaxation granted to covered wagons


    14. Distance permitted for mini-rakes increased from 400 kms to 1,500 kms, and 5% surcharge waived-off


    15. Lower limit relaxed to 10 wagons to target piecemeal traffic in Traditional Empty Flow Direction


    16. Weighing from road-weighbridges accepted for granite traffic


    17. Export traffic to Bangladesh permitted in Parcel and Containers


    18. Two-point unloading permitted for automobile traffic


    Steps to attract smaller than train-load traffic:


    19. Vyapar-mala trains (garland trains) introduced to attract less than rake-load traffic


    20. Time-tabled parcel special trains introduced on 20 routes


    21. Pilot Special time-tabled Kisan Rail launched between Devlali (Nashik, Maharashtra) and Danapur (Patna, Bihar), to transport perishables and farm-produce


    22. Minimum composition of Indented Parcel trains reduced to 15 Parcel Vans from earlier 20 Parcel vans (reduced to 10 parcel vans for perishable traffic)


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1649574) Visitor Counter : 2