      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PMJDY- a Scheme of Succour for Marginal People of the Country who were out of Banking Sector opines Bankers
      Posted On: 29 AUG 2020 5:52PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August 29, 2020


    Sh. Naseeruddin and his family had no means to save money, till he ventured into a small business of hawking puffed rice and tea taking an overdraft of Rs 10,000 under Pradhanmantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY). With that capital, Sh. Naseeruddin emerged victorious to turn his business into a profitable one and requested Bangiya Gramin Vikas Bank (BGVB) to increase the amount of the overdraft to expand his small enterprise. Naseeruddin is very much thankful to the bank as the Bank provided his mother Rs 500 thrice in her PMJDY account in the Covid pandemic situation. There are several such success stories in every nook and corner of West Bengal regarding the values the PMJDY added in changing the economic scenario of the country. As Smt Kuhu Ganguly, DGM, FI & MM, State Bank of India (SBI) puts it, those who were habituated in cash transactions so long in absence of bank accounts are now not only able to know the details about their expenditures & savings, but are also able to get interests on their savings, as they are enjoying savings accounts, due to opening of zero-balance Jan Dhan Accounts. SBI has thus 1crore 44 lakh Jan Dhan accounts across the State, with more than Rs 4,600 crore balances in them. Out of this 1.89% are zero-balance accounts and Rs 1,80 crore disbursed to women account-holders having average balance of Rs. 3,600, stated Smt Ganguly in a webinar organised by Press Information Bureau (PIB), Kolkata and Field Outreach Bureau, Chuchura today titled ‘Benefits of PMJDY and its Impact on Society’. The other speakers of the webinar included Miss Lilima Chowdhury, Chief Manager, Indian Bank (Allahabad bank), Shri Tathagata Maitra, Manager (FI), BGVB, Shri Sunil Kr. Yadav, SM, Punjab National Bank (PNB), FI Cell, several beneficiaries, including NGOs and representatives from media. The webinar was inaugurated by Ms Jane Namchu, Additional Director General, Eastern Region, Union Ministry of Information & Broadcasting.


    According to Miss Lilima Chowdhury, the PMJDY has not only helped in bringing the still unbanked population of the country under banking service, it has also helped people belonging to the unorganised sector in availing banking benefits, including insurance coverage and many other facilities.


    Shri Tathagata Maitra stated that under PMJDY, BGVB has 43,14,731 accounts across the State and under Pradhanmantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) the bank has till July 31, 2020, 3,31,732 beneficiaries. Under the Pradhanmantri Mudra Yojana the bank has 15,451 account-holders, stated Shri Maitra while stating the total number of RuPay cards issued so far. He mentioned that the bank has so far issued 4,11,354 RuPay cards.


    Shri Sunil Yadav also stated the position of the PNB in the State so far as the PMJDY is concerned. Skri Anil Kr. Sinha, DGM, PNB was present in the webinar as an observer.


    SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1649536) Visitor Counter : 2
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali