      Ministry of Railways

      SER UNDERTAKES HUGE TRACK MAINTENANCE WORKS DURING NATION-WIDE COVID-19 PANDEMIC
      Posted On: 31 AUG 2020 7:53PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata, August 31, 2020


    In train movement, rail track constitutes the most important part of the infrastructure providing a guided path for the wheels to move and carries the huge moving loads. The rail routes of South Eastern Railway have high density of freight and passenger trains. South Eastern Railway presently has 6464.624 Track KM stretching over Kharagpur, Adra, Chakradharpur and Ranchi Divisions. A large number of Mail/Express, Passenger and Goods trains have been running over them daily. Monitoring of track is continuous activity. Section Engineers, Permanent Way Inspectors and staff of track maintenance are working round the clock despite nation-wide COVID-19 crises to keep safe, secured and well-maintained railway track. Infrastructural Civil Engineers and Section Engineers of Engineering Department have laid emphasis on line maintenance works and have done their best out night and day across SER’s jurisdiction. Security services are on patrol and Safety Inspectors are engaged in regular inspections. PWIs and Track-men are continuing to maintain proactively railway track inspite of Coronavirus threat and restrictions. The vast network of South Eastern Railway has been divided into various maintenance sections for close and thorough check up & inspections. These lengthy and massive railway tracks are being supervised and maintained by those track-men and Section Engineers who are excellent practical men with long experience of keeping tracks in good repair. Railway tracks are being inspected on regular intervals to see that every section is fit for freight traffic and passenger traffic.


    In the wake of COVID-19 pandemic and country-wide health & physical precautions, South Eastern Railway has been running a number of Parcel Express Trains for uninterrupted supply of essential commodities and pharmaceuticals to reach out to the people across the country. In this situation, South Eastern Railway Track-men and Permanent Way Engineers have been engaged in track maintenance works wearing face masks and keeping social distancing to ensure the rail safety as well as smooth running of numerous freight and passenger trains.


    CG/SSS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1650110) Visitor Counter : 1