      AYUSH

      CCRUM holds a three day National Workshop on e-Granthalaya
      Posted On: 03 MAY 2017 5:46PM by PIB Ahmedabad


    The Central Council for Research in Unani Medicine (CCRUM) has organized a three-day National Workshop on e-Granthalya 4.0 for Automation and Networking of Government Libraries in New Delhi from 2nd-4th May, 2017. With the objective to train library professionals on e-Granthalya 4.0, the latest version of the library management software developed by National Informatics Centre (NIC), the workshop comprises of theoretical and hands-on training sessions on its admin, cataloging, circulation and serial modules.


    Inaugurating the workshop, Prof. Vd. K.S. Dhiman, Director General I/C, CCRUM said that we are living in a world where not everyone is able to spare time to visit physical libraries and networking of libraries in such a condition can be very helpful in conducting research and academic activities efficiently. He further said that e-libraries could also be a tool for transmission from physical books to e-books that can preserve our environment apart from saving a lot of money spent on procurement of physical books. He urged the participants to get used to the e-Granthalaya software and adopt it for automation and networking of libraries at their respective institutions in order to ease the dissemination of knowledge.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Ram Kumar Matoria, Technical Director, NIC said that the Government of India provides the free of cost facility of adopting e-Granthalya software and uploading the data on NIC cloud to the government libraries to facilitate their automation and networking. He urged that like CCRUM other institutes of AYUSH should also come forward and adopt this facility extended by the NIC.


    Earlier in his welcome address, Shri R.U. Choudhury, Assistant Director (CCRUM) said that the CCRUM has already adopted e-Granthalaya software making the catalogues of its eight libraries attached with its various institutes freely accessible to all globally. He further said that since the NIC has launched 4.0 version of the software with various new features, there was a need to organize such a workshop in order to make the library professionals used to it.


    The workshop has 43 participants from different institutions including research councils of AYUSH, Banaras Hindu University and University of Kashmir.


    *****

    
    
    (Release ID: 1489070) Visitor Counter : 173
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati