      Ministry of Defence

      Promoting Intellectual Property Rights in Defence
      Posted On: 04 FEB 2019 5:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Several Ordnance Factories and Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSUs) have been carrying out innovative research on the development of certain materials, components / sub-assemblies / assemblies leading to performance upgradation of the existing system / platforms. A need was felt to create a structured mechanism to facilitate and encourage innovative activities with a primary objective to “Boost Intellectual Property culture” which would enhance the Intellectual Capital that is vital for encouraging in-house Research & Development in such organizations. With this objective in view, an Intellectual Property Rights Facilitation (IPF) Cell has been established under the Department of Defence Production on 4th April, 2018 to promote self-reliance in Intellectual Property Rights in Defence Sector.


    As part of this initiative, Department of Defence Production has launched the “Mission Raksha Gyan Shakti” on 27th November, 2018 to encourage Defence Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) and Ordnance Factory Board to boost “IPR culture” in their respective organization to promote self-reliance in defence sector. During the period July to December 2018, 304 IPRs have been filed and 8838 personnel have been trained for this purpose.


    The innovative research undertaken by Defence Public Sector Undertakings and Ordnance Factory Board is helping in indigenization of existing system / platform to bring down import contents thereby resulting in cost savings.


    The challenges faced by the Defence Public Sector Undertakings and Ordnance Factory Board in pursuing Intellectual Property Rights in defence sector include lack of awareness and availability of trained manpower besides the need to collectively appraise the challenges ahead with private sector, Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and end users. The Intellectual Property Rights Facilitation Cell and Mission RakshaGyan Shakti have been created to address such challenges being faced by Defence Public Sector Undertakings and Ordnance Factory Board.


    This information was given by Raksha Rajya Mantri Dr. Subhash Bhamre in a written reply to Shri Md. Nadimul Haque in Rajya Sabha today.


    Nampi/Rajib/HS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1562585) Visitor Counter : 750