      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      FDI Policy on E-Commerce
      Posted On: 04 FEB 2019 12:41PM by PIB Delhi


    In order to ensure due compliance of the FDI policy on e-Commerce, Press Note 2 (2018) has been issued. It puts in place certain conditions. These conditions include:

     1. An entity having equity participation by e-commerce marketplace entity or its group companies, or having control on its inventory by e-commerce marketplace entity or its group companies, will not be permitted to sell its products on the platform run by such marketplace entity.
     1. e-Commerce marketplace entity will not mandate any seller to sell any product exclusively on its platform only.

    This Press Note is effective from February 01, 2019.


    Representations have been received to defer the implementation of Press Note 2. The FDI policy on e-Commerce, first pronounced through Press Note 2 of 2000, permitted 100% FDI in B2B e-commerce activities. With a view to provide clarity to the extant policy and after extensive stakeholder consultations, guidelines for FDI on the e-commerce were issued vide Press Note 3 (2016). To provide further clarity to FDI policy on e-commerce, Press Note 2 (2018) was issued.


    Stakeholder consultations on creating a framework for National Policy on e-Commerce with representatives from Government Ministries, Departments, Reserve Bank of India, industry bodies, e-commerce companies, telecom companies, IT companies and payment companies have been held. Issues regarding the e-commerce sector are regularly reviewed by the Government.


    The e-commerce sector is expected to keep growing in future because of a number of reasons. The FDI policy on e-commerce has remained unchanged. Better enforcement of this policy will contribute significantly to growth of this sector over medium and long term.


    This information was given by the Minister of State of Commerce and Industry, C. R. Chaudhary, in written replies in the Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    MM/SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562493) Visitor Counter : 3120
    
    
      Read this release in: Bengali
    
    
    

1.