      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Sh Dharmendra Pradhan says that our Government remains committed to inclusive, holistic and sustainable high economic growth
      Posted On: 05 FEB 2019 2:57PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas & Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri Dharmendra Pradhan has said that India has emerged as a bright spot in the global economy in the recent years. Inaugurating the WLPGA 2019 Asia LPG Summit here today, he said that with strong economy and supportive policy environment, Our Government remains committed to inclusive, holistic and sustainable high economic growth. As a welfare state, we are committed to provide basic necessities of life to the last person standing. Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana is a programme to provide affordable house to all by 2022, each of which will have toilet, electricity connection, LPG, drinking water, and bank account under the Jan Dhan Yojana.


    The Minister said that Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), which was launched in May 2016 with a target of 5 crore of deposit free LPG connections, has already covered over 6 crore vulnerable, disadvantaged sections of the society, and it will cover 8 crore by next financial year. He said that PMUY is now a universal scheme, covering all poor households.


    Appreciating the collective efforts of all the stakeholders, Shri Pradhan said that LPG connections are now available to 90% population which was just about 55% in 2014. He said that traditional fuel causes pollution and has health implications. Switching over to LPG has not only empowered women, but has also protected their families from indoor pollution. The Minister said that India has become the second largest importer of LPG. The successful implementation of PMUY has been hailed by various multilateral agencies and developed nations, and has set an example for the developing countries. The scheme has brought Swasthya and S amman, important for Swa-raj. The scheme has catered to the Bottom of the Pyramid. The Minister talked of Ujjwala Panchayats in which 10 million beneficiaries have participated so far, and which focusses on safety, sharing of experiences and provides valuable feedback. He said that the Government has implemented PAHAL, the largest DBT scheme through which one lakh crore rupees have been transferred. Sh Pradhan said that the Prime Minister launched Giveitup, which inspired people to take part wholeheartedly in giving up subsidies, and the savings were used for developmental activities. The Minister talked about extending regional cooperation with neighbouring countries and stressed on collaborative efforts.


      Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas Dr M.M.Kutty, CEO, WLPGA Mr James Rockall and President, WLPGA & CEO, Ultragaz, Brazil Mr Petro Jorge Filho also spoke during the inaugural session. Shri Dharmendra Pradhan also inaugurated an Exhibition on the subject.


      The Asia LG summit is being organized by the World LPG Association (WLPGA), which is the voice of the global LPG Industry representing the full LPG value chain. The primary goal of the Association is to add value to the sector by driving premium demand for LPG, while also promoting compliance to good business and safety practices. The WLPGA brings together over 200 private and public companies operating in more than 125 countries involved in one, several or all activities of the industry; develops long-term partnerships with international organisations; and implements projects on local and global scales. The Association was established in 1987 and granted Special Consultative Status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council in 1989.


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562673) Visitor Counter : 573
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi