      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Sensitisation Regarding Mental Illness
      Posted On: 05 FEB 2019 4:53PM by PIB Delhi


    To address the burden of mental disorders, the Government of India is implementing the National Mental Health Programme (NMHP) since 1982. Under this Programme, the Government is supporting implementation of the District Mental Health Programme (DMHP) in 517 districts of the country for detection, management and treatment of mental disorders/ illness. At the district level, funds are provided to each district under the DMHP for sensitization training of Community Health Workers and elected representatives of community at District Hospital/ Community Health Centre for awareness generation regarding early signs and community health seeking behavior for mental illness. Further, the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 provides that the appropriate Government shall take all measures to ensure that the Government Officials including police officers and other officers of the Government are given periodic sensitization and awareness training.


    Health being a State subject, it is the responsibility of the respective State Government to establish health facilities and hospitals in the State. However, as per available information there are 40 State run mental health Institutions in the country. Besides, three Central Mental Health Institutions viz. National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences, Bangalore, LokopriyaGopinathBordoloi Regional Institute of Mental Health, Tezpur and Central Institute of Psychiatry, Ranchi have been strengthened for augmenting the human resources in the areas of mental health and to provide quality mental health services in the country.


    Further, w ith a view to increase the number of qualified mental health professionals in the country, the Government, under the NMHP, is implementing manpower development schemes for establishment of Centres of Excellence and strengthening/ establishment of Post Graduate (PG) Departments in mental health specialties. Till date, financial support has been provided for establishment of 25 Centres of Excellence and strengthening/ establishment of 47 Post Graduate (PG) Departments in mental health specialties in the country. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare regularly reviews and monitors the functioning of the three Central Mental Health Institutions and the Institutions supported under manpower development schemes of NMHP.


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Smt Anupriya Patel stated this in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562705) Visitor Counter : 591