      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Shri Nitin Gadkari Calls for Intensive, District Level Monitoring of Projects for Cleaning and Rejuvenating River Ganga
      
      Lays Special Emphasis on Cleaning of Tributaries, Streams and Drains that Flow into Ganga

      Posted On: 05 FEB 2019 4:44PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Shipping, Road Transport & Highways has called for intensive, district level monitoring and review of projects for cleaning and rejuvenating River Ganga. Addressing District Ganga Committees of Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal through video conferencing yesterday, he said that cleaning of every stream, drain or tributary that flows into Ganga should be given as much priority as cleaning of the main river. The Minister called upon the District Collectors and other functionaries to do a thorough survey to identify all streams, drains or tributaries that flow into Ganga, and initiate steps to treat the water of these bodies.


    Underscoring the important role that the District Ganga Committees can play in rejuvenating the river, Shri Gadkari asked the officials to review the functioning of all sewerage infrastructure in their districts, identify problems and take time bound steps to rectify the same. Similarly, they should monitor all afforestation projects and identify polluting industries that need to set up effluent treatment plants.


    Shri Gadkari also stressed upon expediting connection of houses to sewage networks so that sewage can reach the treatment plants, and the plants can run properly as per their designed capacity. He asked the District Ganga Committees to coordinate with the concerned authorities and take necessary steps in this regard.


    Talking about the need for ensuring Aviralta or free flow of Ganga, Shri Gadkari called upon the District Collectors to facilitate the implementation of the e flow notification issued by the Centre in this regard. He also emphasized that the District Ganga Committees should mobilize public support and cooperation for solid waste management in their respective districts.


    The video conference was organized to review the work being done by the District Ganga Committees, listen to any problems they may be facing and discuss ways and means to move forward. E ach of the Ganga Districts have District Ganga Committees to carry out the assigned tasks at the district level, to take cognizance of local threats and needs of river Ganga, conceptualise necessary measures to ensure overall quality of water in the river and monitor various projects being implemented. Shri U.P. Singh, Secretary, Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Shri Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, DG, NMCG and other senior officials also attended the meeting.


    ******


    NP/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562697) Visitor Counter : 433
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi