      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      40 Indian Origin youth from 8 countries call on Dr Jitendra Singh under the 53rd Edition of “Know India Programme”
      Posted On: 05 FEB 2019 4:33PM by PIB Delhi


    A group of Indian Origin youth from 8 countries called on the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh under the 53 rd Edition of “Know India Programme”, here today. The 53 rd edition of Know India Programme for Young Indian Diaspora involves 40 participants (24 female and 16 males) from Fiji, Guyana, Mauritius, Portugal, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Suriname and Trinidad & Tobago. The partner states of this edition are Maharashtra and Daman & Diu.


    The Know India Programme is organised by the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India with the objective of familiarizing the India Diaspora Youth, in the age group of 18-30 years, with developments and achievements made by the country and bringing them closer to the land of their ancestors. The programme provides a unique forum for students and young professionals of India origin to visit India, share their views, expectations and experiences and to bond closely with the contemporary India.


    Dr Jitendra Singh interacted with the youth and discussed with them experiences of their visit to India. He said that this programme provides an opportunity to these youth to learn about and know their roots and share experiences. He spoke about the role of ‘people to people’ connect in improving the relations between the countries. He said that the world has now shrunk due to improved connectivity that has reduced the physical barriers. The new modes of communication have resulted into direct connect with people across national boundaries.


    The participants said that KIP helps them understand the Indian traditions, heritage and their family connections. They also recalled the visits paid by their families to India in the past. The youth also shared the influences which they have from India e.g. IT industry, Bollywood, Indian cuisine and sports etc. The Minister also discussed with them other aspects including their educational and professional background, the states to which their ancestors belong etc.


    Speaking about the progress made by India during the last five years, Dr Jitendra Singh said that India has been projected globally by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. He added that India is not less than any other country in the field of space technology. He also mentioned about Government programmes such as Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan, International Yoga Day, and others. The Minister also spoke about the progress made in the North Eastern Region of India, during the interaction.
    The participants who are on a visit to India from 23 rd January to 16 th February, have visited Maharashtra, Daman & Diu and Agra. Now they are in Delhi where they will visit historical monuments and cultural places.


    *****


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562691) Visitor Counter : 588
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi