      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      NFDC declared winner under Miniratna Category by Ministry of MSME for exemplary work amongst CPSEs for promotion of SC/ST entrepreneurs
      Posted On: 05 FEB 2019 6:14PM by PIB Delhi


    National Film Development Corporation of India has been selected as Winner under the Miniratna Category (Category II) by Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME). This has been done as part of endeavour by Ministry of MSME to felicitate select CPSEs to recognize their exemplary work towards promotion of SC/ST entrepreneurs. The performance parameters for the same were procurement from SC/ST entrepreneurs, number of vendor development programmes for SC/ST and number of SC/ST entrepreneurs benefitted as per data uploaded on Sambandh Portal.


    About NFDC


    National Film Development Corporation Ltd. (NFDC), incorporated in the year 1975, was formed by the Government of India with the primary objective of planning and promoting an organized, efficient, and integrated development of the Indian film industry. NFDC has so far funded / produced over 300 films. These films, in various Indian languages, have been widely acclaimed and have won many national and international awards. The primary activities of NFDC are Film Production – 100% finance for debutant directors & Co-Production with Foreign & Indian Film Makers, Promoting Indian Films at various International Film Festivals and markets in India and abroad, NFDC’s Film Bazaar has now become one of the leading platform for promoting & showcasing Indian cinema to the world. NFDC is now positioned as a 360-degree integrated media service provider for the creation and dissemination of advertising communication across various electronic platforms. Ministry of I&B has taken the lead with a long-term objective of positioning and promoting India as a preferred destination for filmmakers across the world, by setting up the Film Facilitation Office (FFO), which is housed under the aegis of NFDC.


    ***


    AP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1562746) Visitor Counter : 1066
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi