      Ministry of Coal

      Ministry of Coal signs an MoU with Ministry of Energy, Republic of Poland
      Posted On: 04 FEB 2019 6:33PM by PIB Delhi


      Ministry of Coal entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with Ministry of Energy, Republic of Poland here today. The MoU has been signed between Sh. Haribhai Parathibhai Chaudhary, Hon'ble Minister of State for Coal and Mines and Mr. Grzegorz Tobiszowski, Secretary of State, Ministry of Energy, Republic of Poland. Additional Secretary, Ministry of Coal, Shri Suresh Kumar, and Ambassador of Poland HE Mr. Adam Burakowski were present on the occasion,


      The objective of this MoU is to foster relations in the field of coal mining and clean coal technologies through the already established Joint Coal Working Group as well as research institutes and academia between the two countries covering the following areas.


      a. To promote trade and investment in the coal sector, enhance the understanding of coal related energy issues, particularly clean coal technologies, and promote the exchange of information on policies, programmes and technologies with special emphasis on coal exploration and exploitation, research and development, technical cooperation and capacity building.


      b. To review the activities implemented under MoU.


      c. To identify other forms of cooperation mutually agreed upon by the Participants.


      Speaking on the occasion, the Minister of State for Coal and Mines, Shri Haribhai Parathibhai Chaudhary said that India and Poland celebrated 60 years of vibrant diplomatic relations and also formalized cooperation agreements in different areas and he expressed hope that the MoU signed today would further strengthen these efforts. He also complimented the officials from Poland and India for identification of areas of cooperation and the development of this MoU after consistent engagements. He added that the MoU will greatly benefit in the field of clean technologies and would provide opportunities to both our countries to augment trade and investment in diverse areas in mining and energy sectors. He conveyed expectation that the joint working group created under the MoU would work very closely to take the aims of the MoU further in a time-bound manner. He further added that he also foresees a very strong scope for cooperation in other areas of mining in India.


      *****


      SVS/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562612) Visitor Counter : 838
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi