      Vice President's Secretariat

      Ethical and responsible leadership is the need of the hour: Vice President
      
      Clean Government, Clear Vision & Committed Leadership needed to transform the lives of people;
      
      Embrace technology, innovation to find solutions to new challenges emerging in modern world;
      
      Respecting the mandate of the people is important for a democracy to succeed;
      
      Interacts with students of Indian Institute of Democratic Leadership

      Posted On: 06 FEB 2019 11:32AM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that ethical and responsible leadership was the need of the hour. He said that understanding the ground realities, interaction with common people and observing the changing aspirations of the youth were very important for people aspiring to be in public life.


    Shri Naidu was interacting with students from Indian Institute of Democratic Leadership promoted by Thane in Maharashtra based Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini (RMP), here today, and stressed upon the need for students perusing a career in public life to acquire a decent understanding of the role and responsibility of every institution and their importance in functioning of a democracy that has more than 130 crore population with different set of aspirations.


    The Vice President said that a clean government, Clear Vision and Committed Leadership was needed to transform the lives of people. He urged up on Universities, colleges and institutions such as the Indian Institute of Democratic Leadership inculcate such qualities in students from their school days.


    Shri Naidu said that said that making students understand the functioning of democratic republic and introducing them to Parliamentary system was also needed.


    Shri Naidu said that an aware citizenry, a vibrant and responsible civil society, a robust institutional framework and responsive bureaucracy was crucial in India’s efforts towards making it free from hunger, free of atrocities, free of inequalities and discrimination based on cast, gender and religion.


    The Vice President stressed upon the need to strengthen systems that incorporate technology into our governance systems to ensure hassle free service to the last man living in the remotest part of the country. He wanted the youth to embrace technology, innovation to find solutions to new challenges emerging in modern world.


    Shri Naidu asked the youth to have a democratic mind that is receptive to new ideas and tolerant to others views. Respecting the mandate of the people was important for democracy to succeed. One must learn to respect it, he added.


    The Member of Parliament (RS), Dr. Vinay Sahasrabuddhe and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    *****


    AKT/BK/MS/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1562776) Visitor Counter : 886
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Tamil