      Ministry of Education

      Scholarships for Girls to encourage better education and career opportunities
      Posted On: 04 FEB 2019 5:58PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Human Resource Development, Department of School Education and Literacy is implementing ‘National Scheme of Incentive to Girls for Secondary Education (NSIGSE)’. The objective of the scheme is to establish an enabling environment to reduce the drop outs and to promote the enrolment of girl child belonging to SC/ST communities in secondary schools and ensure their retention up to the 18 years of age. The scheme covers (i) all girls belonging to SC/ST communities who pass class VIII and (ii) all girls who pass class VIII examination from Kasturba Gandhi BalikaVidyalayas (irrespective of whether they belong to SC/ ST) and enroll in class IX in State/ UT Government, Government-aided and Local Body schools. According to the scheme, an amount of Rs.3000/- is deposited in the name of eligible unmarried girls as fixed deposit on enrolment in class IX, who are entitled to withdraw it along with interest thereon reaching on 18 years of age and passing class 10 th class examination. The scheme is covered under the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) Scheme. The scheme is on-boarded on National Scholarship Portal (NSP) since 2015-16.


    The Central board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is implementing Merit Scholarship Schemes for single girl child to provide scholarships to the meritorious Single Girl Students, who are the only child of their parents. It provide Rupees Five Hundred (Rs.500/‐) per month to Single Girl Child who is pursuing further studies for class XI & XII and have passed the CBSE class Xth exam with 60% / 6.2 CGPA or more marks/grades.


    The Ministry of Human Resource Development, Department of Higher Education is implementing the Central Sector Scheme of Scholarship for College and University Students since 2008. Under the scheme , financial assistance is provided to meritorious students whose family income of less than Rs.8 lakhs per annum for pursuing higher studies. The scheme envisages 82000 fresh scholarships award of every year, of which 50% is earmarked for girls.


    The University Grant Commission (UGC) is implementing the scheme of Post Graduate Indira Gandhi Scholarship for Single Girl Child since 2006 for providing financial assistance to selected students for pursuing Post-Graduation in Universities/Institutions/Colleges in India. This scheme has been on boarded on National Scholarship Portal (NSP) since 2017-18.


    Apart from the above, the UGC is also implementing the schemes namely 1) Swami Vivekananda Single Girl Child Fellowship for Research in Social Sciences. 2) Post-Doctoral fellowship for Women for providing financial assistance to selected candidates for pursuing research / higher research on full time/regular basis in University/Institute/Colleges in India.


    The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) is implementing “Pragati Scholarship Scheme for Girls Student” to provide assistance for advancement of girl’s participation in Technical Education. Under the scheme, 4000 scholarships are granted annually on “one girl, per family” basis where the family income is Rs.6 Lakhs/ annum or less. The candidates should have been admitted to 1st year of the Degree or Diploma programme in any of the AICTE approved institute during the academic year 2015- 16 through centralized admission process of the State/ Centre Government. The candidates are selected on merit at the qualifying examination to pursue technical education from amongst such candidates. Tuition Fee of Rs.30000/- or at actual, whichever is less and Rs.2000/- per month for 10 months as incidentals each year is provided under the scheme as financial assistance. The detailed information about the scheme is available at AICTE web portal http://www.aicte-india.org/pragathiSaksham.php .


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562599) Visitor Counter : 2585