      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      National Road Safety Week to be Launched on Monday
      Posted On: 01 FEB 2019 4:43PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh, Union External Affairs Minister Smt Sushma Swaraj, Union Minister for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping and Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Nitin Gadkari, and Union Minister of State for Road Transport & Highways, Shipping and Chemicals and Fertilisers Shri Mansukh L Mandaviya will inaugurate the 30 th National Road Safety Week, 2019 in New Delhi on Monday, the 4 th of February. The event will take place at Gandhi Smriti and Darshan, Rajghat, New Delhi. It will be attended by a host of school children, NGOs, and stakeholders in road safety from Government and industry.


    Various programmes will be held during the Road Safety Week, including seminars and workshops on Emerging Trends in Safety, Road Safety Engineering, Motor Vehicle Insurance, Emergency care (Protection of Good Samaritan & First Responder Training), Role of Youth, and Industry/ Corporate Conclave on Role of Corporate in Road Safety. These will be attended by representatives of OEMs, ACMA, Test Agencies, Road Engineers/Auditors and Road Construction Companies/ Concessioners, Corporates, NGOs, Insurance Companies, Medical Staff, and college students. School Bus Driver Refresher Training session will also be held at IDTR, Sarai Kale Khan, where bus drivers from private schools will be imparted training on road safety.


    A Motorcar Rally will also be flagged off on the occasion to commemorate the 150 th Birth Anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The rally will travel through places historically associated with Gandhiji, both in India, as well as in Bangladesh and Myanmar. It will connect the places of significance in Gandhiji’s life, and simultaneously take up advocacy on Road Safety concerns. The Rally will pass through Sabarmati, Porbandar, Dandi, Yerwada, Sewagram, Jabalpur, Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Chauri Chaura, Champaran, Shantiniketan and Kolkata in India before travelling to Dhaka in Bangladesh. It will conclude at Yangon in Myanmar on the 24 th of February. The motor rally will cover around 7250 km to reach Yangon. This is part of the yearlong celebrations to commemorate the 150th year of Mahatma Gandhi in India and across the globe, initiated by Government of India on 2nd October last year.


    ***


    NP/MS/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562263) Visitor Counter : 1016
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi