      AYUSH

      AYUSH Minister Inaugurates PG Course and Unveils the Bust of Swami Athuradasji At NHRIMH
      Posted On: 02 FEB 2019 6:11PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State (IC) for AYUSH Shri Shripad Naik inaugurated the PG Courses and National Seminar at National Homoeopathy Research Institute in Mental Health in Kottayam today. On this occasion Shri Naik unveiled the Bronze Bust of Swami Athuradasji who was a founder of the Research institute.


    On this occasion the Minister said that Swamiji was so committed to popularize Homoeopathy in Kerala in the early years that people used to call him as the Hahnemann of Kerala. He said that the bronze bust shall be a befitting homage to Swamiji and a constant source of inspiration to the students and the public visiting the institute.


    Shri Shripad Naik further said that his Ministry had taken a decision to upgrade the Central Research Institute under the Central Council for Research in Homoeopathy to that of National Homoeopathy Research Institute in Mental Health. He said that the main purpose was to integrate research with higher learning to fast track development of Homeopathy.


    The Minister expressed his happiness over the decision of the Kerala Government to allot an additional 7.59 acres of land for further development of this Institute. He said that they shall provide state of art tertiary care on psychiatric illnesses and other conditions and impart outstanding teaching to its students in an interdisciplinary research environment.


    He emphasized that the Ministry of AYUSH is committed to promote Homoeopathy. There is an increase in mental illness and depression. Incidence of substance abuse and alcoholism are becoming the root cause for several evils in the society. Incidence of suicide, domestic violence and marital discords are increasing. Therefore, there is an urgency to make strategic changes in the health care delivery system to address these issues.


    The other dignitaries present on the occasion were Dr .Raj. K. Manchanda, Director General, Central Council of Research in Homoeopathy; Shri. P. Gopalakrishnan Nair, President, Athurashram, Kurichy, Dr.R.Venugopal, Principal, ANSSHMC, Kurichy, Dr.N.Radha, Member, Governing Council, NHRIMH, Kottayam; Dr.Sunil Raj, Pricipal, Government Homoeopathic Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram; Dr.Jaya Narayanan, State Programme Officer, National AYUSH Mission, Kerala; Dr.Kanwal Sethi, Advisor (Homoeopathy), Ministry of AYUSH, Govt.of India; Smt. Sujatha, Member, Grama Panchayath ,Kurichy, Shri.Manoj George, President, Kurichy Grama Panchayath; Shri. Sunny Pampady, President, District Panchayath. Dr.Janardhanan Nair, Principal, NHRIMH delivered Vote of Thanks. Training Programme was conducted for Medical Officers of Kottayam and Pathanamthitta Districts.


    ******


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562431) Visitor Counter : 1015
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi