      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Mobile App for Booking of 5, Ashoka Road to Facilitate Completion of Entire Booking Process
      
      Mashoka5 – Mobile App Launched

      Posted On: 04 FEB 2019 6:51PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Hardeep S Puri, Minister of State (I/C) for Housing & Urban Affairs has stated that the mobile app for booking of Bungalow No.5, Ashoka Road, which has been launched today is a step towards ensuring the commitment of the Government, i.e. speedy provision of services to the citizens in a transparent and efficient manner. “To that extent the launch of this app is a facility which demonstrates the commitment of our Government for providing Minimum Government and Maximum Governance to the citizens”, he added. During the launch function held here today, the Minister said that this App willenable an applicant to complete the entire booking process from anywhere and at any time by using mobile phone. The procedure of booking has been made simpler with the provision of online payment and online cancellation. Through this app, not only bookings can be done, but also pdf of application form, confirmation letter, allotment letter and authority slip can be generated and downloaded. Shri Durga Shanker Mishra, Secretary, Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs, Ms.Nandita Gupta, Joint Secretary and senior officers of the Ministry were also present during the launch.


    This app does away with the requirement of the physical presence of the applicant at the Directorate for either submitting form/getting a challan for making payments or obtaining authority slip. One of the focus areas of developing this app is reducing the decision-making layers to minimum while allowing the faster means of information sharing/dissemination and simplification of the procedure.


    This app is user friendly and works on any android based mobile phone. It has been developed by the National Informatics Centre of Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. It appropriately conveys message of the Government for promoting "Digital India".


    RJ/KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562618) Visitor Counter : 623