      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Expansion of PNG and CNG coverage in the country
      Posted On: 06 FEB 2019 3:10PM by PIB Delhi


    Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) is the authority to grant authorization to the entities for the development of City Gas Distribution (CGD) network in Geographical Areas (GAs) as per PNGRB Act, 2006. PNGRB identifies GAs for authorizing the development of CGD network in synchronization with the development of natural gas pipeline connectivity/ natural gas availability. The authorized CGD entities develop the Piped Natural Gas (PNG)/ Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) network to supply natural gas to households, industrial and commercial units in their respective GAs.


    Upto the 8 th CGD bidding round, there are 96 GAs in 23 States/ Union Territories (UTs) where CGD network is accessible. PNGRB has granted authorization for additional 84 GAs in 9th CGD Bidding Round. With the completion of 9 th CGD Bidding Round, CGD would be accessible in 178 GAs covering approximately 280 districts spread over 26 States and UTs. PNGRB has also launched 10 th CGD Bidding Round covering 50 GAs spread over 14 States and 124 districts (112 full and 12 part). As per PNGRB, after successful completion of 10 th CGD Bidding Round, 70% of the country’s population would have access to CGD network.


    Presently, Oil and Gas Public Sector Undertakings have total 59 overseas assets in 28 countries of which 23 are producing, 7 are developmental blocks, 25 are exploratory and 4 are pipeline projects. There are total 15 MoUs that India has signed with various countries for cooperation in the oil and gas sector.


    With respect to Paradip-Haldia-Barauni oil pipeline (PHBPL), the executing agency has taken up pre-project activities, such as statutory clearances and acquisition of Right of Use under P&MP Act.


    PNGRB has authorized Indradhanush Gas Grid Limited (IGGL) for the development of North East Gas Grid to connect eight states of North Eastern India. The executing agency has taken up Pre-project activities such as statutory clearances and acquisition of Right of Use under P&MP Act.


    The executing agency has taken up the pipeline execution work of Jagadishpur –Haldia –Bokaro Dhamra Pipeline (JHBDPL).


    This information was given by Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha today.


    ******


    YKB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1562822) Visitor Counter : 1885
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu