      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Ranking of Hospitals
      Posted On: 08 FEB 2019 4:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Government has not conducted any survey for ranking of Hospitals in the country. However, there is one IT based ‘Mera Aspataal application’ to collect patients’ feedback about their experiences in public health facilities including AIIMS Delhi.


    As per patient feedback results analyzed in Mera Aspataal Application in December 2018, AIIMS Delhi is ranked 14 th among 22 Central Govt. of Hospitals integrated with Mera Aspataal application in the country.


    The ranking in the Mera Aspataal Application for the facilities is done on the basis of Patient Satisfaction Score (PSS). The PSS is calculated as weighted average of number of satisfied and dissatisfied patients based on the feedback collected in a particular facility. The ranking keeps changing every month based on the feedback received from the patients.


    However, as per National Institute Ranking Framework of Ministry of Human Resource Development, AIIMS, Delhi has been ranked as number one institute. The Mera Aspataal Initiative was launched precisely to find a mechanism to gauze patient reaction to the services offered in the hospital and help improve the services by taking corrective measures. As per performance analysis report of Mera Aspataal for period Sept-2016 to Jan-2019, 24 per cent of patients were dissatisfied with the services offered at the public health facilities. Major Reasons for dissatisfaction were staff behavior, cost of treatment & cleanliness issues and other reasons like, long waiting time, overcrowding, inadequate information, lack of amenities, etc.


    The patients' feedback including, areas requiring improvement are shared with the respective State Govts. and Central Govt. hospitals for ensuring remedial follow-up actions.


    As reported by some of the hospitals, they are reviewing the feedback regularly with the concerned HODs and senior Administrators and taking corrective steps like sensitizing staff to be polite towards patients and give a patient hearing to their problems, maintain cleanliness in the hospital premises, prescribe drugs available in the pharmacy and investigations available in the hospitals. They are also taking steps to ensure minimum waiting time for patients for accessing various services.


    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Sh Ashwini Kumar Choubey stated this in a written reply in the Lok Sabha here today.


    *****


    MV/LK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1563530) Visitor Counter : 519
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu