      Ministry of Education

      MHRD running various schemes to boost educational development of economically backward classes in the country
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2019 6:39PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Human Resource Development is implementing following schemes for the Economically Backward Class students.


    1. Central Sector Scheme of Scholarship for College and University Students (CSSS)


    Under this scheme, scholarship is provided to the eligible meritorious students having family income less than Rs. 8.0 lakh per annum, for pursuing higher studies. The amount of scholarship is Rs. 10,000/- per annum for the first three years and Rs. 20,000/- per annum for the fourth and fifth year.


    2. Special Scholarship Scheme for Jammu & Kashmir (SSS for J&K)


    Scholarship is provided to the eligible students from the State of Jammu & Kashmir, having family income less than Rs. 8.0 lakh per annum, to pursue higher studies outside the State of J&K. An amount to the tune of Rs. 1.30 lakh to Rs. 4.00 lakh per annum is provided.


    The budget head for both the schemes indicated at (i) & (ii) above is common. BE for the Financial Year 2018-19 is Rs. 339 Crore. Out of this, Rs. 139 Crore is allocated for Central Sector Scheme for College and University Students and Rs. 200 Crore is for Special Scholarship Scheme for Jammu & Kashmir.


    3. Central Sector Interest Subsidy Scheme (CSIS)


    Under this Scheme, full interest subsidy is provided during the moratorium period (course period plus one year), on the educational loan up to Rs. 7.5 lakh, taken by the students having annual parental income up to Rs.4.5 lakh. The BE for the Financial Year is Rs. 2150 Crore.


    4. Fees Waiving in IITs


    In IITs, from the academic year 2016-17, following provisions were made for protecting the interest of the socially and economically backward students while making the payment of tuition fee.

     1. The SC/ST/PH students shall get complete fee waiver.
     2. The most economically backward students (whose family income is less than Rs.1 lakh per annum ) shall get full remission of the fee.
     3. The other economically backward students (whose family income is between Rs.1 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh per annum ) shall get remission of 2/3 rd of the fee.
     4. All students shall have access to interest free loan under the Vidyalaxmi scheme for the total portion of the tuition fee payable.

    Under the Vidyalaxmi Scheme, Interest subvention on the education loans for all students admitted for undergraduate and the five year integrated degree programmes is provided.


    For advancement of Economically Weaker Sections of the society, and as per the Constitution 103 rd Amendment Act 2019, Government has issued orders providing 10 percent reservation to EWS categories in admission to educational institutions. This reservation for EWS categories would be provided without disturbing the existing entitlements for SC/ST and OBC categories.


    Beside these schemes, (i) Remedial Coaching for SC/ST/OBC (Non-Creamy Layer) & Minority Community Students, (ii) Coaching for NET/SET for SC/ST/OBC (Non-Creamy Layer) & Minority Community Students and (iii) Coaching Classes for Entry into services for SC/ST/OBC (Non-Creamy Layer) & Minority Community Students are also being given.


    The payment for the above mentioned schemes are processed online through PFMS and scholarship / interest subsidy is released through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode.


    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Rajya Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK/RS-511


    

    
    (Release ID: 1563386) Visitor Counter : 1097
    
    
    
    
    

4.