      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      PM launches DD Arunprabha – a dedicated 24x7 Satellite channel for Arunachal Pradesh
      
      PM lays foundation stone of Film and Television Institute and several other projects at Arunachal Pradesh

      Posted On: 09 FEB 2019 3:28PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today launched DD Arunprabha at Arunachal Pradesh. He also laid foundation stone of Film and Television Institute (FTI) and several other projects in the state.


    Prime Minister said that in order to strengthen and develop the culture of the State, a dedicated 24x7 Satellite TV channel DD Arunprabha has been launched by the Government. He expressed hope that the channel will act as an ambassador of the culture of the state and will familiarize people across India with the beauty and the culture of the State.


    Talking about the Film and Television Institute to be developed in Jote, he said that it will not only will give new avenues and opportunities to the youngsters but will also be a boost for the expression of the culture of the State.


    Speaking on the occasion, Prime Minister recounted the impact these projects will have on the lives of people of Arunachal Pradesh. He said that for the development of New India, the development of North-East is essential. He mentioned about the benefits set to accrue to the state under UdanYojna, while also highlighting other initiatives being taken to boost infrastructure in the region. He also appreciated the impact of SaubhagyaYojna in ensuring electrical connectivity for almost all the people in the State. All these steps will further boost tourism in the region, he stated. He also highlighted the benefits of PM-KISAN set to accrue to the farmers of the country, including those of the State.


    Background


    DD Arunprabha is the 24 th satellite channel operated by Doordarshan. It is equipped with state of the art facilities, including a Digital Satellite News Gathering unit to provide live coverage from remote locations, for 24x7 telecast. The playout facility and the earth stations established at DDK Itanagar will ensure seamless transmission of DD Arunprabha.


    The channel will showcase the rich tradition and diversity of local culture. Not only will it help integrate North-East with the country, but will also bring alive the magnificence of North-East by airing content sensitive to the needs and aspirations of local population including news, travelogues, mythological shows, documentaries, magazines, tele-films, reality shows, daily shows etc.


    The permanent campus of Film and Television Institute will come up atJollang-Rakap (Jote), Papum Pare, Arunachal Pradesh. This is the third Film and Television Institute of Ministry of I&B, the first two being FTII Pune and SRFTI Kolkata. It is the first Film and Television Institute of entire North-East.


    It will provide a boost to the talented youngsters of the North-East in film and television sector. The project, to be constructed at around 20 km from Itanagar, has been approved for construction at a total estimated cost of Rs. 204.32 crore. To be executed by CPWD, it is expected that the project will be completed in 25 months’ time.


    It will have an integrated campus comprising of Administrative Block, Class Room Block, Class Room Theatre, Academic Staff Block, Library, Preview Theatre, Mini Theatre, Shooting Floor, Digital Block, Sound Studio, Canteen and Recreation, Residential Quarters, Boys Hostel, Girls Hostel, Transit Accommodation and Guest House with other supportive structures like Electrical Sub-station, Pump-room, Sump, Filtration Plant, Sewerage Treatment Plant etc.


    The campus will be constructed with an organic design philosophy, ensuring minimum disturbance to natural topography. National Building Code 2016 Norms, Accessible India Campaign Features and other statutory norms will be followed in construction. It will be a state of the art modern campus with several Green Features including Sewage Treatment Plant of 150 kiloletres per day capacity to ensure a zero discharge building, 300 KW solar panels, energy efficient air conditioning plants, street lighting with LED lamps, rain water harvesting, energy efficient light fixtures with sensors etc.


    ***


    AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563648) Visitor Counter : 913
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi