      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      PMAY (U) awards instituted for Implementation & Innovation’--to reward Top Performers in different categories & encourage others to compete
      
      Separate Competition among Municipal Corporations & Municipalities within ULBs.

      Posted On: 08 FEB 2019 1:24PM by PIB Delhi

    In a bid to recognize the outstanding performance and to promote a healthy competition by States/UTs, Urban Local Bodies, Beneficiaries and Housing Finance Corporations (under CLSS), Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has instituted the ‘PMAY (U) awards for Implementation and Innovation’ under the Mission . The overarching purpose of the PMAY (U) Awards is to identify and reward the “Top Performers” in different categories, to encourage others to compete and attain the goal of ‘Housing for All’ in a sustained manner.


    Out of 3 broad levels of awards, the first level is instituted for States/UTs and Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) for performance on key indicators of the Mission. There would be separate competition among Municipal Corporations and Municipalities within the ULBs. The awards will recognise and reward the selected beneficiaries from each State/UT under ‘Beneficiary-led Construction’ component for building their house in a most aesthetic and innovative manner. A few Special Category awards to give special recognition to States/ UTs for Innovative Technology in construction, Community Mobilisation, Slum Redevelopment, Policy initiatives, Project monitoring etc. have also been instituted.


    One of the major factors influencing the rank of State/UTs for the evaluation of PMAY (U) awards is their monthly incremental progress on vital parameters which will be given more weightage for the period Jan’2019 to May’2019. This provision has also been specially incorporated for giving a window of opportunity to slow progressing States/ UTs for becoming good performers, thereby giving them better chances of the award. T he ranking of States/UTs will be made public every month to create competitive environment among stakeholders. The awards are aimed at enthusing the States/UTs to perform better and make the dream of house for millions a reality, within the Mission period. The winners shall be awarded in a special national event to be held in New Delhi tentatively in the month of June 2019.


    During an event organised for celebrating the 3rd anniversary of the Urban Missions in July 2018, awards to the Primary Lending Institutions, Banks and Housing Finance Corporations for their remarkable performance under CLSS component of PMAY (U), i.e. the second level of awards has already been given by the Prime Minister. The PMAY (U) mission has achieved a significant milestone of approving 73 Lakh houses against a demand of about 1 Crore houses in urban areas. Out of these, around 39 Lakh houses are at various stages of construction and around 15 Lakh houses have already been completed.


    RJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563485) Visitor Counter : 901
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu