      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      MSME Ministry’s initiatives for promotion of Khadi
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2019 4:00PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterpriseshas taken various initiatives to promote Khadi through Khadi and Village Industries Commission(KVIC). Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Giriraj Singh gave details of such initiatives while replying to a question in Lok Sabha today. The d etails are as follows:


     1. One of the key interventions is the development and implementation of ‘Khadi Mark’. The Khadi Mark was launched by President of India in September 2013 subsequent to notification of the Khadi Certification Regulations 2013. The Khadi Mark not only guarantees the genuineness of Khadi products but also promotes Khadi as a brand that connotes social, cultural, and environmental values.

     2. KVIC engaged a fashion designer of national and international repute for designing Khadi products to make them more competitive and appealing in domestic as well as overseas markets.
     3. A MoU was signed between KVIC and Aditya Birla Fashion & Retail Ltd. (ABFRL), Raymond and Arvind Mills for sale of Khadi fabric in the country and abroad.
     4. MoUs were signed with institutions like Federation of Indian Export Organization (FIEO), World Trade Centre (WTC), Indian Trade Promotion Organization (ITPO), Trade Promotion Council of India, for invigorating business opportunities in overseas markets.
     5. KVIC has entered into an agreement with M/s. GLOBUS, a retail clothing stores chain for setting up of ‘Khadi Korner’, a shop in shop concept, initially in Globus Showroom at Noida, followed by Globus showrooms in Chennai and Ahmedabad.
     6. Launching of ‘franchise scheme’ to expand the sales distribution network.
     7. Tie up with e-Commerce platform for on-line marketing through e-Commerce companies like Paytm.
     8. Special efforts to attract youth by introducing attractive T-shirts, Khadi jeans, jackets, kurtis as well as launching a range of casual wear called ‘vicharvastra’ specially designed by RituBeri.
     9. Opening of sales outlets at domestic and international airports like Visakhapatnam, Lucknow, Ahmedabad and Varanasi.
    10. Opening Khadi Outlets in Post Offices.
    11. Tie up arrangements for bringing out innovative export quality product designs with NIFT
    12. Ensuring strong digital presence with a vision to reach out to the required target audience through online social media such as Face book, Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube, Instagram etc.
    13. Launched‘store app’ through mobile application to facilitate the customers to locate Khadi India sales outlet at various geographical locations to increase foot falls at various stores under KVIC
    14. Introduction of pre-paid Gift Voucher Scheme for corporate gifting including PSU and Government Departments.
    15. Participation in domestic international exhibitions at State and National levels wherein KVIs are allowed to participate and market their products. Assistance is also provided to Exporters participating in International Trade Fairs held in India like India International Trade Fair (IITF), New Delhi, where stall rentals are subsidized for the exporting institutions.
    16. KVIC has applied to register “Khadi” as a word mark and “Khadi India” as a Trade mark in 27 classes for various products among 45 classes listed out in the IPR Act at National Level as well as has filed an online application for registering “Khadi” as a trade mark under International bureau in European Union and other countries under 16 different classes.

    The Minister further said that in addition to the above, the Ministry has been implementing schemes for the holistic development and promotion of Khadi through KVIC, which include: i) Khadi Grant for strengthening infrastructure of existing Khadi Institutions, assistance for marketing and W orkshed Scheme for Khadi Artisans; ii) Market Promotion Development Assistance and iii) Khadi Reform and Development Programme.


    ***


    MM/KA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1563814) Visitor Counter : 460
    
    
    
    
    

16.