      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      India Networking Gala organized at 69th Berlin International Film Festival
      
      India invites the world to IFFI Golden Jubilee Celebrations
      
      India’s participation at Cannes Film Market 2019 and Strategic Positioning of IFFI at Cannes Film Festival also discussed
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2019 12:56PM by PIB Delhi


    The Indian Delegation hosted India Networking Event on the side-lines of its participation at the Berlin International Film Festival (Berlinale) 2019. The occasion saw a gathering of Prominent Film Festival Heads, International Film Associations, Film Agenciesand Renowned Production Housesinterested infostering collaborations with India.


    The focus of the discussion was on forging ties for co-production of films and developing partnerships for the Golden Jubilee Edition of IFFI to be held later this year. The participants were also apprised about policy initiatives of Government to ease filming in India through the web portal www.ffo.gov.in to act as a single point of contact for film shooting applications and efforts to curb film piracy through amendments to the Cinematograph Act.


    Earlier in the day, the Indian Delegation met Ms Maud Amson, Head of Sales & Operations, Marche Du Film, Cannes Film Festival regarding the Government of India’s participation at the Cannes Film Market 2019. The discussion involved positioningIFFI 2019 much more strategically at Cannes, given that the Festival is celebrating it's Golden Jubilee Edition this year.


    The Delegation also met with Heads of renowned Film Festivals &Commissions like Mr HouKeming, Chairperson of China International Children's Film Festival; Ms Anna Samartseva, Producer, ARS Videre Studio; Mr PanosKouanis, President and CEO of EKOME S.A. (National Centre of Audiovisual Media and Communication – supervised by the Greek Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Media) among others.Mr PanosKouanisexpressed that the Government of Greece would actively consider participating in the Golden Jubilee Edition IFFI. He also underlined that the participation would pave-forward for more proactive ties between the two nations.


    International Film Festivals and Commissions expressing their desire for possible collaborations with India & IFFI 2019 signifies the attractive growth opportunities for Media and Entertainment Industry in making Indiathe next destination for filming.


    ***


    AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563768) Visitor Counter : 506
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi