      Ministry of Home Affairs

      NDMA conducts training programme for CBRN emergencies at New Mangalore
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2019 6:06PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) is conducting a basic training programme at the New Mangalore Port Trust in Mangaluru . The five-day training programme which started from today, is aimed at enhancing the preparedness of Seaport Emergency Handlers (SEHs) to respond to CBRN emergencies at the seaports.


    This is the first in a series of such programmes that will be conducted at various seaports across the country to enable SEHs to respond suitably till the arrival of specialised response teams.CBRN emergencies pertain to threats emanating from the use of Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear material.


    The training programme is being conducted in collaboration with the Indian Ports Association (IPA), Institute of Nuclear Medicine & Allied Sciences (INMAS) and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). This training programme will improve the CBRN safety at our seaports by enabling the SEHs to handle any CBRN emergency.


    The programme consists of lectures as well as field training, including live demonstrations of detection and decontamination including use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Besides equipping the SEHs to handle CBRN emergencies, the training programme will also enable them to provide medical first aid and initial psycho-social support.


    Experts from stakeholder departments such as Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) and Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will train the participants.


    Around 50 participants representing various agencies responsible for operation and maintenance of the seaport will be trained on various aspects of CBRN emergencies. Another 150 working level staff will be sensitized on the subject in a half-day module.


    *******


    BB/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1563886) Visitor Counter : 358
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi