      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Use of Space Technology for Border Management
      Posted On: 12 FEB 2019 1:34PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Government has formed a Task Force for identifying areas for use of space technology in improving border management headed by Joint Secretary (Border Management) with members from Border Guarding Forces (BGFs) and Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO).


    The Task Force consulted all stake holders including BGFs, ISRO, National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS) and Ministry of Defence (MoD) before finalising the report.


    Details of the areas identified for use of space technology are as under:-


    (i) Island development and security


    (ii) Border Surveillance


    (iii) Communication and Navigation


    (iv) GIS and Operations Planning System


    (v) Border Infrastructure Monitoring


    For phase wise implementation of the report, a short, medium and long term plan has been prepared. Details are as under:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Term         Actions                                                                                                                                                                                                              Amount     Timeline   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Short Term   Establishment of network infrastructure and computing requirements for all CAPFs, hiring of transponders for satellite communication and procurement of satellite data for immediate operational use of the forces.  130 Crore  One year   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
               * Development of infrastructure and storage capacity for MHA, capacity building of CAPFs.                                                                                                                                                
Medium Term    * Launch of one satellite for exclusive use of MHA by ISRO and establishment of ground segment to receive inputs from satellite.                                                                                   80 Crore   Three years
               * Operationalization of COPS/ BOPS Software developed jointly by ISRO/ CAPFs.                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Long Term    Launch of additional satellites as per need, up gradation of ground segment, full operationlisation of COPS/BOPS software, Capacity building of CAPFs for using space technology.                                    70 Crore   Five Years 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        

    This project will strengthen island and border security by providing observation, communication and navigation capability to border guarding and internal security forces in remote areas. It will also help Ministry of Home Affairs in planning and monitoring of development of border and island infrastructure.


    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    BB/NK/PK/1554


    

    
    (Release ID: 1563969) Visitor Counter : 1262
    
    
    
    
    

        
        
        
        
  *