      AYUSH

      Two day Conference on Unani Medicine for Public Health inaugurated at New Delhi
      
      Unani Medicine capable to offer solution to various current health challenges of the nation: Dr. Najma Heptulla

      Posted On: 11 FEB 2019 5:36PM by PIB Delhi

    “Unani Medicine can offer the right solution for many health challenges we are facing due to lack of treatment of many diseases and paucity of resources”, said Dr. Najma Heptulla, Governor of Manipur, inaugurating the two-day National Conference on Unani Medicine organized by the Central Council for Research in Unani Medicine (CCRUM) as a part of 3 rd Unani Day celebration here in New Delhi. Dr. Heptulla urged the Unani fraternity to progress and evolve with the changing times, adapt to new techniques of health research and contribute new approaches to health management. She informed that Manipur has the treasure of over 500 medicinal plants and invited the medical scientists to visit the state for research.


    Addressing the conference themed on ‘Unani Medicine for Public Health’, Minister of State (IC) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik enlightened the audience on concrete steps taken by the Ministry of AYUSH to promote Unani Medicine in national public healthcare system through regulation of research and integration of quality products, practices, and practitioners into the health system. ‘Our efforts are focused to tap the real potential of AYUSH systems in imparting preventive, promotive and holistic healthcare to the people’, he added. Paying tributes to Hakim Ajmal Khan, whose birth anniversary is celebrated as Unani Day on 11 th February every year, He attributed him as humane, versatile genius, intensely committed, articulate and a remarkable combination of honesty, high idealism and professional skill.


    Highlighting the strengths of Unani Medicine and other AYUSH systems in his address, Union Minister for Minority Affairs Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said that the AYUSH systems are golden key to health and wellbeing and India is the strongest hub of Traditional Medicine which is one of the reasons medical tourism is flourishing in the country. He stressed on Integration of Unani Medicine in Mainstream Healthcare in line with the government policies and initiatives for mainstreaming of AYUSH in national healthcare.


    Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Jitendra Singh, Minister of State (IC), Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region, elaborated the present day threats to public health and how capable Unani Medicine has been in aptly maintaining public health. He also expressed his hope that Unani Medicine and other AYUSH systems will come forth to combat the current public health issues.


    Speaking on the occasion, Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, Secretary to the Ministry of AYUSH urged to adapt Information Technology and informed about the steps taken by the Ministry of AYUSH in the form of National AYUSH Morbidity and Standardized Terminologies Electronic Portal (NAMASTE - PORTAL), initiative for incorporation of AYUSH Morbidity Codes in WHO – ICD 11, AYUSH Grid, use of Social Media and A-HMIS. He made announcement for allotment of land and allocation of Rs. 250 crore for National Institute of Unani Medicine to be setup in Ghaziabad.


    On this occasion, AYUSH Awards for Unani Medicine were conferred on various Unani scientists and experts in recognition of their contributions for research, teaching and practice of Unani Medicine. The Best Research Paper Awards were presented to Dr. Arshiya Sultana, Associate Professor, National Institute of Unani Medicine, Bangalore for Clinical Research and Dr. Noman Anwar, Research Officer (Unani), Regional Research Institute of Unani Medicine, Chennai for Drug Research in Unani Medicine. The awards comprised a citation, a shawl and a cash award of Rs 50,000 each. The Young Scientist Awards were conferred on Dr. Jamal Akhtar, Research Officer (Unani) Scientist – III, CCRUM for Clinical Research and Dr. Nasreen Jahan, Associate Professor, National Institute of Unani Medicine, Bangalore for Drug Research in Unani Medicine. The awards comprised a citation, a shawl and a cash award of Rs 100,000 each. The Best Teacher Awards were presented to Prof. Tanzeel Ahmad, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh for Clinical Research, Prof. Mohd Aslam, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi for Drug Research and Prof. Khalid Zaman Khan, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh for Literary Research in Unani Medicine. The awards comprised a citation, a shawl and a cash award of Rs 200,000 each. The Lifetime Achievement Awards were conferred on Prof. Naeem Ahmad Khan, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh and Prof. M A Jafri, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi for Best Academician and Best Researcher in Unani Medicine respectively. The awards comprised a citation, a shawl and a cash award of Rs 200,000 each.


    The dignitaries released the Conference Souvenir and four other publications brought out by the CCRUM.


    The conference would conclude on 12 th February and would highlight the important role played by Unani Medicine in public health especially in combating NCDs, lifestyle disorders and various chronic diseases by providing cost effective treatment and quality products for patient healthcare. The conference will have dedicated sessions on Integration of Unani Medicine in Healthcare Delivery System, Management of Chronic Diseases, Public Health Programs, Unani Medicine for Geriatric Care and Mother and Child Healthcare, Quality Control in Traditional Medicine, Emerging Research Trends in Unani Medicine, and Way Forward for Globalization of Unani Medicine. The conference will also have a panel discussion on Challenges in Market Development for Unani Medicine – An Interface between Academia, Industry and Researchers. About 1300 delegates, resource persons, academicians, researchers and industry representatives are participating in the conference.


    ***************


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563938) Visitor Counter : 326
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi