      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Cases of Sexual Harassment including Sexual Harassment at Workplace
      Posted On: 08 FEB 2019 6:06PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) has started collecting data regarding sexual harassment at workplace under the category of insult to the modesty of women (section 509 of IPC) at office premises since 2014. A total number of 57, 119 and 142 cases were registered during 2014, 2015 and 2016 respectively under this.


    In so far as the complaints registered with the National Commission for Women (NCW) are concerned, there is an increase in complaints registered under category ‘Sexual Harassment includes Sexual harassment at Workplace’. The data indicating number of such complaints registered during the last three years is given below:

                              
Year          2016  2017  2018
                              
                              
                              
No. of cases  539   570   965 
                              
                              

    


    During the current calendar year, the NCW has started maintaining data under specific category of complaints of ‘Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace’. The data indicating number of such cases registered during January, 2019 is given below:

                              
Category      Registered cases
                              
                              
                              
No. of cases  29              
                              
                              

    


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India has developed an online complaint management system titled Sexual Harassment electronic–Box (SHe-Box) for registering complaints related to sexual harassment at workplace by women, including government and private employees. So far, 423 complaints have been registered on the She-Box portal. Out of which, 114 cases have been disposed off.


    The setting up of Internal Committee in each and every Government department/institution/autonomous body is mandated as per the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.


    Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India (ASSOCHAM), Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Chamber of Commerce & Industry (CCI), and National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM) have been requested by Ministry of Women and Child Development, GOI to ensure effective implementation of the Act amongst their members in private sectors.


    All State Governments and UT Administrations have also been requested to advise the Secretary Industries/Commerce to organize similar workshops and awareness programmes in each and every industry, business house, private sector entity of the States/UTs.


    The above Information was given by Minister of State for Women and Child Development, DR. VIRENDRA KUMAR in reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, today.


    *****


    NB/UD


    

    
    (Release ID: 1563588) Visitor Counter : 675