      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      India Pavilion inaugurated at the 69th Berlin International Film Festival
      
      EFM officials express keenness to work with India & collaborate towards IFFI 2019
      Posted On: 08 FEB 2019 11:10AM by PIB Delhi


    The India Pavilion at the Berlin International Film Festival (Berlinale) 2019 was inaugurated by Mr Matthijis Wouter Knol, Director European Film Market (EFM); Mrs Paramita Tripathi, Deputy Chief of Mission, Embassy of India in Berlin and Mr Peter Domsch, Head of Sales & Technical Department, EFM were also present on the occasion. The poster of IFFI 2019 was also inaugurated by the dignitaries during the inaugural ceremony.


    Members of the Indian delegation including Addl. DG, Directorate of Film Festivals, Shri Chaitanya Prasad and Director, Films, Ministry of I&B Shri GC Aron, apprised the EFM representatives about the significance of Golden Jubilee celebration of IFFI, the recent policy initiatives of Government to ensure ease of filming in India, setting up of Film Facilitation Office, launch of the Web portal www.ffo.gov.in for online application for film shooting at a single point and efforts of Government through amendment to the Cinematograph Act to tackle film piracy.


    Speaking on the occasion, Mr Knol, Director, EFM said that the stakeholders of EFM would actively consider participating in the Golden Jubilee year of IFFI. He also underlined that the participation would pave a way forward for a more proactive interaction between the Indian stakeholders & the Industry with the organizers of Berlinale in future.


    The Deputy Chief of Mission, Mrs Tripathi in her remarks expressed that the Indian Mission in Berlin would undertake constant engagement in future with Indian & German stakeholders at the European Film Market to promote a viable exchange in all areas related to participation in IFFI 2019 and the Berlin Film Festival along with working towards widening prospects of shooting of films in India.


    Earlier in the day, prior to inaugural, there was a brief discussion between the Indian delegation & Mr Carlo Chatrian, Festival Director Designate, Berlin Film Festival, regarding future collaborations of participating in IFFI Goa 2019. He expressed hope that there will be more active participation from the Indian Government and other stakeholders in the future editions of Berlinale.


    Background


    Ministry of I&B, in collaboration with Confederation of Indian Industry, is participating in the Berlin International Film Festival being held from 7 th – 17 th February, 2019 at Berlin, Germany. An India Pavilion is being set-up at the Festival to act as a platform to popularize Indian Cinema in overseas market and facilitate new business opportunities.


    The Indian Delegation at Berlinale 2019 aims to promote Indian films across linguistic cultural and regional diversity so as to forge international partnerships in the realms of distribution, production, filming in India, script development and technology, in order to accelerate the growth of film sector in India.


    The Delegation will also promote the Golden Jubilee edition of International Film Festival of India (IFFI) along with popularizing the steps taken to ease shooting films in India through Film Facilitation Office that facilitates Single Window Clearance for film-makers and provides the platform for ‘film tourism’ in India. To take advantage of availability of technicians and skilled professionals, India will be showcased as a post-production hub to promote collaborations for films with international production houses.


    The Indian Delegation will meet officials from countries including Israel, New Zealand, France, Italy, China, Japan, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, US, Greece and UK. The delegation will also meet with officials from Locarno Film Festival, EFM Director, Venice International Film Festival, New Zealand Film Commission, Cannes Film Festival, Edinburgh International Film Festival, and China Children's Film Association, among others.


    ***


    AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563458) Visitor Counter : 765
    
    
      Read this release in: Malayalam , Hindi , Marathi , Urdu