      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Labour Minister Inaugurates ILO Centenary Celebrations in India
      
      National Stakeholder Consultation on the Future of Work Held
      
      Rs. 3648 Crore Spent Under PMRPY Benefiting About 1.5 Crore Workers: Shri Gangwar
      Posted On: 08 FEB 2019 4:08PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employment Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar today inaugurated the International Labour Organization (ILO) centenary celebrations in India at V.V. Giri National Labour Institute, Noida today.


    At National Stakeholder consultation on the Future of Work, Shri Gangwar greeted the representatives of Trade Unions, Employer organizations and Workers at the beginning of the centenary celebration of ILO in the country. Shri Gangwar said that ILO is a unique agency of the United Nations Organization (UNO) which is tripartite in nature and works on the principal of collaboration among government, employers and workers. He said that ILO was established in 1919, and India being its founding member, has always played active role in every field of the organization. He added that India has ratified 47 out of 189 ILO conventions during the century. Out of eight core conventions we have ratified six and two conventions (C-138 and C-182), which were related to child labour have been ratified by the present government.


    Shri Gangwar further added that Government of India is sincerely working for the welfare and social security of workers. Around one crore 50 lakh employees have been benefitted from Pradhanmantri Rozgar Protsahan Yojna (PMRPY) and we have spent around Rs. 3648 crore till now. Recently in the present Interim Budget, the government has brought a Mega Pension Scheme for the workers of unorganized sector like Rickshaw pullers, small shopkeepers, agricultural and rural labourers. Around 3 crore unorganized sector workers are now being benefitted from Pradhanmantri Jeevan Jyoti Beema Yojna (PMJJBY) and Pradhanmantri Suraksha Beema Yojna (PMSBY), which is free of cost for the workers. He said that in current scenario of new technology, automation and artificial intelligence, the fear of loss of jobs has been felt. Global Commission of Future of Work has studied all these aspects and gives useful recommendations.


    Future of Work report was discussed by all the stakeholders (Trade Unions, Employers representative and Government representative) in special context of our country. Four publications of V.V. Giri National Labour Institute were also released during the function. The panel discussion was chaired by Ms. Dagmar Walter, Director, ILO, DWT for South Asia and Country Office for India.


    Ms. Sibani Swain, Additional Secretary and Financial Adviser, Ministry of Labour and Employment and Ms. Anuradha Prasad, Additional Secretary of the Ministry also participated in the discussions. Dr. A. Didar Singh, Member, Global Commission of the Future of Work gave a presentation of the ILO Global Commission on the Future of Work. Dr. H. Srinivas, Director General, VVGNLI welcomed the guest and presented introduction to the consultation.


    *****


    RCJ/SKP/FH/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563540) Visitor Counter : 602
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi