      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Unprecedented reforms in last five years in the energy sector have accelerated the work in delivering energy justice to the poorest of the poor, says Shri Dharmendra Pradhan
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2019 12:45PM by PIB Delhi


    The 3-day India’s flagship hydrocarbon Conference and Exhibition- PETROTECH-2019 was formally inaugurated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narender Modi today at India Expo Mart, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh. The Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Shri Yogi Adityanath, the Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas & Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Union Minister of State (I/C) for Culture Shri Mahesh Sharma, a large number of ministers from abroad and other eminent delegates were present on the occasion.


    On this occasion, the lifetime achievement international award was presented by the Prime Minister to Dr Sultan Al Ahmed Jaber, Minister of State of UAE and CEO, ADNOC.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas & Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri Dharmendra Pradhan said Energy occupies a very important place in Prime Minister’s vision for India. India has seen unprecedented reforms in the last five years in the energy sector. He said that these reforms have accelerated our work in delivering energy justice to the poorest of the poor by adopting the four pillars visualized by Prime Minister Modi- Energy access, Energy efficiency, Energy sustainability and Energy security as our guiding principles.


    Shri Pradhan said the world is seeing a dramatic shift in the sources of energy supply and consumption. There has been a big shift in energy consumption from OECD countries to developing Asia. Electric vehicles will also change the consumption patterns. US has become the world’s largest oil and gas producer after the shale revolution and is challenging the traditional oil dynamics. Affordable Solar PV is taking increasing share in the supply mix, helping to reduce carbon footprints.


      The Minister said that today, India’s voice as a large, reliable energy consuming nation is heard with respect. We have been able to convince the oil suppliers about India’s as well as all consuming nations justified stand for a responsible and reasonable pricing. We have been able to simplify and reform our oil and gas sector policies and guidelines to attract new investors and inject new technologies. Schemes like Ujjwala and expansion of CGD have proved to be game-changer in drastically ramping up access to clean cooking fuel to millions of common people. Such initiatives are not only leading to energy justice, as envisaged by Hon’ble PM, but also business opportunities and addressing climate change as well as local pollution concerns.


      YB/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1563767) Visitor Counter : 493
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi