      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Cleaning of River Ganga
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2019 4:53PM by PIB Delhi


    Cleaning of river is a continuous process and the Government of India is supplementing the efforts of the State Governments in addressing the challenges of pollution of river Ganga (including its tributaries and Yamuna) by providing financial and technical assistance.


    Under Namami Gange Programme, variety of coordinated activities meant for cleaning of river Ganga have been taken up. So far, a total of 261 projects have been sanctioned in sectors like sewerage infrastructures, Industrial pollution abatement, construction of ghats & crematoria development, river front development, afforestation & biodiversity conservation, bioremediation, rural sanitation, research & development, communication and public outreach programme etc. at an estimated cost of Rs. 25,563.48 crore. Out of these 76 projects have been completed and rest of the projects are at various stages of implementation.


    The infrastructure projects are sanctioned with a long term Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of 15 years. Most of the projects for which work started in 2014 are completed and now in Operation and Maintenance stage. Efforts are being made to complete the short term and medium term activities by 2020.


    Specific measures have been taken for addressing waste flowing from toilets into the river. In the State of Uttar Pradesh, under Namami Gange Programme, National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) has released an amount of Rs.388.35 crore to Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation for construction of Independent Household Latrines (IHHLs) and 1604 Ganga bank villages have been declared Open Defecation Free (ODF) with construction of 388340 IHHLs in 1011 Gram Pancahayats in 25 Ganga bank districts. Further, NMCG has released an amount of Rs.20.00 crore to Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation for implementation of Liquid Waste Management in the Ganga bank villages in Uttar Pradesh.


    This information was given by Union Minister of State for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Dr. Satya Pal Singh in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    NP/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563853) Visitor Counter : 765