      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Shri Nitin Gadkari visited Kumbh at Prayagraj, said Ganga will be completely clean by March next year
      
      He inaugurated the second phase of River Information System on Ganga, for Farakkato Patna section of the river

      Posted On: 08 FEB 2019 7:20PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways, Shipping and Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Shri Nitin Gadkari said at Prayagraj Kumbh today that water of river Ganga will be completely clean by March next year. Talking to media persons this at Kumbh afternoon, he said the flow of the river will also be undisrupted. He said the quality of water of river Ganga at Sangam at this Kumbh is much better in the comparison to previous years and this is the result of completion of only 30 percent projects being implemented by the Government under Namami Gange programme for rejuvenation of the Ganga. He said all projects being implemented for cleanliness of river Ganga and its tributaries will be completed by next March. Shri Gadkari also said that several projects are also being implemented for cleaning and rejuvenation of Yamuna and other tributaries of Ganga.


    Shri Gadkari said waterways are also being developed between Varanasi and Prayagraj and dredging of river Ganga is being conducted to maintain minimum one meter draft for smooth waterways navigation. He said two dredgers have been deployed for the same.


    Earlier Shri Gadkari inaugurated the second phase of River Information System on River Ganga, for the Farakka to Patna section of the river at a cost of Rs 16 crore under Jal Marg Vikas Project. Five base stations have been constructed at Manihari, Bhagalpur, Munger, Barh and Haldiah, while the Control Station has been constructed at Patna.


    Shri Gadkari also inaugurated five floating jetties on river Yamuna at Prayagraj. He said 80 lakhs tonnes of goods have been transported through the Varanasi Haldia waterways last year and very this will go upto 280 lakh tonnes. He said waterways not only bring down the cost of logistics of transportation but are also environment friendly. Shri Gadkari suggested to the Uttar Pradesh government to introduce five star cruises between Varanasi to Allahabad to promote tourism. The Minister also offered concessions and supports to develop manufacturing units of fibre boats with modern technology replacing country boats . This, he said, would help generate employment .


    Shri Gadkari also announced that waterways between Prayagraj to Delhi on river Yamuna will be developed. He said DPR for the same has been prepared. Addressing the function he said aeroboat with modern technology is being brought from Russia and it will be introduced by first week of next month. He said this aero boat has a capacity of 14 passengers and speed will be 80 km per hour


    Shri Gadkari also visited an exhibition on Ganga cleaning set up by the Namami Gange Mission at Kumbh. There are 42 partners of NMGC working together for clean river Ganga . The exhibition has 42 display stalls. Shri Gadkari also took a holy dip at Sangam the confluence of rivers Ganga, Yamuna and mythical Saraswati. Before leaving for Ayodhya he also visited the camp of Acharya Mahamandaleshwar of Juna Akha Swami Awadeshanand.


    ******


    NP/SKP/rv


    

    
    (Release ID: 1563611) Visitor Counter : 326