      Ministry of Education

      Various schemes have been launched to improve Research Ecosystem in the country
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2019 6:29PM by PIB Delhi


    The Government has launched various schemes to improve the research ecosystem of India’s higher educational institutions and to attract and retain young researchers, which are as follows:


     1. Prime Minister’s Research Fellowship: To attract the bright and meritorious students into research within the country, attractive fellowship is given. Selected students are given fellowship for 5 years - Rs.70,000/- per month for the first two years, Rs. 75,000/- per month in the third year and Rs.80,000 per month in 4th and 5th year with an annual research grant of Rs. 2 lakh.

     1. Setting up of Research Parks: The Government has approved setting up of Research Parks at IIT Kharagpur, IIT Bombay, IIT Delhi, IIT Guwahati, IIT Kanpur, IIT Hyderabad, IIT Gandhinagar and IISc Banglore.
     2. Impacting research Innovation and Technology (IMPRINT): It provides solutions to the most relevant engineering challenges and translating knowledge into viable technology (products or processes) in ten selected technology domains.
     3. Uchhatar Avishkar Yojana (UAY): It aims to promote innovation of a higher order that directly impacts the needs of the Industry and thereby improves the competitive edge of Indian manufacturing.
     4. Smart India Hackathons are being organized on yearly basis since 2017 to find out digital solutions to various problems faced by the people and gives hands on working and research opportunity for engineering students.
     5. Institution’s Innovation Council (IIC) established in 960 Higher Educational Institutions (HEIs) for promoting innovation ecosystem within their campuses.
     6. A Trainee Teacher Scheme had been initiated in NITs with the objective to attract, motivate and sponsor best graduate engineers for part time M.Tech and Ph.D. programmes.
     7. Colleges with Potential for Excellence (CPE), University with Potential for Excellence(UPE), Centre with Potential for Excellence in Particular Areas(CPEPA), Special Assistance Programme (SAP), Major Research Project (MRP), BSR Fellowships, Dr. D.S. Kothari Post Doctoral Fellowship Scheme, MID Career Award to Faculty members, UGC – BSR Faculty Fellowship (research after retirement), Start – up Grant (Research grant for newly recruited teachers), Research Scientist, Research Award, Emeritus Fellowship, Dr. S. Radhakrishnan Post-Doctoral Fellowship in Humanities, Post-Doctoral Fellowship for SC/ST, Post- Doctoral Fellowship for Women, Junior Research Fellowship (for Ph.D.).

    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/LS-1235

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563916) Visitor Counter : 743
    
    
    
    
    

7.