      Ministry of Defence

      Passing Out Parade – CG Law and OPS Course 67th Batch
      Posted On: 08 FEB 2019 8:07PM by PIB Delhi


    56 Assistant Commandants of the 67 th Batch passed out of the portals of Indian Coast Guard Training Centre, Kochi on successful completion of CG Law and Operations Course today. On this occasion, an impressive Passing Out Parade (POP) was held at Indian Coast Guard District Headquarters No. 4, Kochi. POP marked the successful culmination of the Technical Courses for the trainee officers. During the 10 weeks CG Law and Operations Course, the officers were imparted instructions on Coast Guard specific subjects such as Maritime Law, Search and Rescue, Fisheries Monitoring & Control, Prevention and Control of Marine Pollution and other subjects related to the CG Charter of Duties. The training at CGTC (K) has been conducted with due impetus to build up professional calibre, practical broad base knowledge and critical thinking skills in the Officer trainees which are the key requisites for manning state of art platforms of Indian Coast Guard, handling critical & dynamic situations at sea, besides also for grooming them for a career with the Indian Coast Guard.


    The Passing Out Parade was reviewed by Inspector General RajanBargotra, PTM, TM, Commander Coast Guard Region (North East). During the ceremonial review, the Flag Officer awarded Sword of Honour and Book prizes to the meritorious trainee officers. Assistant Commandant AS Pawar (1558-P) was awarded 1st prize for scoring highest marks in the 67th batch CG Law and Ops Course. The coveted “Director General Sword of Honour” for the 66th Batch was awarded to Assistant Commandant Sahil Chopra (1497-C) for standing first in overall order of merit. Speaking on the occasion, Inspector General RajanBargotra advised the trainees to always put Nation and the Service before everything else as the Nation and its Citizens, as a whole, have reposed tremendous faith in the armed forces. He exhorted the to imbibe right attitude, professionalism and moral probity. He also appraised the trainee Officers that during Service, they would be required to take tough decisions under most challenging circumstances and demanding working environment wherein they will be tested for leadership qualities and professionalism. IG Bargotra also congratulated the Officers and Staff of CGTC for successful conduct of the Course through high-quality and standardised training and for the parade.


    POP was witnessed by a large number of senior Coast Guard and Naval Officers as well as civil dignitaries.


    Nampi/Rajib


    

    
    (Release ID: 1563623) Visitor Counter : 288