      Ministry of Textiles

      Surging Silk, Mega Event Held in New Delhi
      
      Buniyaad Reeling Machines Distributed
      
      Mobile-App e-Cocoon Launched
      Posted On: 10 FEB 2019 1:06PM by PIB Delhi


    Buniyad Reeling machines being distributed at the mega silk event in New Delhi


    BuniyaadTasar Silk Reeling Machines were distributed to women reelers from tribal areas at a function organised by the Ministry of Textiles and Central Silk Board in New Delhi last evening. The distribution of the machine is part of total eradication of the age old practice of thigh reeling and to ensure rightful earning to the poor rural and tribal woman reelers in Tasar silk sector. The machine developed by Central Silk Technological Research Institute in association with an entrepreneur from Champa in Chhattisgarh will improve the quality and productivity of Tasar silk yarn and reduce the drudgery of women.It is planned to eradicate thigh reeling and replace it with Buniyaad reeling machine by end of March 2020.


    Woman reelers using the traditional method earn approximately Rs.125/- per day while a Tasarreeler using Buniyaad machine can earn Rs.350/- per day. The machine is priced at Rs.8,475/- per unit excluding taxes and transportation charges.


    During the event, best achievers of silk industry across various segments of sericulture were honoured. Awards were also given to the best performing states.A mobile application e-cocoon was launched for quality certification in silkworm seed sector.A compendium on Indian silk industry and state sericulture profile was also released on the occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, the Union Minister of External Affairs, Smt. SushmaSwarajassured the Textiles ministry to provide all support for promoting global trade of silk.She said that silk is a strong commodity and there is a huge demand for it in the international market.Talking about the popularity of Indian silk saree, Smt. Swaraj said her counterparts during the United Nations General Assembly meetings, often ask about the wide variety of colour, pattern and different designs of these fabrics.Smt. Swarajsaid that the efforts of Textiles Minister to eradicate thigh reeling in Tasar sector with Buniyad machines clearly demonstrates her concern for the women folk and will certainly help improve the socio-economic conditions of tribal families engaged in the production of silk. The External Affairs Minister urged theTextiles Ministry to strive for eliminating the practice of thigh reeling this year by distributing these equipment.


    Union Minister of Textiles Minister SmritiZubinIraniin her address said that silk production has increased by 41 per cent since 2013-14. The Textiles Minister said the Buniyadreeling machine will not only rid the woman reelers of the painful practice of thigh reeling but also enhance their income and help them live a dignified life. SmritiZubinIrani said that the mobile app e-cocoon will help quality certification in silk worm sector. She informed that t he mobile application will be used by the Seed Analysts and Seed Officers nominated under Central Seed Act for system and product certification through real time reporting. Besides covering a large number of stake holders – registered seed producers (RSP) and Registered ChawkieRearers(RCR), the essentially required systems with the RSP, RCR and silkworm eggsand the silkworm reared worms will be effectively monitored.


    India is the second largest producer of silk after China and the largest consumer of silk. India's silk production capacity is expected to reach about 38,500 tonnes by 2020 from the current level of 32,000 tonnes.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563700) Visitor Counter : 1394
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi