      Ministry of Education

      Action against fake universities
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2019 6:43PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Government as well as the University Grants Commission (UGC) has taken the following action against fake Universities running without recognition:

     1. UGC has issued Show Cause / Warning Notices to fake Universities cautioned that running of Undergraduate and Postgraduate degree courses and giving misleading advertisements shall attract severe action under the provisions of appropriate laws including the UGC Act and the Indian Penal Code, etc.
     2. Letters have been sent to the State/UT Principal Secretaries/Education Secretaries for taking appropriate action against the fake Universities located in their jurisdiction.
     3. UGC has lodged FIRs in the respective Police stations against Indian Institute of Planning and Management (IIPM), New Delhi and Bio-Chemic Education Grant Commission, Nadia, West Bengal.

    Apart from the above, UGC has taken the following steps to spread awareness among the general public, students & parents from the fake Universities:

     1. UGC has published the list of fake Universities on its website i.e. www.ugc.ac.in .
     2. UGC has also issued public notice against the unrecognized status of Indian Institute of Planning and Management (IIPM), New Delhi and illegal status of Bio-Chemic Education Grant Commission, Nadia, West Bengal.
     3. At the beginning of every academic session, UGC issues Press Release and Public Notice regarding State-wise list of fake Universities in the country in national dailies and newspapers in Hindi and English to warn the aspiring students, guardians and the public at large not to take admission in the courses run by the self-styled, unauthorized fake Universities/Institutions of higher education functioning in different parts of the country.

    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Satya Pal Singh today in a written reply to a Rajya Sabha question.


    *****


    NB/AKJ/AK/RS-514

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563389) Visitor Counter : 708
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

3.