      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Dealer Owned Dealer Operated model for setting up CNG stations by private players launched by Shri Dharmendra Pradhan
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2019 1:13PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas & Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri Dharmendra Pradhan today launched the Dealer Owned Dealer Operated (DODO) model for setting up CNG stations. He released the general guidelines for the schemes, under which the entire earmarked dealer plot shall be developed exclusively for setting up of CNG station and allied commercial activities at the discretion of CGD activities. Under the scheme, 87 Geographical areas serviced by 23 entities authorized will be covered.


    More than 1500 CNG stations are presently operational in the country, catering to the demands of over 33 lakh CNG vehicles.Under the 9 th round of CGD bidding, more than 4600 new CNG stations are expected across India in next 8 years. The ongoing 10 th round of CGD bidding envisages to cover 50 GAs, covering 124 districts spread over 14 states, accounting for 24% of India’s area and 18% of its population. After 10 th bidding round, 53% of the country’s area and 70% of its population will have access to CGD networks. As more and more CNG stations come up, more than 10% CNG stations may be based on DODO model.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Pradhan said that the country is moving towards the gas economy, as this fuel is cheaper and less polluting. The PNGRB has undertaken unprecedented expansion of CGD network, and this will lead to laying of more gas pipelines, increased production and availability of the gas, and also last mile connectivity of the infrastructure to provide CNG and PNG to the consumers. He called upon the investors and private players to participate in the growth of gas based economy by using the opportunity provided through DODO.


    ********


    YB/SK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1563776) Visitor Counter : 347
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi