      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Development of Infrastructure for promotion of sports
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2019 3:15PM by PIB Delhi


    For the development of sports infrastructure in the country including rural areas, Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports was implementing the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Abhiyan (RGKA), the Urban Sports Infrastructure Scheme (USIS) during the year 2015-16. The Khelo India Scheme has been implemented by this Ministry since 2016-17. However, no State-wise fund allocation is made under the Schemes as the projects are demand driven / need based. Further a special Package for J&K of Rs.200 crore has been implemented by the Ministry under Prime Minister’s Development Package (PMDP). One of the purposes of the package is enhancement of sports infrastructure in Jammu & Kashmir.


    The Ministry is regularly interacting with the corporate entities both in public sector and private sector for making contribution to the National Sports Development Fund (NSDF) with the objective of development and maintenance of sports infrastructure.


    Sports Authority of India (SAI), an autonomous organization under the aegis of the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports, is implementing a number of sports promotional schemes across the country to identify talented sports persons in the age group of 8-25 years and nurture them to excel at national and international competitions. The sports persons identified under SAI Sports Promotional Schemes are provided with training facilities in the form of expert sports coaches, requisite playing facilities, boarding & lodging, sports kit, competition exposure, educational expenses, medical/insurance and stipend as per the approved norms.


    The scheme of Assistance to National Sports Federations (NSFs) implemented by the Ministry provides for financial assistance to NSFs for various supports to athletes including organizing coaching camps, engagement of foreign coaches, procurement of sports equipments etc. Under NSDF, financial assistance is given to the outstanding / elite sports persons for procurement of equipments of their choice and their customised training in India and abroad.


    Assessment of deficiencies in sports infrastructure is a continuous process and accordingly, SAI makes assessment of infrastructure required at its different centres and projects the requirements to this Ministry for financial assistance. In addition, State Governments also, after assessing the critical gaps in the sports infrastructure facilities, project their requirements. This Ministry after due assessments of need, technical feasibility and budget availability in order to optimize the benefits for the entire country, sanction financial assistance for Creation/Upgradation of Sports Infrastructure to SAI or other eligible entities.


    This information was given by Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Youth Affairs and Sports Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore (Retd.) in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    YKB/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563801) Visitor Counter : 454