      Vice President's Secretariat

      Raise the level of debate and see that the Parliament sets new standards in public life as a real tribute to Shri Atal ji: Vice President
      
      Atal ji was a visionary leader who ushered in a ‘connectivity’ revolution in the country
      
      He was a great administrator, great politician, great human being, great orator, great Parliamentarian and a great ideal role model;
      
      Addresses at a function to unveil Portrait of Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee

      Posted On: 12 FEB 2019 1:30PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has urged the MPs to raise the level of debate and see that the Parliament sets new standards in public life as a real tribute to former Prime Minister, Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee.


    Speaking at a function organized to unveil the Portrait of former Prime Minister, Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee by the President of India, in the Central Hall of the Parliament today, the Vice President said that Atal ji strengthened the democratic roots through his insightful interventions and exemplary demeanour in Parliament.


    Paying glowing tributes to the former Prime Minister, he said: “Atal ji exemplified what the strengthening of democracy meant through his ability to make a coalition government work. He demonstrated as to how democracy can be deepened through good governance, he added.


    Describing the former Prime Minister as a visionary leader who ushered in a ‘connectivity’ revolution in the country, he said that Atalji gave an unprecedented fillip to building of national highways, rural roads, air travel infrastructure and massive expansion of the telecom sector. “For him connectivity was the key enabler of economic development and national growth”, the Vice President added.


    Shri Naidu said that Atal ji had an uncanny ability to connect with people from all walks of life and with political parties of different ideological moorings. Atal Ji had virtually no enemies and was rightly called as Ajatshatru, he said. He was a great administrator, great politician, great human being, great orator, great Parliamentarian and a great ideal role model, Shri Naidu added.


    He said that Atal Ji was one of the tallest leaders of contemporary India, who had left an impressive lasting legacy that “could inspire all of us to shape the India we all are dreaming of”.


    The Vice President said “ be tolerant to the others view, be tolerant to the mandate of the people . To collectively move towards that India we all want, would be a fitting homage to Atal Ji”, he added.


    Following is the text of Vice President’s address :


    “ I am happy to be with all of you this morning for this ceremony of unveiling the portrait of Bharat Ratna Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ji


    Bharat Ratna Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee is one of the tallest leaders of contemporary India who has left behind him an impressive, lasting legacy that could inspire all of us to shape the India we all are dreaming of.


    Atal Ji, as he was fondly known, was a visionary leader who ushered in a ‘connectivity’ revolution in the country.


    Atal ji was a great administrator, great politician, great human being, great orator, great Parliamentarian and a great ideal role model.


    He gave an unprecedented fillip to building of national highways, rural roads, air travel infrastructure and massive expansion of telecom sector. For him, connectivity was the key enabler of economic development and national growth. He will be remembered for ever for his contribution to the extraordinary connectivity revolution.


    He had an uncanny ability to connect with people from all walks of life and with political parties of different ideological moorings. Atal Ji had virtually no enemies and was rightly called as Ajatshatru.


    Atal Ji was a staunch nationalist and a firm believer in democratic principles. His words will continue to resonate within each one of us when we reflect on our country’s past, present and future.


    He had said, “ The tree of our democracy is strong. But it should not happen that its roots may become weak while it continues to gain strength outwardly. This is the duty we have to fulfil”.


    He strengthened these democratic roots through his insightful interventions and exemplary demeanour in Parliament.


    He exemplified what the “strengthening of democracy” meant through his ability to make a coalition government work.


    He demonstrated as to how democracy can be deepened through good governance.


    He combined in himself the heart of a poet and the mind of a strategist. His disarming smile added grace to a tough, clear-headed decision making ability. The underground nuclear test in 1998 and the decisive victory in the Kargil War in 1999, speak volumes of his steely resolve to strengthen India’s defence capability.


    His vision for India, expressed in his characteristic poetic expression, is worth noting. He had said, “It is not the defeated soldier’s drum beat of despair, but the fighting warrior’s will to win.” In many ways, this echoes the vision of today’s aspirational India. It is the yearning of a resurgent India.


    In the present days, political discourse level is going down. Remember! Political parties are not enemies; they are only rivals-that should be the spirit. We must all try to raise the level of debate, follow the principles of discuss, debate and decide and see that our parliament sets new standards in public life. That will be a real tribute to this great leader of this great country.


    It is the urge to surge forward, to innovate, to be in the forefront of global endeavours.


    Be tolerant to the others view.


    Be tolerant to the mandate of the people.


    To collectively move towards that India we all want, would be a fitting homage to Atal Ji.


    Jai Hind! ”


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563968) Visitor Counter : 830
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi