      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Ranveer Singh and Alia Bhatt visit India Pavilion at Berlinale 2019; release IFFI 2019 Brochure
      
      International Festival Heads keen to attend the 50th Anniversary of IFFI

      Posted On: 09 FEB 2019 11:33AM by PIB Delhi

    The team behind the upcoming movie‘Gully Boy’including Mr. Ranveer Singh, Ms. Alia Bhatt, Ms. Zoya Akhtar &Mr. RiteshSidhwani visited the India Pavilion at Berlin International Film Festival (Berlinale) 2019. They released the IFFI 2019 Brochure and were apprised by the Indian delegation about activities planned for the Golden Jubilee anniversary of IFFI to be held later this year.


    The Indian Delegation members at Berlinale met with over half a dozen Film Festival Heads & Key Senior Executives of the film industry. Ms Nadia Dresti, Deputy Artistic Director and Head of Locarno Film Festival was apprised about several policy initiatives of the Government of India to promote ease of filming and curb piracy. Her help was sought by the delegation to reach out to Locarno Film Festival for IFFI 2019.Ms Dresti expressed that she had visited IFFI Goa last year and emphasized her proactive participation for the 2019 Edition as well.


    Indian Delegation also interacted with Mr Stephan Ottenbruch, Head of Indo-German Films, wherein they discussed about a larger German presence at IFFI 2019 andexplored possibilities ofcollaboration.


    The Indian Delegation also met Mr Frederic W. Kim, official of BIFAN (Bucheon International Fantastic Film Festival), South Korea; Ms Yuko Yamada, official of TIFFCOM, Marketplace for Film and TV in Asia, Tokyo; Ms Eti Cohen, Director of Film Department and Council, Ministry of Culture and Sport, State of Israel; Ms OsnatBukofzer, International Relations Manager, Israel Cinema Project-Rabinovich Foundation etc.


    The delegation from Israel visited the Indian Pavilion and expressed its keenness to produce a film with an Indian producer under the Indo-Israeli Co-production treaty. The representatives talked about a much wider & active collaboration for IFFI 2019.


    The Indian Pavilion at Berlinale has been organized by the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting in association with Confederation of Indian Industry. Over 75 Indian film companies are participating at Berlinale 2019.


    ***


    AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563641) Visitor Counter : 584
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi