      EAC-PM

      India and Norway launch initiative to combat Marine Pollution
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2019 7:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change today signed a letter of Intent establishing the India-Norway Marine Pollution Initiative together with the Norwegian ministry of Foreign Affairs.


    In January, 2019, the Indian and Norwegian governments agreed to work more closely on oceans by signing a MoU and establishing the India-Norway Ocean Dialogue during the Norwegian Prime Minister’s visit to India in January.


    A joint Task Force on Blue Economy with government officials, researchers and experts as well as private sector was established to develop sustainable solutions within strategic areas of the blue economy, such as maritime and marine sector in addition to energy sector.


    In partnership, Norway and India will share experiences and competence, and collaborate on efforts to develop clean and healthy oceans, sustainable use of ocean resources and growth in the blue economy.


    Both the governments launched the first Joint initiative under this new partnership. The India-Norway Marine Pollution Initiative will combat marine pollution, which is one of the fastest growing environmental concerns.


    The Joint Initiative was signed formally by Mr. Nils RagnarKamsvag, Ambassador to India, Embassy of Norway and Mr. Anil Kumar Jain, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC), Govt. of India.


    Ms. Marianne Hagen, Deputy Minister, Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. VidarHelgesen, Special Envoy for Oceans, Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Ratan P Watal, Member Secretary, Economic Advisory Council to Prime Minister & Principal Advisor, Niti Aayog, Govt. of India, Dr. M Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences, Govt. of India, Mr. A GiteshSarma, Secretary (West), Ministry of External Affairs, Govt. of India and Dr. SumitaMisra, Joint Secretary, Economic Advisory Council to Prime Minister, Govt. of India were present at the signing of the Joint Initiative.


    Through a range of implementing partners, this initiative will seek to support local governments in implementing sustainable waste management practices, develop systems for collecting and analyzing information about sources and scope of marine pollution and improve private sector investment. Support will also be directed towards beach clean-up efforts, awareness raising campaigns and pilot project using plastic waste as fuel substitution for coal in cement production and developing frameworks for deposit schemes.


    *****


    AKT/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563932) Visitor Counter : 1411
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi