      Ministry of Education

      MHRD takes immediate steps to implement recommendations of committee for the Promotion and Protection of Maithili Language and its scripts
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2019 6:25PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry of Human Resource Development constituted a Committee in the year 2018 for making a report for the Promotion and Protection of Maithili Language and its scripts. The Committee has submitted its report to MHRD in which it has made several recommendations for promotion and protection of Maithili language.


    The report was examined in the Ministry and it has been decided to take immediate action on some of the recommendations of the committee as follows:

     1. To establish a Script and Manuscript Centre at Darbhanga in any one of the Universities viz. Kameshwar Singh Sanskrit University or Lalit Narayan Mithila Unviersity.
     2. Early completion of the work pertaining to Unicode Scripts of Mithilakshar by Technology Development of Indian Languages (TDIL) and
     3. To prepare audio-visual teaching materials for teaching the Mithilakshar scripts.

    Mithilakshar or Tirhuta is the script of broader cultural Mithila. The scripts of Mithilaksar, Bangla, Assamese, Nebari, Odia and Tibetan are part of the family. It is an extremely ancient script and is one of the script and is one of the scripts of the broader North Eastern India. Mithilakshar had come to its current shape by 10th Century AD. The oldest form of Mithilakshar is found in the Sahodara stone inscriptions of 950 AD. Afterwards, the scripts has been used throughout Mithila from Champaran to Deoghar. Use of this script has been on decline since last 100 years and therefore our culture is getting decimated. Because its own script is not being used, the Maithili language is getting developed in a composite manner despite having been accorded a constitutional status in the constitution. Keeping all this aspects in view, the Ministry of Human Resource Development constituted this Committee in the year 2018 for making a report for the Promotion and Protection of Maithili Language and its scripts.


    *****


    NB/AKJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563907) Visitor Counter : 733
    
    
    
    
    

3.