      Ministry of Textiles

      Mega Silk Event to be Held in New Delhi Tomorrow
      Posted On: 08 FEB 2019 1:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Textiles, in association with Central Silk Board, is organizing an event, Surging Silk - Accomplishment and way forward, in New Delhi on 9 th February 2019. Union Minister of External Affairs, Sushma Swaraj will be the chief guest and the event will be presided over by Union Minister of Textiles, Smriti Zubin Irani.


    The event is being organized to highlight the growth of silk industry in India over the past 4 years. It focusses on distribution of Buniyaad Tasar Silk Reeling Machines to women reelers from tribal areas, as part of total eradication of the age old practice of thigh reeling.In order to eradicate thigh reeling practice in tasar silk sector and to ensure rightful earning to the poor rural and tribal women reelers, Central Silk Technological Research Institutehas developed a machine in association with an entrepreneur from Champa, Chhattisgarh. The machine developed is known as Buniyaad Reeling machine . This machine will improve the quality and productivity of tasar silk yarn and reduce the drudgery of women.


    Women reeler using the traditional method earns approximately Rs.125/- per day while a tasar reeler using Buniyaad reeling machine can earn Rs.350/- per day. The Buniyaad reeling machine is priced at Rs.8,475/- per unit excluding taxes and transportation charges. It is planned to eradicate thigh reeling and replace with Buniyaad reeling machine by end of March 2019. The machine is available with solar power and pedal attachments. Machine manufactures have already been identified for production and delivery of the machines to the reelers.


    During the event, best achievers of silk industry across various segments of sericulture will be honoured. Awards will be given to the best performing states, release of melange fabric produced from silk waste will take place, a mobile application will be launched for quality certification in silkworm seed sector and a compendium on Indian silk industry and state sericulture profile will be released.


    The compendium will be a comprehensive compilation on the status and growth of sericulture and silk industry of each state, plans and programmes launched by Government of India being implemented across the country and ethnic silk products supported with a directory of important contacts points, to have first-hand information of the industry.


    Ministry has made elaborate arrangements for participation from different spectrum of Textile industry in large numbers.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563486) Visitor Counter : 933
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi