      Election Commission

      Election Commission of India launches Voter Verification and Information Programme (VVIP) for upcoming General Elections 2019
      Posted On: 08 FEB 2019 6:38PM by PIB Delhi


    The Election Commission of India has launched a Voter Verification and Information Programme (VVIP) for citizens for verifications of their names, new registrations, changes in the voter details and corrections in the Voter Id Cards for the upcoming General Elections 2019. ECI has enabled various channels for this VVIP programme. ECI has also set up Contact centers in all districts across India. The Voter Helpline number is 1950. The Contact Centres are equipped with latest information and telecom infrastructure to help the callers.


    The VVIP Programme was launched during the 2-day intensive Training-cum-Workshop on the use of Information & Communication Technology for the conduct of General Elections 2019. The Training-cum-Workshop was attended by Additional Chief Electoral Officers, Incharge of IT, Nodal Officers, State Level Master Trainers and technical resource persons from all States and Union Territories.


    Speaking on the occasion Election Commissioner, Sh. Ashok Lavasa said that the strength of technology is to make it easy for use by all. He exhorted those attending the workshop to imbibe and in turn explain extensively to all. Sh Lavasa reminded the participants that the central theme of ECI's endeavors are to make Elections more inclusive. With use of Apps, prompt responses should be ensured as citizens demand better quality of services.


    Chief Election Commissioner, Sh. Sunil Arora said that technology is indeed a major game changer. The purpose at training workshops should be to listen, learn, absorb and apply. He pointed out that little time is now left before elections and intense consolidation of all learning should be ensured to actually facilitate the voter.


    One of the important applications for which training was imparted to all States and UTs was cVIGIL . cVIGIL App provides time-stamped, evidence based proof of Model Code of Conduct / Expenditure Violation, having live photo/video with auto location data. Any citizen can lodge a complaint through Mobile App. Flying Squads then investigate the matter and the Returning Officer takes the decision. The status of cVIGIL can be shared with the cVIGIL complainant within a specified timelimit.


    A CVigil User Manual and the EVM Management System User Manual was released on the occasion. A new android based mobile app called ‘Voter Helpline’ was also launched today. This App provides convenience to all citizens for finding their names in the electoral roll, submitting online forms, checking the status of the application, filing complaints and receiving the reply on their mobile app. All forms, results, candidate affidavits, press notes, voter awareness and important instructions are available through the mobile app.


    A ‘PwD App’ to enable Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) to request for new registration, change in address, change in particulars and mark themselves as PwD through the use of the mobile application was also launched. By simply entering their contact details, the Booth Level Officer is assigned to provide doorstep facility. PwDs can also request for a wheelchair during polling.


    Use of the latest technologies by ECI has led to the spread of novel election activities, in addition to enhancing the existing election system. For effective conduct of elections, the ECI has found a way of integrating the use of Smart Technology in the day-to-day processes of elections.


    …


    SBS/AC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563599) Visitor Counter : 1706
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi