      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      Status of Ongoing Infrastructure Projects
      Posted On: 08 FEB 2019 5:58PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Minister of State in the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation and Minister of State in the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs Vijay Goel responded to a written question in Rajya Sabha today on Status of ongoing Infrastructure Projects.


    Following is the response given by the Minister:


    The Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation monitors on-going Central Sector Infrastructure Projects costing Rs. 150 crore and above on time and cost overruns, on the basis of information provided by the project implementing agencies. As on 01.12.2018, a total of 1443 projects were on the monitor of this Ministry. Of these, 347 projects are showing cost overruns.


    The causes for cost overruns are project-specific, depend on a variety of technical, financial and administrative factors, and differ from project to project. However, as reported by the project implementing agencies on this Ministry’s OCMS, the main reasons for cost overrun of the Projects are: law and order problems, delay in land acquisition, delay in environment and forest clearances, funding constraints, rehabilitation and resettlement issues, local body / municipal permissions, utility shifting, contractual issues, etc.


    The details of such projects are available in the flash report at http://www.cspm.gov.in/english/publication.html .


    As on 01.12.2018, out of total 1443 projects, 360 are running behind their schedule of completion. The details of such delay projects are available in the flash report at http://www.cspm.gov.in/english/publication.html.


    The major steps undertaken to ensure completion of Central Sector Infrastructure Projects without time and cost overruns include; Periodic review of projects under PRAGATI through video conferencing; rigorous project appraisal; On-line Computerized Monitoring System (OCMS) for better monitoring; setting up of Revised Cost Committees in the Ministries for fixation of responsibility for time and cost overruns; regular review of infrastructure projects by the concerned administrative Ministries; and setting up of Central Sector Projects Coordination Committees (CSPCCs) in the States under the Chief Secretaries for removal of bottlenecks and for facilitating the speedy implementation of major projects.


    ***


    AKT/AK/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563582) Visitor Counter : 529