      Ministry of Shipping

      Promotion of Shipping Route with Bangladesh
      Posted On: 07 FEB 2019 5:29PM by PIB Delhi


    Details of trucks sent directly to Bangladesh through sea route since October 2017 are given below:-

                                    
Sl. No.  Name of Port  No. of trucks
                                    
                                    
                                    
1.       Kolkata Port  1226         
                                    
                                    
                                    
2.       Chennai Port  912          
                                    
                                    
                     
Total    2138        
                     
                     

    Benefits of sending trucks through sea routes are


    (i) it reduces load on rail and road traffic.

     1. it saves fuel consumption and offers a greener alternatives to cargo movement.
     2. it is cost effective compared to Road and Rail mode of transport.
     3. it reduces carbon foot-print.

    The Government is exploring new avenues for promotion of shipping,commerce and trade through coastal shipping. A Coastal Shipping Agreement was signed between India and Bangladesh in June 2015. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) between the two countries was also signed in November 2015 to implement the Coastal Shipping Agreement. As per the Agreement, sea transport from India to Bangladesh is treated as coastal movement, making it eligible for 40 percent concession on vessel-related and cargo related charges. Apart from above, Haldia Dock Complex under Kolkata Port Trust has been declared as a Transshipment Port for containerised cargo originating from/destined to Bangladesh to attract more cargo movement through sea-route. Further to enhance the trade, an agreement on the use of Chittagong and Mongla Ports in Bangladesh for movement of goods to and from India was signed between the two countries in October 2018.


    The Minister of State for Shipping Shri Pon Radhakrishnan gave this information in reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    NP/MS/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563330) Visitor Counter : 577
    
    
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
3.