      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      India and Bangladesh sign MOU for training 1800 Bangladesh civil servants in National Centre For Good Governance
      Posted On: 08 FEB 2019 4:03PM by PIB Delhi


    India and Bangladesh have signed an MOU for training 1800 Bangladesh Civil Servants at the National Centre for Good Governance (NCGG) an institute under the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DAR&PG), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Govt. of India, over the next 6 years. The MOU was signed between the NCGG and the Ministry of Public Administration, Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh on February 8, 2019 during the visit of the Foreign Minister of Bangladesh.


    Shri K. V. Eapen Secretary DARPG and the Director General of NCGG said that the collaboration represents a historic milestone in training and capacity building programs between India and Bangladesh. He further added that the Bangladesh Civil Servants will be trained in e-Governance and service delivery, public policy and implementation, information technology, decentralization, urban development and planning, Ethics in Administration and challenges in implementation of SDGs. This is the second time that NCGG would be entering into an MOU for a training program for Bangladesh Civil Servants. Under the first MOU signed 5 years ago, 1500 Bangladesh Civil Servants have already been trained in NCGG.


    The participants of the training program will be selected amongst Additional Deputy Commissioners/ Additional District Magistrates, Upazila Nirbahi Officers, Deputy Director Local Government, Senior Assistant Secretaries, Senior Assistant Commissioners, Assistant Commissioners (Land) and Officers of equivalent rank in the Ministries from Bangladesh Civil Service (Administration) cadre.


    The NCGG is planning to conduct 15 training programs in 2019 each of 2 weeks duration. The trainee officers will undergo training at the NCGG Mussoorie centre and in Delhi where they would visit Government of India establishments.


    *****


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563534) Visitor Counter : 852
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi