      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Dedicated 24x7 Doordarshan Satellite channel for Arunachal Pradesh – DD Arunprabha – set to be launched by PM tomorrow
      
      Foundation Stone of Permanent Campus of FTI at Arunachal Pradesh to be laid by PM

      Posted On: 08 FEB 2019 4:41PM by PIB Delhi

    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will launch DD Arunprabha , a dedicated 24x7 Doordarshan satellite channel for Arunachal Pradesh and lay the foundation stone of a permanent campus of Film and Television Institute (FTI) at Arunachal Pradesh on 9.2.2019.


    DD Arunprabha , set to become the 24 th satellite channel operated by Doordarshan, will be launched by the Prime Minister at IG Park, Itanagar. It will be equipped with state of the art facilities, including a Digital Satellite News Gathering unit to provide live coverage from remote locations, for 24x7 telecast. The playout facility and the earth stations established at DDK Itanagar will ensure seamless transmission of DD Arunprabha.


    The channel will showcase the rich tradition and diversity of local culture. Not only will it help integrate North-East with the country, but will also bring alive the magnificence of North-East by airing content sensitive to the needs and aspirations of local population including news, travelogues, mythological shows, documentaries, magazines, tele-films, reality shows, daily shows etc.


    The foundation stone of the permanent campus of FTI will be laid by the Prime Minister at Jollang-Rakap (Jote), Papum Pare, Arunachal Pradesh. This is the third Film and Television Institute of Ministry of I&B, the first two being FTII Pune and SRFTI Kolkata. It is the first Film and Television Institute of entire North-East.


    It will provide a boost to the talented youngsters of the North-East in film and television sector. The project, to be constructed at around 20 km from Itanagar, has been approved for construction at a total estimated cost of Rs. 204.32 crore. To be executed by CPWD, it is expected that the project will be completed in 25 months’ time.


    The FTI campus will have an integrated campus comprising of Administrative Block, Class Room Block, Class Room Theatre, Academic Staff Block, Library, Preview Theatre, Mini Theatre, Shooting Floor, Digital Block, Sound Studio, Canteen and Recreation, Residential Quarters, Boys Hostel, Girls Hostel, Transit Accommodation and Guest House with other supportive structures like Electrical Sub-station, Pump-room, Sump, Filtration Plant, Sewerage Treatment Plant etc.


    The campus will be constructed with an organic design philosophy, ensuring minimum disturbance to natural topography. National Building Code 2016 Norms, Accessible India Campaign Features and other statutory norms will be followed in construction. It will be a state of the art modern campus with several Green Features including Sewage Treatment Plant of 150 kiloletres per day capacity to ensure a zero discharge building, 300 KW solar panels, energy efficient air conditioning plants, street lighting with LED lamps, rain water harvesting, energy efficient light fixtures with sensors etc.


    ***


    AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563547) Visitor Counter : 429
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Hindi