      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh to present Certificates of Appreciation to 9 ministries/departments for implementation of e-Office tomorrow
      Posted On: 11 FEB 2019 12:37PM by PIB Delhi


    The MoS (PP) Dr. Jitendra Singh will confer Certificates of Appreciation to 9 Ministries/Departments of Government of India tomorrow (12.02.2019) here, to appreciate the sincere efforts made by them and giving recognition of the commendable work done by them in implementation of e-Office. In 2018, 34 Ministries/Departments were awarded Certificate of Appreciation.


    The e-Office is a Mission Mode Project under the National e-Governance Plan and is being implemented by the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) to improve efficiency in Government Process and Service Delivery Mechanism.


    The e-Office is a Digital Workplace Solution that replaces the physical files and documents with an efficient electronic system. Being an electronic system, it has its inherent advantages such as data is stored digitally with audit trails for every transaction being done. Regular backups and Disaster Recovery Systems are in place which ensures that Government files are not damaged in case of any mishap. In addition, this being a web based application; people can access it from anywhere through VPN.


    The e-Office system contains the following packages:-


    1) File Management System (FMS)


    2) Knowledge Management System (KMS)


    3) eFile MIS Reports


    4) Personnel Information Management System (PIMS)


    5) Employee Master Details (EMD)


    6) Leave Management System (LMS)


    7) Leave MIS Reports


    8) Tour Management System (TMS)


    9) Master Data Management


    The Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) has coordinated with all Central Ministries/Departments to expedite the implementation of the e-office. The Department has taken various steps to accelerate the implementation in the various Ministries/Departments. This includes, conducting review meetings and visiting Ministries/Departments to understand the specific problems. As a result of these efforts, till date, 43 Ministries/Departments are completely on e-Office platform. Department of Health Research is the latest to achieve complete e-Office implementation. 75 Ministries/Departments are actively using the e-office platform. Ministry of AYUSH is the most recent Ministry to go live on the e-office platform.


    The main outcomes generated by the e-Office are as follows:-


      * Transparency and Accountability has been brought by e-office. File notes cannot be changed or undone and the file cannot be kept pending as the system is designed to give feedback and monitoring mechanism.

      * Quick Disposal of files and timely monitoring of pending files has been the other advantage of e-office
      * Instant file exchange: The file can be received within fraction of seconds.
      * Knowledge Repository: Knowledge is wealth and now using KMS (Knowledge Management System) knowledge can be preserved in a centralised and easily accessible repository for employees.

    ******


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1563762) Visitor Counter : 324
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

*