      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Apprenticeship Training at Industrial Training Institutes
      Posted On: 13 FEB 2019 5:01PM by PIB Delhi


    Government has pre-approved all the Government and Private Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) having rating 2.0 and above as basic training provider. It will help fresher apprentices to acquire a reasonable ability to handle Instruments/Machineries/Equipment independently prior to moving to Shop Floor/Work Area for practical training / On-Job Training under National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme under Apprentices Act, 1961.


    Government has taken following measures to boost apprenticeship training by involving all the stakeholders including the State Government and the private industry:

     1. A fully dedicated portal for apprenticeship training is prepared and made functional.
     2. Comprehensive changes brought under Guidelines for National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme (NAPS), Basic Training Provider (BTP), Third Party Aggregators (TPAs) and framing of courses under apprenticeship training program.
     3. Industry representative appointed as Brand Ambassadors for promotion and creating awareness among the all stakeholders for apprenticeship training.
     4. Awareness meeting, seminars and campaign conducted in industry clusters throughout the country.
     5. For strengthening apprenticeship training at State Government level, funds released to create State Apprenticeship monitoring cell (SAMC).
     6. For promotion of apprenticeship training, State Governments asked to use different advertising methods like hoarding, pamphlets, newspapers etc.
     7. A television series called “Hunarbaaz” telecasted nationwide for creating awareness for apprenticeship training scheme.
     8. Under the World Bank aided project called STRIVE, Industry Apprenticeship Initiative in industry clusters has been initiated.

    T his information was given by Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Shri AnantKumar Hegde in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha today.


    ******


    YKB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564250) Visitor Counter : 446
    
    
    
    
    

8.