      Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution

      Government hikes Minimum Selling Price (MSP) of Sugar to Rs. 31 per Kilo for the year 2019-20
      Posted On: 14 FEB 2019 8:52PM by PIB Delhi


    With the aim of benefitting Sugar farmers and in order to clear their arrears/cane dues, the Union Government has decided to increase the Minimum Selling Price (MSP) of Sugar from Rs. 29 to Rs. 31 for the year 2019-20. This announcement was made by the Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Shri Ram Vilas Paswan today evening.The Department of Food, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution has made this key decision of increasing MSP by Rs. 2 in order to provide more liquidity to the Sugar Mills so that they are able to pay the arrears or dues to the Sugarcane farmers.


    Addressing media after the announcement, Union Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Shri Ram Vilas Paswan asserted that the main objective of the Prime Minister NarendraModi led government is to ensure farmers’ welfare and growth and this move is another step in that direction. Shri Paswan expressed confidence that the hike in MSP will lead to increased income and savings for the Sugar Mills which will then be passed on to the Sugarcane farmers.


    The Department of Food and the State governments will also be able to monitor the sale of Sugar at the new, revised MSP rate so as to ensure that the Sugar Mills are utilising their increased liquidity to pay farmers’ dues. As on 13 th February, 2019, the Farmers’ dues amount to Rs. 20167 crores while the same computed at FRP amounts to Rs. 18157 crores.


    The Union Minister also condemned the attack on CRPF personnel in Pulwama, Kashmir. Shri Paswan asserted that the sacrifices of our brave soldiers will not go in vain and expressed solidarity with the families of the brave martyrs.


    *****


    APS/AS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1564670) Visitor Counter : 691
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi