      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi Dedicated ESIC Medical College and 510 Bedded Hospital, Faridabad (Haryana) to the Nation
      Posted On: 12 FEB 2019 6:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi said that the Central Government is working to provide good quality medical care to every citizen of the country. While dedicating ESIC Medical College and 510 bedded Hospital, Faridabad to the Nation, the Prime Minister said that this Medical College will provide medical facilities to the workers and their family members of the region.


    The ESIC Medical College and 510 bedded Hospital, Faridabad has been constructed with a project cost of Rs.595 Crore (approx.) in a sprawling area of 30 Acres. The associated hospital is equipped with state of art equipment and provides medical services in all specialities as envisaged under ESI Act. Services/Facilities such as casualty/emergency, OPDs, wards, modular OTs, ICUs, dialysis, blood bank, radio diagnostics, etc. are available in the hospital. The college also has in campus hostel for Boys & Girls and residence for Doctors/Nurses/Staffs. Besides, the college also provides indoors & outdoors sports facilities for extracurricular activities.


    To witness the dedication of Medical College and Hospital by the Prime Minister, an event was organised at Faridabad, where Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar, Minister of State for Social Justice and Employment and Shri Vipul Goyal, Minister of Industries, Environment and Industrial Training, Govt. of Haryana participated. Other dignitaries present on the occasion include Shri Satyadeo Narayan Arya, Governor, Haryana, Shri Manohar Lal, Chief Minister, Haryana, Sushri Uma Bharati, Union Minister for Drinking Water and Sanitation and Smt. Kavita Jain, Minister of Industry, Govt. of Haryana.


    The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) is a pioneer Social Security organization providing comprehensive social security benefits like reasonable Medical Care and a range of Cash Benefits in times of need such as employment injury, sickness, death etc.


    *****


    RCJ/FH/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564112) Visitor Counter : 301
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi