      Ministry Of Law & Justice

      Law Minister Assures to Consider Demands with open mind
      
      Appeals lawyers to withdraw Agitation
      
      Committee to workout Insurance Scheme to be Set-Up
      Posted On: 12 FEB 2019 6:57PM by PIB Delhi


    A delegation of lawyers led, among others by Shri Manan Mishra, Senior Advocate, Supreme Court of India, and which included Members of Bar Council of India and office bearers of various Advocates Associations met the Union Law Minister, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad today in connection with their concerns and demands. Shri Bhupender Yadav, Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) and a well-known lawyer of the Supreme Court of India and a representative of AdhivaktaParishad were also present.


    In the meeting, the leaders of various lawyers bodies brought up their concerns and demands, and the issues were discussed in elaborate detail. There was consensus that a proper, structured scheme providing the security of insurance cover needs to be given serious consideration. The scheme should address concerns relating to untimely death, medical insurance, etc. The Law Minister agreed with this demand and said that it requires earnest consideration. Accordingly, a committee will be constituted, comprising of representatives from lawyers’ community and the Government which will work out a comprehensive scheme. This scheme may include assistance from Central and State Governments, as also involvementof State Bar Councils and the representatives operating Lawyers’ Welfare Fund.


    The Union Law Minister also conveyed to the representatives of lawyers that the Government is keen to promote establishment of Lawyers’Hall in district and mofassil courts all over India. Shri Prasad also conveyed to the gathering that the Government of India has, since 1993-94 provided grants to various State Governments and Union Territory Governments amounting to Rs.6670 crores out of which Rs.3225 crores has been provided since Financial Year 2014-15 under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme for Development of Infrastructure for District and Subordinate Judiciary throughout the country. This accounts for 48% of total grant provided to States and UTs under the scheme. He also mentioned that about 20000 courts are being connected through secure broad band network and information regarding court cases are now available to lawyers and litigants at the click of mouse. Lastly, Shri Prasad appealed to the lawyers to withdraw their agitation as the Union Government has decided to look into their demand with an open mind.


    ***


    NNK/MD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564125) Visitor Counter : 326
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi