      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      NFDC Declared Winner Under Miniratna Category by Ministry of MSME
      Posted On: 13 FEB 2019 3:49PM by PIB Delhi


    National Film Development Corporation of India has beendeclared winner under the Miniratna Category (Category II) by Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME).This is part of endeavour by Ministry of MSME to felicitate select CPSEs inrecognition of their exemplary work for the promotion of SC/ST entrepreneurs. The performance parameters were procurement from SC/STentrepreneurs,number of vendor development programmes for SC/ST and number of SC/ST entrepreneurs benefitted as per data uploaded on Sambandh Portal.


    National Film Development Corporation Ltd. (NFDC), incorporated in the year 1975, (100% owned Central Public Sector Undertaking) was formed by the Government of India with the primary objective of planning and promoting an organized, efficient and integrated development of the Indian film industry.


    NFDC has so far funded and produced over 300 films. These films, in various Indian languages, have been widely acclaimed and have won many national and international awards. The primary activities of NFDC are Film production – 100% finance for debutant directors&co-production with foreign & Indian film makers, promoting Indian films at various international film festivals and markets in India and abroad. NFDC’s Film Bazar has now become one of the leading platform for promoting & showcasing Indiancinemato the world.


    NFDC is now positioned as a 360-degree integrated media service provider for the creation and dissemination of advertising communication across various electronic platforms. Ministry of Information &Broadcasting has taken the lead with a long –term objective of positioning and promoting India as a preferred destination for filmmakers across the world, by setting up the Film Facilitation office (FFO), which is part of NFDC.


    ***


    MM/ KA


    

    
    (Release ID: 1564223) Visitor Counter : 806
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi