      AYUSH

      National Conference on Unani Medicine Concludes Successfully
      Posted On: 12 FEB 2019 8:33PM by PIB Delhi


    The two-day National Conference on Unani Medicine organized by the Central Council for Research in Unani Medicine (CCRUM) as a part of 3 rd Unani Day Celebration here in New Delhi concluded with the note that integration and synergy of all medical systems is the need of the hour to address the health challenges we are facing today. The conference elaborated the contributions and potentials of Unani Medicine in public health and highlighted that Unani Medicine has effective treatment for many diseases that are not effectively treated in other medical systems.


    Addressing the valedictory session, Shri Pramod Kumar Pathak, Additional Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH, appreciated the CCRUM for organizing such a successful conference and congratulated the recipients of AYUSH Awards for Unani Medicine.


    In his address, Prof. Talat Ahmad, Vice Chancellor, University of Kashmir, Srinagar emphasized the need for modernization of Unani Medicine and other traditional systems of medicine keeping their principles and basics intact.


    Speaking on the occasion Prof. Akhtarul Wasey President, Maulana Azad University, Jhodpur said that with the largest infrastructure for teaching, research and practice, India is undoubtedly the world leader. He urged the Ministry of AYUSH and the Government of India to upgrade Ayurvedic & Unani Tibbia College to a full-fledged university.


    Padma Shri Prof. Hakim Syed Zillur Rahman urged to maintain the principles and identities of different systems of medicine and preserve our medical legacy. Paying tribute to Hakim Ajmal Khan, he said that he was an unmatched and genius personality and a symbol of unity in diversity.


    Padma Shri Dr. M.A. Waheed laid emphasis on validation of traditional systems of medicine on scientific parameters for globalization of Unani Medicine.


    Earlier in his wrap-up remarks, Prof. Asim Ali Khan, Director General, CCRUM summed up the two-day proceedings and informed that during the eight scientific sessions, the conference had deliberations on Integration of Unani Medicine in Healthcare Delivery System, Management of Chronic Diseases in Unani Medicine, Public Health Programs, Unani Medicine for Geriatric Care, Unani Medicine for Mother and Child Healthcare, Quality Control in Traditional Medicine, Emerging Research Trends in Unani Medicine, and Way Forward for Globalization of Unani Medicine. The conference also had a panel discussion on Challenges in Market Development for Unani Medicine – An Interface Between Academia, Industry and Researchers and three keynote addresses on Unani Medicine for Public Health. In the presence of experts, luminaries, scholars of Unani Medicine, the conference proved an ample platform for healthy discussion and brain storming of ideas and creation of better avenues in further utilizing the strength of Unani Medicine in public health issues. About 40 papers were presented during these sessions which had participation of 1300 delegates, resource persons, academicians, researchers, students and industry representatives participated in the conference.


    The conference concluded with vote of thanks proposed by Dr. Mohd Tahir, Advisor (Unani), Ministry of AYUSH.


    The conference was inaugurated yesterday by Dr. Najma Heptulla, Hon’ble Governor of Manipur in the presence of Shri Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Hon’ble Union Minister for Minority Affairs, Dr. Jitendra Singh, Hon’ble Minister of State (IC), Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik, Hon’ble Minister of State (IC) for AYUSH, Government of India, Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of AYUSH, Dr. Mohd Tahir, Advisor (Unani), Ministry of AYUSH, Government of India and Prof. Asim Ali Khan, Director General, CCRUM.


    The conference witnessed exchange of MoU for scientific collaboration in Unani Medicine between the CCRUM and Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi.


    On this occasion, AYUSH Awards for Unani Medicine were conferred on Dr. Arshiya Sultana, National Institute of Unani Medicine (NIUM), Bangalore, Dr. Noman Anwar, CCRUM, Dr. Jamal Akhtar, CCRUM, Dr. Nasreen Jahan, NIUM, Bangalore, Prof. Tanzeel Ahmad, Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), Aligarh, Prof. Mohd Aslam, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi, Prof. Khalid Zaman Khan, AMU, Aligarh, Prof. Naeem Ahmad Khan, AMU, Aligarh and Prof. M A Jafri, Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi. The awards comprised a citation, a shawl and a cash award ranging from Rs 50,000 to 200,000 each.


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564162) Visitor Counter : 794
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi