      Ministry of Textiles

      National Conclave on creating Synergy for MSMEs in Textiles sector held in New Delhi
      
      Textiles ministry honours Weavers and Artisans
      Posted On: 13 FEB 2019 6:02PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of Textiles honoured 12 weavers and artisans from different parts of the country for their outstanding work in handloom and handicrafts sector at a function in New Delhi today. An exhibition showcasing achievements of the textiles sector MSMEs was also held on this occasion. A booklet on Ease of Doing business was also released. The booklet is available in ten languages – Hindi, Manipuri, Assamese, Bengali, Odia, Gujarati, Marathi, Tamil, Telugu and Kannada. Fifteen MoUs were signed to facilitate foreign trade of textiles and handicrafts items. A short film on outreach support programme of the Textiles Ministry was also screened during the National Conclave on Creating Synergy for MSMEs in Textiles Sector.


    Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, had launched the support and outreach 100 days programme for MSMEs on 2 nd November 2018, identifying one hundred districts in various sectors across the country. Amongst these, thirty-nine districts were identified for textiles sector - 12 for handloom, 19 for handicrafts and 8 for powerloom .


    Under the support and outreach 100 days programme, various activities were undertaken in identified districts for creating synergy for MSMEs in textile sector like holding camps for Mudra loan in collaboration with local bank, enrolment of beneficiaries on e-dhaga, distribution of tool kits to beneficiaries, registration and distribution of Pehchan cards to artisans and weavers, popularization of 24x7 help line, quality certification and social security.


    District level events were organized to consolidate progress under the programme in each identified district on 9 th or 10 th February, 2019. Exhibitions of handloom, handicrafts and powerloom products were also organized in the State Bhavans of the identified districts in Delhi on 11 th & 12 th February, 2019. Senior Officers were designated as “Prabhari Officers” in each district who worked with nodal officers appointed by respective sectoral heads.


    Minister of Textiles, Smriti Zubin Irani, said that during the outreach programme the Government has ensured that the relevant information related to the Central Government schemes reaches beneficiaries. She said that Rs. 6500 crore Mudra loan was sanctioned to Textiles sector MSMEs. The Minister said 2.6 lakh weavers and craft persons were brought under the social security network during the 100 days outreach programme. Textiles Minister informed about the Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Mandhan Yojana for providing pension of Rs. 3000 per month to people working in unorganized sector on payment of small premium.


    Speaking on the occasion, Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment, Dr. Thawar Chand Gehlot said that 70% of people working in MSMEs of Textile Ministry belong to SC/ ST and OBC categories and urged the weavers and handicraft persons to avail the benefit of the schemes of his Ministry. He said during the last 4 years of NDA Government availability of raw materials to entrepreneurs has increased and exports also went up during the period.


    Secretary Textiles said that in view of the crucial role played by MSMEs in the creation of jobs and promoting inclusive economic growth, the textiles Ministry is implementing various schemes and programmes for small business in textiles and handicrafts sectors. He said during the outreach programme Textiles Ministry officials worked in coordination with state and district administration. Textiles Secretary said exhibitions were held in targeted districts to promote sales of their products, MUDRA loans were mobilized by involving public sector banks. Twenty thousand new applications were received from craft persons for credit under MUDRA scheme. Technology upgradation assistance was provided to 12,776 craft persons in 31 districts. Over 1.30 lakh Pehchan ID cards have been issued to weavers and artisans to facilitate them to claim the benefits and services they are entitled to. Other services such as yarn passbooks marketing support, social security coverage were also extended to the handloom weavers through outreach camps. Secretary, Ministry of MSME, Dr. Arun Kumar Panda and Secretary, Department of Financial Services, Rajeev Kumar, also addressed the National Conclave.


    Click here to see List of Awardees


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564279) Visitor Counter : 334
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi