      Ministry of New and Renewable Energy

      A number of measures taken to popularise Roof Top Solar Power System
      
      1279MW Rooftop Solar capacity installed so far
      
      Posted On: 12 FEB 2019 4:45PM by PIB Delhi


    Under the present rooftop solar programme, which was approved by the Government in December 2015, an aggregated capacity of 2100 MW is targeted to be achieved in residential, institutional, social and Government sector through central financial assistance by the year 2019-20.


    As per data captured on the SPIN portal of the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE), a total of 1279 MW capacity grid connected rooftop solar PV systems have been reported installed in the country as on 31.1.2019.


    While no formal study has been commissioned to study the rooftop solar scenario, the Government is taking a number of steps to promote rooftop solar in the country, these include:

     1. Providing central financial assistance (CFA) for residential/institutional/social sectors and achievement linked incentives for Government sectors through Rooftop Solar Scheme.
     2. Persuading states to notify the net/gross metering regulations for RTS projects. Now all the 36 States/UTs/SERCs have notified such regulations and/or tariff orders.
     3. Prepared model MoU, PPA and Capex Agreement for expeditious implementation of RTS projects in Govt. Sector.
     4. Allocate Ministry-wise expert PSUs for handholding and support in implementation of RTS projects in various Ministries/Departments.
     5. Suryamitra program is being implemented for creation of a qualified technical workforce.
     6. Initiated DG S&D rate contract for solar rooftop systems.
     7. Creation of SPIN-an online platform for expediting project approval, report submission and monitoring progress of implementation of RTS projects.
     8. Initiated Geo-tagging of RTS project, in co-ordination with ISRO, for traceability and transparency.
     9. Facilitated availability of concessional loans from World Bank and Asian Development Bank (ADB) to SBI and PNB respectively, for disbursal of loans to industrial and commercial sectors, where CFA/incentive is not being provided by the Ministry.

    This was informed by Minister of State (I/C) for New and Renewable Energy and Power Shri R. K Singh in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha today.


    *****


    RCJ / RP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564038) Visitor Counter : 771
    
    
    
    
    

9.