      Ministry of Power

      PM dedicates 765/400 kV Sub-station Orai& 765 kV Sub-station Aligarh to the Nation
      
      Rs. 4976 crore project to improve the power system in Western UP & Bundelkhand

      Posted On: 15 FEB 2019 6:54PM by PIB Delhi

    ThePrime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi dedicated POWERGRID 765/400 kV Orai Sub-station & 765 kV Aligarh Sub-station and associated lines to the Nation today at a mega event held at Jhansi.These projects are part of Transmission System for inter-regional strengthening scheme for Western Region (WR) and Northern Region (NR) (Part-B).


    The project with an estimated cost of about Rs. 4976 crorewill improve the power system in Western UP along with Bundelkhand. It will strengthen the inter-regional transmission corridor and facilitate reliable supply of power to Orai, Aligarh & adjoining areas of Western UP and Bundelkhand.


    The project involves establishment of Extra High Voltage (EHV) Sub-stations at Orai Gas Insulated Sub-station (GIS) & Aligarh Gas Insulated Sub-station (GIS) along with high capacity power transmission corridor between northern and western grids.


    Apart from enhancing power transfer capability between western region & northern region grids to the tune of 2700 MW , it will also aid transfer of power from Sasan and Vindhyachal generation complexes in western region to load centres in western and northern regions.


    This project constructed by Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (POWERGRID), a Navratna Company of Government of India, under Ministry of Power, will make Orai a key Sub-station to feed the demand of Orai and adjoining areas of western UP and Bundelkhand region. It will also enhance socio-economic development, as quality power will be distributed to homes, agricultural setups, business establishments and industries of the region.


    The occasion was graced Shri Ram Naik, Hon’ble Governor, Uttar Pradesh, Shri Yogi Adityanath, Chief Minister, Uttar Pradesh, Sushri Uma Bharti, Union Minister for Drinking Water and Sanitation, and people’s representatives from the area. CMD, POWERGRID, Shri Ravi P. Singh and other senior officials of state government and POWERGRID were also present.


    About POWERGRID:


    POWERGRID is one of the World’s Largest Power Transmission Utility, and has a wide network of 151,380 circuit kilometers transmission lines, with 239 Sub-stations and transformation capacity of 353,344 MVA.

    *****


    RCJ/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564787) Visitor Counter : 421
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi