      Ministry of Defence

      Vice Admiral SN Ghormade, AVSM, NM takes over as Chief of Staff, Eastern Naval Command
      Posted On: 14 FEB 2019 5:42PM by PIB Delhi


    Vice Admiral SN Ghormade, AVSM, NM assumed the charge as Chief of Staff, Eastern Naval Command, Visakhapatnam today 14 Feb 19. The Flag Officer was commissioned into the Indian Navy on 01 Jan 1984. He is a graduate of National Defence Academy (NDA), Khadakwasla, Pune, United States Naval Staff College at Naval War College, Newport, Rhode Island and the Naval War College, Mumbai. In addition to a specialisation in Navigation and Direction within the Navy, the Admiral holds a M Phil in Defence and Strategic Studies from University of Mumbai, MSc Defence and Strategic Studies from University of Madras and Master Degree in Personnel Management from Symbiosis Institute of Business Management (University of Pune).


    During his career spanning over 35 years, he has been through a myriad of operational and staff appointments. His operational appointments include commands of the Guided Missile Frigate INS Brahmaputra, Submarine Rescue Vessel INS Nireekshak and Minesweeper INS Allepey and second in command Guided Missile Frigate INS Ganga. His important staff appointments ashore include Principal Director of Personnel, Director Naval Plans and Joint Director Naval Plans at Naval Headquarters as separate assignments, Director (Military Affairs) at the Ministry of External Affairs, Local Work Up Team (West), Instructor at Navigation Direction School and National Defence Academy. Upon promotion to the Flag Rank in 2012, the Flag officer assumed the appointment of Assistant Chief of Personnel (Human Resources Development). Later he took over the appointment of Flag Officer Commanding Karnataka Naval Area and then was appointed as Flag Officer Commanding Maharashtra Naval Area. Prior taking over as Chief of Staff he held the prestigious appointment of Director General Naval Operations.


    The Flag officer was awarded the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal on 26 Jan 2017 and Nau Sena Medal in 2007 by the President of India and Commendation by Chief of Naval Staff in 2000.


    The Flag Officer is happily married and blessed with a daughter and a son. He enjoys reading, trekking, water sports, horse riding and golf.


    ********


    DKS/CGR/21-19

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564599) Visitor Counter : 624
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi