      Vice President's Secretariat

      Photos are one of the best media of expression and information: Vice President
      
      
      Photography is a powerful language which speaks to our emotions;
      
      Inaugurates 5th Bi-Annual Photo Exhibition – The Big Picture
      Posted On: 14 FEB 2019 7:49PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that Photos are one of the best media of expression and information. He was addressing the gathering after inaugurating the 5th Bi-Annual Photo Exhibition – The Big Picture, organized by the Working News Camerapersons Association, here today.


    The Vice President said that through pictures photojournalists provide us an authentic chronicle of myriad events covered by them. “A picture is worth a thousand words” says the well-known idiom, he said. In fact, some of the news photos convey the whole story - the big picture as the title of this exhibition has been aptly named, he added.


    Shri Naidu said that photography, at its best, is a powerful language which speaks to our emotions. He further said that Photography is not just a communication tool but also an influential medium to spread awareness. It allows us to tell our story and show others our framing of the world around us, he added.


    The Vice President complimented the All India Working News Cameramen’s Association (WNCA), a national body of print and electronic visual media working journalists, for organizing ‘The BIG PICTURE 2018-19’, the fifth public photo-exhibition of the collective work of WNCA members.


    Following is the text of Vice President’s address :


    “ I am delighted to inaugurate the 5 th Bi- Annual Photo Exhibition – The Big Picture, organized by the Working News Camerapersons Association in New Delhi.


    Such Photo Exhibitions highlight important news-making events and bring to us some of the frozen moments of history. Photos are one of the best media of expression and information. Through pictures photojournalists provide us an authentic chronicle of myriad events covered by them.


    “A picture is worth a thousand words” says the well-known idiom. In fact, some of the news photos convey the whole story-- the big picture as the title of this exhibition has been aptly named.


    In the course of discharging their duties, news cameramen cover a wide range of events from disasters to celebrations. At times, they might face tough, hostile and challenging situations. However, irrespective of the difficulties or professional hazards, they try to overcome all odds to candidly capture the unfolding event and record it for posterity.


    Dear Friends,


    I believe photography, at its best, is a powerful language which speaks to our emotions. It allows us to tell our story and show others our framing of the world around us.


    It is only through photography that we have been able to imagine our past, our history, and the bygone era, through images captured related to events and personalities. Some of the photographs will forever remain etched in our memory. Such is the power of photography. The iconic ‘Napalm Girl’ picture during the Vietnam war or the more recent photograph of a three-year-old dead Syrian child washed ashore on a beach during the Syrian refugee crisis had created major impact around the world.


    Photography is not just a communication tool but also an influential medium to spread awareness.


    Dear Friends,


    Photographs have gained new recognition in the internet age with the digital medium democratizing space and allowing anybody to showcase their talent and prowess. Digital cameras and cell phones with integrated cameras are generating an explosion of images on the social media-- Instagram, Facebook and Twitter and providing people new platforms to share and communicate.


    Digital Photography is not only providing revenue-generating opportunities to youngsters but also helping governments to improve the governance architecture. To cite an example, digital photography will enable us to get real-time information on the status and progress of infrastructure, irrigation and other projects.


    Similarly, digital photography can also be used to promote campaigns. For instance the ‘Selfie with Daughters’ campaign launched by Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is an example of how social media could be effectively leveraged as an instrument of social change.


    I compliment the All India Working News Cameramen’s Association (WNCA), a national body of print and electronic visual media working journalists, for organizing ‘The BIG PICTURE 2018-19’, the fifth public photo-exhibition of the collective work of WNCA members.


    Although the basic assignments of participants have centered on news events – lifeblood of the media they work for – these photographs are moments in life, capturing fleeting moments. To shoot a candid picture, outside the realm of a photojournalistic assigned field, is a temptation no photographer can resist, and the urge to trip the shutter at the “decisive moment” as the master photographer Henri Cartier Bresson called it, is nothing but a reflex action. Thus, sometimes masterpieces are created through the camera without realizing its importance at the time of event.


    Jaihind!


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1564664) Visitor Counter : 449
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu