      Prime Minister's Office

      English Rendering of PM's speech at inauguration of various development Projects in Agartala on 09 February, 2019
      
      Posted On: 09 FEB 2019 10:30PM by PIB Delhi


    Hail Mother India! Hail Mother India!


    Greetings to the humongous presence of dear Brothers and sisters who have come here to bless me!


    It is a great fortune to once again step on the pious soil of Mother Tripura Sundari and meet you all. It is indeed a delight to see the bliss on your faces for having persevered for over a decade to achieve this development. All along my way to this place I could see the happiness on the faces of the people who are indeed benefitting from the freedom they received 11 months back. It seems you all have really internalized the worth of democracy and development in the past 11 months. I congratulate your dynamic leaders, your affable Chief Minister, deputy CM and his entire team for having led Tripura towards a new path of development ंand confidence.


    Friends, before coming here, I had the opportunity to unveil the statue of Maharaja Bir Bikram Kishore Manikya Bahadur Ji at the airport campus. To be welcomed by such a visionary who stands as an epitome of development, who actuated the dreams of Tripura state, indeed induces immense positivity in anyone who visits here. The installation of his statue at the airport shall be a reminder of his commitment to the state and will be a great inspiration to all.


    The present government is now engaged in accelerating the development of Tripura. I have been told that for the first time in the history of the state, Paddy has been procured from farmers on the basis of Minimum Support Price (MSP). It shocks me that this was never done earlier even when Delhi had the same government as your state- instead they engaged more in preposterous speeches at Delhi. High time such politicians and their malefic intentions are exposed. Friends, the Centre has left no stone unturned to ensure the development of Tripura. Past four years we have released adequate funds for this purpose. Unfortunately due to the regressive attitude of the past government the targets could not be accomplished. Despite this, for the benefit of lakhs of employees, I ensured that the recommendations of Seventh Pay Commission is implemented. This was expected from the past government who on the one hand speak in support of human rights and labor laws at elite global forums, while they conveniently ignored the implementation of the recommendations of Pay commission. They rather preferred to politicize such matters during their reign. While they relegated Tripura to remain a marginalized state, it is now finally rising to enter the mainstream.


    Friends, in order to advance the common man's interest in Tripura, I have just inaugurated developmental projects worth lakhs and millions. Whether the Garcia-Belonia section of the Agartala-Saburum railway line or the new campus of the Tripura Institute of Technology, it is going to connect the youth here with new opportunities.


    Friends, when I came here during the elections, I talked about the HIRA model of development. While most people make promises during elections, and conveniently forget things, I am personally standing here and advocating the HIRA model. It meant H-highway, I-I-way, R-railway, A-airway- HIRA.


    These projects like National Highway Project from Agartala to Suborrah, Railway line, Hamsafar Express, Agartala-Deodhar Express, Second Terminal at Agartala airport are a glimpse of the same HIRA model. Such projects are going to create new employment opportunities in Tripura, since it opens further avenues for industrial growth.


    Friends, your Tripura which was declared a land lock state and deprived the right of development, we are ensuring it now achieves the status of the new Gateway of South East Asia. With the help of Bangladesh Government, Tripura is going to get the benefit of water connectivity through the port of Chittagong and Ashuganj Port. The work on the Bridge of Feni River is also speeding up. With the completion of this bridge, deepening of the river Gomti will be accomplished. Tripura will then no more remain a part of North East but it will be on the way to becoming the commercial hub of South East Asia.


    Now tell me, did Gomti River come after Narendra Modi became the prime minister? Was it not flowing here before? It was here... Wasn’t it? Wasn’t it here even before Viplab ji became the chief minister? Haven’t you yourself seen it? The former government could never see it. We have decided to deepen the river Gomti so that ships can play.


    Brothers and Sisters, during the last few months, the government here has made constant efforts to simplify your life through technology. Efforts are being made on war footing so that Tripura will also soon benefit like the rest of the country through internet in getting smooth access to public amenities like Ration, land issues or other services. This digital campaign has further curbed the dubious activities of intermediaries. And I was told that in our Tripura, more than 62 thousand fake people were getting the benefit of government schemes, those who existed only on paper, grew up on paper and received the money on paper. And who were filling their coffers by robbing money through these fictitious identities you know for sure now.


    Friends, in this way, for the last four and a half years, we have eliminated eight crore fake beneficiaries of such fraudulent transactions across the country from the system. These were those who used to pilfer rations, swindle pensions and scholarships due to the rightful. Now you tell me who created such a system of intermediaries and brokers? Please speak out vehemently - who are those responsible? Who wasted your resources?


    Friends, the 55 years old government in Delhi, along with two decades of governance at Tripura are partners in crime and accountable for such an abysmal state of affairs here. This fellowship of the racketeers, fraudster intermediaries along with the corrupt officials robbed the poor middle class of Tripura of their rights to avail the government schemes.


    Friends it is the past government which itself has been the custodian of such calamitous handshake of agents and intermediaries. Hence, they are once again dreaming of forming a government in Delhi to foster this fellowship further. They are fearful and wary of a strong government at the center. You tell me, don’t we need a strong government at the Centre? Can we run such a big country without a strong government? Can the decisions be made without a stable and robust government? Can the country move forward without a strong government? Can the future of youngsters be ensured without a strong government? They need a hapless government so that they can conveniently fill their own coffers, fulfil all the desires of their heir apparent, so that they get an open ground for all their trickery. Now you tell me, brothers and sisters- should the country not get a strong government?


    It has become a competition of sorts to hurl expletives on Modi these days. It seems as some kind of Olympics. Sadly the fraudsters conglomerate is up to this only. Just see the height of opportunism. Look at how the fraudsters conglomerate walk hand in hand for photo-ops in Delhi and Kolkata. I am sure you notice the adverse equation of the same coalition in Tripura. Can they see eye to eye in Tripura? Or in Kerala? Or are they together in Bengal? This campaign of the coalition is just an eyewash to digress the citizens.


    What else can they do other than pulling down/defaming Modi at every opportunity? They believe that the citizens are also blinded. For them it is a political gimmick belittling the reasoning and wisdom of the citizens. They are still living in the yonder years that their doings will never be exposed. The way you challenged them during the state elections, the country shall show them the doors for the lies they have been propagating in their manifestoes.


    Brothers and Sisters, you only have to ask them once what is in their agenda or scheme for the farmers? You ask them what they have planned for farmers. Aren’t they answerable for this? Aren’t they accountable for the farmer’s upliftment? But what do they prefer to do in return… ask them about farmers and they spew venom against Modi. If you ask them a what have they planned for the labor class shouldn’t they answer … but what do they do… hurl serious expletives on Modi. Question them on what is their manifesto for the future of youth, and they instead of addressing the queries choose to abuse Modi. More the questions shot bigger the abuse for Modi. For every question the only answer is Abuse Modi, defame Modi as much as you can. This is their only work.


    Brothers and Sisters, the dubious fellowship of past government and fraudsters are now feeling threatened with the faith displayed by the youth, the poor and the farmers of the country on Narendra Modis leadership. They have now reposed faith on Modi that he will ensure their life aspirations are fulfilled. The work that Modi does instates hope and faith among the citizens of the country. Expectations are rising and this the opposition have realized.


    Friends, in the past four and a half years the work done by the government shall receive more force with the inclusive budget which is designed with the vision of Collective Efforts-Inclusive Growth “Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas”. Be it farmers, youth, labor class or middle class the budget includes never before provisions for all.


    Brothers and sisters, we have taken into account the concerns of such citizens who have remained mostly excluded from schemes till date by previous governments who simply kept them in their slogans to attract votes. Now you tell me what provisions have been made by previous governments for the household helps, construction workers, rickshaw pullers, street vendors and other such unorganized labor class? The Communist Party proclaim themselves to be the messiah of such labor class, but they do not have any idea of doing anything for the unorganized labor. They were partners in the central government and reigned for so long, but did they ever remember to do anything for this unorganized labor class. Did they announce any schemes for them ever?


    Friends, the previous governments could not achieve this as their intentions were not clear. The Government of a tea seller has formulated another visionary scheme with clean intention called “Pradhan Mantri Shramyogi Mandhan Yojna” which will benefit the skilled laborers of the unorganized sector. As per the provisions of this scheme such laborers will receive regular pension of 3000 rupees after attaining 60 years of age. The beneficiaries will be those labor class whose monthly income is less than 15 thousand rupees. They can avail this facility by depositing a minimal amount of 100 rupees in a month or more as is their capacity. The government will deposit the equal amount deposited by them in their pension account monthly.


    Friends, in the same way several provisions are being made for cattle keepers, farmers and fishermen. Historic announcement was made by introducing PM Kisan Yojna which ensures that 12 crores farmers across the country will receive 6000 rupees every year directly in their personal bank accounts from the government in three installments of 2000 rupees each. My efforts is to ensure that the first instalment reaches their accounts at the earliest. This provision is for those farmers who have less than or upto 5 acres of land.


    In the same way like the farmers, those involved in animal husbandry shall also be provided with credit card facility so that they can avail bank loans at lower interests and save themselves of the trap of money lenders.


    To resolve real time, and handle the problems faced by the fishermen of the state it has been decided to constitute a separate department.


    Friends, all these programs shall also add force to the implementation of those schemes which are underway for the past four and a half years. For example, robust implementation of Ayush Bharat Scheme that will provide free health care upto 5 lakhs to the BPL category of Tripura state.


    The BPL category is reaping the benefits of Ujjwala Yojna which provides free LPG connection.


    Those who did not have home are now receiving Pucca houses as a part of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojna. They also benefitted from the Swacchh Bharat Abhiyan and constructed free toilets. They are also receiving accident and life insurance of two lakhs with a nominal premium of one rupee 90 paisa only.


    I am informed that within the last 11 months itself about 2 lakhs gas cylinders have been issued already. In such a small state like Tripura 2 lakhs gas connections and above 20 thousand homes and about 1.25 lakhs toilets have already been provided to the poor. All these conveniences are ensuring the upliftment of the poor and improving their standard of living.


    Friends, Tripura is known for its indigenous/tribal population. In the forthcoming budget, fund allocation for their development has been enhanced manifold. For the first time, it has also been decided to form a commission for the nomadic tribe of Tripura to enhance their identity.


    Brothers and sisters, our central government is also stepping ahead with the aim to strengthen the autonomous council, a demand which had been made long back. Vide this amendment, we aim to make the council more self-sustainable as well as further empowered. I am hopeful, post this amendment, all the parts will benefit from balanced and speedy developmental opportunities.


    Friends, all our efforts are towards taking robust measures to ensure five pronged development which includes child education, youth employment, health provisions for ageing, irrigation facility for farmers and ensuring basic public conveniences and public voice to all. Tripura Institute of Technology is one such important mission of ours for the youth which will align education with employment. This institute will open up opportunities of quality education and better employment and ensure a bright future for the youth of Tripura. The present government is taking all necessary steps to reinstate the education infrastructure of the state by eliminating the ill doings of the past government.


    Friends, I have been informed that the state government has exterminated a malpractice that was hampering/hindering the implementation of equal employment opportunities for youth of Tripura. Earlier, employment in government jobs were the privilege of the associates out of their fear of the then ruling party only. Such infrastructure has been completely eliminated now. Now, the youth of Tripura will be evaluated and appointed only on their merit and skill for which a transparent system is being developed.


    It satisfies me to see that peace and nonviolence is reinstated in the state, the era of fearfulness is now gone and Tripura has tread on the path of higher achievements and development.


    I am indeed very happy that it will be possible for the residents of Tripura to receive the blessings of Mata Tripureshwari, offer prayers, perform the holy hawan, and celebrate Diwali, Holi and all other festivals with great fervor and freedom.


    Brothers and Sisters, 11 months back for the New Tripura which you all had voted for, you also have to give strength and mandates to achieve the same. You have to strengthen the bonds between Agartala and Delhi. New avenues will be actuated with your trust and conviction only.


    I once again express my deep sense of gratitude for your blessings and humongous presence today.


    Strengthen my call out with me -


    Hail Mother India!


    Hail Mother India!


    Hail Mother India!


    Many Many Thanks!


    *****


    AKT/SH/SS/RSB/Anil

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564814) Visitor Counter : 214
    
    
      Read this release in: Gujarati , Hindi