      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister reviews security scenario in J&K at a high-level meeting in Srinagar
      
      
      Shri Rajnath Singh directs security brass to enhance drill during troop movement
      Posted On: 15 FEB 2019 8:52PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh today visited Srinagar to take stock of the ground situation in Jammu and Kashmir in the wake of the heinous terrorist attack on a CRPF convoy yesterday, which resulted in heavy casualties.
    
    He laid wreath on the coffins of martyred soldiers at the Regional Training Centre of CRPF in Srinagar. Shri Rajnath Singh was accompanied by Jammu & Kashmir Governor Shri Satya Pal Malik, Union Home Secretary Shri Rajiv Gauba, DG, CRPF Shri Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar and other senior officials of CRPF and JK Police.
    
    Two minutes silence was observed in remembrance of the supreme sacrifice made by the brave soldiers. Later Shri Rajnath Singh shouldered a coffin in a symbolic gesture and bodies were taken to be handed over to their respective families.
    
    The Union Home Minister also visited the Army Base hospital to inquire about the health of five injured soldiers and expressed satisfaction at their speedy recovery.
    
    Later, at a high level meeting attended by the Governor, senior security and police officers, the Union Home Minister reviewed the security situation in the state. Senior CRPF officials narrated the details of the terrorist attack on the CRPF convoy. Senior police officials assured that the perpetrators of the dastardly attack would be brought to justice.
    
    Shri Rajnath Singh directed them to take all possible measures to enhance IED detection capabilities and undertake additional measures to restrict civilian traffic during troop movement.
    
    Before leaving for New Delhi, Shri Rajnath Singh addressed a press conference. He said the whole country salutes the brave soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice. He said all state Governments have been asked to extend maximum possible assistance to their families.
    
    The Union Home Minister said the country is fighting a decisive battle against terrorism unitedly and will certainly emerge victorious. He said the world stands with India and the morale of the security forces is very high.
    He reiterated that only a miniscule numbers of misguided youth have joined hands with those across the border in their evil design to spread terrorism.
    Shri Rajnath Singh said these elements are enemies of the people of Jammu & Kashmir. He called for a review of personal security of those elements who take money from Pakistan's ISI.
    The Union Home Minister appealed the people to maintain communal harmony.


    *******


    BB/NK/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1564834) Visitor Counter : 646
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi