      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      National Conference on “Sustainable and Environment-friendly Industrial Production”
      Posted On: 15 FEB 2019 6:37PM by PIB Delhi


      Under Indo-German Development Cooperation, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change(MoEFCC) organized Second National Conference today at Hyatt Hotel, New Delhi on Sustainable and Environment-friendly Industrial Production (SEIP) Project which isa joint programme of Ministry &GIZ -The Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit GmbH or GIZ in short is a German development agency.


      The project concludes in two weeks and Ministry organized this conference for dissemination of results, successful models and experiences so as to enable replication and plan further actions with state agencies on Pan-India basis. The project worked directly with companies and advised them on environment friendly production and wastewater management in 5 industrial areas in three states (Delhi, Uttarakhand and Gujarat).


      Amongst 70 participants included representatives from 18 State Pollution Control Boards and 8 State Industrial Departments including representation from J&K, Tripura, Jharkhand, Goa, Gujarat, Rajasthan, etc.


      Shri A. K. Jain, Additional Secretary, MoEFCC inaugurated the conference and stressed thatRegional Replication Workshops shall be carried out at various locations involving state local bodies, in the next phase of SEIP, for further dissemination of results. He also stated that government representatives shalltake learnings from today and come back to Ministry sharing their experience. Amongst other dignitaries were Ms. Manju Pandey – Joint Secretary and Mr. Rakesh Kumar -Director from MoEFCC, Mr. Wolfgang Koester- German Embassy, Dr. Julie Reverie- Country Director GIZ, Mr. Raghu Babu- SEIP Project Director GIZ and Mr. A. Sudhakar from CPCB.


      Some major interventions from this project which were discussed over the day included topics as – Resource efficiency and cleaner production in industries (as there have been over 100 success stories from this action), voluntary action by industries and industrial associations, skills development, sustainability standards for industrial areas, etc.


      ***


      KSP/nb

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564784) Visitor Counter : 1724
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi , Urdu