      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Rehabilitation of Beggars
      Posted On: 12 FEB 2019 5:28PM by PIB Delhi


    As per the 7 th Schedule of the Constitution of India and under serial no. 9 of State List, the subject matter of "Relief of the disabled and unemployable" comes under the purview of State List. The States are responsible for taking necessary preventive and rehabilitative steps. As per available information, as many as 20 States and 2 Union Territories have either enacted their own Anti-Beggary Legislation or adopted legislations enacted by other States/UTs.


    The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment released an amount of Rs. One crore during 2017-18 & fifty lakhs during 2018-19 to National Backward Classes Finance & Development Corporation (NBCFDC) for skill development programmes for beggars on pilot basis.


    According to NBCFDC, an MoU has been signed with NGOs/VOs for mobilizing & handholding 400 members of the beggar’s community in five districts of Ghaziabad, Rampur, Moradabad, Madhepura and Kolkata for providing skill training programme through Government Training Institutes and Sector Skill Councils in Handicraft, logistics apparel & Furniture trades.


    The Ministry of Women and Child Development has informed that they are implementing Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS) with the objective of creating a safe and secure environment for children in need of care and protection including those children who are found begging. Under ICPS, financial assistance is provided to the State Governments/UT Administrations for, inter-alia, undertaking a situational analysis of children in difficult circumstances, for setting up and maintenance of various types of Child Care Institutions (CCIs). The Scheme provides institutional care through CCIs. As a rehabilitative measure in these CCIs, children are provided age appropriate education either within the institution or outside in a formal education system through convergence with other schemes and programs of the Government or Civil Society.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Vijay Sampla in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.


    *****


    NB/SK/jk/SJ&E-2/12-02-2019


    

    
    (Release ID: 1564072) Visitor Counter : 472