      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Government releases comprehensive publication on various initiatives taken towards combating and adapting to climate change
      Posted On: 12 FEB 2019 4:37PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change released a publication today in New Delhi on climate actions in India titled “India – Spearheading Climate Solutions”. This publication “India – Spearheading Climate Solutions” mentions the key actions India has taken under various sectors towards combating and adapting to climate change.


    Releasing the publication Union Environment, Forest and Climate Change Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan said that India has been one of the proactive countries in the world that has been working on multiple aspects of climate change at domestic as well as international level . Expressing happiness over the release Dr. Harsh Vardhan said that this publication not only highlights our achievements towards climate action but also our preparedness for future. “ The initiatives captured in this publication are reflection of our commitment towards addressing climate change concerns while keeping a fine balance with the sustainable development priorities”, said the Union Minister.


    Further, the Environment minister said that we all know that climate change has become a global problem and the continuing change in climate across the world is posing threat to our environment and society. “Today, it’s easy to get disheartened or fearful about climate change but, I always believe that there is a solution to every problem; you just need to find it.”, said Dr. Vardhan.


    In the last four years, many clean and green development initiatives taken at both the state and national level have significantly contributed to the adaptation and mitigation of climate change. A number of new policies and initiatives in various sectors like e-mobility, green transportation, renewable energy, waste management, afforestation, water, etc. have also been introduced to minimise the impact of climate change.


    In the recent past the Government of India has taken number of initiatives to combat the challenge of climate change. Some of the key initiatives of Government of India include the National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC), National Adaptation Fund on Climate Change (NAFCC), Climate Change Action Programme (CCAP) and State Action Plan on Climate Change (SAPCC)


    The ambitious goal of generating 175 GW of renewable energy by 2022, smart cities, electric vehicles, energy efficiency initiatives, leapfrogging from Bharat Stage -IV to Bharat Stage-VI emission norms by April 2020 etc. have been undertaken proactively to minimise the impact of climate change.


    The renewable energy capacity stands at more than 74 GW today which includes about 25 GW from solar. India’s forest and tree cover has increased by 1 percent as compared to assessment of 2015. Schemes like UJALA for LED distribution has crossed the number of 320 million while UJJWALA for distributing clean cooking stoves to women below poverty line has covered more than 63 million households.


    India recently submitted its Second Biennial Update Report (BUR) to UNFCCC in December 2018 as per the reporting obligations under the convention. The report brings out the fact that emission intensity of India’s GDP came down by 21% between 2005 & 2014 and India’s achievement of climate goal for pre-2020 period is on track.


    Some of the major initiatives included in the publication are:


     1. India’s National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) which covers eight major missions on Solar, Enhanced Energy Efficiency, Sustainable Habitat, Water, Sustaining the Himalayan Ecosystem, Green India, Sustainable Agriculture and Strategic Knowledge on Climate Change


     2. International Solar Alliances (ISA)


     3. State Action Plan on Climate Change (SAPCC)


     4. FAME Scheme – for E-mobility


     5. Atal Mission for Rejuvenation & Urban Transformation (AMRUT) – for Smart Cities


     6. Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana – for access to clean cooking fuel


     7. UJALA scheme - for embracing energy efficient LED bulbs


     8. Swachh Bharat Mission


    ***


    GK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564033) Visitor Counter : 1347
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi
    
    
    

8.