      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Delegation led by President of All Manipur Dalit Development Association calls on MoS (DoNER) Dr Jitendra Singh
      
      Equitable development of all states a priority of Central Government, says Minister
      Posted On: 14 FEB 2019 3:21PM by PIB Delhi


    A delegation led by President of All Manipur Dalit Development Association, Shri T. M. Rajen Ayangba called on the Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) Development of North-Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr Jitendra Singh, here today. The delegation discussed various issues related to their economic and social empowerment. The issues pertained to their employment & education and living standards of people residing in hilly areas, among others.


    Dr Jitendra Singh said that equitable development of all states has been the priority of the Government led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi. He said that the Government has taken various initiatives for the development of north eastern states. The Prime Minister has visited North East many times in the last four years to initiate these development projects in many areas, he added. These efforts have led to peace and development in the North Eastern states of India, the Minister said. Dr Jitendra Singh said that the “Hill Area Development Programme” (HADP) for Northeast was first announced by the Government in Imphal (Manipur) , to be initiated on a pilot basis in the hilly districts of the state. He emphasised that priority of the Government has been to bring the North Eastern Region States at par with the more developed States in the rest of India.


    After discussing the issues, the DoNER Minister assured the delegation that he will forward their memorandum to the concerned ministries for necessary action at their end.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564531) Visitor Counter : 468
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi