      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Amrut Cities--Municipal Corporations of Raigarh, Ambikapur, and Kumbakonam Bag Top Swachhata Excellence Awards
      
      City Swachhata Livelihoods Awards for ULBS Introduced for Creating Enabling Environment for Dignified Livelihoods In Sanitation Sector

      Posted On: 15 FEB 2019 6:58PM by PIB Delhi

    AMRUT cities and Municipal Corporationsof Raigarh, Ambikapur and Kumbakonamhavebagged the first, second and third prizes respectively of Swachhata Excellence awards 2019. Nagar PalikaParishadJashpur Nagar, Malappuram Municipality, and Nagar PalikaParishadSurajpurhave claimed the prizesin the category of Statutory Towns. For Million Plus Cities, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has been awarded with first prize. For Aspirational Districts, Chas Municipal Corporation has been awarded with a consolation prize. Giving away the awards here today, Shri DurgaShanker Mishra, Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), said that “each and every family needs to contribute towards making a New India including making Swachchata as a matter of habit. Once success stories on swachchata come from the common families, it will attain the shape of a Jan Aandolon”. He also chaired a national workshop where Shri Sanjay Kumar, Joint Secretary and Mission Director (DAY-NULM), and Shri Vinod Kr. Jindal, Joint Secretary (SBM-U) were also present.


    A total of 40 awards were distributed to the Area Level Federations (ALFs), City Livelihoods Federations (CLFs) and Urban Local Bodies (ULBs). 28 ALFs received Swachhata Excellence Awards, out of these 13 ALFs were conferred first prize of Rs. 2 lakh each, 10 ALFs were given second prize of Rs. 1.50 lakh each and 1 ALF was given third prizes of Rs. 1 lakh. Besides 4 ALFs received consolation awards of Rs. 1 lakh each. 4 CLFs received national awards, out of which 1 CLF was conferred first prize of Rs. 2.50 lakh, 1 CLF was given second prize of Rs. 2 lakh, and 2 CLFs tied in third position, received Rs. 1.50 lakh each.


    New learning resources prepared by the DAY-NULM Technical Support Unit, set up by Urban Management Center, Ahmedabad and supported by the Bill & Melinda gates Foundation were released. These included Urban Livelihoods e-Learning and Resource Network (U-LEARN), which is first of its kind online e-learning portal for building capacity of DAY-NULM mission functionaries, a Financial Literacy Module for Sanitation Workers, a training module for ULB officials and a compendium of case studies on the critical role of community organizations in urban sanitation and waste management.


    This year the event formed part of the ShehriSamridhiUtsav , an initiative organized by MoHUA during the first two weeks of February, during which a number of activities and events have been organized at the City, State and National level. Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana – National Urban Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NULM) works towards alleviating urban poverty through strong community institutions, skill training, access to affordable credit for self-employment, support for street vendors and provision of shelters for the urban homeless. Swachhata Excellence Awards were instituted by Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs (MoHUA) in 2017, to encourage Area Level Federations (ALFs) of SHGs formed under DAY-NULM, for their initiatives to make their communities Swachh and help their cities achieve the outcomes of Swachha Bharat Mission – Urban (SBM-U). This year the awards have been extended to include the City Livelihoods Federations (CLFs) of SHGs. The City Swachhata Livelihoods Awards for Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) have been introduced this year for the ULBs for creating an enabling environment for dignified livelihoods in sanitation sector.


    ***


    RJ/KGS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1564790) Visitor Counter : 1225
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi