      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      National Policy for Domestic Workers
      Posted On: 13 FEB 2019 5:24PM by PIB Delhi


    The Central Government has not enacted any separate law to protect the interest of domestic workers. However, the Ministry of Labour & Employment is considering to formulate a National Policy on Domestic Workers which is in the draft stage. The salient features of the proposed draft National Policy on Domestic Workers are as under:


    (i) Inclusion of Domestic Workers in the existing legislations.


    (ii) Domestic workers will have the right to register as unorganized workers. Such registration


    will facilitate their access to rights & benefits.


    (iii) Right to form their own associations/unions


    (iv) Right to minimum wages, access to social security


    (v) Right to enhance their skills


    (vi) Protection of Domestic Workers from abuse and exploitation


    (vii) Domestic Workers to have access to courts, tribunals for grievance redressal


    (viii) Establishment of a mechanism for regulation of private placement agencies.


    (ix) Establishment of a grievance redressal system for domestic workers.


    The Unorganized Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008 has been enacted for providing social security to all unorganized workers including domestic workers. The Act provides formulation of social security schemes viz life and disability cover, health and maternity benefits & old age protection. The State Governments are mandated under the Unorganized Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008 to formulate suitable welfare schemes for the unorganized sector workers including domestic workers relating to provident fund, employment injury benefits housing, education schemes for children, skill up gradation of workers, financial assistance & old age homes.


    The State Governments of Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerela, Odisha, Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab, Tamilnadu and Tripura have included domestic workers in the schedule of Minimum Wages Act and the Workers are also entitled to file case before the concerned authorities in case of grievance in this regard. The matter of constitution of State Domestic Workers Board is under the jurisdiction of the State Governments.


    This information was given by Shri Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of State (I/C) for Labour and Employment in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    ****


    RCJ/SKP/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564261) Visitor Counter : 1449
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu