      Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs

      All Political Parties condemn the Pulwama Terror Attack and pledge support to the Government
      
      Nation stands united with peace-loving people of Kashmir in condemning cross border terrorism against India: Shri Narendra Singh Tomar

      Posted On: 16 FEB 2019 4:02PM by PIB Delhi

    "The Nation is expressing its deep anguish against the cowardly terrorist attack on our security forces in Pulwama. We are fully geared to fight a decisive battle against the scourge of terrorism against our country and our government is committed to take this fight to its logical conclusion", said Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Rural Development, Panchayati Raj and Mines, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar while addressing the media here today. This address took place after the conclusion of the Meeting of floor leaders of various political parties in Parliament, on Pulwama terror attack, chaired by the Union Minister for Home Affairs, Shri Rajnath Singh.
    
    Condemning the dastardly attack, Shri Tomar said that, "the supreme sacrifice of our brave soldiers shall not go in vain. The Government has given a free hand to the security forces to deal with the forces promoting terrorism against India”. Government of India, from the very beginning, has followed a policy of zero tolerance against terrorism and this cowardly terrorist attack displays a sense of frustration in the terrorists due to this policy only, the Minister added.


    The Government is standing strong with the bereaved family members of these Jawans and will not leave any stone unturned to help them. The Union Government has already requested all the State Governments to provide requisite aid to these families, the Minister informed.

    
    Acknowledging the support of all political parties in the fight against terrorism, Shri Tomar said that the Nation stands united with the peace-loving people of Kashmir in condemning the forces encouraging cross border terrorism against India. The Minister said that there are elements in the State of Jammu Kashmir who are determined to unsettle the peace and are hand-in-glove with the terrorist forces. Such people are enemies to the Kashmiri Youth and they do not want that peace sustains in the State. Shri Tomar quoted the Home Minister and said that the Government is committed to eliminate the evil of terrorism from Jammu & Kashmir and return peace and tranquility to the State.
    
    Shri Tomar also said that during the meeting all the political parties have, in one voice, condemned the terror attack and observed a two minute silence for the martyred soldiers. A resolution condemning this act of terrorism was also adopted during the meeting, the Minister informed.


    *****


    KSP/VM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564860) Visitor Counter : 570
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi