      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      First Annual Conference of Media Units under I&B Ministry organized
      
      I&B Ministry is among the most vital Ministries of Govt. of India: Col. Rathore
      
      IIS Officers must keep pace with modern technology in the ever evolving communication paradigm: Col. Rathore
      
      Use of regional languages in Government communication is critical: Col. Rathore
      
      Synergy amongst Media Units of I&B Ministry is essential for ensuring better outreach: Shri Amit Khare
      Posted On: 13 FEB 2019 4:26PM by PIB Delhi


    The First Annual Conference of Media Units working under I&B Ministry was organized at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi today. Union Minister of State (IC) for Information & Broadcasting and Youth Affairs & Sports Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore chaired the Conference.


    During the Conference, performance of the Media Units was reviewed. The focus of the Conference was on ensuring synergy between the Media Units in their day to day functioning. Discussions on using modern technological tools for communication was also done during the course of Conference.


    Speaking at the inaugural session, Col. Rathore appreciated the work being done by officers of Indian Information Service (IIS) officers and highlighted the significance of I&B Ministry stating that it is one of the most important and vital Ministries of the Government. He exhorted IIS officers to work with mission orientation in order to excel further in their work. He also focussed on the need to adopt and adapt with modern technology to use the new age tools in the ever evolving communication paradigm. The Minister said that the litmus test of the work of Media Units is in reaching out to grassroot level, while also highlighting the criticality of using regional languages in government communication. The Minister also appreciated recent decision of I&B Ministry of introducing foreign training component for IIS Probationers, while stressing the need of continuously working towards improving training, both at induction level and in-service level.


    Secretary, Ministry of I&B, Shri Amit Khare said that all the Media Units need to work with better synergy in order to improve the outcome for better outreach. He also stressed on the need to work with result orientation, while highlighting the importance of continuously aligning with ever changing technology.


    The Conference was attended by over 125 Officers from across the country working in various Media Units of Ministry of I&B.


    ***


    AP


    

    
    (Release ID: 1564226) Visitor Counter : 1184
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Tamil , Malayalam