      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Mobile App to Allow Beneficiaries to Capture & Upload Photographs of Completed Houses
      
      
      Uploading of Selfies of Beneficiaries with their Houses also Made Operational
      
      Hardeep Puri Launches PMAY (U) Mobile Application
      Posted On: 14 FEB 2019 6:16PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Hardeep S Puri,Minister of State (I/C) for Housing and Urban Affairs has stated that thePMAY (U) Mobile Appwill allow beneficiaries to capture and upload high resolution photographs of completed houses along with their families. The App will also allow uploading of selfies of beneficiaries with their house and a 30 - 60 seconds video clip where beneficiaries share their stories of owning a house under PMAY (U). These stories would be an emotional recount of experiences such as increased self-esteem, sense of pride and dignity, improved social status, safety and security for the family, protected environment for the girl child, children’s education among others. He was speaking at the launch of the PMAY(U) Mobile App here today. A one-minute film showcasing the impact of PMAY(U) in the lives of beneficiaries was also released on the occasion. Shri DurgaShanker Mishra, Secretary, MoHUA and Shri Amrit Abihijat, Joint Secretary and Mission Director, Housing for All were also present during the event.


    Shri Hardeep S.Puri emphasized that the mission intends to create a closer interface with its beneficiaries. Hence a mobile application has been developed to bring beneficiaries directly in contact with the mission.The application wouldallow beneficiaries of PMAY (U) to capture and upload photosand videos of completed houses along with testimonies.Thesephotos and videos ofbeneficiary testimonies will be scrutinized at State as well as at Central level. The selected beneficiaries from States/UTswould be awarded and invited as special guestfor anniversary celebration of PMAY (U)


    The one-minutefilm showcases the impact of PMAY (U) on the lives of beneficiaries from across the country. It narrates the stories of happy families experiencing a transformation of owning a house with all basic amenities which include water, electricity, kitchen with gas connection and toilet. The film narrates, how PMAY (U) is contributing in transforming the lives of all Indians starting from Kashmir to Kerala and empowering them from different walks of life. It has encapsulated the journeys and emotions of families belonging to different regions of the country who feel connected with a common feeling i.e. the pride of owning their dream house through PMAY (U).


    The PMAY (U) mission was launched on 25 th June 2015 with the aim to provide houses to every eligible urban household in India by the year 2022. The scheme has achieved a significant milestone of approving more than 73 lakh houses against a validated demand for about one crore houses in urban areas. Around 40 Lakh houses are at various stages of construction and more than 15 lakh houses have already been completed. Further around 12 lakh houses are being constructed using new and emerging technologies.


    RJ


    

    
    (Release ID: 1564619) Visitor Counter : 1062
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi