      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      DEPWD organises regional conference on Deendayal Disabled Rehabilitation scheme (DDRS) at Kolkata on 18th February, 2019
      Posted On: 17 FEB 2019 11:12AM by PIB Delhi


    For the overall empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangajan), a “Regional Conference on Deendayal Disabled Rehabilitation Scheme (DDRS”) is being organizedby the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD), Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of India at Kolkata, West Bengalon 18 th February, 2019 (Monday).It will cover 13 States of Eastern & North Eastern region namelyWest Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim & Tripura. The stakeholders i.e. the NGOs receiving grant under DDRS, State Government Officers & District level officers will be participating.


    Under the scheme, every year more than 600 NGOs are provided with financial assistance for running their projects for the rehabilitation of persons with disability such as Special school, pre-school and early intervention, Halfway Homes and Community Based Rehabilitation etc. The NGOs being funded are catering the rehabilitative services to more than 35000 to 40000 beneficiaries every year. Apart from this, the role of State Government is very crucial. The recommendation from the District Social Welfare Officer and State Government is important in release of grant-in-aid to NGOs.


    The objectives of the Conference are to disseminate the provisions of the revised scheme and to sensitize various stake holders about it. This conference also provides a unique opportunity for interactions amongst all stakeholders. The conference would ensure exchange of cross-sectoral views on the aspects of the efficacy of the scheme as well as the scope of improvements in it.


    The Deendayal Disabled Rehabilitation Scheme has been revised for making it more impactful for rehabilitation of PwDs. The list of model projects which have been optimized, includes, Pre-Schools, Early Intervention and Training; Special Schools for---- Persons with Intellectual Disabilities, Hearing and Speech Disabilities; Visual Disabilities; Project for Cerebral Palsied children; Rehabilitation of Leprosy cured persons; Half Way Home for psycho-Social Rehabilitation of treated and controlled Mentally ill persons; Home based Rehabilitation and Home Management; Community Based Rehabilitation Programme (CBR); Low Vision Centres and Human Resource Development.


    Smt. ShakuntalaDoley, Gamlin, Secretary (DEPwD) will be the chief guest of the Conference. She will address the NGOs of DDRS being the partners in the mission of empowerment of persons with disabilities and will be highlighting the need for creation of inclusive society that accepts and respects persons with disabilities without discrimination. She will be encouraging those present at the conference to continue their laudable work in this sector.


    The key note address in this Conference will be given by Dr.Prabodh Seth, Joint Secretary, DEPwDwhowill be giving a detailed account of the scheme. The welcome address will be given by Shri Vikash Prasad. Director, who will also make a presentation highlighting the provisions of the revised scheme and how to implement the scheme effectively. An interactive question &answer session will also be a part of it, in which queries of the participants will be addressed. A few of the organizations who are receiving financial assistance under DDRS will share their views by way of making presentation.


    The conference would have a profound impact on the implementation of the Deendayal Disabled Rehabilitation Scheme for the welfare of the Divyangjan. It will sensitize NGOs about the major changes brought about in the revised scheme and would create awareness among major stakeholders, viz. State Government and District level Officers and NGOs in popularizing the scheme further, thereby promoting the well-being of Divyanjan.


    *****


    Sanjay Kumar/MoSJ&E/17.02.2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1564901) Visitor Counter : 866
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi