      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      'International Vision Zero Conference’ to Promote Occupational Safety and Health Inaugurated in Mumbai Today
      Posted On: 18 FEB 2019 4:46PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Heeralal Samariya, Secretary, Ministry of Labour and Employment inaugurated the three days Conference on the VISION ZERO and its relevance to Occupational Safety and Health being held from 18th to 20th, February, 2019 in Mumbai. The Conference has been organized by Directorate General Factory Advice and Labour Institutes (DGFASLI), Ministry of Labour and Employment, German Social Accident Insurance (DGUV), Germany in association with Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay and International Social Security Association - Manufacturing, Construction and Mining.


    The concept of ‘Vision Zero’ is fast gaining international acceptance and is expected to leverage the efforts of the Government of India to raise the occupational safety and health standards in the country so as to improve the occupational safety and health situation. The concept of Vision Zero is based on four fundamental principles viz. life is non-negotiable, humans are fallible, tolerable limits are defined by human physical resistance, and people are entitled to safe transport and safe workplaces. The Vision is based on principles of Controlling Risks, Ensuring Safety and Health in Machines, Equipment and Workplaces and Skill Upgradation of Workforce.


    The participants attending the conference from various sectors across a wide variety of industries are expected to be benefitted by the common platform provided by the conference through sharing of best practices both nationally and internationally. On the other hand, the international community will get an appraisal of the occupational safety and health status in India thereby exposing the Indian industrial occupational safety and health scenario to the international community.


    The conference provides a forum for promoting safety and health at work by exchanging knowledge, practices and experience. Experts in the field of Occupational Safety and Health reinforce and build networks and alliances while laying the groundwork for cooperation and strengthening relationships. More than 1200 national and international delegates comprising of occupational safety and health professionals from the manufacturing, mining and construction sectors had participated in the conference. The speakers segment comprised of both international speakers from Germany, France, Chile and many more European countries. The speakers from India comprised of top OSH executives and professionals, government officials expert in the field of OSH.


    The Ministry of Labour and Employment has ventured into making international collaborations to further strengthen the labour standards in the country. One of such action was an Memorandum of Understanding entered between (DGFASLI), an attached office of the Ministry of Labour and Employment and the German Social Accident Insurance (DGUV) that seeks to enhance safety and health at work, to reduce the occurrence of work related accidents and diseases and to promote social protection.


    Keeping in tune with the changing industrial scenario, the recommendations of the conference was very vital in achieving sustainable economic progress, in consonance with the changing requirements of safety, health and environment aspects in the country.


    An exhibition showcasing personal protective equipments (PPEs) which are manufactured in India under “Make In India” movement, Occupational Health, High Risk Prevention, Work Environmental Protection etc., has also been organised on the sidelines of the conference by Safety Appliances Manufacture Association (SAMA), all under one roof. The exhibition will provide the most efficient platform to support technological communication and business trade. About 100 leading manufacturers /suppliers from India have participated in the Exhibition.


    Shri Devender Singh, Economic Adviser of Ministry of Labour and Employment, Deven Vipin Khakhar, Director, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay and Dr. Avneesh Singh, Director General, DGFASLI, also graced the occasion.


    *****


    RCJ/SKP/JK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1565040) Visitor Counter : 1048
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi