      Ministry of Defence

      DRDO's Aero India International Seminar - 2019
      Posted On: 18 FEB 2019 9:16PM by PIB Delhi


    The 12 th edition of the Aero India International Seminar (AIS 2019) was inaugurated today at Bengaluru by Member NITI Aayog Dr VK Saraswat. The inaugural function was attended by Secretary (Defence Production) Dr Ajay Kumar, Chairman, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) & Secretary Department of Space Dr K Sivan, Secretary, Department of Defence Research & Development, Chairman, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Director General, Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA) Dr G Satheesh Reddy and President, Aeronautical Society of India (AeSI) Dr RK Tyagi.


    The two-day seminar is organized by DRDO in association with the Aeronautical Society of India (AeSI) on February 18 and 19, 2019. Theme of the seminar is ‘ Emerging Frontiers in Aerospace Technologies ’. The seminar will have extensive interaction and deliberations in domain of Aerospace Materials, Stealth, Hypersonics, Artificial Intelligence and Deep Learning in Aerospace, Sensors, Avionics, Propulsion and UAV/UCAV technologies.


    Dr Saraswat in his inaugural address applauded the work done by DRDO for bridging the technological gaps. He said that the time has come to develop different kinds of weapons particularly in the areas of low intensity conflicts and highlighted the need to bring down the cycle time from research & development to production for better assimilation and absorption of technology in a time bound manner.


    Dr Ajay Kumar, in his address said that the seminar of DRDO is the harbinger to the forthcoming Aero India events. He appreciated the contributions of ISRO and DRDO to the nation. He said DRDO has been playing a great role working with start-ups. DRDO and start-ups should work together to remain frontier in the technology areas.


    Dr K Sivan in his address highlighted the importance of DRDO's role in Gaganyaan mission and expected to have more such collaborations in future programmes.


    Dr G Satheesh Reddy in his address said there is a tremendous transformation in the aerospace sector. Advancements in technologies like propulsion, electronics, structures, and payloads have brought in significant reduction in the size, cost, and weight of Aerospace systems. Smart miniaturized aerospace sensor technologies will be the backbone for futuristic Defence and Aerospace Systems. We need to focus on Artificial Intelligence (AI) in a big way. AI will impact efficiency, productivity, speed and innovation in the emerging aerospace industries. Advanced Materials, Hypersonics, Avionics, Autonomous vehicles and Engines are few of our major thrust areas. It is essential to harness the scientific capabilities in universities and industries and we have to take the lead to develop first of its kind technologies in the country.


    A souvenir of the event was released on the occasion. Special issue of the journal of AeSI and a Monograph named ‘The Incredible Journey of Indian AWACS’ was also unveiled.


    More than 1000 delegates from Services, R&D, Academia including student and industry delegates are participating in the seminar. About 38 speakers from both India and Abroad will deliver talks and will present papers during the seminar.


    ****


    Nampi/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1565132) Visitor Counter : 679
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu