      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Projects worth Rs. 1387.71 Cr in Yamuna towns approved under Namami Gange
      
      NMCG also approved projects on tributaries for Firozabad, Etawah, Baghpat and Meerut

      Posted On: 18 FEB 2019 3:30PM by PIB Delhi

    In its 20 th Executive Committee meeting held on 15 th February, 2019, sewerage infrastructure and other projects worth Rs.1387.71 Cr focusing on towns along river Yamuna have been approved. The projects involve construction and renovation of sewage treatment plants, online monitoring systems of sewage treatment plants and other infrastructure projects.


    Etawah


    Sewage infrastructure project worth Rs 140.6 Crores were given the go-ahead by the EC. This includes interception and diversion of Tixi Nala, upgradation of existing STPs including chlorination systems, a new STP of 2.1 Cr litres per day sewage treatment capacity and online monitoring system of 3 STPs. The project also includes the operations and maintenance of the approved projects at a cost of Rs. 49.74 Cr


    Firozabad


    Sewerage infrastructure projects worth Rs 51.08 crores have been approved by the Executive Committee of Namami Gange. This involves tapping of 2 nalas, construction of 2 sewage pumping station, construction of main sewer lines and other development work. The project also includes the operations and maintenance of the project for 15 years.


    Baghpat


    Projects worth Rs 77.36 crores have been approved in the Baghpat town of Uttar Pradesh for sewerage infrastructure. This includes construction of 1.4 cr litres per day capacity Sewage Treatment plant, tapping of 4 nalas, construction of interception and main sewer line and sewage pumping station. After completion, the projects will be maintained over a period of 15 years.


    Meerut


    The Executive Committee approved projects worth Rs. 681.78 Cr. for development of sewerage infrastructure in Meerut, Uttar Pradesh. The sanctioned projects include creation of new STP with the sewage treatment capacity of 200 MLD, Interception & Diversion of the sewer lines and development of rising mains.


    Agra


    The executive committee approved sewerage infrastructure projects worth Rs 317.2 Cr in Agra. This includes the online monitoring of 6 STPs, automation of existing 15 sewage pumping stations, renovation of sewage pumping stations and operations and maintenance of 29 nala tapings.


    Chunar


    The Executive Committee approved a project worth Rs. 2.70 Cr for Faecal Sludge Management and Pollution Abatement in Chunar city, Uttar Pradesh to be executed by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). This includes the creation of a 10 KLD Faecal Sludge treatment plant. The projects shall include Operations and Maintenance of the KLD by 5 years as well as creating an enabling environment for project execution for which the committee has approved the training of Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) and Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam (UPJN). Other approved components in Chunar include sanitation survey, Geo-tagging of all properties along with web based GIS and MIS.


    Biodiversity Conservation


    Reviving aquatic biodiversity in the Ganga river is one of the key focus areas of the Namami Gange Programme. Important projects have been approved by the Executive Committee to restore aquatic life in the Ganga.


    The second phase of Biodiversity Conservation projects undertaken by Wildlife Institute of India (WII) involves Planning and Management for Aquatic Species Conservation and Maintenance of Eco system Services in river Ganga. The project includes Science-Based aquatic species conservation and maintenance of ecosystem services in the Ganga River Basin. Other important components of the project include capacity building of Forest Department and other stakeholders for effective Ganga biodiversity conservation and Community based aquatic species conservation and outreach in Ganga river basin. This will spread the work done in the first phase to other rivers in the basin while scaling up interventions on the main stem of Ganga.


    Another project is to be taken up by Uttar Pradesh Forest Department. This projects focuses on development of captive breeding infrastructure by procurement of more breeding turtles & Gharials and also conduct post release monitoring to investigate survival rate of Gharials and turtles as well as carry out education, awareness and training Programmes. Another important component of the project is to develop and follow relevant animal husbandry protocols of national and international standards alongside strengthening the existing Laboratory for Aquatic Biology and veterinary unit.


    A project addressing the Urban Drivers of River Health in the Ganga River Basin was awarded to the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA). The project requires developing strategic guidelines to mainstream urban river management into a city’s Master Plan as well as support one selected Class-I town for the systematic preparation of an Urban River Management Plan. NIUA will also roll out three different capacity building modules for selected Urban Local Bodies and other stakeholders in the knowledge and application of matters related to river health management.


    ****


    NP/SKP/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1565017) Visitor Counter : 662
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi