      Prime Minister's Office

      PM to visit Varanasi tomorrow
      
      To flag off first ever Diesel to Electric Converted Locomotive
      
      Foundation stone of Guru Ravidas Birth Place Development Project to be laid
      
      Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital Lehartara to be inaugurated
      
      To unveil several development Projects

      Posted On: 18 FEB 2019 5:30PM by PIB Delhi

    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, will visit Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh tomorrow on 19 February 2019. He will unveil several development projects there.


    PM will flag off the first ever Diesel to Electric Converted Locomotive at Diesel Locomotive Works in Varanasi. He will also inspect the locomotive and visit the exhibition.


    Diesel Locomotive Works has converted two WDG3A Diesel Locos into a Twin Electric WAGC3 loco of 10,000 HP. A complete ‘Make in India’ initiative, the conversion is an Indian R&D innovation for the entire world. The converted locos will result in less Green House Gas emissions and better efficient locomotives for the Indian Railways.


    Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone of Guru Ravidas Birth Place Development Project at Shri Guru Ravidas Janmasthan Temple, Seergoverdhanpur. He will pay homage at the statue of Shri Guru Ravidas. He will also address the gathering.


    PM will inaugurate the newly constructed Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Centre of Banaras Hindu University . The hospital will bring comprehensive yet affordable cancer care to patients in UP, Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttarakhand and, even, neighbouring countries like Nepal.


    Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital Lehartara will also be inaugurated by PM. With the inauguration of both cancer hospitals, Varanasi is set to become an important centre for quality treatment and care in Cancer related ailments.


    Prime Minister Modi will dedicate first new Bhabhatron with precision technology ( Multi Leaf Collimator), to the nation.


    He will unveil the statue of Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya and murals of Varanasi Ghats in BHU. He will also interact with the beneficiaries of PM-JAY Ayushman Bharat at BHU.


    Thereafter, At Aaure village in Varanasi, PM will inaugurate a number of development projects, aimed at boosting health and other sectors in Varanasi and nearby areas. He will distribute certificates to beneficiaries of various schemes. He will also distribute aid and assistive devices to Divyangans. PM will later address the gathering.


    ****


    AKT/KP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1565060) Visitor Counter : 700
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada