      Ministry of Science & Technology

      3 Day International Conference and Exhibition On Energy and Environment to be inaugurated by President of India.
      Posted On: 19 FEB 2019 4:10PM by PIB Delhi


    Both the energy and environment sectors today are at a critical juncture. The rapid expansions of both these sectors are necessary for inclusive growth of the world. At the same time the effects of these growth on the environment, landmass, forest inhabitants, etc. need to be simultaneously addressed.


    In this milieu, CSIR-Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research, Dhanbad is organizing an International Conference and Exhibition on Energy and Environment - Challenges and Opportunities (ENCO-2019), from 20th to 22nd February 2019 in New Delhi. The 3 day conference aims to deliberate and identify the R&D needs to innovate new techniques, technologies and applications for clean, safe, symbiotic sustenance of society, environment, energy and industries in post-2020 era.


    The conference will be inaugurated by the President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind and will have keynote addresses by Union Minister of Science & Technology and Earth Sciences, Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Member, NITI Aayog Dr. V. K. Saraswat and DG, CSIR and Secretary, DSIR Dr Shekhar C Mande.


    Around 1000 delegates from India and abroad will participate in the conference representing policy makers, regulators, thought leaders, managers, entrepreneurs, administrators, practicing engineers, Environmentalist, geo-environmentalists, researchers, academicians and technocrats. The startups, young researchers and students will also attend the conference.


    About 200 papers will be deliberated in the Conference which will includes 9 keynote papers and 150 oral presentations and 50 poster presentations.Delegates from countries like, UK, Australia, China, Republic of Korea, Czech Republic, Germany, USA, Japan, Canada, South Africa, Nigeria etc. are expected to participate in the event.


    The keynote papers will be presented by eminent personalities who have made significant contributions in their respective areas. The list include Dr. V. K. Saraswat, Member (S&T), NITI Aayog on Energy Security and Environmental Challenges; Dr. Anil Kakodkar, President, NASI on Nuclear Power: India's Development Imperative; Prof. Y. P. Chugh, University of Illinois, USA on The Evolving Role of Coal in Global Energy Needs: An Overview; Prof. Joan Esterle, University of Queensland, Australia on A supermodel approach to targeting CBM resources; Dr. S.C. Chetal, Mission Director, AUSC Project on Indian Advanced Ultra Supercritical Programme; Prof. Collin Hills, University of Greenwich, UK on Low-carbon Options for the Valorisation of Indian Steel Slag.


    During the Conference, an industrial exhibition is also organized in the Vigyan Bhawan lawns and which will run in parallel with the technical sessions from February 20-22, 2019. Various PSUs and multinationals have booked fifty (50) stalls to showcase their Company’s profile and to network with global participants from the Industry, for its suppliers and its customers. The list includes, National Thermal Power Corporation, Coal India Limited, Insmart Systems, National Mineral Development Corporation, AIMIL Pvt. Ltd., Hindustan Zinc Ltd. Etc.


    ***


    GK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1565210) Visitor Counter : 769
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu