      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog’s Atal Innovation Mission releases ATL Drone Module at Aero India
      Posted On: 21 FEB 2019 7:09PM by PIB Delhi


    NITI Aayog’s Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) and Drona Aviation, an IIT Bombay start-up, launched the ‘ATL Drone module: Get, Set, Go’ for Atal Tinkering Labs at the ongoing Aero India 2019 in Bengaluru. The ATL Drone Module was launched by Dr. G Satish Reddy, Chairman, DRDO and Sanjay Jaju, Joint Secretary, Department of Defence Production,, along with. Apurva Godbole, CEO, Drona Aviation and representatives of AIM.


    The idea of flying has always been a fascinating concept for all young as well as old. “With the ATL Drone Module, young students of India will learn how to create their own drones and use them for solving community problems in India”, said Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog.
    “In the age of the Fourth industrial revolution, drones are one of the most promising technologies integrating the concepts of physics, maths, chemistry, engineering and sensor technologies creating a tremendous range of innovative solutions that can be developed using them”, said Mr R Ramanan, Mission Director, AIM.


    Drona Aviation is India’s first developer drone company, with a focus on drone innovation. The ATL Drone Module aims at building this open source community of tinkerers who will learn and buid on drone ideas to showcase their many possible application. “Created with iterations and feedback from hundreds of students and teachers over the last three years, we hope that this module can be the spark and twig to start the fire of drone revolution in our country”, said Mr Godbole.


    Through t he ATL Drone module, sky indeed is the limit for their creativity and innovation. Students will be able to connect this module to their academic subjects, especially physics and mathematics, and enhance their spatial problem-solving skills.


    Atal Innovation Mission, housed at NITI Aayog, is Government of India’s flagship initiative to foster a spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship across India. With the vision to empower our young generation with the 21 st century skills of design thinking, problem solving, collaboration, critical thinking and so on, AIM has selected more than 5000 Atal Tinkering Labs (ATLs) where young innovators get access to latest technologies of microelectronics, Internet of Things (IoT), 3D printing, robotics, drone technology, artificial intelligence and so on. Previously, an ATL Space Module was also launched to inspire young innovators to reach for the stars. The drone module is set to give further impetus to their ambitions in an imaginative way.


    AKT/SH/SKS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1565883) Visitor Counter : 1554
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi