      Prime Minister's Office

      PM visits Varanasi
      
      Flags off first ever Diesel to Electric Converted Locomotive
      
      Foundation stone of Guru Ravidas Birth Place Development Project laid
      
      ‘Government is punishing the corrupt, rewarding the honest,’ says PM Modi

      Posted On: 19 FEB 2019 12:52PM by PIB Delhi

    The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, visited Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh. He laid foundation stone of Guru Ravidas Birth Place Development Project to mark Ravidas Jayanti celebrations.


    PM flagged off the first ever Diesel to Electric Converted Locomotive at Diesel Locomotive Works in Varanasi.


    PM flagging off the first ever Diesel to Electric Converted Locomotive at Diesel Locomotive Works in Varanasi.


    In line with the Indian Railways' Mission of 100 percent electrification, Diesel Locomotive Works, Varanasi has developed a new prototype Electric Locomotive converted from Diesel Locomotive. After its mandatory trials, the Prime Minister inspected the locomotive and flagged it off. Indian Railways has decided to convert all Diesel Locomotive to Electric Locomotive during its mid-life rehabilitation and utilise them till their codal life. The project is a step towards saving traction energy cost and also cut down on carbon emissions. Diesel Locomotive Works took just 69 days to convert two WDG3A Diesel Locos into a Twin Electric WAGC3 locomotive of 10,000 HP. A complete ‘Make in India’ initiative, the conversion is an Indian R&D innovation in the entire world.


    PM paying homage to Shri Guru Ravidas.


    On Ravidas Jayanti, Prime Minister paid homage to Shri Guru Ravidas. He then laid the foundation stone of Guru Ravidas Birth Place Development Project at Shri Guru Ravidas Janmasthan Temple, Seer Goverdhanpur.


    Speaking on the occasion, PM said, " This government is punishing the corrupt and rewarding the honest ”. He added that the teachings of Shri Guru Ravidas inspire us every day. He stressed that people won’t be able to connect with each other and there won’t be any equality in the society if there is caste-based discrimination,. He urged all to follow the path shown by Sant Ravidas and said had it been followed, we would have weeded out corruption .PM added that a grand park will be constructed with a statue of the seer, and all the facilities for the pilgrims will be there in one place as a part of the project.


    *****


    AKT/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1565155) Visitor Counter : 887
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Assamese , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali , Gujarati , Tamil , Kannada