      Ministry of Defence

      BEL Launches Atmospheric Water Generator safe Drinking Water, Straight From the Air
      Posted On: 21 FEB 2019 4:31PM by PIB Delhi


    Navratna Defence PSU Bharat Electronics Ltd (BEL) has unveiled its new product, the Atmospheric Water Generator (AWG), an innovative solution to meet the ever-increasing need for drinking water worldwide, today at Aero India 2019.


    Chief of the Army Staff General Bipin Rawat, inaugurated the AWG in the presence of, Chairman and Managing Director BEL Shri MV Gowtama, Directors and other senior officers of BEL.


    BEL's Atmospheric Water Generator can be used to generate water straight from the humidity present in the atmosphere. The day is not far when drinking water becomes the most precious commodity on the planet. Groundwater, currently the main source of drinking water, is being depleted at alarming and unsustainable rates even as the search for alternate water sources continues.


    BEL's Atmospheric Water Generator employs a novel technology to extract water from the humidity present in the atmosphere and purify it. It uses heat exchange for condensing the atmospheric moisture to produce pure, safe and clean potable water. The AWG comes with a Mineralisation Unit, which is used to add minerals which are required to make the water potable. The AWG is configurable in static and mobile (vehicular) versions and is available in 30 litres/day, 100 litres/day, 500 litres/day and 1,000 litres/day capacities.


    The Atmospheric Water Generator can be used to provide drinking water in community centres and public places like health care centres, schools, colleges, offices, railway stations, bus stands, airports, sea ports, off-shore oil rigs, military establishments, remote field areas and remote establishments and residential complexes.


    The Atmospheric Water Generator is being manufactured by BEL in collaboration with CSIR-IICT and MAITHRI, a start-up company based in Hyderabad. It is on display at the BEL stall at Hall-E at Aero India 2019. BEL has, as part of the Government of India's Start-up India Initiative, extending its support to start-up Companies.


    Nampi/Rajib

    
    
    (Release ID: 1565816) Visitor Counter : 1644
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali