      President's Secretariat

      President hosts Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia; says India wishes to be a partner in the kingdom’s ‘vision 2030’
      Posted On: 20 FEB 2019 9:45PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, received Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, the Crown Prince, Vice President and Defence Minister of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, at Rashtrapati Bhavan today (February 20, 2019). He also hosted a banquet in his honour.


    Welcoming Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman on his first state visit to India , the President said that India cherishes its cordial and friendly relations with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. India considers the Gulf region as its extended neighbourhood. The ever-expanding scope of India-Saudi Arabia bilateral relations demands sustained strategic engagement and frequent interactions between the two sides at all levels.


    The President said that there is a visible enhancement of bilateral trade over the past few years. However, there exists further potential. Saudi Arabia continues to be our most important source of energy. We need to take the current buyer-seller relationship to a strategic level. The President said that India wishes to be a partner in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s ‘Vision 2030’. These are complementarities between our economies.


    Subsequently, in his banquet speech, President Kovind said that we look at Saudi Arabia as a factor of stability in the region and beyond. India wishes to be a strong and reliable partner for the Kingdom’s growth and progress. Indian companies have invested in and created jobs in Saudi Arabia, especially in the technology sector, which is India’s strength.


    The President said that terrorism is the gravest threat to humanity today. India and Saudi Arabia, and indeed the global community, must come together to defeat and destroy these evil forces and combat radicalisation. Those responsible for such acts have no place in our society, and need to be dealt with firmly and decisively.


    Click here to see President's Speech


    ***


    AKT/SH/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1565836) Visitor Counter : 376