      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Union Home Minister inaugurates Cyber Crime Unit of Delhi Police and National Cyber Forensic Lab
      
      Shri Rajnath Singh calls for Zero Tolerance towards Cyber Crime in a Digital World

      Posted On: 18 FEB 2019 5:18PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh has said cyber crimes pose a challenge to traditional policing and called upon the Police personnel to hone their skills to tackle the threats posed from the cyber world. Inaugurating the Cyber Prevention, Awareness & Detection Centre (CyPAD) of Delhi Police and National Cyber Forensic Lab, MHA here today, he pointed out that cyber crime has emerged as a big challenge and said, “If we have to build public trust in a Digital World, then we will have to bear Zero Tolerance towards Cyber Crime.”


    The Home Minister said in this era of internet and computers, there exists an aspect of cyber crime whether it is cyber cheating or fraud, women harassment or terror recruitment which needs to be strongly addressed. Internet is a platform not only aiding the evolution of social media, but also crucial to online banking, shopping and remotely operated systems in industry. “We have to develop institutional mechanisms for undertaking timely assessment to challenges in cyber space and securing it for the common man,” he said.


    Shri Rajnath Singh said MHA has initiated several steps in the last more than four years to deal with cyber crimes. This includes setting up of an Inter-Ministerial Committee on Phone Frauds. Under the Cyber Crime Prevention against Women and Children (CCPWC) scheme, the online cybercrime reporting portal cybercrime.gov.in has been operationalized. Training programmes have been designed for law enforcement agencies, public prosecutors and judges. For effectively tackling challenges to cyber space, we need an institutional mechanism at the national level involving the private sector also and coordination at the national and international levels, he added. MHA has constituted an Expert Group for a detailed study and initiated creation of the Cyber Crime Coordination Centre which will deal with cyber forensics, cyber investigation, cyber research and innovation, threat analytics and cyber training, said Shri Rajnath Singh. The setting up of the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (i-4C) is a step towards its implementation. Under the i-4C, the National Cyber Forensics Lab has been inaugurated today, he added.


    The Union Home Minister said the Cyber Prevention, Awareness & Detection Centre (CyPAD) of Delhi Police inaugurated today will deal with crypto-currency frauds and international tech-supported frauds. All these steps are aimed at achieving the “Minimum Government, Maximum Governance” goal set under the direction of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


    The Home Minister also inaugurated a Delhi Police Residential Block comprising 56 flats. The Delhi Police built 312 dwelling units last year and another 969 units are under construction this year, he said.


    The Lt. Governor of Delhi, Shri Anil Baijal and Delhi Police Commissioner Shri Amulya Patnaik also spoke on the occasion. Senior Officers of MHA and Delhi Police attended the function


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/SS


    

    
    (Release ID: 1565053) Visitor Counter : 780
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu