      Vice President's Secretariat

      Public Representatives must rise above politics on developmental issues: Vice President
      
      Vice President inaugurates string of developmental projects under 'Nellore Next'

      Posted On: 20 FEB 2019 8:07PM by PIB Delhi

    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that the Public Representatives must rise above politics on developmental issues. He was addressing the gathering after inaugurating and laying foundation stones to a string of developmental projects, in Nellore City today, under the umbrella of Nellore Next.


    The projects which were inaugurated include a Rs.30 crore Rejuvenation of Nellore Tank and Necklace Road was sanctioned under AMRUT Scheme.


    The Vice President also inaugurated 20 Colony parks, a 5 MLD (Million Litres Per Day) Sewerage Treatment Plant at Venkateswarapuram, Computer Labs and additional Classrooms in 14 schools, a Mineral Water Plant, two Community Halls, two markets and six bus Shelters. He also laid foundation stone for beautification of 4 under bridges and three city entry arches.


    Appreciating the state government and the municipal administration for their proactive role in the development of Nellore town, the Vice President said that people in public life must rise above party politics and make concerted efforts to develop the regions they represent.


    Referring to development of Necklace Road, Shri Naidu suggested to erect statues of eminent people from this region on the lines of Tank Bund in Hyderabad.


    Stressing the need to maintain cleanliness, hygiene and sanitation, the Vice President wanted citizens to be vanguards of cleanliness and supplement the efforts of the authorities in making Nellore City an attractive tourist destination.


    Shri Naidu stressed that the fruits of development must every section.


    Expressing his happiness that the programmes suggested by him under 'Nellore Next' came to fruition, he assured that he would always be extending help for development projects.


    Shri Naidu stressed that the fruits of development must every section.


    Nellore Next, an overarching programme for the development of Nellore City, was envisioned when the Vice President was the Union Urban Development Minister. The Nellore Next concept was promoted by Ms. Deepa Venkat, Managing Trustee of Swarna Bharat Trust.


    The Minister for Municipal Administration, Andhra Pradesh, Shri Ponguru Narayana, the Mayor of Nellore City, Shri Aziz, the Chairman, NUDA, Shri K. Srinivas Reddy and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1565670) Visitor Counter : 528
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi