      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      4TH India-Asean Expo Summit on 21 – 23 February 2019 in New Delhi
      Posted On: 20 FEB 2019 12:25PM by PIB Delhi


    The 4 th India-ASEAN Expo and Summit will be held on 21-23 February, 2019 in New Delhi. This is a flagship event of Department of Commerce, being organised with FICCI to carry forward the momentum and to further strengthen India-ASEAN relations under the Act-East Policy. The 4th India-ASEAN Expo and Summit, 2019 will build upon the success of the previous edition of ASEAN-India Business and Investment Meet and Expo which was held in 2018 as a precursor to India-ASEAN Commemorative Summit.


    The Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN) comprises of Vietnam, Thailand, Singapore, Philippines, Myanmar, Malaysia, Lao PDR, Indonesia, Cambodia and Brunei. India's relationship with ASEAN is a key pillar of our foreign policy and the foundation of our Act-East Policy.India-ASEAN trade and investment relations have been growing steadily, with ASEAN being the second largest trading partner of India,after China,with a total bilateral merchandise trade of USD 81.33 billion.


    Trade Ministers of ASEAN Countries, Secretary General of ASEAN and business delegations will participate in the New Delhi Expo and Summit. The Summit is a platform for the policy makers, industry captains and business leaders to come together and forge a common vision for India and ASEAN’s mutual growth and progress. There will be various Plenary Sessions on sectoral engagements with ASEAN which will be attended by the Ministers and other eminent delegates from ASEAN and India.The Expo component of the event will have India and ASEAN Country Pavilions. 200 plus exhibitors from India and ASEAN,and more than100 buyers from ASEAN are expected to participate in the Expo. B2B and B2G meetings are also being organised. There will also be buyer-seller meetings to provide business leaders an opportunity to closely interact with their counterparts and consolidate B2B and B2G relations.


    Union Minister of Commerce &Industry and Civil Aviation, Suresh Prabhuand Trade Ministers of ASEAN countries along with ASEAN Secretary General will jointly inaugurate the India-ASEAN Expo and Summit on 21st February, which will be followed by the inauguration of the exposition. The exposition will showcase the best initiatives of the business and industry from India and ASEAN countries across various sectors of mutual cooperation such as Infrastructure, Manufacturing, Manufacturing & Engineering, ICT, healthcare, tourism, environment, agriculture, science & technology, finance & banking, logistics and retail.


    Key speakers from the Indian side include Union Home Minister, Rajnath Singh, Minister of State, Ministry of Civil Aviation, Jayant Sinha, Minister of State, Ministry of Commerce & Industry, C.R. Chaudhary and Minister of State, Agriculture Ministry, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.


    Minister of Trade of the Republic of Indonesia,Mr. Enggartiasto Lukita, Dr. Than Myint, Union Minister, Ministry of Commerce, the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, Mr. Pan Sorasak, Minister of Commerce, Kingdom of Cambodia, Ms. Chutima Bunyapraphasara, Acting Minister of Commerce of Thailand, and Mr. Lim Jock Hoi, Secretary General, ASEAN, Mr. Lee Chuan Teck, Second Permanent Secretary, Singapore Ministry of Trade and Industry, DatoLokman Hakim Bin Ali, Secretary General MITI, Malaysia and Mr. Doan DuyKhuong, Vice Chairman, Vietnam Chambers of Commerce and Industry will also address the Forum.


    The 4 th India ASEAN Expo and Summit will bring Indian and ASEAN businesses together to work jointly towards integrating them into regional value chains, thereby promoting mutual trade and investment.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1565392) Visitor Counter : 1399
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi