      Ministry of Science & Technology

      3 Day International Conference and Exhibition On Energy and Environment inaugurated by President of India
      Posted On: 20 FEB 2019 3:55PM by PIB Delhi


    The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, today inaugurated the International Conference and Exhibition on Energy and Environment in New Delhi. The 3 day conference organized by Council of Scientific and Industrial Research(CSIR) aims to deliberate and identify the R&D needs to innovate new techniques, technologies and applications for clean, safe, symbiotic sustenance of society, environment, energy and industries in post-2020 era.


    The President said that India is committed to provide power to all citizens at affordable cost as well as boost the national economy through an industrial revolution in tune with Industry 4.0. “In today’s era of rapid technological advance, energy and environment are major concerns not only for developing countries but also for developed countries”, said the President and urged participants of the Conference to come up with actionable ideas on environmental issues related to use of fossil fuels and viable alternatives.


    During the 3 day Conference, an industrial exhibition is also organized in the Vigyan Bhawan lawn which was inaugurated by Union Science & Technology Minister, Dr. Harsh Vardhan. Speaking at the inauguration the Union Minister said that today the world recognizes India’s achievement, initiatives and visionary approach in the area of clean energy. “India has mounted the world’s largest and most innovative energy efficient lighting programme, 33o million LED lights which have resulted in reduction of 32 million tones of CO 2 annually.” said Dr. Vardhan.


    Around 1000 delegates from India and abroad are participating in the conference representing policy makers, regulators, thought leaders, managers, entrepreneurs, administrators, practicing engineers, Environmentalist, geo-environmentalists, researchers, academicians and technocrats. About 200 papers will be deliberated in the Conference which includes 9 keynote papers and 150 oral presentations and 50 poster presentations.


    The keynote papers will be presented by eminent personalities who have made significant contributions in their respective areas. The list include Dr. V. K. Saraswat, Member (S&T), NITI Aayog on Energy Security and Environmental Challenges; Dr. Anil Kakodkar, President, NASI on Nuclear Power: India's Development Imperative; Prof. Y. P. Chugh, University of Illinois, USA on The Evolving Role of Coal in Global Energy Needs: An Overview; Prof. Joan Esterle, University of Queensland, Australia on A supermodel approach to targeting CBM resources; Dr. S.C. Chetal, Mission Director, AUSC Project on Indian Advanced Ultra Supercritical Programme; Prof. Collin Hills, University of Greenwich, UK on Low-carbon Options for the Valorization of Indian Steel Slag.


    ***


    GK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1565543) Visitor Counter : 711
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi