      Ministry of Home Affairs

      All India Citizens Survey of Police Services
      Posted On: 21 FEB 2019 4:12PM by PIB Delhi


    From time to time, several initiatives have been taken by the Government of India, aimed at facilitating and supplementing the efforts of States / UTs in providing citizen centric police services. A globally accepted way to assess the impact or outcomes of such endeavours is through a holistic analysis of services rendered to the public, through public perception surveys conducted by professional and independent agencies. Such surveys are globally tested tools for improving service delivery in policing and enhancing public satisfaction.


    With the above aim and to further strengthen the good governance practices in the working of police, Ministry of Home Affairs has commissioned the Bureau of Police Research and Development to conduct a pan-India survey called “ALL INDIA CITIZENS SURVEY OF POLICE SERVICES”. The survey will be conducted through the National Council of Applied Economic Research, New Delhi.


    The survey is aimed to understand public perceptions about Police, gauge the level of non-reporting of crimes or incidents to Police, the position on ground relating to crime reporting & recording, timeliness and quality of police response and action, and to assess citizens' perception and experience about women and children’s safety.


    The survey will commence in March, 2019 and cover a representative sample of 1.2 lakh households spread over 173 districts across the country, based on the National Sample Survey framework. All States and UTs would be included in this survey. The survey will be completed in 9 months.


    The outcome of the survey is expected to bring out useful suggestions for stakeholders in formulating and implementing appropriate policy responses and changes in the functioning of police at the cutting edge and for improving crime prevention and investigation, transformation in community policing, improvement in the access to the justice and increased/ appropriate resource allocation for police in a systematic manner.


    States/UTs have been requested to extend full cooperation to the conduct of the survey, and to adopt this good practice and prepare their Police for undertaking such surveys on their own, in future.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1565811) Visitor Counter : 1219
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi