      Ministry of Shipping

      Shri Nitin Gadkari to Launch PCS1X Maritimee-Commerce Portal at the Regional Maritime Safety Conference in Mumbai Tomorrow
      Posted On: 18 FEB 2019 6:45PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister of Shipping, Road Transport & Highways, Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation will launch PCS1x at the Regional Maritime Safety Conference in Mumbai tomorrow. PCS1x is an upgraded version of the e-commerce portal Port Community System (PCS). It has been developed in record time by the Indian Ports Association, based on feedback from stakeholders using PCS.


    PCS has played a vital role in enhancing ‘Ease of Doing Business’ in the maritime sector by facilitating a transparent and paperless system for electronic submission of trade document, resulting in faster turnaround time and dwell time. Digitization in EXIM trade, of which PCS is a part, has played a major role in improving India’s world ranking in ‘Ease of Doing Business’ . In World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Index India’s position stood at 100in 2017, registering an improvement of 30 points over 2016. It subsequently rose to 77 th rank the following year. This is primarily due the ranking in Trading Across Border parameter which improved to 80 from 146 last year.


    PCS Ix is a new generation system with a user-friendly interface that brings together various stakeholders of the maritime sector, and facilitates Government-to-Business, Business –to-Government and Business-to-Business transactions within the required legal framework. It ensures extreme levels of cyber security. The architecture of PCS is built on ‘open platform’ technology to integrate / latch on to any new concept or module available in the industry without disturbing the current ecosystem. This is a unique feature which provides unlimited landscape for growth and expansion.


    PCS enables trade to have an improved communication with the customs as they have also embarked on an Application Programming Interface (API) based architecture, thereby enabling real time interaction. It provides Single Window platform for maritime industry and authorities, a user-friendly mobile application for stakeholders, event based notification and alerts, interactive dashboard, capability of PCS-to-PCS integration (Indian PCS with other international PCS) and 24/7 helpdesk for location support.


    The platform allows improvement in payment cycle , transparency of transaction cycles, detailed tracking of vessels and berthing schedules. It can be integrated with Gate system with RIFD, can produce E-copy of reports and notices and be used for cargo/truck trailer tracking. It also allows better stakeholder coordination.


    ***


    NP/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1565093) Visitor Counter : 882