      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Col. Rathore presents 7th National Photography Awards
      
      Shri Ashok Dilwali conferred Lifetime Achievement Award

      Posted On: 19 FEB 2019 4:46PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of State (IC) for Information & Broadcasting and Youth Affairs & Sports Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore today presented the 7th National Photography Awards in a function organized at National Media Centre in New Delhi.


    A total of 13 awards were given comprising of one Lifetime Achievement Award with cash prize of Rs.3,00,000; one award each in Professional Photographer of the Year category and Amateur Photographer of the Year category with cash prize of Rs.1,00,000 and Rs.75,000 respectively; and 5 Special Mention Awards in both Professional and Amateur categories with cash prize of Rs.50,000/- and Rs.30,000/- each respectively.


    The list of the Award winners is as under:

      * Lifetime Achievement Award – Shri Ashok Dilwali

        Shri Ashok Dliwali receives Life Time Achievement Award from Union Minister @Ra_THORe at the 7th #NationalPhotographyAwards 2019 pic.twitter.com/LgLs5Ytg86

        — PIB India (@PIB_India) February 19, 2019
      * Professional Photographer of the Year – Shri SL Shanth Kumar

        Union Minister @Ra_THORe confers Professional Photographer Of The Year Award to Shri SL Shanth Kumar at the 7th #NationalPhotographyAwards 2019 pic.twitter.com/pdHtvOr06D

        — PIB India (@PIB_India) February 19, 2019
      * Amateur Photographer of the Year – Shri Gurdeep Dhiman

        Union Minister @Ra_THORe confers Amateur Photographer Of The Year Award to Shri Gurdeep Dhiman at the 7th #NationalPhotographyAwards 2019 pic.twitter.com/drczNs1Im2

        — PIB India (@PIB_India) February 19, 2019
      * Special Mention Awards (Professional) – Shri Arun Sreedhar, Shri P.V. Sunderrao, Shri Kailash Mittal, Shri Mihir Singh, Ms. Ranita Roy.
      * Special Mention Awards (Amateur) – Shri V. Ravi Kumar, Ms. S. Neelima, Shri Manish Jaisi, Shri Mahesh Balasaheb Lonkar, Shri Avijit Datta.

    The theme for the Professional category was “ Women led Development ”, while the theme for Amateur category was “ Fairs and Festivals of India ”.


    The Jury Committee comprised of Dr. Shiv Narayan Joshi, Chairman; Shri Susanta Banerjee, Member; Shri Prakash Singh, Member; Ms. Rathika Ramasamy, Member; Shri Kalyan Verma, Member; and Shri Sanjiv Misra, Photographic Officer, Photo Division – Member Secretary.


    Col. Rathore also visited the Photo Exhibition set up at National Media Centre. A special Brochure was also released by the dignitaries on the occasion.


    Speaking at the event, Col. Rathore appreciated the photographers saying that they not only capture moments but also fill them with a soul. He highlighted the significance of photographs as a storehouse of memories. He also eulogised the virtues of perseverance, patience, discipline and passion which go behind the hours spent by photographers waiting for the perfect shot. Stating that every picture has a story to tell, he appreciated photojournalists, whose labour behind shooting the perfect frames often goes unnoticed.


    I feel these photos should be displayed in schools and colleges; the youth can learn a lot from these photos: Union Minister @Ra_THORe at 7th #NationalPhotographyAwards pic.twitter.com/TgFOUKtZFI

    — PIB India (@PIB_India) February 19, 2019

    Col. Rathore also suggested I&B Ministry to circulate the photographs displayed in the Exhibition in schools and colleges across India in order to let youngsters see these pictures and learn from these inspiring images.


    Shri Sitanshu Kar, Principal Director General, PIB talked about the democratisation of the art of photography through technological developments. He also highlighted the significance attained by the National Photography Awards since the inception of the Awards in 2010.


    Shri Amit Khare, Secretary, Ministry of I&B; Ms. Ira Joshi, Director General, NSD-AIR, Shri Mayank Agrawal, Director General, DD News; Ms. Sadhana Rout, Director General, DPD; Dr. Shiv Narayan Joshi, Chairman, Jury Committee; senior officers of PIB and of Ministry of I&B were also present on the occasion.


    Background


    National Photography Awards are organized by Photo Division under Ministry of I&B. While previously Photo Division existed as a separate Unit under the Ministry, it has now been brought under the aegis of PIB. The event is organized to promote art and technique of photography and also to encourage professional and amateur photographers from all corners of the country.


    ***


    AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1565217) Visitor Counter : 662
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi
    
    
    

*