      Ministry of Railways

      63 Officers and Staff of Railway Protection Force Honoured for their meritorious, distinguished and gallant acts
      
      The Minister of State of Railways and Minister of Communications Shri Manoj Sinha decorated them with medals at RPF Investiture Parade-2019
      
      Shri Manoj Sinha also launchedMobile Application for Barrack Monitoring and Newly built “RPF Subordinate Officers’ Mess” and the Upgraded Security Helpline No. 182
      Posted On: 22 FEB 2019 4:47PM by PIB Delhi


    The Railway Protection Force, the Sentinels of the Indian Railways, has organised Investiture Parade 2019 here today. Minister of State of Railways and Minister of Communications (I/C), Shri Manoj Sinha has taken salute of the Parade as Chief Guest.Shri Manoj Sinha decorated 63 officers andStaff of RPF with President’s Police Medal, Indian Police Medal, Railway Minister’s Medal for bravery, Railway Minister’s Medal for Best Investigation to honour their meritorious, distinguished and gallant acts in the service of motherland. General Manger, Northern Railway, Shri T.P. Singh, Director General, RPF, Shri Arun Kumar, other higher officials and dignitarieswere present on the occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, Minister of State of Railways and Minister of Communications (I/C), Shri Manoj Sinha, said that Railways is moving towards modernisation.In this context, RPF has the responsibility of safeguarding not only the Railways’ property but also with the safety of passengers. In the service of passengers, sometimes RPF has to work in unfavourable conditions, in view of which, the decision was taken to upgrade the 200 barracks existing across Indian Railways. Web Dashboard and Mobile Application has been developed to monitor barracks.


    He also said that infrastructural development is an on-going process. Walls are being constructed along the tracks to control over-crowding and illegal tress-passing. He added that the women safety is accorded highest priority in Indian Railways and Indian Railways has celebrated 2018 a ‘Year of Women and Children’.The upgraded Helpline No. 182will help strengthen security of passengers, he added.


    After the Parade, Shri Manoj Sinha inaugurated the following initiatives:-

     1. Upgraded version of integrated “All India RPF Security Helpline-182”, which was set up in February’ 2015 to provide single point access to rail users in distress. This popular RPF Helpline is operational round the clock over the entire network of Indian Railways and during 2018 alone, 25166 persons were extended timely assistance through “182” by RPF personnel with the passenger satisfaction ratio of over 90%.
     2. Newly built “RPF Subordinate Officers’ Mess”, and
     3. RPF Barrack Management System to ensure close monitoring of proper upkeep of all RPF Barracks over Indian Railways.

    RPF having a pan India presence, its performance in the recent past has been outstanding in various fields especially in detection of crimes against passengers, rescue of children in need of care & protection and relentless fight against the menace of touting activities. Recent bursting of inter-state gangs involved in committing theft of passengers’ belongings, worth crores of rupees, is an example of professional competency of the Force. First ever “All India Raid”against touting elements simultaneously conducted in 110 cities on a single day i.e. 2 nd November’ 2018 is another example of its professional ability & commitment in the service of rail passengers and the nation. The Force has reached amongst millions of rail users through its popular social media platforms viz. Twitter, Facebook, etc., which is evident from the fact that through these social media platforms, almost 70 passengers have been rendered timely assistance per day during 2018.


    Security has been identified as one of the priority areas by the Railways for strengthening and upgradation. To augment security of sensitive railway stations, a ‘Station Security Plan’ has been envisaged for complete access control by way of co-ordinated efforts of all agencies and stakeholders involved in the security of railway station. All Zonal Railways have been advised for firming up of station specific ‘Station Security Plan’ for each station.


    In tune with the vision of Hon’ble Prime Minister of India, all efforts are being made to make RPF a SMART Security Unit. With its motto“यशोलभस्व”, Railway Protection Force will continuously strive to uphold its rich tradition of devotion, commitment and service to the passengers and people of the Nation,Shri Manoj Sinha said.


    The Minister further said that he is glad to have witnessed a disciplined and attractive Investiture Parade today and thanked all the Officers of Railway Protection Force (RPF) for organising this parade.


    *****


    KSP/MKV/AP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1565968) Visitor Counter : 426
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi
    
    
    

3.