      AYUSH

      Ministry of AYUSH and WHO Working Group Meeting on Benchmarks for Training in Yoga from today
      Posted On: 26 FEB 2019 2:36PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of AYUSH and WHO are jointly organizing a three days Working Group Meeting for reviewing the WHO document “Benchmarks for Training in Yoga ” from 26-28 February, 2019 at New Delhi. The meeting is coordinated by Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY. WHO is developing Benchmarks Document for Training in Yoga as part of its global strategy to strengthen the quality, safety and effectiveness of Traditional and Complementary Medicine. Development of this benchmarks document is included in the Project Collaboration Agreement signed between World Health Organization (WHO) and Ministry of AYUSH on Cooperation in the field of Traditional and Complementary Medicine under WHO strategy covering the period 2014-2023 .


    Total 16 experts of yoga would be reviewing the draft document. Out of 16 experts, 11 International experts are from USA, UK, Canada, Brazil, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Japan, Australia and Malaysia. There would be 4 session on all 3 days. All the technical sessions would be coordinated by the experts from WHO Secretariat.


    The specific objectives of the meeting are to discuss the challenges in training of Yoga, to review & discuss the scope and structure of the working draft document, to review and discuss the contents of the working draft document, to identify the type, scope and criteria of information/data that are further required, and to discuss the working procedure and time frame for further development of the document. This benchmarks document will be used in evaluating Yoga therapy, identifying trends in utilization, developing payment structures for service models, establishing regulatory framework for Yoga practice.


    World Health organization (WHO) has been launched Traditional Medicine Strategy 2014-2023 to help health care leaders to develop solution that contribute to a broader vision of improved health and patient autonomy. The strategy has two key goals: to support Member States in harnessing the potential contribution of Traditional and Complementary Medicine (T&CM) to health, wellness and people centered health care and to promote the safe and effective use of T&CM through the regulation of products, practice and practitioners. These goals will be reached by implementing three strategic objectives are 1) Building the knowledge base and formulating nation’s policies; 2) Strengthening safety, quality and effectiveness through regulation; and 3) Promoting universal health systems.


    Updating and enhancing the strategy has allowed WHO to acquire a better understanding of how to boost the global integration of T&CM into health systems. It will provide Member States with a road map to achieving further success in their T&CM strategic planning.


    Under this WHO Traditional Medicine Strategy 2014-2023, a Project Collaboration Agreement (PCA) was signed between WHO and Ministry of AYUSH on 13 May, 2016 for cooperation on promoting the quality, safety and effectiveness of service provision in traditional and complementary medicine between WHO and Ministry of AYUSH (2016-2020). Area of collaboration are Development of the WHO publication : Benchmarks for training in Yoga, Benchmark for practice in Ayurveda, Unani and Panchakarma, Basic ( essential) terms for T&CM, Project on the establishment of a WHO database for global T&CM practitioners and Support the establishment of a network of international regulatory cooperation for T&CM practice.


    RJ/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566334) Visitor Counter : 1310
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi