      Ministry of Steel

      Steel Minister to present 25th Prime Minister’s Trophy for Excellence in Performance of Integrated Steel Plants
      Posted On: 28 FEB 2019 1:50PM by PIB Delhi


    Union Steel Minister, Chaudhary Birender Singh, will give away 25 th Prime Minister’s Trophy for Excellence in Performance of Integrated Steel Plants for 2016-17 in New Delhi on 1 st March 2019.


    Ministry of Steel has a scheme for award of Prime Minister’s Trophy, Steel Minister’s Trophy and Certificates of Appreciation. The scheme for awarding integrated steel for excellence in performance began in 1992-93 and 2016-17 was the 25 th year of evaluation.


    There are four categories of awards:


      * Prime Minister’s Trophy along with prize money of Rs. 2 crore is given to a plant whose performance is best amongst all participating plants.

      * Steel Minister’s Trophy with a prize money of Rs. 1 crore is given for 2 nd best overall performance.
      * Other categories of awards include “Certificate of Appreciation for Maximum Improvement” and “Theme Based Awards”.

    The objective of the award is to give recognition to outstanding performance in integrated steel plant sector of the national economy, which draws heavily on resources of capital and skilled manpower. The award is intended to spur these major producers to achieve international standards of efficiency, quality and economy in their operations. All integrated steel plants in India starting operation from iron ore and having minimum crude steel production of 1 million tonne in last two years are eligible to participate in the scheme.


    The performance of the plants is evaluated by a panel of judges. Members of the panel are drawn from eminent technologists, management experts, trade union leaders, economists and consumers of iron & steel.


    ***


    MM/ KA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566603) Visitor Counter : 1852
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Marathi , Bengali
    
    
    

*