      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Hardeep S Puri Dedicates Flyover and Underpass between Northern Mahipalpur Bypass Road and Airport Road
      Posted On: 28 FEB 2019 6:01PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State (I/C) of Housing & Urban Affairs, today dedicated the newly constructed Flyover and Underpass between Northern Mahipalpur Bypass Road and Airport Road near Hanuman Mandir. The project was sanctioned at a cost of Rs 188 crores as a part of the overall plan of the Government of India for decongestion of Delhi. This project constructed by CPWD, will provide better connectivity to Indira Gandhi International Airport from South Delhi and vice versa and also reduce the traffic congestion on Mehrauli – Mahiplpur Road.


    The Foundation Stone for the project was also laid by Shri Puri on 23rd January, 2018. It is a matter of great joy and pride that the project is being dedicated to public before the scheduled time and also with savings of about Rs 26 Crores as compared to the sanctioned cost.


    The project comprises of an Underpass below the existing National Highway 8. There are two flyovers, one in the Aerocity area and the other in Vasant Kunj. Also, there are two loops for right turning traffic from Gurugram and Vasant Kunj along with slip roads and U Turns.


    There were several challenges in construction of the project. The Underpass had to be constructed without diverting the National Highway, so CPWD used Box – Pushing technique to make the Underpass. There were rocks up to height of 4meters in certain portions and they had to be cut to make way for the underpass.


    The project has been conceived and constructed keeping principle of sustainability and environment friendliness in mind. Provision for Rain Water Harvesting has been made so the rain water is guided to the Ground Water Table and helps in recharging the ground water. LED light fittings have been provided as they consume less electricity. Trees are being planted at the project site to provide green environment to people travelling through the project area.


    About 28,000 people travelling through this area will benefit from this project directly. This will lead to saving of about 14000 man hours daily and a saving of 30 lakh litres of fuel each year. This would lead to reduction in carbon footprint by 7000 Tonnes per year. The people living in Mahipalpur area will also benefit as there will be reduced congestion of traffic leading to less air pollution and less noise pollution.


    Click here to see Images of Aerocity & Flyover


    ***


    RJ/KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566675) Visitor Counter : 338