      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      National Cancer Institute at Jhajjar dedicated to the nation as part of AIIMS, New Delhi
      
      AIIMS at Rewari, announced in the Interim Budget, to come up as 22nd AIIMS in the country: J P Nadda

      Posted On: 26 FEB 2019 6:54PM by PIB Delhi

    There have been reports in a section of the media regarding the status of National Cancer Institute (NCI) at Jhajjar in Haryana. Union Minister of Health & Family Welfare Shri J P Nadda clarified that there should be no confusion in this matter- the National Cancer Institute at Jhajjar, Haryana recently dedicated to the nation by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi is an integral part of AIIMS, New Delhi and is a specialty tertiary healthcare institute dedicated for cancer care. This is second campus of the AIIMS Delhi only. He also clarified that all the facilities as envisaged for Jhajjar shall be developed there only and shall not be shifted elsewhere. Built at a cost of Rs. 2035 crores, NCI is the largest investment by the Government of India in a single hospital project and holds the unique distinction of being one of the mega healthcare projects to be completed in a record time of 3 years from the first shovel to the first patient.


    Shri Nadda added that as part of the vision of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi to have an AIIMS in every state, AIIMS Rewari (at village Manethi), announced in the Interim Budget Speech of 2019-20 will be 22nd AIIMS to come up in the country and the 1st in Haryana. The site for this AIIMS has already been finalized at Manethi in Rewari, Haryana. Like other AIIMS in the country, the AIIMS announced for Rewari will also be set up under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY).This will be a greenfield project for which funds have been given separately by the Government of India.


    The proposed AIIMS will be built at the cost of Rs. 1299 crores on 223 acres of land. The Institution will consist of a hospital with a capacity of 750 beds, trauma center facilities, medical college with an intake of 100 MBBS students per year, nursing college with an intake of 60 B.Sc. (Nursing) students per year, residential complexes, 1000 seat auditorium and allied facilities / services, broadly on the pattern of AIIMS, New Delhi. The hospital will have 25 Specialty/Super-Specialty Departments including Operation Theatres. It will also have an AYUSH department with 30 beds for providing treatment facilities in traditional system of medicine.


    The establishment of new AIIMS will provide super specialty health care to the people of Haryana and nearby areas. The Institute will also create a large pool of doctors and other health workers for the region that can be used at primary and secondary level institutions/facilities being created under National Health Mission (NHM). It will take up research on region specific diseases and provide for better control and cure of such diseases.


    NCI at Jhajjar on the other hand will have 710 patient care beds dedicated for cancer prevention, treatment, research and education. NCI will be equipped with cutting edge technology and shall have 25 Operation Theatres, 5 Linear Accelerators, 4 PET Scanners, 3 Brachy-therapy, 2 CT Scanners, 2MRI Scanners and much more. NCI will also have the 1st Public Sector Proton Facility of the Country which will be a new paradigm in the treatment of cancer patients in the Country. India’s first public sector Robotic Core Clinical Laboratory has been established at NCI at a cost of Rs. 15 Crores. This Laboratory can perform over 60000 tests in a day and has the capability to give reports in two hours. NCI has also forayed into newer domains in public hospitals like advanced digital integration of Hospital Critical Care Systems and door to discharge paperless patient records.NCI shall focus on translational research on India Specific Cancers which shall enable early detection of cancers and better treatment outcomes. Various countries like USA, France, UK, etc., have entered into research collaborations with NCI and research projects in related areas have already started under the said cooperation. NCI has also collaborated with Department of AYUSH for research into the role of Indian Systems of Medicine in prevention and cure of cancers.


    ***


    MV/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566423) Visitor Counter : 463
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi