      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      National Level Finals of National Youth Parliament Festival concludes
      Posted On: 26 FEB 2019 6:57PM by PIB Delhi


    The National Level Finals of National Youth Parliament Festival concluded here today, with the announcement of winners. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will confer the National Youth Parliament Festival 2019 awards to the winners on 27 th February, 2019 at Vigyan Bhawan. The winners from the national level competition were Shweta Umra from Maharshtra, Anjanakshi M.S from Karnataka and Mamta Kumari from Bihar. Four contestants won the Commendation award. The jury for the competition comprised of Sh Prafulla ketkar, Ms Smita Prakash, Ms Roopa Ganguly, Dr A.K.Dubey, and Mr Parvesh Verma. All the participants were given certificate of participation by UnionMinister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports & Information and Broadcasting Col Rajyavardhan Rathore (Retd).


    Speaking on the occasion, Col. Rathore lauded the participants for their efforts. Appreciating the level of the competition, he said that the jury found it very difficult to declare the winners. He called upon all the participants, who could not win today, not to lose heart but work harder in life. The Minster said the situation should not be blamed for adverse results. One should look inwards, and then only the champion will come out. He said that stepping out of one’s comfort zone is a sign of victory itself. One should adept to new situations, as the future is in one’s own hands. He called upon the youth to take responsibility for their and country’s future.


    National Youth Parliament Festival 2019 has been jointly organised by National Service Scheme (NSS) and Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS), under the aegis of Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports, on the theme of “Be the Voice of New India” and “Find solutions and contribute to policy”. Youth in the age bracket of 18-25 years were invited to participate in the District, State and National level Youth Parliaments. The National Youth Parliament Festival 2019 was conducted at the District and State levels. The participants for District Youth Parliament, (DYP) were selected through two screening processes i.e. Digital and Walk-in screenings in Nodal Institution in 471 designated districts across the country from 24 th to 28 th January. The best three speakers selected by a Jury from each District Youth Parliament participated at the State Youth Parliament (SYP). Two best speakers selected from each SYP participated as speakers in the National Youth Parliament (NYP). As many as 28 State Youth Parliaments were held across the country from 5 th to 7 th February to select 56 final contestants for NYP. The best three speakers at the National Youth Parliament will be awarded Rs. 2 Lakhs, Rs. 1.50 Lakhs and Rs. 1 Lakh respectively in order of merit along with a certificate by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.More than 50 thousand youth participated through Youth Parliaments at all levels.


    ***


    YB/TFK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566425) Visitor Counter : 356
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi