      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Two-day National Workshop on Preparedness for Heat Wave concludes in Nagpur
      Posted On: 28 FEB 2019 4:53PM by PIB Delhi


    The two-day national workshop on Preparedness, Mitigation and Management of Heat wave concluded successfully today in Nagpur with all stakeholders resolving to work towards reducing the adverse effects of Heat Wave 2019. The workshop was organised by National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) in collaboration with the Government of Maharashtra.


    This was the third annual workshop in a series that NDMA has been conducting since 2017 to build a momentum ahead of the start of the Heat Wave season. These workshops facilitate States to prepare and implement their Heat Action Plans. In fact, with the combined efforts of all stakeholders, the number of heat-related deaths in the country came down to just 25 in 2018, a significant reduction from more than 2,000 deaths in 2015.


    At the technical session on Capacity Building & effective response, operational issues of implementing Heat Action Plans were discussed. The session also discussed the why and how of city-specific heat wave thresholds andvulnerability assessments. The need to use specific awareness campaigns to sensitise communities was also discussed. This session was chaired by Lt. Gen. N. C. Marwah, Member, NDMA.


    The session on Inter-agency coordination and effective governancediscussed the importance of coordination amongst all agencies and regular monitoring of the heat wave situation. It also highlighted the significance of long-term mitigation measures, key interventions, review and updation of Heat Action Plans. Participants were divided in groups to discuss specific issues. Each group moderator later made a presentation on the group’s findings and suggestions. This session was chaired by Shri P. N. Rai, Member, Bihar State Disaster Management Authority.


    Detailed discussions on emerging issues and the course of action for 2019 were carried out. The focus of all our efforts should be on reducing the number of deaths as also heat-related illnesses, summarised the experts.


    Members and senior officials from NDMA, experts on heat wave, early warning and forecasting agencies, State governments and research institutions participated in the workshop.


    ******


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566647) Visitor Counter : 373
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu