      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Heat Wave 2019: Workshop on Preparedness begins in Nagpur
      
      To help States & districts prepare and implement Heat Action Plans

      Posted On: 27 FEB 2019 7:47PM by PIB Delhi

    National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) in collaboration with the Government of Maharashtra is conducting a two-day national workshop on Preparedness, Mitigation and Management of Heat Wave in Nagpur beginning today.


    The workshop aims to sensitising States to the need of preparing and implementing specific Heat Action Plans in line with NDMA’s national guidelines on Heat Wave. It will also discuss emerging issues for the summer season this year and the way forward.


    Speaking on the occasion, Lt. Gen. N. C. Marwah (Retd.), Member, NDMA, emphasised upon the need to focus on mid and tong-term mitigation measures, to identify new islands of heat wave and to find local solutions for local problems.


    Setting the agenda for the workshop, Dr. V. Thiruppugazh, Joint Secretary, NDMA, said we must not only aim towards zero heat mortality and reduced heat-related illnesses, but also on heat wave risk reduction.


    Climate change is driving temperatures higher as well as increasing the frequency and severity of heat waves. A recent report by the Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) shows that in the Indian subcontinent, global warming impacts have come sooner and hit harder than predicted.


    The first technical session aptly focused on Climate Change and Heat wave Risk Reduction.It discussed the roadmap for India’s Heat Wave Management planning in the broader global context of achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).


    The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has indicated the probability of above-normal summer temperatures this year. As the temperatures will tend to rise, leading to stronger and longer heat waves, it will pay to be prepared. Also, timely and accurate warnings and their dissemination to vulnerable populations will ensure effective mitigation of heat related risks. These issues were discussed during the session on Early warning, Forecasting and Preparedness.


    During the third session, some vulnerable States shared their experiences and best practices to help other stakeholders prepare and implement their Heat Action Plans. The success stories from these States emphasise the importance of advanced planning, better preparedness and timely intervention. This session was chaired by Dr. D. N. Sharma, Member, NDMA.


    Members and senior officials from NDMA, experts on heat wave, early warning and forecasting agencies, State governments and research institutions are participating in the workshop.


    ****


    BB/PK/NK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566565) Visitor Counter : 520
    
    
      Read this release in: Marathi , Hindi