      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Government committed to Farmers welfare
      
      Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi(PM-KISAN) being launched for augmenting the income of farmers by providing income support to small and marginal farmer families
      
      Vulnerable landholding farmers having cultivable land upto 2 hectares to be provided direct income support of Rs. 6000 per year
      Posted On: 23 FEB 2019 12:54PM by PIB Delhi


    To provide an assured income support to the small and marginal farmers, the Government is launching the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN). Under this programme, vulnerable landholding farmer families, having cultivable land upto 2 hectares, will be provided direct income support at the rate of Rs. 6,000 per year. This income support will be transferred directly into the bank accounts of beneficiary farmers, in three equal instalments of Rs. 2,000 each. This programme will be funded by Government of India. Around 12 crore small and marginal farmer families are expected to benefit from this. It will entail an annual expenditure of Rs. 75,000 crore. PM-KISAN would not only provide assured supplemental income to the most vulnerable farmer families, but would also meet their emergent needs especially before the harvest season. PM-KISAN would pave the way for the farmers to earn and live a respectable living.


    A small and marginal landholder farmer family for the purpose of the calculation of the benefit is defined as “a family comprising of husband, wife and minor children (upto 18 years of age) who collectively own cultivable land upto 2 hectare as per land records of the concerned State/UT”.


    The existing land-ownership system in the concerned States/UTs will be used for identification of beneficiaries. Those whose names appear in land records as on 01.02,2019 are eligible for benefit. If a Landholder Farmer Family (LFF) has land parcels spread across different village/revenue records, then land will be pooled for determining the benefit. Accordingly, it is of utmost importance that the land records are clear and updated and the State/UT Governments are requested to complete updation of and records for the purpose expeditiously. All States/UTs shall endeavor to complete the identification of beneficiaries and facilitate quick distribution of the benefit to farmers.


    The benefit shall be transferred by Government of India to the bank account of the beneficiaries through State Notional Account. For transfer of benefit, District-wise beneficiaries lists shall be certified and uploaded by the States/UTs on the PM-KISAN Portal of Govt. of India and the funds will be electronically transferred to the beneficiary’s bank account by Gol through State Notional Account on a pattern similar to MNREGS. The funds pertaining to income support benefit shall be released from Gol periodically based on receipt of fund transfer order through the concerned State/UT Govt. with the eligible beneficiaries’ details. States shall also notify District Level Grievance Redressal Committees for redressing all grievances related to implementation of the scheme.


    Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Shri Sanjay Agarwal has requested State/UT Govts to immediately initiate the work of identification of beneficiaries and uploading the relevant data for release of funds by Govt. of India in the bank accounts of eligible farmer families. He has requested the Chief Secretaries to personally monitor the progress of implementation and do periodic reviews at their level for effective implementation.


    *****


    APS/RCS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566056) Visitor Counter : 1398
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi