      Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA)

      Cabinet approves financial support for Tertiary Care Programmes for non-communicable diseases and e-Health
      Posted On: 28 FEB 2019 10:21PM by PIB Delhi


    The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, has given its approval for continuation of implementation of the following Tertiary healthcare programmes for non-communicable diseases and E-Health upto 2020 with an outlay of Rs.2551.15 crore:


    a) Strengthening of Tertiary Care Cancer facilities Scheme


    b) National Program for Health Care of the Elderly


    c) National Program for Prevention & Management of Trauma and Burn Injuries


    d) National Program for Tobacco Control and Drug Addiction Treatment


    e) National Mental Health Program


    f) National Program for Control of Blindness and Visual Impairment


    g) Program for Strengthening of e-Health and Telemedicine Services


    Impact:


    The focus under these Programs is:-

      * to create required infrastructure at tertiary level for these Programs,

    · creation of Centre of Excellences which shall serve as Institutes to set standards andundertake research in these fields besides

      * to help in creation of trained manpower in these Programs for the country.

    Benefits:


    Under these programmes, Tertiary care treatment will be further strengthened to meet the ever increasing patient load.


    Employment Generation:


    The Programs are aimed at strengthening of tertiary level healthcare facilities for treatment through capacity building in terms of both infrastructure and human resources. There would be considerable direct and indirect employment generation both for technical and non-technical professionals in the country.


    Objectives:


    Objective of the umbrella program of tertiary healthcare is to provide support for creation of tertiary care health facilities in the areas of cancer diagnosis & treatment, care for the elderly, trauma and burn injuries, drug dependence, mental health and blindness & visual impairment. It also aims at digitisation of health sector.


    Details of project:


    Interventions of the Government for health care at tertiary level in the above mentioned areas are aimed at improving access to good quality and affordable healthcare facilities through support for infrastructure development, equipment, strengthening capacities of healthcare professionals engaged in delivery of services, awareness generation, etc.


    A number of facilities for tertiary healthcare in the areas of cancer diagnosis & treatment, health care for the elderly, trauma and burn injuries, drug dependence, mental health, blindness and visual impairment have- beer: approved over a period of time. Support to these facilities will be continued keeping in view the need for ensuring availability of such functional facilities in different parts of the country. In addition, setting up of four new State Cancer Institutes will also be supported. The Cabinet also approved establishment of 250 Bedded Geriatric Care and Rehabilitation Centre at PGIMER, Chandigarh.


    Background:


    The Tertiary Care Programs for non-communicable diseases and e-Health are ongoing Programs of the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare which complement and synergize with the ongoing Programs/schemes of the Department for implementation of various activities up to the district level. While primary and secondary health care needs are being addressed under the National Health Mission, the tertiary level activities are taken care of through Tertiary sector schemes.


    ******


    AKT/YB/SH

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566717) Visitor Counter : 551
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Bengali
    
    
    

*