      Ministry of Railways

      Shri Piyush Goyal launches Rail Drishti Dashboard to Promote Transparency and Accountability
      
      Shri Piyush Goyal quoted Gandhiji "I understand democracy as something that gives the weaker the same chance as the strong"
      
      The information, when it reaches to the weakest section of the society, develops their morale and instils confidence in them that the country is progressing and is on the move: Shri Goyal
      
      This is the first Government in the history of India that showcased its report card to public every year: Shri Goyal
      
      Dashboard brings information from various sources under a single window
      
      Gives access to key statistics and performance parameters to every citizen of the country
      
      Dashboard can be accessed using a desktop/laptop or a mobile device such as a phone or tablet
      
      Information on Rail Drishti has been categorised into 15 user friendly sections

      Posted On: 25 FEB 2019 3:41PM by PIB Delhi

    Minister of Railways & Coal, Shri Piyush Goyal has launched Rail Drishti dashboard, encompassing all the digitisation efforts in Indian Railways and promoting transparency and accountability. It brings information from various sources on a single platform and gives access to key statistics and parameters to every citizen of the country. This dashboard can be accessed using a desktop/laptop or a mobile device such as a phone or tablet. The application is mobile optimized for ease of use of public. The url of the dashboard is “ raildrishti.cris.org.in ”. Chairman, Railway Board, Shri V.K. Yadav, other Railway Board Members, MD, CRIS and other Senior Officials from Railway Board and CRIS were also present on the occasion.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Piyush Goyal said that under the able-leadership of Hon'ble Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, this Government has focused on people of India and has become a Government accountable to every farmer, youth, poor, middle class and all those who have relations of any kind with this government. This is the first Government in the history of India that showcased its report card to public every year. He further said that this government has used media and digital platforms for imparting all the information. This government has also tried to bring transparency in the working of all the Ministries.


    Shri Piyush Goyal quoted Gandhiji "I understand democracy as something that gives the weaker the same chance as the strong" and said that to make people of India aware of the projects going-on in Railways, Rail Drishti Dashboard has been launched today. The customer or railway passenger will get an exposure through this dashboard to the multifaceted transformation underway in Indian Railways across the country. The dashboard will also help make available every kind of information anytime, anywhere to anybody.


    The information, when it reaches to the weakest section of the society, develops their morale and instills confidence in them that the country is progressing and is on the move. The Minister also advised to make Rail Drishti site simpler, user-friendly and easy to navigate.


    The available information has been categorized under 15 user friendly sections on the Dashboard:

     1. AT A GLANCE

    Gives information on 4 main parameters of Indian Railways. This includes Passenger Reservation, Unreserved Ticketing, Freight Earnings and Freight Loading. The parameters of each element for different periods are displayed. Information on any station on Indian Railways can be viewed in this tab.

     1. SERVICES

    Passengers can view and avail the status of any digital service offered. Rail Drishti consists of 6 services, namely, PNR enquiry, ODC application enquiry, Complaint Enquiry, Tender Enquiry, Shramik Enquiry and Freight related enquiries. For citizen’s convenience links to eight important railway websites are available here.

     1. TRAINS ON RUN

    Passengers can now track any train on the Indian Railways Network. Passengers will also be able to get information about the train as well as the contact number of the housekeeping staff. Filters are available to view specific trains.

     1. IRCTC KITCHENS

    The Dashboard provides a facility to view live feeds from the cameras installed in various IRCTC base kitchens. Passengers can now view how the food being served to them in trains is being cooked and packed.


     1. GRIEVANCES


    This section shows status of Grievances reported via Complaint Management System (COMS). It displays the number of grievances resolved and pending. Zone wise and Division wise breakup as well as complaint type wise breakup can be viewed via the Dashboard.

     1. ACHIEVEMENTS

    Achievements of Indian Railways as a whole and achievements of Railways in various states can be viewed via the dashboard.

     1. STATION IMAGES

    The tab monitors the progress of some of the major initiatives launched to improve passenger experience on the Indian Railways network. It displays the images of various areas across the network before and after the work has been completed.

     1. HERITAGE

    The tab showcases the cultural aspect of travel on Indian Railways . There are 4 main sections in this tab, this includes, rail heritage, memorable journeys, 360 degree virtual tours of routes, trains, saloons, and the IRCTC tourism desk which provides important information and tourist services.


     1. SHRAMIK KALYAN


    This section provides information about the unorganized sector working with Railway contractors. The amount of wages distributed to the casual workers is available on the dashboard. The same can be seen department wise and zone wise for various time periods. This is an attempt to ensure that the laborers in the unorganized sector are paid their dues.

     1. BILLS

    Bills required to be paid by Indian Railways to suppliers and their duration wise pendency can be viewed on the dashboard.

     1. FREIGHT EARNINGS

    This section shows earnings of Freight across the Indian Railways Network. Earnings can be viewed for a day, for a week, for a month and for a year along with the zones and commodity wise breakup. Performance of nine major freight commodities has been made available.

     1. FREIGHT LOADING/UNLOADING

    Number of rakes and quantity of freight loaded and unloaded in a day, in a week, in a month and in a year along with their zones and commodity wise breakup is provided. Performance of nine major freight commodities has been made available.

     1. PASSENGER EARNINGS

    This section shows earnings of Passenger Reservations and Unreserved Ticketing. Number of passengers, tickets, and earnings can be viewed. Further, in Unreserved Ticketing the performance of suburban, non-suburban, and mobile bookings can be viewed.

     1. EXPENDITURE

    Details of the expenditure and works by the Indian Railways can be viewed. Figures of four different periods are displayed - performance during the day, during last 7 days, during the month and for the year.

     1. SUGAM – The Freight App

    This tab give access to Indian Railways freight business information. It helps customers keep track of their consignment. It provides information on various terminals and associated nodal officers, indents status, prevailing freight rates, rake allocation plans, restrictions applicable etc. Freight performance and other statististics are also available on the tab.


    ******


    SVS/MKV/ENS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566211) Visitor Counter : 2509
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi , Bengali
    
    
    

1.