      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Digital India Awards conferred for Excellence in Web Space
      Posted On: 22 FEB 2019 6:16PM by PIB Delhi


    The Digital India Awards have been instituted under the ambit of the National Portal of India ( http://india.gov.in ) by National Informatics Centre, MeitY, to promote exemplary initiatives in e-governance using the medium of World Wide Web.


    Hon’ble Minister of Electronics&IT, Law & Justice Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad conferred “ Digital India Awards 2018 ” in an exclusive ceremony.


    Besides conferring the Digital India Awards, the series of releases for enriching the Digital India vision also took place:

      * Digital India Coffee Table Book - “Towards a New India, Transforming Digital Dream to Reality"
      * Digital India Awards Compendium – A compilation of the exemplary digital initiatives that have been awarded in each of the eight categories for the platinum, gold and silver awards. The compendium also carries a mention of Jury Choice and Special Mention awards.
      * STQC Accessibility Certification Scheme- A scheme to assess and certify websites that migrate to S3WaaS (Secure, Scalable & Sugamya websites) for web content accessibility.
      * Unified Messaging Platform- A platform released by MeitY for secure and efficient Government communications and NIC is the implementing agency for this large deployment. Email and messaging are the backbone of e-governance.
      * Public DNS (Domain Name System) Service- A service being implemented by MeitY and configuration setup to be done by NIC for offering to all citizens
      * Cyber Crisis Management Plan 2019 (CCMP) and Guidance Framework for the CCMP- A framework document for countering Cyber Attacks and Cyber Terrorism and dealing with cyber-related incidents.

    With the ever increasing reach of internet, innovative uses of various emerging digital technologies& availability of a plethora of affordable ways to access the World Wide Web, the government webspace can now be accessed by citizens of India, of all ages & abilitiesacross the nation, Rural and Urban alike.


    This naturally raises the expectation from Government websites and portals for solutions to existential challenges, including enhanced accessibility and citizen centricity to facilitate INCLUSIVE ACCESS to government information & services.


    A number of initiatives have been taken to meet citizen expectations at various levels in the government including formulating policies and executing plans to use technology for benefiting citizens.Digital India Awards would further strengthen these initiatives.


    35awards were conferred to teams and individuals in the following categories:

     1. Web Ratna - Ministry/Department
     2. Exemplary Online Service
     3. Best Mobile App
     4. Emerging Technology
     5. Open Data Champion
     6. Web Ratna - State/UT
     7. Web Ratna - District
     8. Outstanding Digital initiative by Local body
     9. Jury Choice Awards
    10. Special Mention Awards

    Digital India Awards shall go a long way in creating a healthy competition forhigh quality, innovative, universally Accessible & Inclusive Presence of Indian Government in Cyber Space.


    List of Winners

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Category                                                      Platinum                                                Gold                                                          Silver                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Web Ratna – MINISTRY / DEPT                                   Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises           Department of Financial Services                              Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Exemplary Online Service                                      Government e-Marketplace                                Central Board of Secondary Education                          Goods and Services Tax                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                      * T App Folio                                                  
Best Mobile App                                               eCourts Services                                        ePathshala                                                      * Mobile Meeseva App - Andhra Pradesh                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Emerging Technology                                           Rajkot Eyeway Project                                   Blockchain Implementation in Land Records, Andhra Pradesh     Crop Area Estimation and Loss Assessment for the State of Gujarat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                        * Department of Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare    * Surat Municipal Corporation                                  
Open Data Champion                                            Marketing Research and Information Network (AGMARKNET)    * Ministry of Drinking water and Sanitation                   * Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Web Ratna – STATE / UT                                        Tripura                                                 Himachal Pradesh                                              Kerala                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                        * Vellore                                                     * Koraput                                                      
Web Ratna – District                                          Kurukshetra                                               * Mahabubnagar                                                * East Champaran                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Outstanding Digital initiative by Local body                  Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation                 Municipal Corporation, Gurugram                               Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                                                            
Jury Choice                                                 
                                                            
                                                            
                                                            
• MCA21 Application (Ministry of Corporate Affairs)         
                                                            
                                                            
• UMANG - Mobile App                                        
                                                            
                                                            
                                                            
Special Mention                                             
                                                            
                                                            
  * E-District Project (Meghalaya)                          
  * Andhra Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority         
                                                            
  * Arunachal Pradesh in Web Ratna – State / UT (North East)
  * South Tripura District Web Ratna – District (North East)
                                                            

    
    NNK/MD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566001) Visitor Counter : 849
    
    
    
    
    

            
            
            
            
            
            
          * 
            
            
            
      *   * 
            
            
            
      *   * 
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
*           
*           
10.