      Ministry of Power

      Super-Efficient Air Conditioning programme launched by EESL
      
      These Super-Efficient ACs to be 40% more efficient than current 3-star technology
      
      Dedicated web portal EESLmart.in launched for online sale of energy efficient appliances
      Posted On: 22 FEB 2019 7:09PM by PIB Delhi


    Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), a joint venture of four National Public Sector Enterprises under Ministry of Power, Government of India, today launched its Super-Efficient Air Conditioning Programme for residential and institutional consumers in the BSES area. These Super-Efficient Air Conditioners are 40 percent more efficient than, but priced comparably with, the 3-star ACs currently available in the market (ISEER 3.8). EESL is working towards making this programme and its benefits available to all consumers across the nation with the other DISCOMs likely to partner with EESL in future.


    Besides promoting energy efficiency, the Super-Efficient AC programme will also help to reduce the peak power demand in South and West Delhi by 22MW, enabling the two organisations to harness synergies to promote energy security and sustainability. The programme directly addresses the prospect of the nearly four-fold increase in energy consumption from buildings and cooling appliances in India by 2032, while also addressing goals of India’s Cooling Action Plan and Hydrochlorofluro carbons Phase Out Management Plan, enabling achievement of India’s targets under the Kigali and Paris Agreements.


    EESL and BSES have joined hands to implementa12-month pilot of the programme by exchanging an agreement through which BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL) would assist in aggregating demand and providing local marketing and outreach support to promote energy efficient technologies in the areas it currently services, thereby covering over 25 lakh residential and institutional consumers in South and West Delhi.


    EESL will conduct all activities related to source, supply, complaint management and redressal, and fulfilment of warranty obligations for the products. Applying its proven business model of demand aggregation, EESL will mobilize the capital of INR 150 crores for the programme while redeeming its investment through upfront payments for the super-efficient ACs from customers.


    EESL has initiated the procurement process of super-efficient ACs, thereby capitalising on opportunities for leveraging economies of scale through demand aggregation, and so reducing the cost of this superior green technology to consumers. Based on its past experiences with bulk procurement for other technologies and programmes, EESL expects to discover prices that are 20-30 percent less than the retail costs of similar technologies currently available in the market.


    Addressing the launch event, Mr Saurabh Kumar, Managing Director, EESL stated: “Our UJALA programme gave us the confidence that the Indian consumer is receptive to awareness and demand cultivation efforts for energy efficiency. Through the Super-Efficient AC programme, we are endeavouring to not only redefine standards for efficiency and widen the gamut of energy efficient appliances available to Indian consumers, but to also significantly improve upon our previous efforts to make these technologies universally and conveniently accessible.”


    During the event, EESL also launched its e-Commerce website, EESLmart.in , through which customers of BRPL, and of other DISCOMs that partner with EESL in future, can purchase the super-efficient air conditioners. With a focus on increasing consumer adoption of, and access to, energy efficient technologies, the website will also allow customers to purchase other appliances distributed by EESL, including induction cookstoves and products sold under the UJALA programme - 9-Watt LED bulbs, LED luminaries, and BEE 5-star rated energy efficient fans.


    The website will also feature a catalogue of products, a payment gateway, product specifications and images, stock status and order completion and shipment information, as well as 24x7 customer service, query address and post-shipping support. Once the website is opened to the public in March 2019, customers can create a profile and register on the website free-of-charge after submitting requisite documents, such as electricity bill number and/or government-issued identification documents, and place orders for doorstep delivery of eligible products.


    EESL’s investment in the programme is partially supported by a grant from the Global Environment Facility (GEF), an independent financing mechanism that was established on the eve of the 1992 Rio Earth Summit to address global environmental issues. The GEF is an international partnership of 183 countries, international institutions, civil society organizations and the private sector. Further, Asian Development Bank (ADB) is providing necessary grant support and loan while United Nations Environment (UNEP) is providing technical assistance support to the Super-Efficient AC programme.


    *****


    RCJ/MS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566015) Visitor Counter : 1310