      Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship

      Minister Shri Dharmendra Pradhan addresses participants across 427 locations in Odisha at Nua Odisha - Dharmapad Samvaad
      
      Over 2 Lakh candidates went through career counselling across 30 districts in the state during the day

      Posted On: 25 FEB 2019 8:13PM by PIB Delhi

    Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister for Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, Government of India today inaugurated and addressed Nua Odisha - Dharmapada Samvaad-Skill Saathi Youth Conclave at Rail Auditorium in Bhubaneswar. The first-ever Skill Saathi Youth Conclave wasaired live across 427 locations in Odisha, where more than 2 lakh candidates were mobilized for career counseling under Skill Saathi initiative. During the event, the Honorable Minister also interacted with youth at 5 remote location i.e. Mayurbhaj, Sundergarh, Sambalpur, Koraput and Berhrampur, via video conferencing.


    The conclave witnessed participation of five young achievers from Odisha, namely, Shri Amarendra Sahu - Founder NestAway, Flight Lieutenant Pallavi Mohapatra - Indian Air Force, Shri Jogabyasa Bhoi, mountaineer who has climbed the highest peaks of 5 continents, Shri Chittaranjan Mohanty, Awardee of United Nations HiEERa (“heera”) award, and Shri Vishal Singh, Founder, Kaivalya Vichar Seva Samiti (KVSS) and Gram Samriddhi Trust. The achievers participated in a panel discussion with the Minister. The outstanding achievers were also felicitated by Shri Pradhan.


    The Skill Saathi initiative has so far mobilized and counselled over 1 lakhs candidate in Odisha and over 10 lakh youth across the country in the past three months. The initiative provides information on vocational training programs under Skill India mission, conduct psychometric test and provide face-to-face counselling interventions to guide aspirants to make the right choice of based on their interest and aptitude.


    The Skill Saathi Youth Conclave in Odisha today mobilized over 2 lakhcandidates who were counselled across 427 locations covering all blocks and urban local bodies, across 30 districts in the state. The program aims to create a mass movement around skill development in the state and inspireyouth tomake the most of various skill development opportunities in the country.


    Addressing the participants, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas and Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, said, “Honorable Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s vision of New India cannot be realized without a New Odisha. The youth of Odisha hasintellect, skill and courage. With these qualities, they can meet any challenge and work together to create a New Odisha. The young achievers present here are inspiration to the youth of Odisha and a testament that sky is no limit for them. Odisha has been at the forefront of many path breaking initiatives by MSDE in skilling the youth to make them employable. The Skill Saathi model was created to impart information on vocational education and available market opportunities to the youth. With the potential Odisha has and with the right intent, together we can ensure Odisha soon becomes the skill capital of India.”


    **


    YB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566281) Visitor Counter : 505
    
    
      Read this release in: Hindi