      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      Commerce Minister interacts with FPOs on Agri Export Policy
      Posted On: 26 FEB 2019 4:25PM by PIB Delhi


    Suresh Prabhu interacting with FPOs through video link


    Union Minister of Commerce and Industry, Suresh Prabhu,held an interaction with Farmer Producers' Organizations (FPOs) through video link in 81locations of the country in New Delhi today.Around twelve locations from the North East were part of this interaction with the Minister.


    Commerce Minster discussed with the FPOs about measures that may be implemented by them in order to boost exports of products from specific regions of the states. In order to implement the Agriculture Export Policy 40 clustershave been formedacross the country and through NABARD, APEDA, MPEDA and Plantation Boards farmer’s organizations will be given all assistance in order to ensure that farmers get adequate market price and are able to export their produce.


    Commerce Minister suggested that FPOs must form federations which can become engines of growth in the districts. Minister informed that he is writing to all FPOs to take the lead and ensure that the object of the Agriculture Export Policy of doubling farmers income is implemented.


    While interacting with FPOs Minister heard problems faced by farmers in areas like Nasik in Maharashtra, Idduki in Kerala, Rayagada in Odisha, Dahod in Gujarat, Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh, Gangtok in Sikkim and FPOs from Himachal Pradesh. Most of them face difficulty in accessing value chains and suffer from lack of access to markets. Commerce Minister assured all FPOs that he will look into each of their problems and ensure that these are solved at the earliest.


    The agri export policy is aligned with the vision of doubling of farmers’ income by providing the farmers the benefit of export opportunities through a stable trade policy regime. The policy gives focus on developing clusters with potential for export-oriented production of specific products and greater thrust on value added products, promotion and branding of produce of India. The main aim of the policy is to double agriculture exports to USD 60 billion by 2022.


    Several initiatives have been taken to boost agricultural exports which include lifting of prohibition on export of Edible Oils and Pulses and provision of MEIS on a number of agricultural products.


    Export duty on sugar has been removed and high-level delegations have visited Indonesia, Malaysia, China and Bangladesh to explore export prospect of raw and refined sugar during this sugar season. Special efforts have also been made to boost agricultural exports to China. General Administration of Customs of the PR of China (GACC) has registered five plants for export of Rapeseed Meal to China. A GACC team is visiting India to inspect Soyabean Meal plants. India has signed a new protocol with China for export of rice, both Basmati and non-basmati, in June,2018. GACC has approved total 24 Indian rice mills for export of rice to China. A protocol for export of fish meal to China has also been signed on 28.11.2018 with GACC China to pave the way for export of Indian fish oil and fish meal to China.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566361) Visitor Counter : 768
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi