      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      Suresh Prabhu inaugurates ‘Aviation Conclave 2019’ with theme of “Flying for All”
      
      ‘Aviation sector has the potential to add to the growth of Indian economy’ —Suresh Prabhu
      
      
      Jayant Sinha calls for policy innovation to sustain growth; Says drone ecosystem can make India a global leader in the field
      
      Posted On: 27 FEB 2019 5:26PM by PIB Delhi


    S hri Suresh Prabhu, Union Minister of Commerce, Industry and Civil Aviation has said that aviation sector has the potential to add to the growth of Indian economy. Inaugurating the Aviation Conclave 2019 with an overarching theme of “Flying for All” here today, Shri Prabhu said a growing aviation sector can carry along many other sectors to spur up the GDP. He said that to achieve growth in the sector, there must be a clarity in policy dynamics, a sync between the ‘Macro’ and the ‘Micro” and explained that it will mean clear long-term strategy with immediate actionable plans. He said, Drones offer a Greenfield opportunity for the aviation sector. The minister outlined roadmap for aircraft manufacturing, aircraft leasing and financing for long term asset creation, cargo policy and financial services, optimization of resource utilisation with technology input as some of the areas of high importance for the aviation sector. “We strive to keep the system efficient, fair and approachable”, he said.


    Shri Prabhu stated that realizing Government’s vision of making “Flying for All” a reality underpins the government’s commitment to bring about a veritable revolution in the Indian aviation sector. “This Conclave is about the future of Indian aviation – it is bringing together industry leaders, government and regulators for setting the tone and propelling us to realize our Vision-2040”, he stated.


    Shri Jayant Sinha, Minister of State of Civil Aviation, in his special address, said that “focus is now on PPP model for 6 more airports. We need Industry to take risks, invest to scale up sector”. He called for policy innovation to sustain the growth and said drone ecosystem can make India a global leader in the field.


    A ‘Passenger Charter’ was released on the occasion.


    Over 30 industry leaders participated in 5-key sessions covering the Drone-Ecosystem Policy Roadmap, Roadmap for Manufacturing Aircraft and associated equipment, including Regional Transport Aircraft, in India, the Project Rupee Raftaar- Aircraft Financing and Leasing from India, the National Air Cargo Policy, and the Mission to transform Indian Airports into Next-Gen Aviation Hubs. The deliberations are expected to throw up key catalysts to fast track the holistic and broad-based growth of the passenger, cargo and MRO sectors. Over 200 delegates took part in the discussions.


    ***


    RJ/KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566517) Visitor Counter : 941
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi