      Vice President's Secretariat

      We do not want anybody to interfere in our internal affairs: Vice President
      
      I compliment Indian Armed Forces for giving a befitting reply to terrorist organizations;
      
      UN must conclude the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism;
      
      Need to organise regular workshops on building bonding among people from different regions;
      
      People from Northeast must embrace the other cultural traditions of India;
      
      Addresses 13th Anniversary of My Home India
      
      Posted On: 26 FEB 2019 8:06PM by PIB Delhi


    The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that though India is a peace loving nation and it wants to be friendly with all our neighbors, we do not want anybody to interfere in our internal affairs and whoever interferes, we will give a befitting reply. He also complimented the Indian armed forces for giving a befitting reply to terrorist organisations by conducting pre-emptive air strikes with precision.


    He was addressing the gathering at the 13 th Anniversary of My Home India, an NGO working for working to create the social, cultural and educational awakening amongst the tribal and backward classes in North East India, here today.


    The Vice President said that from time immemorial, India’s traditions and customs have been steeped in the philosophy of ‘share and care’. We have always believed the world to be one family as exemplified by ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’, he said. We always believed in humanism and in maintaining cordial and friendly relations with citizens across the globe, he added.


    Shri Naidu said that unity in diversity is the central pillar on which our multi-lingual, culturally rich and diverse country is built by our founding fathers. He further said that we must further cement this unity and the bonding of people among all regions in the country. I would like to suggest to organizations like My Home India to facilitate student exchange programmes between northeast India and the rest of the country, he added.


    The Vice President said that geographical boundaries and the hilly terrains have been barriers between the main land and the beautiful hill states in Northeast India. Improved connectivity, expansion of road and rail networks and improved air connectivity have shrunk the barriers and now Indians can reach one part to the other in matter of hours, he added.


    Shri Naidu said that recent diabolical terrorist attack on our CRPF personnel in Pulwama once again underlines the global imperative to isolate and impose sanctions against nations which are perpetrating terrorism and jeopardizing peace. The world community needs to come together and act in the most stringent manner to eliminate the menace of terrorism, he said. The United Nations must conclude the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism with greater urgency and should not delay the process over semantics, he added.


    The Vice President said that Universities, corporate offices must organise regular workshops on building bonding among people from different regions. Similarly, the people from north east must also embrace the other cultural traditions of India, including Music, Dance, Cinema and other art forms and act as unifiers, he added.


    The Founder of My Home India Organization, Shri Sunil Deodhar, the President of Ajinkya DY Patil University, Shri Ajinkya DY Patil, the National Secretary, My Home India, Shri KG Suresh, the National In-charge, North East Project, My Home India, Shri Sanoj Kumar, the Vice President, Sikkim Student Association, Delhi, Ms. Dorin Dolkar Bhutia, the General Secretary, North East Student Society, Delhi University, Shri Kritinganba Leishangthem, the Asst. General Secretary, Naga Student Union, Delhi, Shri Hr. Yaorei, the Education Secretary, Kuki Student Union, Delhi, Shri Thangminlal Doungel and other dignitaries were present on the occasion.


    Following is the text of Vice President’s address :


    “I am happy to address the 13 th anniversary celebrations of My Home India organization, which has been working to bring an emotional and cultural integration among people from different parts of the country with special focus on North East region.


    I am glad to know that the organization has been working with the objective of spreading the idea of friendship and fraternity among the people.


    Dear sisters and brothers, even 71 years after Independence, the country is facing many challenges—about 18-20 per cent people are still below the poverty line, an equal number continue to be illiterate, gender discrimination, caste barriers, corruption and cross-border terrorism.


    I am delighted to learn that that My Home India has been working for a brighter India that is free of the barriers of caste, creed, community, provinces and other forces of division and has been engaged in activities to create the social, cultural and educational awakening amongst the tribal and backward classes in North East India.


    “By helping others you will learn how to help yourself”-- this quotation on My Home India’s website not only encapsulates its activities but also is a reminder to every citizen to be empathetic to the needs of others, particularly the marginalized and vulnerable sections, who need unalloyed empathy and not sympathy.


    The Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi said: “The best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others”. He taught the world as to how one can find happiness in the service of others and described service to humanity as serving the God.


    From time immemorial, India’s traditions and customs have been steeped in the philosophy of ‘share and care’. We have always believed the world to be one family as exemplified by ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’. We always believed in humanism and in maintaining cordial and friendly relations with citizens across the globe.


    Here, I would like to remind you all that India was once known as “ Vishwaguru’ and respected world over for its spiritual, intellectual and cultural eminence. A few centuries ago, India’s share in the world GDP was to the tune of 27 per cent. Yet, India never ever nurtured hegemonic ambitions or attacked any country.


    Dear friends, the recent diabolical terrorist attack on our CRPF personnel in Pulwama once again underlines the global imperative to isolate and impose sanctions against nations which are perpetrating terrorism and jeopardizing peace. The world community needs to come together and act in the most stringent manner to eliminate the menace of terrorism. The United Nations must conclude the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism with greater urgency and should not delay the process over semantics.


    India is a peace loving nation. We want to be friendly with all our neighbours. And we do not want anybody to interfere in our internal affairs. Whoever interferes, we will give a befitting reply.


    Today, I compliment the India Armed Forces for giving a befitting reply to the terrorist organizations by conducting air strikes with precision.


    As you all are aware, India is now the largest growing major economy and well embarked on the road to become the third largest economy in the coming years. For the country to continue unhindered on its growth path, we need to ensure that peace prevails at all times. Peace is pre-requisite for development. National integration is an equally essential component in the task of nation-building. The feeling of oneness and placing the interests of the country above everything else must be the core agenda of every citizen.


    Unity in diversity is the central pillar on which our multi-lingual, culturally rich and diverse country is built by our founding fathers. We must further cement this unity and the bonding of people among all regions in the country. I would like to suggest to organizations like My Home India to facilitate student exchange programmes between northeast India and the rest of the country. Such exchanges would not only promote bonding but also expose them to different cultures. It is essential that the sense of oneness is cultivated and promoted from an early age.


    Geographical boundaries and the hilly terrains have been barriers between the main land and the beautiful hill states in north east India. Improved connectivity, expansion of road and rail networks and improved air connectivity have shrunk the barriers and now Indians can reach one part to the other in matter of hours. We must ensure that children learn about the greatness of the country and its people right from school age.


    For instance, the National Pledge (India) written in Telugu originally by Pydimarri Venkata Subba Rao in 1962 and translated into other languages is known to every school going child. Often, the children recite this without understanding the essence of it during the morning prayers in schools. It explains the philosophy of universal brotherhood in simple phrases.


    “India is my country and all Indians are my brothers and sisters.


    I love my country and I am proud of its rich and varied heritage.


    I shall always strive to be worthy of it.


    I shall give my parents, teachers and all elders respect and treat everyone with courtesy.


    To my country and my people, I pledge my devotion.


    In their well-being and prosperity alone, lies my happiness”


    This pledge must be sworn in by all of us and strive for oneness.


    I am happy that My Home India is working to promote the fraternal relations between people belonging to different communities and regions and creating awareness programmes on Northeast in the rest of the country. I was informed that its volunteers are working to help NE students studying in different parts of the country to meet their needs in education, employment, health and other fields.


    Organizing cultural events involving people from North-East India and programs such as “One Bond One India” to inculcate the feeling of national Integration among the students of different universities and presenting awards to outstanding achievers from N. E. India by showcasing the region’s change makers are laudable initiatives.


    I am also happy to learn that My Home India has been organizing various social outreach programs, social service schemes, mass connect drives, sensitizing programs, cultural festivals, award ceremonies, and others to provide a common platform.


    I am happy that the government led by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has been laying great emphasis on north east. Prime Minister and the Union Ministers have been visiting these states regularly and have been interacting with people and state administrations.


    Dear sisters and brothers, the government is also bestowing special attention on the development of Northeast region and initiated several infrastructure projects. Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi Ji has spoken about 'HIRA' concept for the region. The acronym HIRA stands for Highways, Internet ways, Railways and Airways with an emphasis on education, health and skill development in the region.


    I would also call upon the private sector to explore opportunities in North East by providing market to local products and encourage artisans in the region to show case their talents at fairs held across the country.


    Patenting north east location specific products, giving geographical indicators to authentic north eastern cuisine, establishing north east region study centres in universities to introduce the beautiful tribal culture of the region can also be explored.


    Universities, corporate offices must organise regular workshops on building bonding among people from different regions. Similarly, the people from north east must also embrace the other cultural traditions of India, including Music, Dance, Cinema and other art forms and act as unifiers. Dr. Bhupen Hazarika was one such figure who united everybody through his music.


    I would urge organisations like My home India to continue their efforts in building relations between people from different regions.


    Thank you


    JAI HIND!”


    ***


    AKT/BK/MS/RK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566439) Visitor Counter : 549
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi