      Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs

      Hardeep S Puri lays Foundation Stone of Redevelopment of GPRA Colony at Sri niwas puri (Phase-I), New Delhi
      Posted On: 22 FEB 2019 6:54PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Hardeep S Puri, Minister of State (I/C), Housing and Urban affairs today laid the Foundation Stone of Redevelopment of GPRA Colony at Sriniwaspuri (Phase-I), here in the august presence of Shri Ramesh Bidhuri, Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) along with Shri Prabhakar Singh, Director General, CPWD.


    General Pool Residential Colony, Sriniwaspuri at present is having total 1429 quarters of different categories, out of which 820 quarters are being demolished in Phase-I. In this residential project, CPWD will construct 4994 General Pool Residential Accommodation of different categories at a cost of Rs. 3999 crores in two phases. In the first phase, 560 Type-II, 1260 Type-III and 588 Type-IV (total – 2408) dwelling units shall be constructed. Total 42 State of the Art towers with 19 to 26 Storyed structure shall be constructed at a cost of 1100 crores, which shall comprise of basement, three level parking and social infrastructure buildings including development works and services. The work shall be executed on EPC mode and shall be completed by July 2021. Approx. 50% of the plot area would be developed as green area for enhancing the beauty and ecology of the premises.


    Keeping in view the focus of CPWD on eco-friendly development, CPWD has carried out a critical review of the existing trees in the premises and it has been decided that not even a single tree shall be cut and bare minimum trees which are coming in the alignment of building towers will be transplanted within the campus. CPWD has reduced the area of basement under the Towers to avoid transplantation of large number of trees. In addition to transplantation of trees, compensatory planation of trees will be carried out in the complex in a big manner.


    The residential complex will have all modern amenities including Schools, Dispensary, Shopping complex and Community halls etc. For expeditious construction, new monolithic construction technology shall be used in the work. Eco-friendly green and energy efficient features shall be used so that construction complies with the three star GRIHA and Silver IGBC Rating. On site solar power units shall be installed on roof top with 800 KW capacity and power so generated shall be used for common area services. The campus will have sewage treatment plant based on MBBR Technology which shall generate treated waste water of less than 10 BOD and will be used for flushing purposes and horticulture. Surplus treated waste water will be supplied to adjoining areas for greenery and shall also be connected to unfiltered water supply line which will increase unfiltered water supply in other GPRA areas where there is shortage of unfiltered water.


    For Solid Waste Management, Organic Waste Composters will be installed to treat solid waste. Rainwater Harvesting system will be provided to recharge the ground water. Recycled materials made from C&D waste shall be used in the works. Demolition of existing structures will be carried out in a systematic and controlled manner and area will be properly barricaded with no disturbance to adjoining areas.


    The work shall be executed by the dedicated project team of CPWD Engineers and Architects under the leadership of Chief Project Manager, Redevelopment Project Zone, and work shall be completed within scheduled target with the best quality standards. These flats once completed shall cater to the requirement of providing most comfortable accommodation to the Government Employees of the Central Government. This residential complex shall be a magnificent blend of Architecture and Engineering.


    Shri Puri praised CPWD for their outstanding work and on time delivery of projects in recent past and desired that CPWD should complete this work also in 23-24 Months. Shri Prabhakar Singh assured that this work shall be completed in two years’ time.


    ***


    RJ/KGS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566012) Visitor Counter : 382