      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      Shri Jual Oram to launch “MSP for Minor Forest Produces and Value Addition Component of Van Dhan” tomorrow
      
      M/o Tribal Affairs to scale up Van Dhan scheme to promote setting up of Value Addition Units in Rural Areas

      Posted On: 27 FEB 2019 1:15PM by PIB Delhi

    The Union Minister of Tribal Affairs, Shri Jual Oram will launch the “Minimum Support Price (MSP) for Minor Forest Produces and the Value Addition component of Van Dhan” at a workshop to be organized by TRIFED under M/o Tribal Affairs on 28 th February, 2019 at Dr Ambedkar International Centre, New Delhi. Representatives from 30 State Governments and Stake holding Organizations have been invited to this day-long workshop, where roll out and implementation plan of the scheme will be discussed with the Delegates.


    The Ministry of Tribal Affairs is now scaling up the “Van Dhan Scheme” and is ready to extend it to all tribal Districts of the Country in phases starting with the Aspirational Districts with substantial tribal population. The Prime Minister of India launched the Van Dhan Scheme in Bijapur District of Chhattisgarh on 14 th April, 2018. The Ministry also expanded the coverage of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for Minor Forest Produce Scheme to 50 Minor Forest Produces. The MSP has also been raised between 30% to 40% in case of each of the Commodities.


    The procurement of these Minor Forest Produces will commence in Haat Bazars, where tribals bring their produces through facilitation of the State Government Agencies and District Collectors of the concerned Districts. A major advocacy drive will be launched for the same. It is proposed to set up almost 6000 Van Dan Vikas Kendras comprising 300 tribal gatherers each in the Country providing employment to almost 45 Lakh tribals.


    The Ministry of Food Processing Industries and Ministry of Tribal Affairs have decided to set up two Minor Forest Produce Processing Units at Jagdalpur in Chhattisgarh and Raigarh in Maharashtra at the cost of almost approximately Rs. 11 Crores. These units will source Minor Forest Produces from tribal gatherers and MSP and process them for marketing through tribal entities all over the country. The major component of this will be mainstreaming of Heritage Mahua, a traditional tribal drink, which will be produced and marketed all over the country.


    TRIFED has also launched the “Friends of Tribes” Scheme for sourcing of CSR funds from Public Sector Organizations (PSUs) were requested to fund tribal Entrepreneurship Development Programme through their CSR initiatives. BPCL, IOCL and SPMCL and have sanctioned Rs. 10.00 crores for Van Dhan operations in Barwani, Rajnandgaon, Dewas & Hoshangabad Districts of Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh.


    ****


    NB/SK/jk/Tribal Affairs /27-02-2019

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566461) Visitor Counter : 1240
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi