      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      CIPAM Invites Entries for Intellectual Property Competition
      Posted On: 25 FEB 2019 5:30PM by PIB Delhi


    The Cell for IPR Promotion and Management (CIPAM), Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, in collaboration with ASSOCHAM and ERICSSON India, has launched the second edition of ‘IPrism’ , an Intellectual Property (IP) competition for students of schools, polytechnic institutes, colleges and universities. Aiming to foster a culture of innovation and creativity in the younger generation, the competition will provide young creators an opportunity to see their creations recognized on a national platform.


    This year, entries are invitedon “IP in Daily Life” in two categories – film making and comic book making . The film making competition will accept entries of 60 second long animated/film videos, while the comic book making encourages participants to narrate a story in comic strips under 5 pages . Cash prizes worth more than Rs. 2 lakh will be given to the winning teams besides a special trophy of recognition for the school/institute/college that the students represent. The winners will also be recognised on CIPAM’s official website ( www.cipam.gov.in ) . The last date for receiving entries is May 30, 2019 .


    Creating IP awareness has become significant in today’s knowledge economy where innovations determine the development and success of a nation. Generating awareness will not only inspire students about innovation and its limitless possibilities, but will also aid in building respect for IP rights and deterring counterfeiting and piracy.


    www.iprism.co.in may be accessed for complete details and regular updates on the competition. CIPAM on Twitter at @CIPAM_India or Facebook at CIPAM India may also be followed.


    The National IPR Policy was adopted on May 12, 2016, to create a vibrant IP ecosystem in the country. Creating IPR Awareness through outreach and promotional activities is a key objective of the Policy. The Cell for IPR Promotion and Management, set up under the aegis of the DPIIT to fulfil the policy objectives, has been actively involved in many outreach activities including a nation-wide IPR awareness campaign.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566240) Visitor Counter : 1780
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Marathi , Hindi