      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr Jitendra Singh to present National e-Governance Awards, 2019 tomorrow
      
      Awards to be given in 6 categories to recognize achievements in the area of e-Governance
      
      Posted On: 26 FEB 2019 4:01PM by PIB Delhi


    With a view to recognize and promote Excellence in implementation of e-Governance initiatives, the Government of India presents National Awards on e-Governance every year. The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region, Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office, Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, Department of Atomic Energy and Department of Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh, will present the National e-Governance Awards, 2019 here tomorrow (on 27 th February, 2019).


    The Awards will be given in 6 categories to recognize achievements in the area of e-Governance. This initiative also seeks to disseminate knowledge on effective methods of designing and implementing sustainable e-Governance initiatives, to encourage innovations in successful e-Governance solutions and to exchange experiences in solving problems, mitigating risks, resolving issues and planning for success.


    The National e-Governance Award recognizes some of the best Government to Government (G to G), Government to Citizen (G to C), Government to Business (G to B) initiatives taken by government departments. It also recognizes initiatives in Start ups, Academic Research Institutions as well as initiatives in adopting emerging technologies.


    The six categories under which Awards will be presented are as follows:-

     1. Excellence in Government Process Re-engineering for Digital Transformation.
     2. Excellence in providing Citizen-Centric Delivery.
     3. Excellence in District level Initiative in e-Governance (i) North-East States + Hilly States (ii) UTs (including Delhi) (iii) Other States.
     4. Outstanding research on Citizen Centric Services by Academic/Research Institutions.
     5. Innovative Use of ICT in e-Governance solutions by Start ups [Start up as defined by Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) Government of India]

    (vi) Excellence in Adopting Emerging Technologies.


    Gold and Silver Awards in each category will be presented. A Special Jury Award is also being presented in Category-I for IRCTC Rail Connect Mobile App. This Event along with the Exhibition is a forum to showcase best practices, innovative technologies and ICT solutions. The Event includes an experience sharing session on some of the awarded initiatives such as: -

     1. IRCTC Rail Connect Mobile App
     2. UMANG
     3. MDDA ERP
     4. Punarvas
     5. Hello Doctor 555
     6. Wind Power forecasting services for the State of Tamil Nadu
     7. Ultra Resolution UAV based Geo ICT enabled Property Tax Management System for Municipal Area of Bhiwani

    The focus is on Citizen Centric Services and application of technology for encouraging development. It is hoped that the exposure will help in digital transformation of the country by replication of some of the projects.


    The Event is expected to be attended by a large number of delegates from Government of India, State Governments, Industry, Academia, and Private Sector.


    ********


    BB/NK/PK/SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566357) Visitor Counter : 703
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi
    
    
    

7.