      Ministry of Textiles

      Textiles Minister launches Short Term Courses at NIFT Panchkula
      Posted On: 28 FEB 2019 1:20PM by PIB Delhi


    Smriti Zubin Irani addressing the academic staff at Panchkula campus through video link


    Union Minister of Textiles, Smriti Zubin Irani, launchedfive short term courses at NIFT Panchkula, Haryana,through video link from New Delhi today.


    The permanent campus building is under construction and is expected to be completed by June, 2020. Till the completion of the permanent campus, the Institute will be run from temporary campusin Polytechnic-cum-Multi Skill Training Centre in Sector 26 Panchkula. The campus is being set up with the support of Department of Technical Education, Government of Haryana.


    Speaking on the occasion Smriti Zubin Irani urged the NIFT administration to conceive special projects to study the impact of Suraj Kund craft mela and made up industry in Haryana. She expressed hope that the students joining the new campus will not only be able to learn technology but also understand the process of entrepreneurship. The Textile Minister thanked the Haryana Government for providing land and infrastructure support. The Minister also released the brochure of the courses offered in the NIFT Panchkula.


    The proposed one-year Certificate Programmes are:

     1. Fashion Clothing & Technology
     2. Design Development for Indian Ethnic Wear
     3. Fashion & Media Communication
     4. Textile for Interiors & Fashion
     5. Fashion Knitwear Production and Technology

     1. Fashion Clothing & Technology


    The programme is tailor made for the professionals from the areas of fashion, apparel design, construction and technology. The curriculum is designed with a view to also help aspirants who would like to join the fashion industry.


     1. Design Development for Indian Ethnic Wear


    The programme focuses on dressmaking, value addition, pattern making and surface techniques for Indian ethnic wear. It aims to develop entrepreneurial skills for fashion, bridal market and designer market.


     1. Fashion & Media Communication


    The course aims at providing knowledge of fashion industry, fashion editing, styling, fashion ethics and computer aided designing and animation techniques and will benefit the existing and upcoming business in the vicinity.


     1. Textile for Interiors & Fashion


    The programme aims to train professionals and young enthusiasts to pursue careers in interiors and the apparel industry.


     1. Fashion Knitwear Production and Technology


    The programme aims to impart intensive training to prepare professionals for the knitwear garment industry, especially in the area of knitwear fashion coordination, merchandising and production.


    The Continuing Education Programme will enroll students of any age group. A pre-requisite of 10+2 years of schooling is mandatory. The students will be selected based on their performance in the entrance examination and interview conducted by NIFT. The total numbers of students proposed in each programme will be 30.


    Students will be exposed to experiential learning through laboratory and projects. Industry visits will be arranged to nearby industries which will make the students more prepared to take up jobs locally.


    ***


    MM/ SB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566596) Visitor Counter : 690
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu
    
    
    

1.