      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Prime Minister confers the National Youth Parliament Festival 2019 awards to the winners
      Posted On: 27 FEB 2019 1:32PM by PIB Delhi


    Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today conferred the National Youth Parliament Festival 2019 awards to the winners at VigyanBhawan. The National Level Finals of National Youth Parliament Festival concluded in New Delhi yesterday. The winners from the national level competition were Shweta Umre from Maharshtra (Ist Position), Anjanakshi M.S from Karnataka(IInd position) and MamtaKumari from Bihar (IIIrd position).


    Prime Minister also released an App “Khelo India”, developed by Sports Authority of India, under the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports. The App can be used, besides other things, to locate the sports facilities in the country, their availability, rules of the games and for checking the fitness level of any person.


    Speaking on the occasion, Minister of state (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports & Information and Broadcasting Col Rajyavardhan Rathore (Retd) said that the Prime Minister had inspired to hold the Youth Parliament, which provided a platform to the youth to express their views. He said that Prime Minister has provided full support for the promotion of Sports in the country.


    National Youth Parliament Festival 2019 was jointly organised by National Service Scheme (NSS) and Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS), under the aegis of Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports. Youth in the age bracket of 18-25 years were invited to participate in the District, State and National level Youth Parliaments. The National Youth Parliament Festival 2019 was conducted at the District and State levels. The participants for District Youth Parliament, (DYP) were selected through two screening processes i.e. Digital and Walk-in screenings in Nodal Institution in 471 designated districts across the country from 24 th to 28 th January. The best three speakers selected by a Jury from each District Youth Parliament participated at the State Youth Parliament (SYP). Two best speakers selected from each SYP participated as speakers in the National Youth Parliament (NYP). As many as 28 State Youth Parliaments were held across the country from 5 th to 7 th February to select 56 final contestants for NYP. More than 50 thousand youth participated through Youth Parliaments at all levels.


    ***


    YB/TSK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1566466) Visitor Counter : 737
    
    
      Read this release in: Urdu , Hindi , Bengali