      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of PM’s speech at the National Youth Parliament Festival Awards Function
      Posted On: 27 FEB 2019 8:15PM by PIB Delhi


    My young friends who have come in large numbers. I can see the new image of a New India. I greet all of you who have come here from different parts of the country with diverse languages and attires. I welcome you all who are like beads of a colourful garland representing Mother Bharti.


    I also welcome friends from NCC, NSS and Nehru Yuva Kendras who have joined us through the medium of technology from across the country.


    Friends, whenever I meet and discuss with energetic people like you who are full of zeal, I also feel the same energy and zeal. You have been discussing important issues of the country and the society for the last two days. This spirit of discussion and debate strengthens the democracy of the country.


    Friends, I have been fortunate in awarding several friends for your constructive debates on the present and the future of the country. All those who have been awarded deserve congratulations. I will also congratulate other friends because your participation is also a very big honour.


    Friends, I have always attempted to connect these ideas with the discourse of the democracy, country and the society. The National Youth Parliament is part of this effort. Once I had expressed about this spirit during my “Mann Ki Baat” programme and I am happy that it has materialized with success. This was the first experiment, a big experiment. But I will insist that you should try to solicit suggestions regarding the shortcomings in the programme, how it could have become better, what could have been the better subjects, how could the greatness of regional languages be found, etc. I would like that the department makes some online arrangement so that all the participants can give their suggestions and innovative ideas regarding this programme so as to strengthen it, then it can become an institution. And whosoever wishes to enter Parliament in the future would like to go through this parliament first. He will write in his profile how many times did he attend this parliament, how many times did he get the opportunity to speak, on how many subjects did he speak, the number of awards that he won and also about his poor performance.


    Since you have been taking part in this competition, it means that you read and think out of syllabus also. Those who are tied down to syllabus, they don’t come here. And perhaps you may also study me. I am confident that you don’t accept what is offered to you. Rather you dig out to find what is right, because often what is offered is wrong sometimes.


    You must have noticed that I don’t have faith in tokenism. I prefer developing inter-linked systems after giving it a thought for long. This is part of my working style. I don’t tell everything in advance. I open up slowly. I also have a dream and a small part of it is starting here. If this new system can be developed with your support, then I would like that the present system should be removed from the governance as soon as possible. Either it should be removed from the governance or the governance should be done away from this system.


    Vinoba Bhave used to talk about non-government system. Did you get what is non-government? What can be its shape? Imagine, if the government is just a catalytic agent in the country, which is stimulating, which should draw the limits and which should provide infrastructure. This initiative should be replicated in each district of the country. Organisations like NCC, NSS and Nehru Yuva Kendra should organize three-four comprehensive debates amongst the leaders who have won university elections in each district. Then this debate should be held in stadiums where 25,000 to 50,000 people turn up to hear them and see what are these youngsters speaking and what are they thinking. It can happen. Can’t it happen? But you will ask me who will do this. Can we take it in that direction so that this system is developed further and is benefited?


    Secondly, a statement is not an ornament of words, or a rhythmic flow of river. The word spoken by us should hit the right chord. Our speech may not be impressive, but it should be inspiring. It is difficult to find a better communicator than Mahatma Gandhi in the previous century. He was not a man of words and there was no such attempt by him to impress through his attire. Nor was there anything impressive about his anatomy. Can you imagine, despite not being a good orator and an impressive personality, his words used to reach each and every part of the world. And there was no WhatsApp those days. There is difference between oratory and communication. How we should develop communication skill? If we can create a young generation in our country, villages, cities and towns who can communicate with the society about the issues in a constructive way and can play a huge role in developing the mindset of the society. Therefore, this experiment is our gentle attempt to create a strong structure at the grass root level. Day is not far off when there will be demand that out of the three prizes, one should be reserved for men. Many many congratulations to these daughters. All the three daughters have won hands down.


    You have debated several issues concerning the country here. During these two days, you have put forth your views on cleanliness, inclusive society, financial inclusion, farmers’ income, environment, sports and several other issues. Some of the suggestions which have come in this programme can be used to strengthen several schemes. Therefore, my second suggestion to the department is to seek speeches of all those who have participated in writing. They can send online. They should also be told to pick up the best sentence from what they spoke or what they wrote. They should be their own examiner. An online booklet should be published which should have details of the debates of 400 children, and what were their important points. If there is an online book, then they will also go through it and read about 400 others. Then the system will become autopilot.


    Now tell me, does it need any support from the government? It can be done without any support from the government. The government will only provide infrastructure. The videos of top three speakers should be available online so that anybody can watch and listen to them. One such system should be developed which should attract the youth. And may be, if any such agenda emerges from this parliament, you can mail it to the MP of your constituency and tell him this is what has been proposed by the children and if it benefits him, he can access it. You can’t imagine but this is true that sometimes even a small proposal from anybody in any part of the country becomes very useful to me. This is the treasure that we have. My second suggestion is that it should be developed within a system so that it is useful to itself in the future. It will be very beneficial. This will become a platform which will give shape and direction to your raw energy. There will be creation of something new from the ideas and the knowledge that you will carry from here which will help build a new conscience and new culture of a new India.


    Friends, more productive the Parliament, more progressive will be the country. Now that I have come to Youth Parliament, I also want to give a little account of what we are doing. The country should know what their MPs are doing. You should ask them who you send to Parliament. The youth should ask what Parliament is doing.


    I give you example of the 16 th Lok Sabha. Average productivity is 85%. Almost 205 Bills have been passed. The 16 th Lok Sabha has done 20 percent more work than the 15 th Lok Sabha. But I am not satisfied. If Modi is there, there should not be 20 but 200 percent more work. The country’s people have elected a government with full majority after 30 years. If we could increase productivity by 20 percent, it is due to this reason. There was proper utilization of the tax payer’s money and timely formulation of policies. But what happened in Rajya Sabha – which is the House of the Elders? Please explain this to ascetics, elders and mature leaders who just while away their time. In the last session, the performance of Rajya Sabha was just 8 percent. This is a matter of great concern that there was only 8 percent productivity.


    You do one thing. You organize a youth event in your district or in two or four districts together in your state. It is the duty of the people who have gone to Rajya Sabha from your state to play their role for the interests of your state. Then you do one thing. Call them as chief guest, garland them, wrap around a very good shawl, keep a very decorated chair for them. Then you request for a small question answer session and ask them what they have done. Demand replies from them. Only then the pressure will be built. This is democracy. And what I am saying is not undemocratic. I don’t say that call member of only one party. Call every member from your state in spite of their political affiliations and ask them what they have done for the state. Then you will realize how a second force is prepared. Therefore, I want that we should make maximum use of this parliament.


    Friends, the young mind is aspirational and ambitious, and it should be. These daughters who were telling fine poetry; though I don’t know much but had read somewhere. Though I don’t remember exactly, one poet had said:


    उसे गुमां है कि मेरी उड़ान कुछ कम है,


    मुझे यकीं है कि ये आसमां कुछ कम है।


    He's smug that my flight is somewhat short,


    I am certain that this sky is somewhat small.


    Therefore, I always say the young dreams and aspirations should not be curbed. They should be let loose in the sky, because the youth is overflowing with new ideas, he has freshness, energy, vigour, sharpness, and he does not carry the baggage of the past. Therefore, he is more capable in tackling challenges and problems.


    Friends, your approach to solve the problems of the country and the society is going to strengthen the New India more. Today, time is flying very fast. Similarly, today’s generation thinks and works many times faster than before. You must have also experienced this. When you observe your three-four year old nephew, a thought would come to your mind that when I was as young as him, I did not understand all these things, but he understands everything. There is not much difference between you and your nephew but you can sense the difference and the change.


    Some people say today’s youth asks so many questions. You must also be facing this problem at home when you are told to keep mum or do studies. Some also say that there is no patience in today’s youth, they are in a hurry. Some say that today’s youth do not want monotonous work and want something new every time. He wants originality in everything. No matter what people say, but I believe that this is necessary; these are the ingredients of the youth. I have seen many people who are growing old, but their mind does not. These are the stuff which make you innovative, bring forward new ideas. Today’s youth is prepared for multi-tasking and he does several things at a time. He is full of ambition and wants to move ahead fast. This is the foundation of the New India.


    Friends, our government has made all possible attempts to realize the dreams of the youth and to strengthen their self-confidence. We strongly believe that the youth should get opportunities. He has the capability so there should be equal opportunities. This is the reason why we have taken a historic decision of 10 percent reservation for the poor young people in general category in education and government services. This was done without tampering with the rights of other groups. Besides, the government is also increasing 25 percent seats in government educational institutions.


    Friends, equality in opportunities can be ensured when there is end to favouritism towards a family, relations, and corruption. Several decisions are being taken in this regard. Be it in sports, or transparency in training and selection, or channelizing the ideas of the youths through Start-ups for a strong nation. We are moving ahead in a right direction. You have the responsibility to take maximum advantage of it and lead such efforts in the future.


    We all have to make efforts to ensure that India marches ahead fast in this fourth industrial revolution and set an example for the world to eliminate poverty through start-ups and innovations. Remember, the generation that I and you belong to, we did not get the opportunity to sacrifice our lives for the country’s independence. We are the people who have got an opportunity to live for the country. Therefore, we have to channelize our energy, our talent for the country. I have some other ideas in my mind. Good that I did not become a teacher. Otherwise, I would give more homework.


    You have come here from every district of the country. I don’t know what the arrangements for logistics are. But I would like you to take time out to visit the National War Memorial, which has been dedicated to the soldiers of the country by 125 crore countrymen two days ago. This has been built for the first time after so many years of independence. Similarly, there is Police Memorial, which has also been built for the first time after so many years of independence, and you visit and offer your respects. When you head back home after spending two days here, I am sure you will have abundant energy and inspiration after visiting these two places. I have been told there would be question-answer session with you as well. Therefore, I should not take much of your time. I would like to conclude by quoting two lines of Dwarika Prasad Dwivedi. There is a message for you in it. It is fine with me even if you don’t remember my entire speech.


    इतने ऊंचे उठो कि जितना उठा गगन है।


    इतने मौलिक बनो कि जितना स्‍वयं सृजन है।


    Rise as high as the sky.


    Be as original as your own creation.


    Friends, my good wishes to you for these dreams. I have been told that some people are going to ask me.


    Anchor: Sir, the youth have come from across the country and there are several questions which have been forwarded to us by them. We are taking up some of the questions. We have Shashank Gupta, who wants to ask something. Shashank, please stand up.


    Shashank: Namaskar, Mr. Prime Minister. My name is Shashank Gupta and I am resident of Delhi. Mr. Prime Minister, I and the youth of the country feel very happy that everybody is appreciating the power of our country. In this regard, I want to ask you a question. There are several schemes running in our country like we have Skill India, Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Scheme, Digital India, Make in India and for research we have Prime Minister Research Fellowship Scheme and then there is student engagement MEA programme to learn skills of diplomacy. I want to ask you how the youth of the country from the North East to Gujarat, from Jammu-Kashmir to Tamil Nadu can benefit from these schemes. Thanks.


    Prime Minister: You are right. There were schemes earlier also. It is not as if the previous governments did not prepare schemes. Some schemes remained limited to ideas, some existed only on papers, some would pass through the files and considerable time would be wasted in the process. The schemes prove beneficial if we really execute them to the last mile delivery. You know the banks were nationalized in the country. It happened when you were not born. It was done so that the poor could also have the banking rights. There was a fashion in our country those days to play games with the lives of the poor. It has been 40-45 years since the banks were nationalized. But the bank accounts of the poor could not be opened. If the bank accounts could not be opened, it was because nobody cared for the last mile delivery. We decided that every citizen of the country should have bank account. Initially, we had some problem with the banks because we told them to open bank accounts with zero balance. Now which bank will be ready to open accounts with zero balance? It is difficult but has to be done. Now you see the richness of the poor of the country. We have seen the bankruptcy of the rich who abscond. Today, these poor people used their bank accounts, went into the direction of saving and today they have saved almost one lakh crore rupees. This is the richness of the poor and the country will move ahead with their richness.


    It was made possible due to the last mile delivery. I remember vividly there used to be Dada Dharmadhikari, who was a Gandhi follower. If you get an opportunity, you must read the books of Dada Dharmadhikari. He used to write on small-small issues. He was influenced by Vinoba Bhave. Somewhere, he has written that somebody familiar from the family told him that his son had grown up, completed his graduation, but he was not getting any job. So please see what could be done. When he came to me, I asked him what he knows. He said he was a graduate. I told him okay, you are a graduate, but what do you know. Again he said he is a graduate and has spent three years in college. Then he asked him whether he knew driving, he said he doesn’t. Then he asked him whether he knew cooking. He said no. Do you know typing? He said no. What do you know then? Dada Dharmadhikari has described this experience in a very proper way.


    Our endeavour behind the skill development is that the god has given us two hands, we need skills. The strength of the Skill Development Mission is such that nobody can die of hunger. He can stand on his feet and his self-confidence also grows. We are creating this network across the country. The story of Start-ups is before you. Earlier, if you met the son of a senior clerk, he would say he also wants to become a clerk. Today, when I ask my officers about their son, they say he does not want to join government, he wants to start his own Start-up business. Start-up is an innovation, to do something new. Now, the government has prepared Mudra Yojana. Under this Mudra Yojana, anybody can access money from bank without any guarantees. Trusting the youth, this government has given lakhs and crores of rupees to them. There are four crore people who have taken money from the banks for the first time. They have decided to stand on their feet and today they are giving employment to one or two persons as well. What I want to say is that we are stressing on last mile delivery while preparing schemes. If you go to Common Service Centre, the poor people in 2.5 lakh villages can take advantage of more than 400 government schemes by seeking online information. You too can tell the people in your areas that there is an application form at the Common Service Centre; he can access it as all the necessary guidance is digitally available there. We have decided to trust our people. There was a thinking earlier which considered everybody to be a thief because there was a thief inside him. I said it is not like this. There might be some people who tread on the wrong path, but most of the people are honest and live their lives with dignity. Now tell me, earlier when you needed to apply for anything, the Xerox copy of the certificate was not considered. You needed to get it certified from an elected member of your municipality ward. This was the scene. You used to stand in a queue for over two hours. And that corporator used to misuse his official position, by telling you to come tomorrow or day after, would often mistreat you. This used to happen. What was the need of this? Who is this corporator, or a tehsil panchayat official, or an MLA, or an MP to give you certificate of honesty? You do it yourself with honesty. And it’s done.


    Anybody can self-attest his certificate in this country and if it has to be seen at the final stage, then produce the original certificate. Why this unnecessary hassle? This is the effect of the change. Now you must be seeing it for yourself that there is effect of good governance and ultimately there is transformation in development through good governance. To build a good bus stop in a village is not a development scheme. Development will be complete if there is a good bus stop, it should be kept clean, buses must come on time and the behavior of the conductor is good. If it includes all these things, only then there is the proper use of the bus stop. Our endeavour is to inter-link several things, so that the change can be felt. Regarding Swachh Bharat, there used to be programmes for construction of toilets earlier also. But if you do half-heartedly, it will not work. We decided we have to get rid of this problem for ever. Nine crore toilets have been built.


    Our daughters used to drop out of the schools because by the time they would be three or five years old, they realized that there were no exclusive toilets for them. It is only because of that mental burden that they used to quit after 5-6 years of study. I said at least there should be separate toilets for girls in schools. Now somebody can say whether this is the work of a Prime Minister to construct toilets, he should think about bigger issues. Those 13 who only used to talk about bigger issues have gone before me. Yes, any other …


    Anchor: Sir, Akanksha Asnare has come from Amravati in Maharashtra. She also has some curiosity to know something. Akanksha.


    Akanksha: First of all, good morning, respected Prime Minister. I am Akanksha and would like your permission to ask a question to you. My question is that the youth have realized that their condition has improved very much in the last four-and-a-half years. Now we are being trusted too. I want to know how did you bring about this change?


    Prime Minister: I have not changed the situation; it has been changed by the countrymen. It is the trust of the countrymen which has changed all these. Does Modi step out with a broom for cleanliness? The countrymen decided to make the country clean and they set out for it. Now if you litter trash at your house, doesn’t the youngest child in the house tell you or his grandfather to pick it up? This has been told by Modiji, does not he say this? The country changes due to the strength and resolution of its people. It is the job of the government to give them opportunities, to give space to them. And our government is moving in that direction. Thanks.


    Anchor: Sir, we want to take one question from your parliamentary constituency Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh. Khushi Shrivastav has come from there. Khushi, please ask your question.


    Khushi Shrivastav: Namaskar, Respected Prime Minister Sir. My question is that there was this problem of corruption in India. People had resigned to the issue that if they have to live in India they will have to live with corruption. People were upset about it. In the last four years, people who used to demand money are frightened … The leakage in the system has also been plugged. Feel pride but it is also a matter of surprise that how could this problem which we have been facing for so long could be resolved in four years. We would like to know from you.


    Prime Minister: This is true that several countries which became independent after us have raced ahead. We went on inculcating evils amongst ourselves one after another. It’s like diabetes which invites host of other diseases. It is incurable. Nobody comes to know beforehand but when one gets affected with diabetes, then all other diseases follow. Corruption is like a termite which brings in all the evils. As long as you don’t eliminate this termite like corruption from the country, you can’t be free from other evils. Fighting it is difficult and not everybody can do it. One who is not bothered about anything, who does not think about himself, he can surely do this job. There are crores of people in the country who want to live with rules and regulations. We encouraged them and you can see the outcome. Our youth should decide to make digital payment for any shopping that they do, to pay through mobile app. I have been told that it will be linked with the bank accounts. If somebody accepts money illegally, will he be caught or not? Can there be any problem if this system is streamlined? Today, the number of income tax payers has doubled in 70 years. If this is not an honest way, then what it is? It (ending corruption) will become possible with your cooperation.


    Anchor : Sir, we would also like to take one question from the South. Mr. Rakshit is present here from Tumkur, Karnataka. He wants to ask you something.


    Rakshit: First of all, please accept my greetings, Mr. Prime Minister. My question to you is the country is progressing. What should we the youth do?


    Prime Minister: Will I have to tell the youth what to do? You see, there are 800 million people who are below the age of 35 in our country, they can change the country. This is not difficult. You see, the elections are around the corner. Is there any youth whose name is not registered in the voters’ list? Should it be registered or not? Those who are born in the 21 st century will get the right to vote for the first time in the Lok Sabha elections. When a child goes to school for the first time, there is a festival in the family and sweets are distributed. Even the poorest of the poor also go with a vermillion dot on their forehead. I believe that those who become voter for the first time, they should be celebrated. The youth, who become voter for the first time, should celebrate because they are now at a position when they can decide for the country. He has become entitled to take the decision of the country. Similarly, we should encourage people to embrace Digital India that we will develop this habit of paying digitally and through cash. There are several things that we can do to bring about change in the society. I think we should do it… Thanks.


    Anchor: Sir, this was the last question. If you want to inspire us from your side.


    Prime Minister: It is done. Very very thanks to all of you.


    ***


    VRRK/VJ

    
    
    (Release ID: 1567092) Visitor Counter : 173
    
    
      Read this release in: Assamese , Marathi , Hindi