      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Projects worth Rs 1050 Crore Awarded to arrest sewage pollution in Ganga from Patna
      Posted On: 01 MAR 2017 1:38PM by PIB Delhi


    In a major step taken to develop adequate sewage treatment infrastructure in Patna to keep Ganga clean, projects worth Rs 1,050 crore have been awarded under Namami Gange programme. The amount will be spent for setting up two two Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs),renovation of one existing STP , construction of two pumping stations and laying of new underground sewage network of about 400 kilometers.


    Contracts to build STP of 60 MLD capacity and laying of new underground sewage network of 227 kilometers in Saidpur zone of the city have been awarded to UEM India Pvt. Ltd and Jyoti Build Tech Pvt. Ltd at a total cost of Rs 600 crore. Three other firms – Larsen & Turbo Ltd, Voltas Ltd and GAA Germany JV have been awarded separate projects in Beur zone of the city worth over Rs 450 crore to build one STP of 23 MLD, renovate existing STP of 20 MLD and lay down new underground sewage network of about 180 kilometers. The scope of work also includes creation of main pumping stations of 83 MLD and 50 MLD capacity in Saidpur and Beur zones respectively. The contracts also include the cost of operation and maintenance of STPs and sewage networks for a period of 10 years.


    These projects not only aim to treat the current sewage generation in respective zones of Patna but also take into account the sewage estimates of next one decade, considering the expected rise of population in the city. As per a survey by the World Bank, Patna is also one of the fastest growing city in the world in terms of infrastructural development. After time-bound commissioning of these projects, no untreated water will go into the Ganga from these zones saving the holy waters of the river from contamination and deterioration. The progress of the construction will be monitored by National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) to ensure that deadlines are met.


    Patna city spread in an area of more than 100 square kilometer is sub-divided into six sewerage zones – Digha, Beur, Saidpur, Kankarbagh, Pahari and Karmali Chak. Contract for sewage related projects in Karmali Chak zone are expected to be awarded shortly.


    *****


    Samir/jk
    
    
    (Release ID: 1483459) Visitor Counter : 70