      NITI Aayog

      NITI Aayog presents the 2nd edition of Women Transforming India – celebrating women who are breaking the glass ceiling
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2017 6:27PM by PIB Delhi


      On the occasion of International Women’s Day 2017, NITI Aayog, in partnership with the UN in India and MyGov, presents the second edition of Women Transforming India, an online contest to celebrate women achievers, leaders and change makers from across the country.


      Women Transforming India was launched in 2016 as an effort to bring attention to successful stories of change realised by women at the grassroots level, within communities. Twelve exceptional women, including a 104-year-old from rural Chhattisgarh, who sold her goats to build a toilet in her village or a widow from Himachal Pradesh fighting for the rights of widows and deserted women, were awarded with certificates of appreciation to acknowledge their phenomenal work in transforming societies.

      NITI Aayog’s 15-year vision document also proposes key reforms to enable and encourage women’s workforce participation across sectors in India. This is in line with the Sustainable Development Goals, particularly Goal 5, Gender Equality, whose adoption into policy-making is being steered by NITI Aayog.

      This year, NITI Aayog once again aims to recognise those women in India’s workforce who are ‘breaking the glass ceiling’ and affecting positive change in their communities to further the Government of India’s mission of inclusive economic growth.

      We are seeking entries in two categories:

      1. Short video and photo contest on Women Breaking Gender Stereotypes : This can be a homemade video shot on a mobile phone. Both photos and videos are to be accompanied with a short caption of less than 50 words, capturing the story of the woman.


      2. Written entries of women in the workforce : We encourage stories of women across sectors, irrespective of their educational qualifications, working in non-traditional occupations, as well as women who are working to empower other women, their neighbourhoods and societies, in any way. Stories should not exceed 500 words.


      Entries must be submitted online here: https://www.mygov.in/task/women-transforming-india-2017-breaking-glass-ceiling/ on or before 1 May 2017. A shortlist of the 10 best entries by a jury will be put to poll on MyGov.in. After the top three entries are determined, a jury constituted by NITI Aayog will pick the final winning entry.

      ‘Women Transforming India’ is another example of the government’s deep commitment to advancing gender equality. The government’s many interventions, including Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, are testimony to its resolve to empower and educate girls, and to tackle discrimination and violence against girls and women.

      The theme for International Women’s Day, 8 March 2017, focuses on “Women in the Changing World of Work: Planet 50-50 by 2030”. This advances the Government of India’s commitment to ensure gender parity in India, with special focus on women’s economic empowerment.


      ***


      AKT/SH/VK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1483876) Visitor Counter : 97