      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Schemes for Youth Affairs
      Posted On: 09 MAR 2017 3:31PM by PIB Delhi

      

      The Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel said in the Lok Sabha today that the Ministry has revised/restructured a number of schemes related to youth affairs, with effect from 01.04.2016, as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                   
S. No.  Names of Schemes                                               Names of Schemes                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                   
        (Before Restructuring)                                         (After Restructuring)                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                   
1.                                                                                                                                                                 
        Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan NYKS)                              Merged into a new ‘umbrella’ Scheme called “Rashtriya Yuva Sashaktikaran Karyakram (RYSK)” .
                                                                                                                                                                   
2.                                                                   
        National Youth Corps (NYC)                                   
                                                                     
3.                                                                   
        National Programme for Youth & Adolescent Development (NPYAD)
                                                                     
4.                                                                   
        International Cooperation                                    
                                                                     
5.                                                                   
        Youth Hostels (YH)                                           
                                                                     
6.                                                                   
        Assistance to Scouting & Guiding Organisations               
                                                                     
7.                                                                   
        National Discipline Scheme (NDS)                             
                                                                     
8.                                                                   
        National Young Leaders Programme (NYLP)                      
                                                                     
9.                                                                                                                                                                 
        National Service Scheme (NSS)                                  National Service Scheme (NSS)                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                   
10.                                                                                                                                                                
        Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development (RGNIYD)  Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development (RGNIYD)                               
                                                                                                                                                                   

      In a written reply he said National Service Scheme (NSS) and Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development (RGNIYD) have been retained as separate Schemes due to the distinctive nature of their operational framework, all other Schemes have been merged into a new umbrella Scheme called ‘Rashtriya Yuva Sashaktikaran Karyakram (RYSK)’, a flagship programme of the Department for empowerment of the youth to enable them to realise their potential and in the process, to contribute to the nation-building process.

      The merger of 8 schemes into a single umbrella scheme is designed to achieve better synergy in implementation of these Schemes. Out of these Schemes, only the first two schemes, namely, NYKS and NYC, have field level administrative set-up for implementation of Schemes. Now, it will be possible to leverage the NYKS/ NYC administrative infrastructure for management of all the components of the new umbrella scheme, thereby facilitating more effective implementation of these Schemes.

      The creation of the new umbrella scheme is primarily an exercise for consolidation of the ongoing schemes. Since all these schemes were already under implementation, the youth all over the country, including in rural areas, were already aware of these schemes. However, youth have been made aware about the new umbrella scheme through distribution of IEC material and dissemination of information programmes.

      *****


      AD/MB


    

    
    (Release ID: 1483964) Visitor Counter : 95