      AYUSH

      Shri Venkaiah Naidu to inaugurate the 3 day International Yoga Fest tomorrow
      3500 participants including representatives from foreign countries to take part in the festival

      Posted On: 07 MAR 2017 4:23PM by PIB Delhi
      
      
      
          A three days International Yoga Fest from 8th-10th March 2017 will be held at Talkatora Indoor Stadium, New Delhi. The International Yoga Fest is being organized as a Curtain Raiser for International Day of Yoga (IDY) 2017.
          Speaking to media persons at a press briefing, Director Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY) Dr. Ishwar V. Basvaraddi said that the Minister of Information and Broadcasting and Urban Development and Housing, Shri. M. Venkaiah Naidu will inaugurate the International Yoga Fest (IYF) tomorrow and Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik, will preside over the function. Secretary AYUSH Sh. Ajit M. Sharan, Yog Rishi Swami Ramdev, Dr. H.R. Nagendra, Swami Chidananda Saraswati, Sh. O.P. Tiwari, Smt. Hamsa Jayadeva, Swami Bharat Bhushan, Swami Ritawan Bharati, Sister BK Asha, Sh. S.Sridharan, Swami Darshak, Swami Ullasa will be the Guests of Honor. Shri Basvaraddi further said that the main purpose of the Fest is to sensitize the masses regarding celebration of International Day of Yoga held every year.
          The three days event is being organised by Ministry of AYUSH, Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY) in association with Indian Yoga Association (IYA) and New Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC).
          Shri Basvaraddi informed that more than 3500 participants including the eminent Yoga Gurus, Yoga Masters, Scholars, Policy Makers, Bureaucrats, Yoga enthusiasts and Experts of Allied Sciences and representatives from 15- 18 countries are going to participate in this mega event.
          He also said that during the International Yoga Fest Parallel Yoga Workshops from morning to evening by eminent Yoga Masters and Yoga Gurus will be conducted. Besides this, Lecture/ Special Yoga Techniques / Yoga Demo by Yoga Masters, Satsang/ Isha Music/ Discourses/ Cultural Program by eminent Yoga Gurus, Yoga Demo by the students of leading Yoga Institutions / Yoga Professionals will also be organised .
          Shri Basvaraddi informed that a half day Seminar on Life Sketch and Contributions of two Yoga gurus Swami Ved Bharati and Shri T.K.V. Desikachar for the promotion and development of Yoga will be conducted by Swami Ritawan Bharati & disciples and Sh.S Sridharan & Dr. Kausthub Desikachar, along with their team respectively on 9th March, 2017.
          A large number of following Institutes will be participating in the Fest.
          1. The Art of Living, Bangalore
          2. Patanjali Yoga Peeth, Haridwar
          3. Isha Foundation, Coimbatore
          4. Parmarth Niketan, Rishikesh
          5. SVYASA University, Bangalore
          6. Kaivalyadhama, Lonavala, Distt. Pune
          7. The Yoga Institute, Santacruz, Mumbai
          8. Ramamani Iyengar Memorial Yoga Institute, Pune
          9. Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga New Delhi
          10. Prajapita Brahma Kumaris Ishwariya Vishwavidyalaya, Mount Abu
          11. Mokshayatan International Yogashram, Saharanpur
          12. Krishnamacharya Yoga Mandiram, Chennai
          13. Swami Ram Sadhaka Grama, Rishikesh
          14. Shri Aurobindo Ashram, Puducherry
          15. Shivananda Yoga Vedanta Centre, New Delhi
          16. Adhyatma Sadhna Kendra, New Delhi
          17. Gurukula Kangri Vishwavidyalaya, Haridwar
          18. International Naturopathy Organisation
          19. Vivekananda Yoga Ashram and Hospital, Kukreji, New Delhi
          Post Fest Yoga Workshops will also be conducted by Leading Yoga Gurus including Baba Ramdev and Yoga Masters of different Schools of Yoga on March 10th, 2017 at MDNIY, New Delhi.
          Besides the above main programmes, Special Yoga Techniques, Cultural programmes, Isha Music, Satsang, Exhibitions, Quiz, Elocutions, Poster Presentations, etc. will also be conducted during the event.
          An exhibition of more than 50 stalls also be organized where books, DVDs, Yoga appliances and other Yoga related products will be displayed for promotion and sale.
          *****
          NB/SK/UD
    
    
    (Release ID: 1483750) Visitor Counter : 57