      Ministry of Electronics & IT

      Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad Inaugurates ‘Training of Self-Organized Small & Medium Traders on Digital Payment Initiatives’
      Posted On: 04 MAR 2017 7:44PM by PIB Delhi

      

    · The Minister appeals to the business community to turn digital transaction into a national movement


    The Union Minister of Electronics & Information Technology and law & Justice, Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad today called for a national movement to make digital transaction a way of life for all sections of the society. Speaking at the inauguration of On-boarding of self organized small and medium businesses / traders on digital payment initiatives – project entrusted to the National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology (NIELIT) by the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, he said, “The objective of ushering in transparency in the system along with reducing corruption wave can only be achieved with evolved participation of all sections of the society.”


    The minister further added, “The Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has resolved to work towards making India a digitally advanced country which serves as a role model for the developing world and the objective of reaching this goal has been rested with the ministry of Electronics and Information Technology.”

    The objective of these training programmes is to understand and adopt simplified digital payment mechanisms like UPI, USSD, BBPS, AEPS etc. in a convenient manner, which would contribute towards establishing digital economy and convey the benefits of digital payments to traders through capacity building programs. About 13500 small and medium unorganized / self organized businesses/ traders are targeted. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) shall be mobilizing traders and trade union leaders for training on digital payment initiatives. Under this programme, NIELIT shall be organizing 5 Regional Workshops at Delhi, Jaipur, Kolkata, Mumbai, Chennai and 30 State Workshops and 100 DigiDhan Camps, all over India.

    The nation-wide campaign to launch the training programs was inaugurated by Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, Hon’ble Union Minister of Electronics & Information Technology and Law & Justice in the presence of Shri Sanjiv Mittal, Joint Secretary, MeitY, Dr. Ashwini Kumar Sharma, Director General, NIELIT and Shri Praveen Khandelwal, Secretary General of the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) at the Auditorium, SCOPE Convention Centre, SCOPE Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi.

    In his address, Shri Sanjiv Mittal, Joint Secretary, MeitY said, “With the increase in mobile penetration, citizens and traders have started switching to digital mediums for financial transactions. Mobile as a Point of Sale (PoS), Point of Purchase (PoP) and Point of Acceptance (PoA) is also lessening the digital divide between urban and rural India, along with drawing the masses into the net of financial inclusion. Post demonetization, NIELIT through its PAN India centres, accredited training partners and facilitation centres has been making appreciable efforts in promotion of digital payment initiatives. Capacity building of SMEs and traders on digital payment by NIELIT trainers is another nugget to take forward Government’s untiring efforts for creation of a digitally vibrant society, which is also in line with the ‘Digital India’ mission.”

    Dr. Ashwini Kumar Sharma, Director General, NIELIT outlined the details of the programme for training of traders on digital payment initiatives. He further said, “All NIELIT Centres have been geared up to ensure that the training targets are achieved within 2-3 months. At NIELIT, use of cash as a mode for making payment to vendors/suppliers has been discontinued since 2014.I express my gratitude to representatives from UIDAI and SLBs for organizing live demonstration including hands-on training to the traders. On successful completion of the one day training programme by the traders, a certificate of participation shall also be issued. It is worthwhile to mention that the bouquet of Digital Literacy courses offered by NIELIT has already been retrofitted with a module on financial inclusion developed by the Ministry of Finance.”

    Shri Praveen Khandelwal, Secretary General of the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said, “The DigiDhancamps shall be organized in the market itself to digitally educate the shopkeepers and merchants. CAIT has touch based with its member and market associations throughout India and the main purpose of the Regional and State Workshops would be to create momentum and vibrancy among the self-organized and informal trading community. These Regional Workshops would also serve as Master Training on Digital Payment Modes for traders, who would be involved with further proliferation and promotion of digital payment initiatives among their fellow traders.”

    “Digital transaction will get a massive boast with the implementation of the GST. I appeal to the Government to provide required training on GST to the traders and merchants to make it a huge success,” added Mr. Khandelwal.

    The event was attended by more than 200 traders, besides senior officials of the Government

    NNK/MD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483626) Visitor Counter : 37