      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Three-day 'Destination North East - 2017' Concluded
      Last day of Festival dedicated to Tourism

      Posted On: 08 MAR 2017 5:39PM by PIB Delhi

    The three-day 'Destination North East-2017' festival concluded at Chandigarh today. It was organized by Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) in coordination with PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry knowledge partner with a focus on the use of appropriate technology for the development of North East Region.
    
    The third and final day of Destination North East 2017 was devoted to Business to Consumer (B2C) session on Promoting on Tourism in North East India which has big potential in this regard having a number of places of tourist attraction and rich cultural heritage, traditions mixed with modernity.
    
    Presiding over the valedictory function, the chief guest Shri C. K. Das, Member, North East Council (NEC) highlighted the geographical importance and the unique position of North East Region specially in the promotion of tourism industry in an environment-friendly manner with full public participation.
    
    On the behalf of Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) Shri S. L. Meena, Joint Secretary thanked one and all who contributed for the successful conduct of the 'Destination North East-2017'. Ms. Madhu Pillai, Regional Director, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry thanked Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) for taking the Chamber as knowledge partner.
    
    Earlier in the B2C session on Promoting on Tourism in North East India in the Buyers-Sellers Meet, Shri Gautam Chintey, Adviser, (Banking, Industries & Tourism) NEC performing duties as Moderator said that North East has unique features for attraction of tourists from all over the globe. The session was chaired by Shri C K Das, Member, North East Council (NEC).
    
    Residents of Chandigarh have shown great interest in the three day festival as people in large number from different walks of life thronged the mela and were enthused with rich cultural heritage and cuisine of North East India depicted in the exhibition cum information stalls, food courts. Sale of bamboo and cane furniture was a major attraction for the people.
    
    The three-day Destination North East-2017 was inaugurated on March 6, 2017 by Dr. Jitendra Singh, Union Minister of State (I/C) for Development of North East Region, MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space.
    
    Shri S.N. Pradhan, Shri R. Chadhary (both Joint Secretary), Shri Gautam Chintey, Adviser, (Banking, Industries & Tourism) NEC and other dignitaries attended the valedictory function.
    
    *****

    
    RS/PS/KM/DSN
    
    (Release ID: 1483917) Visitor Counter : 115