      Ministry of Finance

      The Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal reaches Nairobi, Kenya to participate in the 4th Annual Devolution Conference; To share the experience of the devolution system and its progress in India.
      Posted On: 06 MAR 2017 12:33PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal will represent the India in the 4th Annual Devolution Conference and will share the experience of devolution system and its progress in India. In this regard, Shri Meghwal would specifically highlight the 73rd-74th Constitutional Amendments and provisions their under for strengthening the local governance in the Republic of India. The Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs, Shri Meghwal has reached Nairobi, Kenya to participate in the 4th Annual Devolution Conference to be held from 06th to 09th March, 2017 at Nakuru County of Kenya. Shri Meghal has been asked by the Prime Minister to represent India in the said Conference.
    
    During his visit to Kenya, Shri Meghwal will address the Devolution Conference and will brief the Conference on the revenue sharing between the Centre and the States as well as showcase the smooth devolution on the recommendations of 14th Finance Commission from the earlier 32% share in 13thFinance Commission to 42% of Union’s net tax receipts, to the States. To share the successful experience of the Urban and Rural Local Bodies, Shri Meghwal will inaugurate the Conference. The objective of the Conference also includes sharing of good experience of devolution system and through the platform of Devolution Conference how it can be used to increase Good Governance and Public Accountability for the Social & Economic Development internationally.
    
    In this International Conference, around ten thousand delegates will participate from different regions including African Nations and China. The Members of Parliament, Leaders of Opposition from all States, professionals, representative of various civil societies, religious & social organizations from Kenya will also take part in the aforesaid Conference.
    
    **********

    

    
    DSM/VKS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483653) Visitor Counter : 30