      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Women Empowerment, Emancipation and Equality are critical factors in Nation’s Development
      
      
      DD and AIR should help women find their wings by informing them of their Rights - Venkaiah Naidu
      
      DD News celebrates 100th episode of Tejasvini

      Posted On: 06 MAR 2017 6:42PM by PIB Delhi
      

        Minister for Information & Broadcasting Shri M Venkaiah Naidu has said that Women Empowerment, Emancipation and Equality were the three critical factors defining the role of women in Nation’s Development. The Government stood committed in providing equal rights and opportunities for women and girl through multiple initiatives. At the same time, Minister expressed concern over the stereotypical portrayal of women in movies which led to increased objectification. The Minister stated this while delivering his address on the occasion of DD News celebrating its 100th Episode of Tejasvini. Minister of State Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore was also present on the occasion.


        Elaborating further, Shri Naidu mentioned various initiatives of the Government to address issues related to Women & Girl Child. The Beti Bachao Beti Padhao programme was aimed at behavioural change which would also change the mind-sets of the people about the role of women. The Sukanya Samriddhi scheme provided financial security to our daughters. #SelfieWithDaughters campaign launched by Prime Minister through his Mann ki Baat became a worldwide phenomenon trending among top 5 across the world.


        Shri Naidu also felicitated 14 Tejasvini from different walks of life on the occasion. The Minister also inaugurated the Tejaswini YouTube link on the occasion.


        Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said that the media should play a greater role in informing women about their rights and Nari Shakti programmes should be encouraged across media platforms. It was imperative to draw from the valuable contributions and examples set by great women leaders and intellectuals who have adorned the history of our nation. He added that, our nation has come a long way in bringing up the social pedestal on which women stand. While we have emerged from regressive attitudes and practices of the past, gender equality and sensitisation still remain a task to be fulfilled.


        Adding further, Shri Naidu said that the role of Indian Women and their contributions are evident in each and every field. Indian women are playing an important leadership role as bankers, space scientists, police, and corporate professionals. In the software industry 30% of the workforce is female. Indian women have also showed their prowess in the field of sports like PV Sindhu in badminton, Sakshi Malik in wrestling and Mary Kom in boxing. Even in the current government, female colleagues are providing leadership in important portfolios such as External Affairs, Commerce and Women & Child.


        Regarding the extra ordinary efforts of Women, the Minister said that the story of a spirited 105-year-old Kunwar Bai from Chhattisgarh was an inspiration for all of us to emulate who was recently felicitated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister as the mascot for Swachh Bharat Abhiyan.


        Speaking on the occasion of celebration of 100th episode of Tejasvini Programme, Shri Naidu said that inspirational stories of the famous women and interviews of achievers would motivate ‘unnoticed’ women. `He urged Prasar Bharati to play a vital role in spreading the message of the numerous schemes the government runs for the girl child, adolescent girl and women. Creating and developing programmes which carried the message, preferably in a subtle manner, of the latent talent and strength women possessed. This would strengthen the women movement in the country


        Speaking earlier, Women and child development Minister, Smt. Maneka Gandhi outlined the initiatives taken by her Ministry towards women empowerment. Smt. Gandhi specifically highlighted the “We are equal campaign” initiated by Ministry on social media to promote the idea of equality.


        List of Tejasvinis felicitated by Hon’ble Minister


        1. Ms. Deepa Malik, Paralympic 2017 Silver Medalist


        2. Ms. Sunita Chaudhary, Delhi’s First Auto Rickshaw Driver


        3. Ms. Geetanjali Babbar, Social Activist Working for Sex Workers


        4. Ms. Archana Ramasundaram, First Woman Head of a Paramilitary Wing


        5. Pandita Anuradha Pal, World’s First Woman Professional Tabla Player


        6. Dr. Sonal Mansigh, Bharatnatyam Artist


        7. Ms. Usha Chomar, Swachchta Ambassador


        8. Ms. Prathistha Saraswat, Yogacharya


        9. Wing Commander Pooja Thakur


        10. Ms. Pragya Ghildiyal, Best Sports person with disabilities


        11. Ms. Rupa, - Acid Attack Survivor


        12. Ms. Madhu, Acid Attack Survivor


        13. Ms. Neetu, Acid Attack Survivor


        14. Ms. Santosh Yadav, Mountaineer


        ****


        CP/GV


    

    
    (Release ID: 1483676) Visitor Counter : 157