      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot Distributes Assistive Aids and Appliances to Persons with Disabilites
      Posted On: 05 MAR 2017 3:41PM by PIB Delhi


    Shri Thaawarchand Gehlot, Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment distributed the ‘Free Aids and Assistive Devices to Persons with Disabilities under the ADIP scheme of Government of India’ at a Camp organized in Rohini, New Delhi today. The Camp was organized by Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan), Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India (ALIMCO) in close association with District Administration, North West Delhi.


    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Gehlot said that the Government of India is concerned and keen for the welfare of the Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan) and distribution of Free Aids and Assistive Devices to Persons with Disabilities nationwide under the ADIP scheme of the Government is a right step in this direction. All necessary steps in this regard will be taken without any delay and the Government believes in transparency. He said that more such ADIP Camps will be organized in Delhi for distribution of Free Aids and Assistive Devices to Persons with Disabilities. The Acts of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Bill - 2016 Passed by Parliament in December, 2016 will be implemented within 4 month time. He said that Universal ID Cards for all Divyangjans will be issued shortly.


    Shri Krishan Pal Gurjar, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment, Dr. Udit Raj, Member of Parliament, North- West Delhi Constituency, Shri Awanish Kumar Awasthi, Joint. Secretary, Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan) and senior officers from Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, District Administration, North West Delhi and ALIMCO were present during the event.



    A total of 894 Persons with different kind of disabilities were provided with 1402 numbers of aids and assistive devices with the value of over Rs.89 Lakhs under the ADIP scheme in the camp. These beneficiaries were pre-identified during the assessment camps conducted in North West Delhi District during the month of May and June last year.


    High quality contemporary Aids and Assistive devices were distributed in the camp manufactured by ALIMCO which includes 85 Motorized Tricycle. Cost of each of these motorized tricycle is Rs.37000/- out of which Rs.12000/- is been funded under MPLAD fund of local Member of Parliament Dr. Udit Raj and rest of the cost of motorized tricycle’s was covered under ADIP scheme.


    Various types of Aids and Assistive were distributed in the camp such as 459-Tricycles, 97-Wheelchairs, 372-Crutches Axilla, 49-Walking Stick, 02-Rollator for Orthopedically Impaired persons, 74-Behind The Ear - Hearing Aid machines, 106-Smart Cane, 24- Folding Cane, 01- Braille Kit, 01-Leprosy Kit, 46-MSIED Kit (Multi Sensory Inclusive Educational Kit) for Children with Special Needs and 85 numbers of Prosthesis and Calipers were also been fitted to the identified beneficiaries in the camp.

    *****

    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E-1/05.03.2017
    
    
    (Release ID: 1483629) Visitor Counter : 122