      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      Ministry of Water Resources to identify villages who have done Exemplary work in Water Conservation
      National Conference on Jal Kranti Abhiyan held

      Posted On: 07 MAR 2017 6:36PM by PIB Delhi

    Union Minister of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Sushri Uma Bharti has directed the official of her Ministry to identify those villages in the country which have done exemplary work in water conservation. Inaugurating a National conference on Jal Kranti Abhiyan in New Delhi today the Minister said village leaders from other parts of the country will be taken to these village so that they may emulate water conservation measures adopted by these villages. Sushri Bharti said Jal Kranti Abhiyan has to be a public movement and all sections of the society should come together to make it a grand success. She said water conservation could be a major challenge in the years to come with the increasing population and depleting water resources.
    
    Participating in the conference representatives from water user associations, NGOs and other agencies gave useful suggestions to make Jal Kranti Abhiyan a success. Union Minister of State for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Dr Sanjeev Kumar Baliyan and Secretary Water Resources Dr Amarjit Singh also addressed the conference.
    
    The daylong conference was organized by Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation as part of Jal Kranti Abhiyan. About 700 participants representing various stakeholder groups such as farmers, Panchayat members, officials, NGOs and students attended the conference.
    
    Union Minister for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Sushri Uma Bharti launched Jal Kranti Abhiyan on June 05, 2015 to consolidate water conservation and management in the country through a holistic and integrated approach involving all stakeholders making it a mass movement. One of the main objectives of the Jal Kranti Abhiyan is “strengthening grass root involvement of all stakeholders including Panchayati Raj institutions and local bodies for Participatory Irrigation Management.”
    
    There are four important components of Jal Kranti Abhiyan viz. Jal Gram Yojana, Development of Model Command Area, Pollution Abatement and Mass Awareness Programme. Under Jal Gram Yojana two water stressed villages in each district of the country are to be selected and a comprehensive water security plan is formulated to achieve water security for these villages. So far 726 such villages have been identified against the total target of 828. Integrated Water Security Plan for 180 Villages have been prepared and 61 of them have been approved.

    *****
    

    
    Samir/JKD/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483805) Visitor Counter : 104