      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Food Processing Policy and World Food India 2017
      Posted On: 06 MAR 2017 8:40PM by PIB Delhi


      Addressing a meeting with the State Food processing Ministers on World Food India, being organized by MoFPI during 3 – 5 November 2017, in New Delhi, Smt. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Minister of Food Processing Industries unveiled the Draft Food Processing Policy of India and shared the same with state government representatives. The Minister said the National Policy apart from documenting footprints of the food processing sector has drafted considering best practices across states and the world. She said our government is poised to bring about comprehensive National Policy on food processing. We would like all states to follow and be part of the comprehensive National Food Processing Policy. We have brought an Approach Paper on the National Food Processing Policy which is uploaded on the website of Ministry and have invited suggestions from all stakeholders and general public.

      
      Speaking at the session Smt. Badal, said India provides most conducive environment to food processing given parameters and conditions like abundance of food production, abundance of manpower engaged in agriculture and low cost of processing. At the same time Government’s initiative to make India Global Food Factory and Global Food Market brings immense opportunities for food processing sector.The Minister said India isushering in an era of Zero Tolerance towards Post Harvest Wastage, Zero Tolerance on Delays in Commissioning of Food Processing Projects,Zero Tolerance in Delays in obtaining Licenses/Statutory Clearances for Food Processing/ Food Retail Markets by Central/State/Local authority. She said We are bringing in National Food Processing Policy which shall focus on building India’s NATIONAL FOOD GRID and NATIONAL COLD CHAIN GRID and create Retail Markets every nook and corner of the country.
      
      Smt. Badal said the government has introduced reforms like allowing 100% FDI in Multi Brand Retail. Additionally Government has taken several initiatives and announced attractive incentives including capital subsidies, tax rebates, and reduced custom and excise duties. Increasing focus is also being given to supply-chain related infrastructure, such as cold chains, abattoirs and food parks. The whole idea is to spur greater growth in the food processing sector as well as connect farmers with the value chain to increase their returns. It is with this objective that the event ‘World Food India’ has been conceptualized to provide a platform to showcase India’s strengths in the sector and to attract major investments in the sector.
      
      She said Government is organizing BIGGEST EVER GLOBAL FOOD FAIR - WORLD FOOD INDIA 2017 – where all small, big and multinational companies from world over would represent and meet Indian potential companies to partner with. At the same time we expect all state governments and their departments to allow single window clearances and other statutory clearances. Apart from this, all our raw produce and processed food shall be showcased. The Minister added that World Food India 2017 is the step aimed at creating India a Global Food Factory and Global Food Retail Market. Smt. Badal, further shared that the Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI) was in the process of collating and addressing issues related to the sector, with an aim to facilitate investors and help build investors confidence to boost engagement of foreign investors, at the World Food India, later this year. On this occasion, the Minister launched the website and the Logo of World Food India 2017.
      
      The meeting witnessed participation of the Ministers from Odisha, West Bengal and Jharkhand, as well as senior bureaucrats and officers from more than 25 States and Union Territories, from all across the country. The representatives appreciated the Ministries initiative in organizing ‘World Food India 2017’, timely announcement of the mega event and expressed keen interest in partnering with the mega event.
      
      It may be noted that World Food India 2017 - a three day flagship event is being organized by Ministry of Food Processing Industries in which CII will be event partner from 3-5 Nov 2017 at New Delhi. The event will focus on showcasing achievements and opportunities of the Indian Food Processing Sector and fostering maximum investment commitments. The event will also provide a platform for exhibiting innovative products and manufacturing processes showcasing the entire value chain of food processing industry with a vision to leverage innovation, technology, development & sustainability in the backdrop of achieving food security.
      

      *****

      MJPS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483687) Visitor Counter : 213