      Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation

      A two day workshop of Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation on SSS began in New Delhi today
      Posted On: 06 MAR 2017 7:54PM by PIB Delhi


      A two day National Review/Workshop on Support for Statistical Strengthening (SSS) & compilation of CPI was inaugurated in New Delhi today. The SSS programme is being implemented in 16 States currently with an allocation of Rs.650.43 Crore. Earlier, the Support for Statistical Strengthening (SSS) scheme was a centrally sponsored scheme, but now it is a Central Sector Sub scheme of Capacity Development Scheme of Ministry, with 100% funding from the Centre.


      In 2014-15, a major revisiting existing was done and as a result, the allocations of the currently implementing States were rationalized and allocations were made to the remaining 19 States/UTs.


      The meeting is taking stock of the completion of the activities by the old states in which the scheme is already being implemented. They would be required to complete all their activities under the scheme by March, 2017. The states include Gujarat, Rajasthan, Mijoram, Sikkim, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Telengana, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Jharkhand and Kerela among others. Out of the 19 new states, two States, Uttar Pradesh & Uttarakhand had signed their MoUs and subsequently funds were transferred. However for the remaining 17 States, finalization of programme and release of funds etc. is still to be completed. All fresh funds are released to States through the Public Finance Management System (PFMS).


      The meeting discussed the progress of completion of activities by old States by March, 2017; and modalities of implementation by the new States.


      Details of Public Financial Management System (PFMS) are available at the link given below:


      Public Financial Management System (PFMS) under the SSS Scheme.


      *****


      NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483682) Visitor Counter : 155