      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Press Release of the Conference on India - Poland Bilateral Cooperation in Agriculture & Allied Sectors held on 8th March 2017, at NASC Complex, Pusa, New Delhi
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2017 7:15PM by PIB Delhi


    A one day Conference on India - Poland Bilateral Cooperation in Agriculture & Allied Sectors was held on 8th March 2017, at NASC Complex, Pusa, New Delhi. The conference was co-chaired by Dr. S. K. Pattanayak, Secretary, Department of Agriculture & Famers Welfare and Ms. Ewa Lech, Hon’ble Deputy Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Poland.
    
    Shri Jalaj Srivastava, Additional Secretary, Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare in his welcome address underscored the importance of this bilateral conference, which offers a highly effective platform to conduct fruitful exchanges on topics of common interest between the two countries.
    
    While addressing the Conference Shri Vinay Mathur, Deputy Secretary General, FICCI informed that India and Poland share some similarities and both the countries have tremendous opportunities for the agriculture trade.
    
    Mr. Tomasz Lukaszuk, H.E. Ambassador of the Republic of Poland focused on the issue of phytosanitary regulations governing the export of Polish apples to India. He said that he would like to see an intensification of agricultural trade between the two countries.
    
    Ms. Ewa Lech, Hon’ble Deputy Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Poland said that using Polish technologies to enhance food processing capacity in India could be a win-win formula for companies on both sides. She emphasized that food produced in Poland is safe, healthy and of the highest quality. Polish food producers use only one third of the amount of fertilizers used elsewhere within the EU. About 75 per cent of the agricultural and food exports are absorbed by the very demanding European market. This conference would bring out clear understanding of the rules and regulations which would be very much helpful promoting trade and economic cooperation between the two countries.
    
    Dr. S. K. Pattanayak, Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture & Famers Welfare in his inaugural address said that India and Poland share a long-standing friendly relationship, marked by high level political contacts, vibrant economic engagement and a strong partnership in the field of agriculture and allied sectors. The Union Cabinet has already approved signing of agreement between India and Poland on cooperation in agriculture and allied sectors. The agreement is likely to be signed in April 2017. The agreement covers exchange of information between the two countries on various aspects of agriculture and allied sectors including agri food trade, plant health and phytosanitary regulations as per international trade requirements, participation in fairs, exhibitions, seminars related to agriculture and agri-food processing etc.
    
    The conference was attended by Government Officers, Scientists and Industry representatives of both the countries. The conference apprised both sides on the latest developments of their activities in the field of Seed, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, Plant Protection, Mechanization, food processing and allied agriculture sector. Finally, both the sides reaffirmed their commitment to maintain close contacts through the established channels. Both sides will continue to foster cooperation in priority fields of mutual interest.
    
    Polish officials and business delegation held a meeting with members of the Forum of Indian agriculture industries and during the meeting; the Indian partners expressed their interest in purchasing of Polish products and transfer of Polish technologies for agricultural and food processing industry.

    ***
    

    
    SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483882) Visitor Counter : 48