      President's Secretariat

      New batch of innovation scholars, writers and artists commence in-residence programme in Rashtrapati Bhavan
      Posted On: 03 MAR 2017 2:09PM by PIB Delhi


    Ten Innovation Scholars, two Writers and two Artists selected under the In-Residence programme of Rashtrapati Bhavan commence their stay in Rashtrapati Bhavan today (March 3, 2017). They will be in residence till March 18, 2017.
    
    Innovators who will stay at the Rashtrapati Bhavan are Shri Surjeet Singh from Haryana (innovation: Surjeet Basmati 1- a high yielding and salt tolerant paddy variety),Shri Moa Subong from Nagaland (innovation: Bamhum –an innovative wind musical instrument), Shri Ajay Kumar Sharma from Uttar Pradesh (innovation: farmer friendly compressor for biogas bottling), Shri Akash Manoj from Tamil Nadu (innovation: a non-invasive self diagnosis of silent heart attack), Shri Girish Badragond from Karnataka(innovation: low cost bore-well scanners), Shri Mansukhbhai Prajapati from Gujarat(innovation: Mitti cool refrigerator, non-stick clay tawa and clay cooker), Shri Subhash Ola from Rajasthan (Innovation: modified milk boiler), Ms. Shalini Kumari from Bihar (Innovation: modified walker with adjustable legs), Shri Paresh Panchal from Gujarat (Innovation: bamboo strip, incense stick and incense making machine) and Smt. Santosh Pachar from Rajasthan (Innovation: Laxmangarh selection: improved carrot variety). (Brief details are attached)
    
    Writers who will stay at the Rashtrapati Bhavan are Dr. Ashokkumar P. Chavda from Gujarat who is recipient of Sahitya Akademi Yuva Puraskar and Bengali poet, Shri Prabal Kumar Basu who received Gouri Bhattacharjee Memorial Award for his first book of poems ‘Tumeei Pratham’.
    
    Artists who will stay at Rashtrapati Bhavan are Shri Rahul Shailendra Kokaste winner of 50th Maharashtra State Award, 2010 and Shri Dheeraj Yadav winner of 57thLalit Kala Academy 2016 Award. (Brief details are attached)
    
    In-Residence Programme was launched by the President of India on December 11, 2013, to encourage the creative and innovative potential of people and open up Rashtrapati Bhavan for greater participation and involvement of citizens in its activities.
    ***

    

    
    AKT/HS/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483583) Visitor Counter : 79