      Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas

      Visit of Petroleum Minister to USA
      Shri Pradhan to deliver keynote speech at MIT Energy Conference on “Balance of Power – Changing Energy Paradigm” in Boston
      
      
      Minister to participate in annual CERA Week; To have b/l meetings with visiting Petroleum Ministers
      
      
      To showcase India’s Hydrocarbon sector and policy reforms at the World’s largest Hydrocarbon Conference (CERA Week)

      Posted On: 02 MAR 2017 10:21AM by PIB Delhi

    Minister of State (I/C) for Petroleum and Natural Gas, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan will be visiting Boston and Houston, USA from 3-7 March 2017 along with a delegation comprising CEOs of Public Sector Oil and Gas companies.

    During his visit to Boston from 3-4 March , Shri Pradhan will deliver a keynote speech at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Energy Conference on the theme Balance of Power-the Changing Energy Paradigm. He will address to students at Harvard Kennedy School on the subject India’s Petroleum and Natural Gas Policy. At Fletcher Energy and Environment Club of Tufts University, Shri Pradhan will interact with students on Challenges in Petroleum and Natural Gas sector in the context of Paris Agreement and India's commitment on climate change. He will also be meeting the Mayor of City of Boston and interact with Indian community.

    The Minister will also participate in the annual CERA Week – International Conference on Oil and Gas from 5-7 March . At the Conference he will be speaking at the Ministerial Plenary and in several other platforms. Shri Pradhan is scheduled to have several bilateral meeting with visiting Petroleum Ministers, including from Canada, UAE, Israel, USA, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, Russia and also Secretary General of International Energy Agency (IEA). He will also be meeting and exchanging views with renowned experts from hydrocarbon sector, including Dr Daniel Yergin and Mr Bob Dudley, Group Chief Executive of BP. During his stay in Houston he will interact with Indian origin scientists and CEOs working in the oil and gas sector and Indian community members.

    Petroleum Minister will showcase India’s hydrocarbon sector and the recent policy reforms under leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at CERA Week, which is world’s largest hydrocarbon conference. He will interact with Ministers, policy makers, technologists, scientists, planners and management experts, entrepreneurs, service providers and vendors in order to attract investment into India’s growing oil and gas sector.

    *****

    RG

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483507) Visitor Counter : 45