      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Dr. Jitendra Singh addresses workshop to mark the International Women’s Day
      DoPT has taken various working women-oriented initiatives, says Minister
      Posted On: 08 MAR 2017 7:16PM by PIB Delhi


    The Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh said that the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions has taken various initiatives to encourage and facilitate the women at workplace. He was speaking at the workshop organized by the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, to mark the International Women’s Day here today. Smt Santosh Yadav, Indian mountaineer to climb Mt Everest twice, also graced the occasion.
    
    Addressing on the occasion, Dr Jitendra Singh said that Women’s Day symbolizes the conviction and power of the women. He said that a woman takes care not only of herself, but also of the family and the whole society, thus women have an important place in the society. The Minister said that the women have achieved a lot in various fields including corporate, political and other sectors. These women are the first generation achievers, as they do not have any background that could provide them inherent advantage, he added. This development and growth of first generation achievers will set the trend for the coming generations, said Dr Jitendra Singh. He said that the women in Indian society by its ancient values are more emancipated and command respect.
    
    Dr Jitendra Singh said that the Government under the leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has taken various initiatives for the welfare and empowerment of women. Throwing a light on the working women-oriented initiatives taken by DoPT, the Minister said that the Government has brought well-defined and stringent provisions in the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act. The scope of the sexual harassment under the Act has also been expanded, the Minister said. He also said that the maternity leave for women has been increased from three to six months, which will be helpful in the recovery of working mothers and they can take good care of themselves and their child. Facilitating the working women at workplace, the Minister said that Grih Kalyan Kendras under DoPT have opened 13 creches (Day Care Centers for children) for taking care of children of working women. These include 11 creches in Delhi and one each in Faridabad and Jaipur. About 220 children are being taken care of here and the number is going to increase in future, he added. In another novel initiative, the DoPT has started Yoga camps for the Central Government employees and their dependents. This helps in management of stress by the employees, specially women employees, the Minister said. He said that DOPT also exempted the parents of differently abled children from the mandatory transfers so that they can take proper care of their differently abled child. This will be helpful to women in performing their duty as mother, he added. Dr Jitendra Singh also said that DoPT in coordination with Ministry of Labour and Employment Ministry has also worked in the direction of allowing women at night shifts, so that they can earn their living by working at night. Allowing women to work in night shifts will help improve participation of women in the workforce, he said.
    
    Sharing her experiences, Smt Santosh Yadav said that faith in self and positive approach are the most important things in life and we should always think positively and show determination and honesty in order to solve any problem in life. She said that the most important role for any woman is of the mother and the women should take good care of themselves and their family’s health. She said that the future of their children, - the citizens of tomorrow - is in their hands. She shared her experiences of mountaineering and told the audience how she overcame obstacles in life and on her path to Mt Everest. She also stressed upon environment conservation for healthy living.
    
    On the occasion, Dr Jitendra Singh also gave away prizes to the winners of poster making and slogan writing competitions. These competitions were organised on women-centric themes on the occasion of Women’s Day. The women employees also shared their experiences and presented cultural performances.
    
    Shri C. Viswanath, Secretary, DARPG and officers and staff of Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions were also present on the occasion.

    ***
    

    
    KSD/NK/PK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1483883) Visitor Counter : 56