      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi dedicates a new, Extradosed Bridge across River Narmada at Bharuch to the Nation
      Posted On: 07 MAR 2017 9:18AM by PIB Delhi


    In a major relief for people travelling on the Vadodara- Surat section of NH-8 (New NH-48), Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi dedicated a new four lane, Extradosed Bridge across river Narmada at Bharuch to the nation today. Speaking at the inaugural ceremony this afternoon, the Prime Minister said that the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways will convert eight state highways of Gujarat to National Highways, and this will give a big boost to the infrastructure of the state .


      Also speaking on the occasion Shri Nitin Gadkari, Minister of Road Transport & Highways and Shipping said that it is a matter of pride that the Narmada bridge that is unique, has been dedicated to the nation by the Prime Minister. He informed that the project has been completed in 34 months at a cost of Rs 380 crores. Shri Gadkari said that projects worth Rs 2 lakh crore will be carried out in Gujarat.


      The 1.4 km ‘Extradose’ cable stayed bridge is the longest in India and the second such bridge in the country after Nivedita Setu over Hooghly. The bridge is 20.8 metres wide, with 14.5 metre carriageway and 3 metre footpath. It is supported on 9 Pylons of 36 meter height on pile foundation of 1.5metre diameter. The bridge will be lit by more than 400 LED lights.


      The bridge is part of National Highways Authority of India’s project for six laning of Ahmedabad-Mumbai section of NH-8 (Total length of 6.745 Km between km.192.00 to km.198.745.) in Baruch district of the state of Gujarat. This section of NH 8 will have State of the Art Highway Traffic Management System (HTMS), Variable Message Sign Boards, Median Plantation, Traffic Aid Post, Medical Aid Post, RFID and Smart Card Swapping enabled infrastructure at the Toll Plaza and Theme Lighting on the main bridge


      ****


      UM/NP

        
    
    
    (Release ID: 1483821) Visitor Counter : 90