      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Free Diagnostic Services under NHM
      Posted On: 10 MAR 2017 12:55PM by PIB Delhi

      
          Under the National Health Mission (NHM), based on proposals from States/UTs, they are being supported for implementing free diagnostic services initiative. Rs. 649.29 crore have been approved for 24 States/UTs in 2016-17 for implementing NHM Free Diagnostic Service Initiative. This Ministry had developed the guidelines for operationalising the Free Diagnostics Initiative which have been shared with the States in July, 2015. These guidelines are available at the following link:-
          http://www.nrhm.gov.in/images/pdf/NHM/NHM-Guidelines/Free_Essential_Diagnostics.pdf
          The Government has been requesting and incentivising the States to provide free essential drugs and diagnostics in public health facilities. The Government is already providing support to States/ UTs under NHM for provision of a basket of free services for maternal health, child health, adolescent health, family planning, universal immunisation, and for major diseases such as TB, vector borne diseases such as Malaria, dengue and Kala Azar, leprosy, blindness control etc. Other major initiatives for which states are being supported include:-
          1. Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakram (JSSK) for free and cashless care to pregnant women for childbirth, treatment of antenatal and postnatal complications and sick infants.
          2. Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK).
          3. Pradhan Mantri Surakshit Matritva Abhiyan (PMSMA) has been recently launched in the year 2016 to provide fixed-day assured, comprehensive and quality antenatal care universally to all pregnant women on the 9th of every month free of cost.
          4. Support for provisioning of ambulances, Mobile Medical Units and referral transport services is being provided under NHM to strengthen outreach healthcare services in the rural areas and to provide free patient transport services.
          5. Free dialysis Services to poor BPL Patients at district level under the Pradhan Mantri National Dialysis Programme of NHM.
          The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Sh Faggan Singh Kulaste stated this in a written reply in the Lok Sabha here today.
          *****
          MV/LK
    
    
    (Release ID: 1484078) Visitor Counter : 43