      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      National Service Scheme
      Posted On: 16 MAR 2017 2:44PM by PIB Delhi


      The Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel said in the Lok Sabha today that the National Service Scheme (NSS) has been restructured with effect from 01.04.2016. Upto 2015-16, NSS was being implemented as a Centrally Sponsored Scheme, with expenditure being shared between the Centre and the States as per the prescribed ratio. However, with effect from 01.04.2016, NSS has been made a Central Sector Scheme with 100% funding from the Central Government. Consequent upon this change, the mechanism for flow of funds to the implementing agencies has also been revised. Earlier, grants-in-aid under the Scheme were released to the States/ UTs. However, now grants-in-aid are directly released to the ‘designated implementing agencies’ in the States/ UTs. In fact, the State/ UT NSS Cells have been identified as ‘designated implementing agencies’ for this purpose. Thus, as a result of restructuring of NSS, the funds flow mechanism for the Scheme has changed. However, there is no change in objectives and the basic implementation framework of the Scheme. As of now, there is no proposal for further revision of the Scheme.

      
      In a written reply he said the basic objective of NSS, namely, to develop personality and character of student youth through voluntary community service remain unchanged. However, the activities under NSS continue to evolve in response to the needs of the community. For instance, during recent years, NSS volunteers have played an important role in spreading awareness about flagship programmes of the Government through rallies, campaigns, awareness programmes, etc. The volunteers have been playing an important role in spreading the message of digital literacy, esp. promoting digital modes of transactions. The NSS volunteers have also been very actively participating in Swatch Bharat Mission activities and in yoga programmes.
      

      *****

      AD/MB

    
    
    (Release ID: 1484584) Visitor Counter : 51