      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir says role of data and IT, especially video surveillance in enhancing security has become vital
      Posted On: 16 MAR 2017 6:58PM by PIB Delhi

      

    Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir has said the role of data and IT, especially video surveillance in enhancing security has become vital. Addressing the 4th Smart Cities Summit here today, Shri Ahir said that with rising public security awareness, increasing government security spending and initiatives such as Smart Cities and surging digitisation, the government sector has become the major player in the surveillance market, both in India and globally. Shri Ahir said that the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has also laid stress on SMART policing towards making our cities safe and secure.
    
    Shri Ahir said that for SMART policing, the MHA has provided Rs.226 crores under the Mega City Policing scheme for seven big cities—Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru and Hyderabad.
    
    Shri Ahir said that since video surveillance systems acts as crime deterrent – criminals are less likely to commit crime in the area in the presence of advanced, well-covered video monitoring system. Across India, police officials reel off cases where CCTVs have made all the difference in identifying offenders and speeding up investigations. Public surveillance cameras can be cost effective way to deter, monitor and reduce crimes.
    
    Shri Ahir said that public safety and security is increasingly an issue of concern for both the government and the citizens. Cities which can assure security are a favoured destination over others. The ambitious and inspiring Smart Cities Mission launched by our government in 2015, with the ‘Smart City Challenge’ of building 100 smart cities over the next five years, is certainly going to boost the formation of safe and secure cities going forward.
    
    Shri Ahir said that even in an industry accustomed to waves of change, video surveillance is set to go through a metamorphic change phase, an unprecedented period of disruption and innovation. Moreover, escalating video surveillance adaptation rate and increasing demand for high-tech technologies in the private sector has also become an important driver of the outstanding growth of the surveillance market. However, each sector, especially public and private segments has very varied needs and requirements, he added. Shri Ahir said newer technologies such as Full Body Scanners, Cyber Security and UAVs are going to play an increasing role in making our cities safer.
    
    Shri Ahir said that since there is a positive correlation between urbanisation and crime, therefore, with affirmative evidence as surveillance control crime and given the Smart Cities Mission drive, city administrations need to focus on installing and upgrading defined specification of cameras, storage systems and allied technologies.
    
    On the occasion Shri Ahir gave away the Smart Project Awards felicitating the expeditious work being carried out under the Smart Cities Mission.

    ****
    

    
    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1484701) Visitor Counter : 38