      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Creation of Sports Grounds
      Posted On: 16 MAR 2017 2:43PM by PIB Delhi


        The Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel said in the Lok Sabha today that a Scheme called “Khelo India – National Programme for Development of Sports” is being implemented by the Ministry as a Central Sector Scheme from the current financial year 2016-17.


        In a written reply he said the Scheme, inter-alia, provides for creation of sports infrastructure, namely, Synthetic Athletic Track, Synthetic Hockey Field, Synthetic Turf Football Ground, Multipurpose hall etc. This scheme is applicable all over India.


        Annexure - I


        KHELO INDIA- SPORTS INFRASTRUCTURE


        1 The various projects which can be sanctioned under “Sports Infrastructure” and the maximum admissible grant are as follows:-

                                                                                   
S. No.  Particulars                                      M aximum Admissible Grant 
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
                                                         (For State/District level)
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
1.      Synthetic Athletic Track                         Rs. 7.00 crore            
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
2.      Synthetic Hockey field                           Rs. 5.50 crore            
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
3.      Synthetic turf football ground                   Rs. 5.00 crore            
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
4.      Multipurpose Hall of size 60M x 40M x 12.5M      Rs. 8.00 crore            
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
5.      Swimming Pool                                    Rs.5.00 crore             
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
6.      Construction of Stadia complex at District Hqs.  Rs.50.00 crore            
                                                                                   
                                                                                   

        2. Construction of Stadia Complex will be decided by this Ministry after taking into account the various facilities available in a State. No proposal in this regard shall be sent by any eligible entity. The Stadia Complex may include the following:-


        (i). Construction of Multi-purpose Indoor Halls for Indoor games


        (ii). Indoor Stadium including Swimming Pool Complex in the Stadium


        (iii). Outdoor Stadium with spectator galleries and elite facilities


        (iv). Courts for sports like Tennis, Squash, Basket Ball, Volley Ball etc.


        (v). Provision of FIFA standard Natural Turf in Football Grounds


        (vi). Sports academies and training centres including hostels for sportspersons


        3. The items mentioned in Para 1 above are only indicative and any sports infrastructure, other than those cited above, will also be permissible under the Khelo India scheme. Sports infrastructure facilities will be provided at block /sub-district areas at a lesser scale which will be decided by a Technical Committee after assessing each proposal.


        4. The cost of the project over and above the maximum admissible grant mentioned above shall be borne by the grantee.


        5. The following entities shall be eligible to receive assistance for creation of sports infrastructure under this scheme:-


        (a) State Governments/State Sports Council/State Sports Authority;


        (b) Local Civic Bodies;


        (c) School, Colleges and Universities under Central/State Governments; and


        (d) Sports Control Boards.


        6. The Khelo India scheme was converged with Member of Parliament Local Area Development (MPLAD) scheme. As a result of this, if a Member of Parliament contributes at least 50% of the grant admissible for an individual project under this scheme, subject to a minimum contribution of Rs. 1 crore, matching grant will be released by Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports. The Member of Parliament may contribute from his MPLADS funds for all items admissible under MPLAD Scheme.


        *****


        AD/MB

          
    
    
    (Release ID: 1484583) Visitor Counter : 45