      AYUSH

      Government establishing 02 Post Graduate Institutes of Yoga and Naturopathy Education and Research with 200 bedded hospital at Jhajjar, Haryana and Nagmangala, Karnataka: Shri Shripad Naik
      Posted On: 17 MAR 2017 7:31PM by PIB Delhi

        Five Universities identified by UGC for Yoga department and courses from academic year 2016-17
        There are 03 institutions under the Ministry of AYUSH, which are imparting education in Yoga and Naturopathy including Yoga and Naturopathy in the country :-
        (a) Central Council for Research in Yoga & Naturopathy (CCRYN), 61-65, Institutional Area, Janakpuri, New Delhi – 110 058
        (b) Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY), 68, Ashok Road, New Delhi -110 001
        (c) National Institute of Naturopathy (NIN), Bapu Bhavan, Tadiwala Road, Pune, Maharashtra - 411001
        Further, University Grants Commission (UGC) identified the following Central Universities to start the Yoga Department and courses on Yoga from the academic session 2016-17:
        a. Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University
        b. Visva Bharati, Shantiniketan
        c. Central University of Rajasthan
        d. Central University of Kerala
        e. Indira Gandhi National Tribal University
        f. Manipur University
        There are 08 OPDs run by CCRYN, which provide Yoga therapy to the patients. National Institute of Naturopathy is conducting a Naturopathy & Yoga OPD at its HQ office. Apart from this, they are also running a Sanatorium for HIV+ve persons as an IPD at Panchagani, Dist. Satara.
        CCRYN is in the process of establishing Yoga and Naturopathy institutions in the country; which are as under :-
        (1). Establishment of 02 Post Graduate Institutes of Yoga and Naturopathy Education and Research (PGIYNER) with 200 bedded Yoga and Naturopathy hospital at Jhajjar, Haryana and Nagmangala, Karnataka.
        (2). Establishment of 5 CRIs in different States of the country along with 100 bedded indoor hospital facilities to carry out in depth research studies to establish the efficacy of Yoga and Naturopathy in various remedies.
        The Ministry of AYUSH has approved a proposal to establish Naturopathy Hospital, Medical College, Research Unit and Gandhi Memorial at new site Kondhwa, Pune under NIN.
        The Ministry has not made any assessment regarding the interest of people towards Naturopathy and Yoga. However, there is a general trend that there is an increase in the number of people registered for Yoga & Naturopathy during last three years. Further, the diseases like digestive disorders, respiratory disorders, skeleton muscular disorders, skin disorders, non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular problems, etc. are treated through Naturopathy & Yoga.
        National Curriculum Framework (NCF), National Council of Educational Research and Training ( NCERT) 2005 recommended Yoga as an Integral Part of Health and Physical Education. Health and Physical Education is a compulsory subject from Class I to Class X and optional from Classes XI to XII. According to National Curriculum Framework 2005, “the entire group Health and Physical Education and Yoga must be taken together as a comprehensive Health and Physical Education Curriculum, replacing the fragmentary approach current in schools today. As a core part of the curriculum, time allocated for games and for yoga must not be reduced or taken away under any circumstances”. Further, they have already developed integrated syllabi on Health and Physical Education from Class I to Class X. The syllabus is available on NCERT website www.ncert.nic.in . The content of Yoga has been included from Class VI onward. It also prepared separate syllabus on Yoga from Upper Primary to Secondary Stage.
        NCERT has brought out the following two textual materials for Upper Primary (VI toVIII) and Secondary Stages (IX & X):
        (i) Yoga: A Healthy Way of Living (Upper Primary stage) and
        (ii) Yoga: A Healthy Way of Living (Secondary Stage)
        NCERT organised Yoga Olympiad from school to National Level from 18 th to 20 th June, 2016.
        Government has constituted a National Board for Promotion and Development of Yoga & Naturopathy (NBPDYN), which will also look into the standardization of education & practice of Yoga & Naturopathy.
        This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri ShripadYesso Naik in reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.
        *****
        NB/UD
    
    
    (Release ID: 1484855) Visitor Counter : 54