      Ministry of Road Transport & Highways

      Target to Lower the Road Accidents
      Posted On: 16 MAR 2017 6:13PM by PIB Delhi


    United Nations had promulgated the UN Decade of Action targeting to reduce road accidents by 50% by the year 2020. All member countries of the UN including India are committed to this Mission. The Government has made necessary amendment in Section 135 and Schedule VII of Companies Act as well as the provisions of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rule 2014 which inter-alia envisage that every qualifying company requires spending of at least 2% of its average net profit for the immediately preceding 3 financial years on CSR activities. These activities also include road safety.

    Besides this the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has taken a number of steps to prevent road accidents as per details mentioned under:

    i. The Government has approved a National Road Safety Policy. This Policy outlines various policy measures such as promoting awareness, encouraging safer road infrastructure including application of intelligent transport, enforcement of safety laws trauma care etc.


    ii. The Government has constituted the National Road Safety Council as the apex body to take policy decisions in matters of road safety.


    iii. The Ministry has requested all States/UTs for setting up of State Road Safety Council and District Road Safety Committees, and to hold their meetings regularly.


    iv. The Ministry has formulated a multi-pronged strategy to address the issue of road safety based on 4 ‘E’s viz. Education, Engineering (both of roads and vehicles), Enforcement and Emergency Care. Based on this, a draft action plan has been shared with the states.


    v. Road safety has been made an integral part of road design at planning stage.


    vi. Road Safety Audit of selected stretches of National Highways has been taken up.

    vii. High priority has been accorded to identification and rectification of black spots (accident prone spots) on national highways.
    viii. The threshold for four laning of national highway has been reduced from 15,000 Passenger Car Units (PCUs) to 10,000 PCUs. About 52,000 Km of stretches of State Highways has been identified for conversion to national highways.
    ix. Setting up of model driving training institutes in States and refresher training to drivers of Heavy Motor Vehicle in the unorganized sector.
    x. Advocacy/Publicity campaign on road safety through the electronic and print media.
    xi. Tightening of safety standards for vehicles like Seat Belts, Power-steering, anti-lock braking system etc.
    xii. Providing cranes and ambulances to various State Governments under the National Highway Accident Relief Service Scheme for development on National Highways. National Highways Authority of India also provides ambulances at a distance of 50 Km. on each of its completed stretches of National Highways under its Operation & Maintenance contracts.

    This information was given by the Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways Shri Pon. Radhakrishnan in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    ****


    UM/AC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1484686) Visitor Counter : 21