      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      Skill Development of SCs/STs and OBCs
      Posted On: 16 MAR 2017 3:45PM by PIB Delhi


    The skill development programme for Scheduled Castes, safai Karamcharies and Backward Classes is being implemented by the three Finance and Development Corporations under the Department of Social Justice & Empowerment viz. (i) National Scheduled Castes Finance and Development Corporation (ii) National Safai Karamcharis Finance and Development Corporation, and (iii) National Backward Classes Finance and Development Corporation. Further, under the scheme Special Central Assistance to Scheduled Caste Sub Plan (SCA to SCSP), State Governments are required to utilise at least 10% of their allocated funds for skill development purposes.
    
    For Scheduled Tribes (ST), the Ministry of Tribal Affairs follows a multi-pronged approach to address the skill development needs and aspirations of the unemployed youths of the target group.
    
    Skill Development Training for Scheduled Castes/safai karamcharies and OBCs are being organised by the three Corporations in different trades including Computer Technology, Apparel Technology, Plastic Technology, Manufacturing of leather goods, construction skills, etc. The trainees from the target groups are provided free training and a monthly stipend. These courses are conducted by Sector Skill Councils and other reputed institutes. On successful completion of training, the trainees are also provided placement assistance and/or entrepreneurial guidance to start their own ventures with financial assistance.
    
    As per the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, it implements the scheme of Vocational Training Centres, under which funds are provided to State Governments/UTs Administrations and other agencies for skill training of ST youths in different trades. Funds are also provided under Special Central Assistance to Tribal Sub Plan (SCA to TSP) and by way of grants under Article 275 (1) of the Constitution for skill development of STs. Funds are released on receipt of proposals by State Governments subject to requisite information and availability of funds.
    
    This information was given by Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Shri Vijay Sampla in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    
    
    ****


    
    Sanjay Kumar/jk/SJ&E-1/16-03-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1484720) Visitor Counter : 183