      Ministry of Tourism

      Imparting of Hospitality Education and Training
      Posted On: 15 MAR 2017 6:38PM by PIB Delhi

      

    The Ministry of Tourism has a programme in place, namely Hunar Se Rozgar Tak (HSRT), to impart tourism and hospitality specific skills to young persons aspiring to join the tourism sector. Under another programme called Skill Testing & Certification, the Ministry tests and certifies the skills of the existing service providers already employed/engaged in the sector.
    
    Under the HSRT programme, courses are offered in hospitality and trades namely Food Production, Food & Beverage Service, Housekeeping Utility and Bakery & Patisserie. The persons who are minimum 8th pass and in the age group of 18 to 28 years are eligible to undertake the courses. The programme is delivered by Ministry of Tourism (MoT) sponsored Institutes of Hotel Management, Food Craft Institutes, State Tourism Development Corporations amongst others.
    
    In December, 2014, the scope of HSRT programme was expanded to allow the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) /National Skill Development Agency (NSDA)/Government approved private hospitality Institutes as also the industrial units, industry associations and skill imparting bodies with proven credentials for its implementation.
    
    Presently training courses are also in place for Event Facilitators, Security Guards, Skin & Spa Therapist, Tour Assistants, Transfer Assistants and Office Assistants. The programme is fully funded by the Ministry of Tourism.
    
    Under the skill testing and certification programme, the existing service providers are oriented for 5 days and on the 6th day their skills are tested and certified. The programme is delivered by the Ministry of Tourism sponsored Institutes of Hotel Management and Food Craft Institutes.
    
    Besides, the Indian Institute of Tourism and Travel Management (IITTM) also conducts training programmes to bring up guides.
    
    The Common Norms on Skill Development notified by the Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship have been adopted in totality for the skill development courses being run by this Ministry under the ‘Hunar Se Rozgar Tak’ programme. A total of 2,66,291 persons have been trained under the “Hunar Se Rozgar Tak” programme and the skills of 1,03,944 service providers certified under the “Skill Testing & Certification” programme till 31/01/2017 since the inception of these programmes in the year 2009-10.
    
    This information was given by Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State for Tourism and Culture (Independent Charge) in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.

    ****
    

    
    Sanjay Kumar/jk/Parl. No. 2/15-03-2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1484455) Visitor Counter : 34