      Ministry of Science & Technology

      BIRAC Celebrates Its 5th Foundation Day on 20th – 21st March, 2017
      Posted On: 19 MAR 2017 4:38PM by PIB Delhi


    The Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC); a Public Sector Undertaking of Department of Biotechnology (DBT) is completing 5 years and will be celebrating its 5 th Foundation Day on 20 th – 21 st March, 2017.


    The Theme of the Foundation Day is “BIRAC@5: Impacting the Biotech Ecosystem” .


    The Union Minister for Science & Technology and Earth Sciences - Dr. Harsh Vardhan will be the Chief Guest and the Minister of State for Science & Technology and Earth Sciences - Shri Y S Chowdary will be the Guest of Honour.


    During these 5 years, BIRAC’s efforts have been focused on enhancing the innovation research capacities within the biotech industries, and encouraging young entrepreneurs to take their innovation ideas towards scale-up and commercialization, so as to meet the country’s challenge for Affordable Product Development for masses without undermining the quality. With over 500 Biotech Industries, Startups and Entrepreneurs supported, today there are more than 50 products and technologies commercialized or in an advanced stage for commercialization. Further through BIRAC’s support 120 IPs have been generated till now.


    The Event would have participation of more than 300 Scientists, Entrepreneurs, Industry Experts, and Policy Makers including a large number of stakeholders both national and international. The discussion will focus on the impact the Biotech Ecosystem is making on the Indian economy and the opportunities which exist for the Indian Biotech Sector as a global player.


    The Foundation Day will be followed by the Grand Challenges India Meeting 2017 being organized by the BIRAC – PMU of DBT – BMGF and Wellcome Trust.


    BIRAC was incorporated on 20 th March, 2012 as a non-profit Public Sector Enterprise under the aegis of Department of Biotechnology (DBT). BIRAC completed 5 years of establishment in March, 2017.


    *********


    KSP

    
    
    (Release ID: 1484904) Visitor Counter : 117