      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Subsidy to Mini Mills of Pulses
      Posted On: 10 MAR 2017 2:32PM by PIB Delhi

      
        Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MoFPI) had launched a Centrally Sponsored Scheme – National Mission on Food Processing (CSS-NMFP) implemented through States / UTs in 12th Plan (w.e.f. 01.04.2012). The Mission was implemented in the ratio of 75:25 by Government of India and States; North Eastern States @ 90:10 and 100% grant for UTs. The grant in aid to Mini Mills of Pulses was also one of the activities considered for financial assistance by the States/UTs under the CSS-NMFP.
        In the Union Budget (2015-16), Government of India (GOI) had delinked CSS-NMFP from Central Govt. support. The decision of de-linking of CSS-NMFP was conveyed to State Governments accordingly to decide to continue (or not) NMFP scheme w.e.f. 01.04.2015 and onwards, out of their increased resources resulting from the recommendations of the 14th Finance Commission.
        In view of de-linking of NMFP, this Ministry has requested all the State Governments to ensure the release of funds to all the ongoing projects approved by State Level Empowered Committee (SLEC) including that of the committed liabilities from the States own resources.
        The State/UT Governments including Tamilnadu State have been sending representations for release of central funds (i.e. Government of India share) for meeting the pending committed liabilities of the projects approved by them under CSS-NMFP before de-linking and also for continuation of the scheme.
        The matter was considered by the Government of India and it was decided and reiterated that the CSS-NMFP had been de-linked from Central Govt. as a consequence of higher devolution of funds to States and the State Govt. need to implement the CSS-NMFP scheme from the States’ own increased resources.
        This information was given by the Minister of State for Food Processing Industries Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.
        *********
        MJPS
    
    
    (Release ID: 1484087) Visitor Counter : 33