      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Development and Upliftment of Farmers is the first priority of the Government: Shri Radha Mohan Singh
      
      
      Hon’ble Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi has given special emphasis on lab to land, water, soil, productivity, food processing.
      
      Essential to maintain fertility of the land for sustainable agriculture development: Shri Singh
      
      Country is self-sufficient in foodgrains and exporting foodgrains to the other countries: Union Agriculture Minister
      
      Shri Radha Mohan Singh inaugurates three days Krishi Unati Mela-2017

      Posted On: 15 MAR 2017 4:37PM by PIB Delhi

      The Union Minister for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Shri Radha Mohan Singh has said that development and upliftment of farmers is the first priority of the government and to achieve it, the government aim is to double the income of farmers by 2022. Shri Singh said this on the inauguration of 3 days Krishi Unati Mela being held in Indian Institute of Agriculture Research today. On this occasion, Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) and Director General, ICAR, Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary, Department of Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare (DAC&FW), Secretary, Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying & Fisheries (DADF), Deputy Director General, Director, Indian Institute of Agriculture Research, Scientist and official were present. Information will be given of crops and new species of cattle, special schemes and programmes prepared keeping in view of the protection, empowerment and their progress in the mela.


      Shri Singh said on this occasion that it is essential to maintain fertility of the land for sustainable agriculture development. Hon’ble Prime Minister launched soil health card in Feb., 2015 itself and till now 460 soil testing laboratory has been sanctioned. The government has made it mandatory the production of neemcoated urea in May 2015. Further the cost of DAP and MOP has been reduced. Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana has been launched to safeguard the farmers from natural disaster like drought, flood etc. It includes cereals, oilseeds and commercial, horticulture crops. About 366.64 lakh farmers has been covered in kharif 2016.


      Union Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Minister said that Ministry has made arrangements for conducting whole sale market through e-platform (e-NAM) in the whole country so that the farmers may sell their products at reasonable price. To overcome the problem of drought, Prime Minister Krishi Sichae Yojna has been launched under which water is being provided to every khet. To encourage agriculture and to strengthen the rural livelihood many scheme of agriculture and farmers welfare have been launched. The main schemes are Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sichae Yojana, agriculture mechanization, national agriculture marketing, kisan suvidha mobile app, Rashtirya Krishi Vikas Yojna, Fisheries Developmnent Management, Integrated Agriculture System Model etc.


      Shri Singh said that the country is self-sufficient in foodgrains and exporting foodgrains to the other countries. India is number one in milk production in the world. Milk production has increased from 137.61 million tonnes during 2013-14 to 146.31 million tonnes during 2014-15 and during 2015-16 milk production was 155.49 million tonnes . New Scheme “National Bovine Productivity Mission” has been started in November, 2016 with an amount of Rs. 825 crore. A production of 82, 930 million eggs was made during year 2015-16. Seeing the unlimited scope of development in fisheries, the Modi government has called for Blue Revolution in the fisheries sector. For Blue Revolution scheme, central budget of Rs. 3000 crore has been earmarked for the period of five years. The number of Krishi Vigyan Kendra has reached to 665 so that the farmers may adopt from training to agriculture technique. Cabinet has approved Rs 3960 crore for running the Krishi Vigyan Kendras. Hon’ble Prime Minister, Shri Narnedra Modi has given special emphasis on lab to land, water, soil productivity, food processing. Prominent among them are Farmer First, Arya, Student Ready Mera Gaon, Mera Gaurav.


      On this occasion the regional level Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Rashtriya Krishi Vigyan Protsahan Puraskar were distributed. Ramkrishna Ashram, Nimpith Dist.- South 24 Parganas, Sundarbans won the National Award at the event.


      The winners at the regional level were Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVK) Dhanori - Roorkee; KVK Badgaon, Vidya Bhawan, Udaipur; KVK Saharanpu; Divyayan Krishi Vigyan Kendra run by Ramakrishna Mission Aashram, Morabadi, Ranchi; KVK, Mayurbhanj, Shamkhunta, Odisha; KVK Teok run by Assam Agricultural University Jorhat, CU; College of Horticulture & Forestry, Imphal; KVK run by College of Horticulture & Forestry, Pasighat, Arunachal Pradesh; KVK Baramati, Malegaon, Maharashtra; KVK Uttar Bastar, Kanker at KVK, IGKV, Raipur; KVK Virinjipuram, Vellore, (Tamil Nadu) run by Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) Coimbatore and KVK Malappuram (Kerala) run by Kerala University.


      ***


      SS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1484411) Visitor Counter : 91