      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Re-Registration Norms for Medical Practitioners
      Posted On: 10 MAR 2017 1:06PM by PIB Delhi

      
        As on date, the Indian Medical Council Act (IMC) Act, 1956, does not provide for re-registration of doctors. Medical Council of India (MCI), with the previous approval of the Central Government, has notified Indian Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics) Regulations, 2002, which, inter-alia, prescribe that a Physician should participate in professional meetings as a part of Continuing Medical Education (CME). In order to enhance professional skills and to update their medical knowledge, such CMEs must be attended by medical practitioners for at least 30 hours every 5 years, organised by reputed professional academic bodies or any other authorised organisations.

        MCI or the appropriate State Medical Councils have been empowered to take disciplinary action against a doctor for violation of the provisions of the Indian Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics) Regulations, 2002. As and when complaints are received against the violation of code of ethics for doctors, such complaints are referred by MCI to the concerned State Medical Councils where the doctors/medical practitioners are registered. The MCI is an Appellate Authority. Further, there is a provision for inspection of clinical trial sites, sponsors including their subsidiaries etc. under the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945. As informed by the Drugs Controller General (India) that various irregularities were observed during such monitoring inspections during the period 2013-16 and after review of the replies received from the investigators, 12 investigators have been debarred from the conduct of future clinical trials for a period ranging between 3 months to 1 year duration.

        The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Sh Faggan Singh Kulaste stated this in a written reply in the Lok Sabha here today.

        *****
        MV/LK
    
    
    (Release ID: 1484080) Visitor Counter : 55