      Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises

      Scheme to Make Capital Goods Sectors Globally Competitive
      Posted On: 15 MAR 2017 2:31PM by PIB Delhi


    So far an amount of Rs.49.98 crore has been disbursed under different components of the Scheme.
    
    Government has brought out a National Capital Goods Policy. The Policy envisages increase in production to about Rs.7,50,000 crore, direct employment to 5 million by the year 2025. The Policy also envisages increase in the share of capital goods contribution from present 12% to 20% by the year 2025. Detailed National Capital Goods Policy is available in the website of the Department of Heavy industry (dhi.nic.in).
    
    Under the Capital Goods Scheme, so far 14 proposals have been approved. Out of these four pertains to Centre of Excellence for technology development by eminent Institutions like Central Manufacturing Technology Institute (CMTI), Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras, PSG College of Technology, Coimbatore, Scientific and Industrial Testing and Research Centre (Si’Tarc), Coimbatore. Four proposals have been approved for Common Engineering Facility Centre which includes two Training Centres at HMT Machine Tools at Bangalore and at HEC Limited, Ranchi and two common engineering facilities in Chakan, Maharashtra and Bardoli, Gujrat. Further a Project for setting up an Integrated Machine Tool Park at Tumkur has been approved. Apart from the above, five projects have been approved under Technology Acquisition Fund Programme component of the Scheme.
    
    In addition to the above, the projects pertaining to Capital Goods Industry under Uchchatar Avishkar Yojana and Impacting Research Innovation and Technology (IMPRINT) Schemes of the Ministry of Human Resource Development are also being supported partly by the Department of Heavy Industry.
    
    This information was given by Minister of State in the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises Shri Babul Supriyo in reply to a written question in the Rajya Sabha today.
    ******

    

    
    ST/IA

    
    
    (Release ID: 1484354) Visitor Counter : 111