      Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions

      Discrimination in appointments of Administrative posts
      Posted On: 16 MAR 2017 3:52PM by PIB Delhi


    A representation of the confederation of Civil Service Associations has been received inter alia seeking parity amongst various services in empanelment and selection for posts at higher level in Government of India.
    
    In Government of India higher posts include cadre posts; and posts filled under Central Staffing Scheme (CSS) on deputation basis. The organized Group 'A' Services have earmarked cadre posts at higher levels in Government of India exclusively manned by the officers of respective services. The deputation posts are filled primarily under the CSS, which is in operation for decades and provides a systematic arrangement for selection and appointments of officers to senior administrative posts at the Centre, excluding posts which are specifically encadred within the organized Group 'A' Services.
    
    Empanelment of officers from the participating services is done on an annual basis based on merit, competence and suitability of the officer. The guidelines for empanelment are broadly same for all the services participating under CSS. As provided by DOPT OM No.36/15/2001-EO(SM-I) dated 20.07.2001, there is a differential of two years between the officers of the Indian Administrative Service and officers of other participating Services in empanelment to the posts of Additional Secretary and Secretary /equivalent at the Centre. Further, Department of Expenditure vide resolution No 1-2/2016-IC dated 25.7.2016 provides for maintaining status quo in this regard. Appointments to senior posts in the Government of India are filled under the CSS from amongst the empanelled officers.
    
    Further, the officers earn promotions in their respective cadres. For example, in case of Indian Revenue service (IT), 1052 posts have been provisioned in the cadre under the Government of India at higher level for Indian Revenue service (IT) officers only, including 391 Additional Secretary level and 26 Apex level posts. Similarly, under the Ministry of Railways 1678 posts have been provisioned at higher level, exclusively for different Railways services/cadres, including 255 Additional Secretary level and 12 Apex level posts.
    
    In case of Indian Police Service (IPS), there are 180 deputation posts including 40 Additional secretary level and 11 Apex level posts in Government of India at higher level exclusively for IPS officers against which presently 172 IPS officers are posted at Centre. Similarly, in case of Indian Forest Service (IFoS), there are 33 deputation reserve posts including 13 Additional Secretary level and 2 Apex level posts at higher levels exclusively for IFoS officers at the Centre. There are no deputation posts in Government of India exclusively for IAS officers and they are considered under Central Staffing Scheme along with other participating services.
    
    This was stated by the Minister of State in the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions and Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office Dr. Jitendra Singh in a written reply to a question by Shri Dharmapuri Srinivas and Dr. Pradeep Kumar Balmuchu in the Rajya Sabha today.
    

    ****

    
    KSD/PK/RS-1696
    

    

    
    (Release ID: 1484607) Visitor Counter : 78