      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      ‘International Vision Zero Conference’ on Occupational, Safety and Health
      Posted On: 10 MAR 2017 6:44PM by PIB Delhi


    The international conference on the VISION ZERO and its relevance to Occupational Safety and Health (OSH), is being organized from 15th to 17th, March 2017 at Vigyan Bhavan, New Delhi by Directorate General Factory Advice and Labour Institutes (DGFASLI), Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Employment and German Social Accident Insurance (DGUV), Germany in association with International Social Security Association (ISSA).
    
    The conference aims to focus on the Occupational Safety and Health issues and challenges in the Manufacturing, Construction and Mining sector. The conference will provide a forum for promoting safety and health at work by exchanging knowledge, practices and experience.
    
    The conference will be inaugurated by the Hon’ble Minister of State (Independent) for Labour and Employment, Shri Bandaru Dattatreya, in the gracious presence of Smt. M. Sathiyavathy, Secretary, Labour and Employment, Government of India.
    
    The conference is expected to introduce the fast emerging internationally accepted concept of ‘Vision Zero’ in India thereby leveraging the efforts of the Government of India to raise the occupational safety and health standards in the country. The delegates include safety engineers, experts and professionals from different Public, Private and MNCs sector, managers, employers from different segments, occupational physicians and health professionals, supervisors, workers and members of the safety committees.
    
    There will be three plenary sessions in the conference during the three days dedicated exclusively to the manufacturing, construction and mines sectors.
    
    An exhibition on OSH is also being organized during the conference from 15th to 17th March, 2017 at Vigyan Bhavan, New Delhi. The exhibition will provide the most efficient platform to support technological communication and business trade. The exhibition segments will show-case personal protective equipment (PPEs), health at work, high-risk prevention, environmental protection at work, etc.
    
    ****

    

    
    BCK/AK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1484188) Visitor Counter : 92