      AYUSH

      Four Autonomous Councils of Ministry of AYUSH have undertaken substantial Research for development of effective medicines for communicable and non-communicable diseases: AYUSH Minister
      Posted On: 17 MAR 2017 7:29PM by PIB Delhi

      

    The four autonomous organization under Ministry of AYUSH namely, Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS), Central Council for Research in Unani Medicine (CCRUM), Central Council for Research in Siddha (CCRS), Central Council for Research in Homeopathy (CCRH) have undertaken Research for development of effective medicines for communicable and non-communicable diseases. The details are as under:-


    CCRAS:-

    AYUSH-64 (Anti-Malarial Drug); AYUSH-56 (Anti-Epileptic Drug); AYUSH-82 (for Diabetes Mellitus); NIMBATIKTAM (For Psoriasis and Duodenal ulcer); AYUSH POSHAK YOGA and PEYA (Immunomodulator, Antistress and General Health Promoter); SHUNTHI GUGGULU (Rheumatoid Arthirits); KSHARASUTRA (Ano Rectal Disorders); AYUSH BALARASAYANA (for Promotion of Health in Children); AYUSH GHUTTI (for prevention of Diarrhoea and Fever in Children);


    Other AYURVEDIC FORMULATIONS (for Antenatal Care) i.e. AYUSH PG, AYUSH AD, AYUSH AG Tablet and AYUSH GG Table for the treatment of several communicable and non-communicable diseases.


    CCRUM:- The Council has completed studies on new Unani drugs namely,Baras (Vitiligo); Iltehab-e-Tajaweef-e-Anf (Chronic Sinusitis); Da-us-Sadaf (Psoriasis); Kasrat-e-Shahm-ud-Dam (Hyperlipidaemia); Gastro-oesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD); Tahajjur-e-Mafasil (Osteoarthritis); Iltehab-e-Kabid (Infective Hepatitis); Waja-ul-Mafasil (Rheumatoid Arthritis); Daul Feel (Filariasis); ZeequnNafas (Bronchial asthma).


    CCRS:- D-5 Croonam for diabetes Mellitus; RasagandhiMezhugu for fibroid uterus.


    CCRH: - During last three years, it has conducted 25 research studies on communicable and non-communicable diseases and have identified a group of efficacious drugs.


    The Government of India has taken following steps to provide improved intellectual property protection tothese AYUSH medicines so as to check exploitation of these national treasures by multinational companiesin this regard: -

    i. Traditional Knowledge Digital Library (TKDL) has been established with the objective of preventing misappropriation of traditional Indian medicinal knowledge of Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha& Yoga. The TKDL has been prepared in five languages, namely English, French, German, Japanese and Spanish in patent compatible format to make available the existing knowledge, which is already in public domain to the patent examiners, so that such patent applications, which are related to traditional knowledge are rejected at the examination stage itself.

    ii. Guidelines for examination of applications related to Traditional Knowledge and biological subject matter have been issued by the Indian patent Office (CGPDTM) to prevent undue grant of patents.

    iii. Indian Patents Act provides specific provisions to prevent grant of patents to an invention, which in effect, is traditional knowledge or which is an aggregation or duplication of known properties of traditionally known component or components.


    iv. The Biodiversity Act, 2000 requires an applicant to seek prior approval of the National Biodiversity authority before making an application for any intellectual property right which involves an invention based on biological resources obtained from India.


    As per the information provided by the Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP), details of number of patent applications filed/published granted as per provisions of Patents Act on herbal/plants/Ayurvedic formulations, from 01.01.2005, onwards are as under:-

Patent Applications Filed  Patents Granted
                                          
Domestic                   Foreign          Domestic  Foreign
                                                             
1000                       129              185       23     
                                                             

    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri ShripadYessoNaik in reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


    *****

    NB/UD
    
    
    (Release ID: 1484854) Visitor Counter : 115