      Ministry of Defence

      Compensation to Families of victims of URI attack
      Posted On: 10 MAR 2017 3:33PM by PIB Delhi


    As per guidelines, Government has approved payment of ex gratia lump sum compensation @ Rs.15 lakh each, Death-cum-Retirement Gratuity and Liberalised Family Pension to the next of kin (NoKs) of 19 martyred soldiers. Besides, payment of Rs.30 lakh each from Army Group Insurance Fund has also been made apart from payment from various other welfare funds.

      The ex gratia compensation has since been enhanced to Rs.35 lakh. The balance amount will be paid in due course.
      Security arrangements in military establishments are dynamic in nature and are periodically reviewed. The observations and recommendations of these reviews are progressively implemented to maintain a robust and strong response mechanism to emerging threats.
      The Defence Services have carried out in-depth analysis of the terrorist attacks on their camps/establishments. The shortcomings have been identified and necessary measures initiated to prevent recurrence of such attacks. These measures inter alia include spread of security awareness amongst all ranks, strengthening of response mechanism, long and short term measures to upgrade security infrastructure etc.
      Government had constituted a Committee under the chairmanship of Lt. Gen Philip Campose, a former Vice Chief of Army Staff, inter alia to examine the existing Standing Operating Procedure for security of all Armed Forces establishments; to suggest a model format for security audit of armed forces establishments; to recommend short and long term measures including introduction of technological solutions and other reforms in the present system of security of armed forces establishments.
      Based on the recommendations of the Committee and after consultation with Service headquarters, broad Guidelines for Security of Defence Installations have been issued to Services Headquarters.
      This information was given by Minister of State for Defence Dr. Subhash Bhamre in a written reply to Dr. Shashi Tharoor in Lok Sabha today.
      NAMPI/Ranjan
    
    
    (Release ID: 1484116) Visitor Counter : 30