      Ministry of Education

      Training for University Officers
      Posted On: 20 MAR 2017 5:33PM by PIB Delhi

      

    The Central Universities are autonomous bodies which are established under different Acts passed by the Parliament and are regulated by respective Acts and Statutes made thereunder. They keep on organizing or deputing their personnel for such training programmes at their own level from time to time.
    
    A Conference of Vice Chancellors of Central Universities was organized on 18th February, 2016, which was also participated in by other key functionaries like Registrar, Finance Officer, Dean Students’ Welfare, Chief Proctor and Chief Warden of the Universities . In the said Conference, issues of sensitization of administrators of Central Universities about understanding and handling issues faced by SC, ST and OBC students, promotion of equity, strengthening of grievance redressal system, need of counseling of youth, adequate representation of weaker sections in the statutory bodies, prevention of sexual harassment, etc, were discussed at length with experts. Besides, several issues relating to promotion of excellence in higher education like regular updation/revision of curriculum, introduction of new/innovative programmes/subjects etc. were also discussed in depth.
    
    In addition to this, five Regional Conferences of 2-days each were organized by University Grants Commission for senior functionaries of Central Universities on ‘leadership for academic excellence in higher education’ from 15th April, 2016 to 26th April, 2016 at Bangalore, Mumbai, Guwahati, Delhi and Chandigarh. Vice Chancellors, Pro Vice chancellors, Registrars, Finance Officers, Deans (Academic) and Dean (Students Welfare) of Central Universities participated in these conferences. The issues related to (i) visionary leadership in higher education, (ii) vision to action: human resource implementation agenda and (iii) financial management in higher education were discussed for which modules were prepared and conducted by IIM (Indian Institute of Management) teams. Such issues were also discussed in Vice Chancellors’ meeting held at Banaras Hindu University on 06.10.2016 and Visitor’s Conferences held on 4th-6th November, 2015 and 16th-18th November, 2016.
    
    This information was given by the Minister of State (HRD), Dr. Mahendra Nath Pandey today in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.

    *****
    

    
    GG/AK/RK/TRAINING FOR UNIVERSITY OFFICERS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1484989) Visitor Counter : 95