      Ministry of Labour & Employment

      ‘International Vision Zero Conference’ on Occupational, Safety and Health
      Posted On: 14 MAR 2017 4:43PM by PIB Delhi


    Three days International Conference on the VISION ZERO and its relevance to Occupational Safety and Health, is being held from 15th to 17th, March 2017 in New Delhi. It is organized by Directorate General Factory Advice and Labour Institutes (DGFASLI), Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Employment and German Social Accident Insurance (DGUV), Germany in association with International Social Security Association - Manufacturing, Construction and Mining.
    
    The concept of ‘Vision Zero’ is fast gaining international acceptance and is expected to leverage the efforts of the Government of India to raise the occupational safety and health standards in the country so as to improve the occupational safety and health situation. The participants attending the conference from various sectors across a wide variety of industries are expected to be benefitted by the common platform provided by the conference through sharing of best practices both nationally and internationally. On the other hand, the international community will get an appraisal of the occupational safety and health status in India thereby exposing the Indian industrial occupational safety and health scenario to the international community.
    
    The conference will provide a forum for promoting safety and health at work by exchanging knowledge, practices and experience. Experts in the field of Occupational Safety and Health reinforce and build networks and alliances while laying the groundwork for cooperation and strengthening relationships. More than 1200 national and international delegates comprising of occupational safety and health professionals from the manufacturing, mining and construction sectors are expected to participate in the conference. The speakers segment will comprise of both international speakers from Germanny, France, Chile and many more European countries. The speakers from India will comprise of top OSH executives and professionals, government officials expert in the field of OSH.
    
    The Ministry of Labour and Employment has ventured into making international collaborations to further strengthen the labour standards in the country. One of such action was an Memorandum of Understanding entered between (DGFASLI), an attached office of the Ministry of Labour and Employment and the German Social Accident Insurance (DGUV) that seeks to enhance safety and health at work, to reduce the occurrence of work related accidents and diseases and to promote social protection.
    
    Keeping in tune with the changing industrial scenario, the recommendations of the conference would be very vital in achieving sustainable economic progress, in consonance with the changing requirements of safety, health and environment aspects in the country.
    
    An exhibition on OSH – INOSH EXPO 2017 is also being organised during the conference to show-case new trends in Personal Protective Equipments (PPEs), Occupational Health Promotion, High-risk Management, Environmental Protection Technologies, all under one roof. The exhibition will provide the most efficient platform to support technological communication and business trade. About 100 leading manufacturers /suppliers from India and Europe are likely to participate in the INOSH Expo.
    
    Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Labour & Employment Shri Bandaru Dattatreya has kindly consented to inaugurate the Conference on 15th March, 2017 at Vigyan Bhawan . The Minister of Health and Family Welfare Shri J.P. Nadda will preside over the function. Secretary Labour & Employment, Government of India Smt S. Sathiavathy and Dr. Avneesh Singh, Director General, DGFASLI, will also be present on the occasion.
    
    *****

    
    BCK/AK
    
    (Release ID: 1484290) Visitor Counter : 101