      Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment

      National Seminar on “Challenges In Implementation of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016” Held
      Posted On: 16 MAR 2017 6:35PM by PIB Delhi

      

      The Office of Chief Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities (Divyangjan) under Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment organised a “ National Seminar on Challenges in Implementation of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016” here today with a view to draw out plan for effective implementation of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (RPD Act, 2016) and to work out best strategies to implement the Act in comprehensive manner for the welfare of Divyangjan of India. The Seminar was inaugurated by Shri N.S. Kang, Secretary, Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities.


      The RPD Act, 2016 was passed in the Parliament in Winter Session on 14 th December, 2016 and was notified on 28 th December, 2016. The Act has made various wider provisions for protection of the rights & privileges of Divyangjan by way of raising reservation in services and inclusion of additional 14 categories of disabilities under the Act which also includes new Acid attack victims, Thalsemia, Haemophilia, Dwarfism, Learning Disabilities and Parkinson desease. The new provisions & categories of disabilities, have been made in accordance with the recommendation of UN Convention held in 2007, wherein India was also a signatory to these recommendations.


      Shri Kang, speaking on the occasion highlighted the various provisions and facilities included in the Act for the welfare of Divyangjan and also stressed for the need for creating awareness among the society at large and to extend all possible efforts to bring the Divyangjan in National mainstream by extending full support for their rights and privileges ensured by the RPD Act. He also requested NGOs to come forward for this noble cause and make their best contribution to make this act & mission a success.


      Shri Mukesh Jain, CEO, National Trust in his address highlighted the various provisions, rights and privileges granted by the Constitution for Divyangjan in the Act. He also appreciated the efforts of CCPD for initiating swift action into this direction by organising a Seminar on the Act and taking a lead into the implementation drive.


      Dr. Kamlesh Kumar Pandey, CCPD in his address appreciated the efforts of Government of India and Prime Minister for giving special attention towards the welfare, development and rehabilitation of Divyangjan and ensuring their full participation in society. He added that CCPD Office will extend its fullest support to make this mission a grand success.


      The Panel discussions headed by Joint Secretary, DEPWD, Shri A.K. Awasthi and Shri Mukesh Jain made recommendations for effective implementation of the Act. The former CCPDs, Mrs. Uma Tuli; Shri P.K. Pincha, Director CBM, Ms. Sara Varghese also expressed their views on developing new strategies in this direction for better implementation of the Act.


      *****


      Sanjay Kumar/jk/MoSJ&E-4/16.03.2017

    
    
    (Release ID: 1484696) Visitor Counter : 48