      Ministry of Textiles

      Schemes implemented by the Government to promote the sericulture sector
      Posted On: 16 MAR 2017 3:23PM by PIB Delhi


      The following Schemes are being implemented by the Government of India through Central Silk Board (CSB) to promote sericulture sector in the country:


      Integrated Scheme for the Development of Silk Industry (CSS)


      Central Silk Board (CSB) has been implementing a rationalized restructured Central Sector Scheme “Integrated Scheme for Development of Silk Industry” for development of sericulture in the Country, w hich is an umbrella scheme consisting of following four components for the development of Sericulture and Silk industry. The focus and emphasis are on improving production, quality and productivity of domestic silk thereby reducing the country’s dependence on imported silk.


      i. Research & Development, Training, Transfer of Technology and I.T. Initiatives,


      ii. Seed Organizations,


      iii. Coordination and Market Development and,


      iv. Quality Certification Systems (QCS)/Export Brand Promotion and Technology Up-gradation


      The above ongoing components of the scheme are focusing on intervention in critical areas such as Feed, Seed, Breed, Post Cocoon Technology and Capacity Building for visible impact on quality and productivity improvement in the field ensuring to achieve the target. An amount of Rs.154.02 Cr. has been allocated in Revised Budget Estimates during 2016-17 for the implementation of the Scheme. Against this, a total expenditure of Rs.128.51 Cr. has been made till February, 2017.


      North East Region Textile Promotion Scheme (NERTPS)


      Under “North East Region Textile Promotion Scheme” (NERTPS), 24 sericulture projects are being implemented under two broad categories viz., Integrated Sericulture Development Project (ISDP) and Intensive Bivoltine Sericulture Development Project [IBSDP] covering Mulberry, Eri and Muga sectors in all North Eastern States. The projects aim at holistic development of sericulture in all its spheres from plantation development to production of fabrics with value addition at every stage of production chain. These projects have been approved at a total cost of Rs. 820.78 crore with Government of India share of Rs. 691.60 crore, for implementation from 2014-15 to 2018-19. The projects are under implementation for contributing additional production of raw silk during the project period and for involving more families to generate more employment.


      The above information was given by the Minister of State, Textiles, Shri Ajay Tamta today, in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


      ***


      GG/DJM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1484598) Visitor Counter : 112