      AYUSH

      82 Institutes functioning under the Apex Autonomous Research Councils for research activities in traditional medicine: Shri Shripad Naik
      Posted On: 10 MAR 2017 6:08PM by PIB Delhi


    Ministry of AYUSH has set-up five autonomous Research Councils, namely, Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS), Central Council for Research in Homoeopahty (CCRH), Central Council for Research in Unani Medicine (CCRUM), Central Council for Research in Siddha (CCRS) and Central Council for Research in Yoga and Naturopathy (CCRYN) as apex bodies for formulation, coordination, development and promotion of research activities in traditional medicine systems for various diseases. A total of 82 institutes are functioning under these councils.
    
    Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between CCRS and Dr. MGR Medical University, Tamil Nadu has been signed on 13th February, 2017 to develop new collaborative research programme of mutual interest and benefit.
    
    Ministry of AYUSH has obtained a cost free land near Bhubaneswar from State Government of Odisha for construction of a CRI. In addition to this, State Governments of West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan have also offered land for construction of CRIs in their states. Government of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu has requested the Central Council for Research in Siddha (CCRS) to open Research Institutes in Bangalore and Tirupati respectively.
    
    National Medicinal Plants Board (NMPB), Ministry of AYUSH is implementing the cultivation programme towards promotion of medicinal plants cultivation throughout the country since 2008-09 under Centrally Sponsored Scheme of “National Mission on Medicinal Plants” and “National AYUSH Mission (NAM)” since 2015-16. The scheme is primarily aimed at supporting market driven cultivation of medicinal plants on private land with backward linkages through establishment of nurseries for supply of quality planting material, and forward linkages for post-harvest management viz. collection, storage, primary processing, marketing infrastructure etc. The cultivation of medicinal plants is supported by providing subsidy to farmers through the identified implementing agency of concerned states.
    
    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri ShripadYesso Naik in reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.
    
    *****

    
    NB/SK/UD
    
    (Release ID: 1484179) Visitor Counter : 23