      Ministry of Culture

      Inclusion of Cities in World Heritage List
      Posted On: 22 MAR 2017 5:53PM by PIB Delhi


        Five Indian cities have been included in the Tentative list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites, namely, Historic City of Ahmadabad, Delhi – A Heritage City, Jaipur City, Rajasthan, Ekamra Kshetra- The Temple City, Bhubaneswar and The Victorian & Art Deco Ensemble of Mumbai. The criteria for inscription of a site, including cities, in the UNESCO World Heritage list is given is given below.


        All the required information for Tentative list proposals has already been submitted to UNESCO World Heritage Centre.


        Criteria for consideration:-


         1. To represent a masterpiece of human creative genius;

         2. To exhibit an important interchange of human values, over a span of time or within a cultural area of the world, on developments in architecture or technology, monumental arts, town-planning or landscape design;
         3. To bear a unique or at least exceptional testimony to a cultural tradition or to a civilization which is living or which has disappeared;
         4. To be an outstanding example of a type of building, architectural or technological ensemble or landscape which illustrates (a) significant stage(s) in human history;
         5. To be an outstanding example of a traditional human settlement, land-use, or sea-use which is representative of a culture (or cultures), or human interaction with the environment especially when it has become vulnerable under the impact of irreversible change;
         6. To be directly or tangibly associated with events or living traditions, with ideas, or with beliefs, with artistic and literary works of outstanding universal significance. (The Committee considers that this criterion should preferably be used in conjunction with other criteria);
         7. To contain superlative natural phenomena or areas of exceptional natural beauty and aesthetic importance;
         8. To be outstanding examples representing major stages of earth's history, including the record of life, significant on-going geological processes in the development of landforms, or significant geomorphic or physiographic features;
         9. To be outstanding examples representing significant on-going ecological and biological processes in the evolution and development of terrestrial, fresh water, coastal and marine ecosystems and communities of plants and animals;
        10. To contain the most important and significant natural habitats for in-situ conservation of biological diversity, including those containing threatened species of outstanding universal value from the point of view of science or conservation.

        This information was given by Dr. Mahesh Sharma, Minister of State for Culture and Tourism (Independent Charge) in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


        ****


        Sanjay Kumar/jk/Parl. No. 2/22-03-2017

          
    
    
    (Release ID: 1485219) Visitor Counter : 170
    
    
    
    
    

10.