      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Pension to retired personnel
      Posted On: 21 MAR 2017 4:53PM by PIB Delhi

      There are demands from the in service and retired Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) and Assam Rifles (AR) personnel for extending One Rank One Pension (OROP). CAPF & AR personnel retire only on attaining the age of 57/60 years and they are entitled for pension and other pensionary benefits as per Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972. These rules are different from the pension rules applicable to Ex-Servicemen. Further CAPF & AR personnel, who are appointed on or after 01/01/2004 are covered under New Pension System (NPS).
      
      The Government has taken several steps for the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) personnel including Next of Kin (NoK) of CAPFs personnel who lay down their lives for the country. Following benefits, inter alia, are given to Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) personnel including the Next of Kin (NoK) of those who lay down their lives for the country:-
      
      (i) Ex-gratia lump-sum compensation @ Rs.35 lacs for death on active duty and @Rs. 25 lakhs for death on duty, as the case may be, is entitled to the Next of Kin of the deceased personnel.
      
      (ii) The NoK of the deceased is entitled to get Liberalized Family Pension (i.e. last pay drawn) under Central Civil Service (Extra Ordinary Pension) Rules, 1939 and other pensionary benefits as admissible.
      
      (iii) 5% vacancies are reserved in Group “C” & “D” for compassionate appointments for NoK of the deceased personnel.
      
      (iv) Under the Prime Minister Scholarship Scheme, amount @ Rs.2250/- pm for girls and Rs.2000/- pm for boys is being released to the wards of serving/retired CAPFs personnel. Prime Minister Scholarship is admissible to 1000 girls and 1000 boys.
      
      (v) There is a reservation of 15 MBBS and 02 BDS seats for the wards of CAPFs personnel in the seats of Central Government for these courses.
      
      (vi) Central Police Canteens at various locations in the country have been functioning.
      
      (vii) A Welfare and Rehabilitation Board has been established for the welfare and rehabilitation of CAPFs personnel and their families including differently abled personnel.
      
      
      This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju in a written reply to question by Shri Kamal Nath and Shri Jyotiraditya M. Scindia in the Lok Sabha today.
      
      ****
      KSD/NK/PK/AK-3116
    
    
    (Release ID: 1485066) Visitor Counter : 125