      Ministry of Civil Aviation

      Facilities for Differently Abled Persons at Airports
      Posted On: 23 MAR 2017 5:52PM by PIB Delhi


    DGCA has issued Civil Aviation Requirements Section 3 - Air Transport Series 'M' part -I on carriage by Air-Persons with disability and /or persons with reduced mobility. This CAR lays down regulations for carriage of persons with disabilities and reduced mobility by air in order to protect them against any form of discrimination and to ensure that they receive all possible assistance during their travel. The facilities like lift, ramps, toilets and wheel chairs etc. are being provided at Airports Authority of India (AAI) managed airports to all persons with disability to ensure dignified treatment during their air travel.
    
    Under the Accessible India Campaign, AAI is providing additional facilities for dignified treatment to air passengers such as Braille signs in lifts along with oratory signals, toilets for differently abled (Divyang Persons), ramps at level difference locations. The airport operators have also ensured that the assistive devices being used to assist a disabled passengers are as per the standard set by Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.
    
    The Public Grievance Redressal System is already in place at all the airports across India. The present system is available for public at large, the air passengers and as well as all the airport users etc. and does not discriminate between different categories. Public Grievance Officers are posted at each airport under the control of Regional Headquarters for handling day-to-day complaints and for improvement and monitoring. All the grievances are monitored and resolved through redressal mechanisms such as (i) CPGRAMS-Centralized Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (Web Portal) (ii) Air Sewa Portal - it is a web based portal and an App also, which serves as a single window solution for complaints failing under the ambit of Ministry of Civil Aviation and its Departments. (iii) Internal set up of monitoring/resolving complaints/grievances such as complaints & suggestion boxes, complaint register / book, PG Officer Email ID.
    
    This information was given by Minster of State for Civil Aviation, Shri Jayant Sinha in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha today.
    …

    

    
    UM/NM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1485487) Visitor Counter : 47