      AYUSH

      Ministry of AYUSH gives full support to AYUSH Industry to enable them to market products in international markets: Shri Shripad Yesso Naik
      Posted On: 28 MAR 2017 3:12PM by PIB Delhi


    AYUSH products are exported as a medicine to some countries and as food supplements to other countries depending upon prevailing regulations of the concerned country. Ministry of AYUSH had conducted studies through Indian Institute of Foreign Trade and International Trade Centre / WTO Geneva etc. to improve the export potential of Indian Traditional Medicines. On the basis of the recommendations, AYUSH Ministry’s Central Sector Scheme for International Cooperation (IC) in AYUSH has been expanded in its ambit and scope merging the existing components and new initiatives have been introduced so that promotion of AYUSH products could be facilitated across the globe and international commitments and demands are fulfilled in an effective manner.
    
    The Ministry of AYUSH offers incentives to the AYUSH industry under its Central Sector Scheme for International Cooperation (i) to get market authorization/ registration for their product(s) at regulatory bodies of different countries such as USFDA/EMEA/UK-MHRA/ NHPD/ TGA etc. to enhance their exports (ii) for participation in international exhibitions, trade fairs, road shows etc. to create awareness about the efficacy of their products.
    
    In addition to the above, for facilitating exports, Ministry of AYUSH encourages following certifications of AYUSH products as per details below:-
    
    (i) Voluntary Quality Certification of Pharmaceutical Products (CoPP) under WHO Guidelines.
    
    (ii) Quality Certifications Scheme implemented by the Quality Council of India (QCI) for grant of AYUSH Premium mark to Ayurvedic, Siddha and Unani products on the basis of third party evaluation of quality in accordance with the status of compliance to international standards.
    
    This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.

    *****


    
    
    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1485834) Visitor Counter : 68