      Ministry of Micro,Small & Medium Enterprises

      Special Incentives and Schemes for Women Entrepreneurs
      Posted On: 14 MAR 2017 11:00AM by PIB Delhi


    Tread Related Entrepreneurship Development Assistance TREAD Scheme envisages economic empowerment of women. Under this Scheme financial loans are provided by Nationalized Banks and grants by Government of India upto of 30% of the loan subject to maximum limit of Rs.30.00 Iakh through NGOs for capacity building and for undertaking self-employment ventures by women in non­ farm activities.


    Coir board a statutory body under Ministry of MSME is implementing Mahila Coir Yojana (MCY) for empowering women in the country by giving training and coir processing equipments. This is a 100% women oriented programme intended to provide self employment to the rural women artisans in coir producing regions. The scheme envisages distribution of motorized rats/motorized traditional rats and other coir processing equipments, which can be operated by women, at 75% subsidy after imparting training with a duration of 2 months subject to a maximum amount of Rs.7500/-. The training under MCY are conducted through all training centres of the Board. During the training period, the women artisans are given stipend amounting to Rs.1000 per month. The scheme is prevalent in coir producing coastal states such as Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha ,Lakshadweep, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Pondicherry, A&N Islands, West Bengal and NE Region.


    Under Entrepreneurship Development Programme (EDP) scheme: 20% of total targets of EDPs are conducted exclusively for weaker sections of the society that includes women with a stipened of Rs. 500/- per month per candidate under the promotional package for Micro Small Enterprises (MSEs). No fee is charged from the women candidate under this programme.


    Under MSME Cluster Development Programme (CDP) scheme:



    a. GoI grant will be 90% for Common Facility Centres (CFCs) with more than 50% of women owned units whereas it is only 70% for others. The cost of project includes cost of Land (subject to max. of 25% of Project Cost), building, pre-operative expenses, preliminary expenses, machinery & equipment, miscellaneous fixed assets, support infrastructure such as water supply, electricity and margin money for working capital.


    b. Exhibition Centres by Associations of Women Entrepreneurs: The GoI assistance shall also be available to Associations of Women Entrepreneurs for establishing exhibition centres at central places for display and sale of products of women owned micro and small enterprises @ 40% of the project cost. The GoI contribution will be towards furnishings, furniture, fittings, items of permanent display, miscellaneous assets like generators, etc.


    c. Under Infrastructure Development: GoI grant will be 80% for projects (Project cost Rs.10 cr) in which more than 50% units are owned by women entrepreneurs. Whereas it is only 60% for others.

    This Press Release is based on information given by the Minister of State for MSME Shri Haribhai Parthibhai Chaudhary in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha on 14.03.2017 (Tuesday).


    ********


    AK/RM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1485291) Visitor Counter : 777