      AYUSH

      The 3rd edition of State AYUSH/Health Ministers’ Conference held in New Delhi
      AYUSH Minister urges States to take appropriate action against misguided advertisements about AYUSH drugs

      Posted On: 22 MAR 2017 5:55PM by PIB Delhi

      

      
      The 3rd Conference of Health/AYUSH Ministers of States/UTs was inaugurated by the Minister of State for AYUSH (Independent Charge) Shri Shripad Yesso Naik in New Delhi today. The day long conference was organized by the Ministry of AYUSH to provide an opportunity to States/UT to interact with each other for the development of AYUSH sector. The conference was attended by AYUSH/Health Ministers/Secretaries and officials from 23 States/UTs; senior officials of AYUSH Ministry and representatives of AYUSH organizations.
      
      In his inaugural address, the AYUSH Minister said that the WHO advocates expanding the rational use of traditional medicine as one of the means to achieve Universal Health Coverage. The WHO also advocates harnessing the potential of traditional medicine, capacity building in traditional medicine practice and developing awareness among the public about the advantages of traditional medicines. Shri Naik appealed to all the State Governments to consider the WHO advisory on priority.
      
      Shri Shripad Naik urged all State Governments to consider amending their State Medical Practitioner Act to enable AYUSH system to deal with medical emergencies. He said that States like Maharashtra, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have already made such amendments in their State Medical Practitioner Acts. The Minister further said that the Ministry has been giving focus on the quality of AYUSH education. He advised to State Governments to closely monitor and ensure the quality of education as being imparted in AYUSH colleges.
      
      The Minister also expressed his concern on misguided advertisements about AYUSH drugs appearing in the print and electronic media. He said that the Central Government has entered into an MoU with the Advertising Council of India to check such fraudulent claims relating to AYUSH projects. He said that the State Governments may also bring such advertisements to the notice of the said Council. The Minister also said that the Ministry has developed Ayurveda protocols as well as Yoga protocols for prevention & control of diabetes. The another landmark achievement, the Insurance companies have begun entertaining the claims for reimbursement made by policy holders for the expenditure made on AYUSH treatment, Shri Shripad Naik added.
      
      On this occasion, Minister for Health & Social Justice, Government of Kerela, Smt. K.K. Shailja Teacher said that they have decided to set up an International Research Institute of Ayurveda in the State. Minister of Health & Family Welfare, Government of Rajasthan Shri Bansidhar Bajia and Health & Family Welfare Minister, Government of Tripura, Shri Badal Choudhary also spelled out the policies and programmes being taken up by their governments to propagate AYUSH.
      
      Secretary AYUSH, Shri Ajit M. Sharan welcoming the dignitaries and delegates, briefed about the achievements and initiatives undertaken by the Ministry of AYUSH since it was accorded the status of independent Ministry in November, 2014.
      
      State health authorities pointed out their problems in implementation of various programmes and schemes of AYUSH and concerned officers of Ministry of AYUSH addressed their issues.
      
      The Conference will help to streamline the co-ordination with the States/UTs to ensure and effect better and affordable healthcare delivery in the country. The purpose of this Conference was to discuss the various issues connected with propagation and mainstreaming of AYUSH, and also to take stock of the progress made and developments that took place during the last two years. The Conference aimed to deliberate upon how to take AYUSH systems forward in the healthcare delivery system of the country, as acceptance of AYUSH systems among the people of not only this country, but the world over is increasing.
      

      *****

      NB/SK/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1485222) Visitor Counter : 30