      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Health Services in India
      Posted On: 24 MAR 2017 12:32PM by PIB Delhi

      

    There are multiple factors including lifestyles that influence the burden of disease. The burden of communicable diseases has been declining. The focus of the Government is to provide accessible, affordable and accountable quality healthcare facilities to all sections of society especially the marginalized sections in the country.
    
    While there are multiple challenges, the availability of Primary Health Centres, human resources, number of medical colleges and medical seats, have been improving.
    
    Public health and hospitals being a State subject, the primary responsibility to address healthcare challenges is that of State Governments. However, under National Health Mission (NHM), financial and technical support is provided to States/UTs to strengthen their healthcare systems including support for strengthening health infrastructure, deployment of medical personnel, ASHAs, creating awareness about health issues and lifestyles, and support movement towards Universal Health Coverage.
    
    The Central Government has enacted the Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 and also notified Clinical Establishments Rules 2012 to provide a legislative framework for the registration and regulation of clinical establishments in the country and also seeks to improve the quality health services by prescribing minimum standards of facilities and services which may be provided.
    
    The Government has also taken steps for strengthening and upgrading district hospitals and making available tertiary health care services in the public sector through strengthening of hospitals, establishment of AIIMS institutions in the States and up-gradation of existing Government medical colleges across the country.
    
    With regard to increasing awareness about the health issues, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare regularly releases print advertisement and TV and radio spots in National/regional media for generating awareness among population about various Health and Family Welfare issues and programmes of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. These include Mission Indradhanush, World Health Day, World No Tobacco Day, Yoga Day, Intensified Diarrhoea Control Fortnight, World Population Day, Breastfeeding, Tuberculosis, etc.
    
    The Government has formulated the National Health Policy 2017 which has laid emphasis on the role of the Government in regulation, governance, and quality assurance, healthcare infrastructure and in leveraging information technology. The policy also envisages raising public health expenditure to 2.5% of the GDP in a time bound manner.
    
    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), SmtAnupriya Patel stated this in a written reply in the Lok Sabha here today.


    
    *****


    
    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1485579) Visitor Counter : 33