      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Prevention of Water-Borne Diseases
      Posted On: 28 MAR 2017 4:27PM by PIB Delhi


    Diseases such as Cholera, Acute Diarrhoeal Diseases (Dysentery and Diarrhea), Enteric Fever (Typhoid) and Viral Hepatitis A & E are caused by consumption of contaminated drinking water. Provision of safe drinking water and health services falls within the ambit of the State/UT Governments. However, the Government of India has taken steps both for facilitating availability of safe drinking water as also for ensuring effective surveillance of outbreaks of such diseases and their prevention and management.
    
    As informed by the Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation, all States have been informed to commission surface water based piped water supply schemes in all habitations as a long term sustainable solution. However, since these projects have a long gestation period (say 3-5 years) and the rural people cannot be put to the risk of consuming contaminated water, all States have also been advised to install community water purification plants. This has been done with the objective of providing 8-10 litres of safe water per capita per day for drinking and cooking purposes only.
    
    Besides, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, through its Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, helps the States/UTs to effectively detect and respond to disease outbreaks including water borne diseases by providing additional manpower, strengthening of laboratories, Information & Communication Technology (ICT) equipment and funds. The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) also helps the States/UTs through surveillance, investigation, laboratory and other facilities. It also helps States in capacity building through training & developmental activities.
    
    Health System Strengthening support being given to the State Governments under National Health Mission (NHM) also enhances capacity of the Health Institutions, up to the district level, to treat and manage water borne diseases.
    
    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Smt Anupriya Patel stated this in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha here today.

    *****


    
    
    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1485855) Visitor Counter : 63