      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Depression in India
      Posted On: 24 MAR 2017 12:29PM by PIB Delhi


    As per the World Health Organisation’s Report “Depression and Other Common Mental Disorders – Global Health Estimates” released in 2017, the estimated prevalence of depressive disorders in India is 4.5% of the total population.
    
    The Central Government conducted National Mental Health Survey through National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences, Bangalore in 12 states of the country. As per the survey, the prevalence of depressive disorders in India is estimated to be 2.7% of the total population.
    
    To address the burden of mental disorders, the Government of India is implementing the National Mental Health Programme (NMHP) since 1982. The Government is supporting implementation of the District Mental Health Programme (DMHP) under NMHP in 339 districts of the country for detection, management and treatment of mental disorders/ illness. With the objective to address the shortage of mental health professionals in the country andto increase the PG training capacity in mental health as well as improving the tertiary care treatment facility, establishment of 21 Centres of Excellence in Mental Health and strengthening/ establishment of 39 Post Graduate training departments in mental health specialties have been funded. Besides, three Central Institutions viz. National Institute of Mental Health And Neuro Sciences, Bangalore, Lokopriya Gopinath Bordoloi Regional Institute of Mental Health, Tezpur and Central Institute of Psychiatry, Ranchi have been strengthened for augmenting human resources in the area of mental health and for capacity building in the country. The DMHP has been restructured to include additional components like suicide prevention services, work place stress management, life skills training and counselling in schools and colleges. Support is also provided for Central/ State Mental Health Authorities, Research and Training and for Information, Education and Communication (IEC) activities.
    
    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), Smt Anupriya Patel stated this in a written reply in the Lok Sabha here today.


    
    *****


    
    MV/LK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1485573) Visitor Counter : 20