      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Expanding inexpensive treatment facility
      Posted On: 21 MAR 2017 1:10PM by PIB Delhi

      

    While health is a state subject, the Central Government supplements the efforts of the State Governments to provide healthcare including tertiary level health care for NCDs. However, the Government of India is implementing National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular Diseases and Stroke (NPCDCS) for interventions up to District level under the National Health Mission. It has focus on awareness generation, screening and early diagnosis of persons with high level of risk factors and their treatment and referral (if required) to higher facilities for appropriate management, development of Human Resource and setting up of infrastructure such as NCD clinics for Non- communicable Diseases.
    
    Guidelines for implementation of the National Dialysis Programme were developed and shared with the States. Under the programme, more than 1 lakh patients have undergone about 11 lakhs dialysis sessions in various district hospitals in the country.
    Government of India is implementing population level screening for diabetes, hypertension & common cancers viz. oral, breast and cervix under which Operational Guidelines have been shared with State Governments with the request to submit their proposal in their State specific Programme Implementation Plans (PIP) under NHM.
    
    Funds allocation to State/ UTs pertaining to NCD programmes including NPCDCS are made under NCD Flexi Pool. Rs. 26.82 crore and Rs. 35.40 crore (upto 02.03.2017) to Madhya Pradesh and Rs. 379 crore and Rs. 411.33 crore (upto 02.03.2017) to all the States/ UTs have been released for the FYs 2015-16 and 2016-17 respectively under NHM under NCD Flexipool.
    
    The Central Government, through its hospitals, augments the efforts of the State Governments for providing health services in the country. Under PMSSY, 6 new AIIMS including one at Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh have been made operational. Upgradation of identified Government medical colleges/ institutions, for higher specialty facilities has been undertaken.
    
    Under Tertiary Care Cancer Centre (TCCC) Scheme, Government of India is assisting States to set up / establish State Cancer Institute (SCI) and TCCCs in different parts of the country. One SCI and two TCCCs are allocated to Madhya Pradesh.
    
    AMRIT (Affordable Medicines and Reliable Implants for Treatment) stores are being set up by M/s HLL Life Care Limited, a CPSE, where essential lifesaving medicines for Cancer and CVDs are being provided at a substantial discount vis-à-vis the Maximum Retail Price.
    
    Under the scheme RashtriyaArogyaNidhi (RAN), State Illness Assistance Fund (SIAF) has been set up under RAN in all the states including Madhya Pradesh to which the central government provides financial assistance to the extent of 50% of the contribution made by the State which is used to provide free treatment to BPL patients suffering from life threatening diseases. Under the RAN scheme, a corpus fund namely the Health Minister’s Cancer Patient Fund (HMCPF) has also been created from which funds are placed at the disposal of 27 Regional Cancer Centres to provide treatment to BPL cancer patients that require expenditure upto Rs.2 lakh and cases requiring expenditure of more than Rs.2 lakh are referred to the Ministry. Under the Health Minister’s Discretionary Grant (HMDG), patients having an annual income of less than Rs 1 lakh are provided assistance of not more than Rs. 1 lakh for hospitalisation/treatment.
    
    To provide relief against catastrophic heath expenditure, the Government has announced the launch of a new health protection scheme which will provide cover uptoRs. 1 lakh per family, from poor and economically weaker sections, with additional top up of Rs. 30,000 for senior citizens in those families.
    
    In addition, under the RashtriyaSwasthyaBimaYojana (RSBY), cashless benefit uptoRs. 30,000 per annum per family for specified hospitalisation procedures is available to all BPL population and eleven other categories of vulnerable population groups.
    
    The Minister of State (Health and Family Welfare), SmtAnupriya Patel stated this in a written reply in the RajyaSabha here today.

    

    *****

    MV/LK

    
    

    
    (Release ID: 1485023) Visitor Counter : 55