      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Group of students from Arunachal Pradesh call on MoS (Home) Shri Kiren Rijiju
      Posted On: 23 MAR 2017 1:17PM by PIB Delhi


    A group of school children from Arunachal Pradesh called on the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Kiren Rijiju here today. The group comprised of 15 girls, 15 boys and 4 teachers. The students belong to class 7th -9th from ITBP Public School, Aalo, Arunachal Pradesh. The educational excursion tour is being organised by the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) under the Civil Action Programme (CAP). The tour started from March 15 and will end on March 30, 2017.


    
    The group has visited Taj Mahal in Agra and various historical and important places in the Capital including National Police Memorial, Metro and Railway Museum. The children will visit Parliament House tomorrow. They will also visit Golden Temple and Wagah Border in Amritsar later.


    
    Speaking on the occasion, Shri Rijiju complimented the efforts of ITBP in organizing the tour and providing the children from the remote region an opportunity to visit the national capital and have this unique experience. He said that ITBP is engaged in various social welfare activities and contributing to the nation building. He said that the tour is important for these children in order to have practical knowledge about various aspects of the country and such tours are important along with other aspects of education.


    
    While interacting with the students, Shri Rijiju said that this is the first visit outside Arunachal Pradesh for many of these students. He said that the students should share their experiences with their friends and family when they go back home. He said that the students should give due importance to education along with other co-curricular activities.


    
    The senior officers of Ministry of Home Affairs and ITBP were also present on the occasion.


    
    ****


    
    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1485342) Visitor Counter : 67