      AYUSH

      Steps Taken by Government for Promoting Ayush Treatment
      Posted On: 21 MAR 2017 5:05PM by PIB Delhi

        The Government of India has approved and notified Centrally Sponsored Scheme of National AYUSH Mission (NAM) on 29 th September 2014 which envisages better access to AYUSH services; strengthening of AYUSH educational institutions, facilitate the enforcement of quality control of Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani & Homoeopathy (ASU &H) drugs and sustainable availability of ASU & H raw-materials by promotion of medicinal plants in the States/UTs during 12th Plan. Under NAM, the Central Government provides financial assistance to the States/UTs for encouraging Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy Centers for the health care of the people of the country as per the State Annual Action Plan (SAAP).
        The National AYUSH Mission (NAM) inter-alia makes provision for the following: -
        (i) Co-location of AYUSH facilities at Primary Health Centers (PHCs), Community Health Centers (CHCs) and District Hospitals (DHs).
        (ii) Up gradation of exclusive State Government AYUSH Hospitals and Dispensaries.
        (iii) Setting up of up to 50 bedded integrated AYUSH Hospital.
        (iv) Upgradation of State Government Educational Institutions.
        (v) Setting up of new State Government AYUSH Educational Institutions in the State where it is not available.
        (vi) Strengthening of State Government/ Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathy (ASU&H) Pharmacies and Drug Testing Laboratories (DTL).
        (vii) Cultivation and Promotion of Medicinal Plants.
        Under the Central Sector Scheme for Promotion of Information, Education and Communication (IEC), the Ministry takes up initiatives for propagation and promotion of AYUSH systems of medicines by organizing Arogya fairs/melas, conferences, exhibitions, seminars, workshops, symposium and also undertakes publicity through electronic multimedia/print media campaign for awareness amongst the citizens.
        Ministry of AYUSH celebrated ‘National Ayurveda Day’ on the day of Dhanvantari Jayanti (Dhanteras). The theme for year 2016-17 i.e. the first National Ayurveda Day was ‘Ayurveda for Prevention & Control of Diabetes’ which was celebrated on 28 th October 2016. Mission Madhumeh was launched on this occasion and Ministry also released a protocol for Prevention & Control of Diabetes through Ayurveda.
        Also, AYUSH intervention in National Program for Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular disease & Stroke (NPCDCS) program is being implemented in one District each in six States viz. Bhilwara (Rajasthan), Surendranagar (Gujarat), Gaya (Bihar), Lahimpur Khiri (Uttar Pradesh), Krishna (Andhra Pradesh) and Darjeeling (West Bengal).
        This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri ShripadYesso Naik in reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.
        *****
        NB/SK/UD

        
    

    
    (Release ID: 1485078) Visitor Counter : 91