      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Residents of Delhi are cautioned against spurious schemes being floated in the name of Beti Bachao Beti Padhao
      Posted On: 21 MAR 2017 10:51AM by PIB Delhi

      

    It has come to the notice of Ministry of Women & Child Development, Government of India that certain unauthorised sites/organisations/NGOs/individuals are distributing illegal forms in the name of cash incentive under Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP) Scheme. The Ministry of Women & Child Development has taken up this matter with the State Government Authorities where this illegal activity has taken place namely Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Bihar. However, it has come to our notice that the fraud in name of BBBP is taking place in Delhi also. The matter has been reported from different parts of Delhi, particularly in Tikri, Bhatti Khurd, Dakshinpuri Extension, Sangam Vihar, Sanjay Colony, Sarita Vihar, Adarsh Nagar and JJ Colony.
    
    It is clarified that the scheme has no provision of individual CASH TRANSFER by Government of India. Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme focuses on challenging mindsets and deep rooted patriarchy in the societal system, strict enforcement of PC&PNDT Act, advancing education of the girl child. The focus is on issues of women empowerment over a life cycle continuum. It is not a DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer) scheme.
    
    The fraud being perpetuated in name of BBBP is a very serious matter and if any such incidence comes to your knowledge, please report it to the nearest police station and the concerned District Collector/ District Magistrate. The Ministry of Women & Child Development (MWCD) has advised people against falling into trap of such frauds through various print and electronic platforms. It may be noted that distribution of such forms is completely illegal and there is no cash incentive associated in any form with the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao Scheme.
    
    The Ministry advises that no personal details should be shared in this regard and no one should subscribe to such fraudulent scheme and not to send any such fake form to the Ministry of WCD or any other Government Department.
    
    The case has also been referred to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for investigation keeping in view the public interest and gravity of the matter.

    

    *****


    
    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1485017) Visitor Counter : 104