      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Shri Singh launch Coffee Table Book titled “50 Years – The Great Indian Milk Revolution”
      Posted On: 23 MAR 2017 3:56PM by PIB Delhi


      Growth in dairy production is the result of dairy cooperative societies’ hard work: Shri Singh

      India's milk production crosses 155 million tonnes: Shri Singh

      Rise of per capita milk availability to about 337 gm/day: Shri Singh

      The book encapsulates NDDB's remarkable 50-year journey: Shri Singh

      The Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Shri Radha Mohan Singh said that the growth in dairy production is the result of dairy cooperative societies’ hard work. Shri Singh said it at the launch of Coffee Table Book titled “50 Years – The Great Indian Milk Revolution” commemorating National Dairy Development Board’s (NDDB) Golden Jubilee year. Shri Radha Mohan Singh also said that since 1998, the poor and marginal milk producers have worked hard to make the country world's top milk producer. The success was not achieved overnight; it’s the result of milk producers’ constant efforts, support of committed professionals, and the vision and expertise of NDDB.

      Shri Singh also said that NDDB's sustained efforts through Operation Flood and the present National Dairy plan helped the country’s dairy sector in maintaining a steady growth. There has been a marked increase in the contribution of livestock to agricultural GDP and livestock’s in the dairy sector. In terms of value, milk is the largest agricultural commodity in India.

      Shri Radha Mohan Singh also said that India's milk production has crossed 155 million tonnes mark. This has resulted in the rise of per capita milk availability to about 337 gm/day. In the last two years, milk production grew at 6.5 % annually as against 4.5 % per annum in the previous 10 years, which is almost double as compared to the growth in milk production in the world. About 1.7 lakh dairy cooperatives are serving almost 15.8 million milk producers, one-third of them being women, across the country by providing them market access and input services, thereby strengthening their livelihoods.

      Union Agriculture Minister said NDDB's efforts have contributed in bringing nutritional security to the country, attaining self-sufficiency in milk and delivering milk and dairy products to the consumers at affordable prices. NDDB has adopted a scientific approach and systematic processes to create a favourable environment for the growth of the dairy sector. NDDB’s aim has been to improve productivity, profitability, sustainability, and thus improve the livelihoods of small milk producers.

      This book encapsulates NDDB's remarkable 50-year journey and the value it has created for millions of dairy farmers in this country. The book highlights NDDB’s belief that cooperative principles are as relevant today as they were in the past and the institutions which follow these will form the structural framework for the growth of the dairy sector in the future. It also highlights the Dairy Board's efforts towards bringing about socio-economic change in rural India.

      Shri Singh said that it is our collective responsibility to create awareness about the merits of cooperative dairy business. We should strive to reach out to the smallest and farthest milk producer so that they become self-sufficient.

      NDDB was established to serve milk producers through cooperative and to guide dairy farmers.

      *****

      SS
    
    
    (Release ID: 1485406) Visitor Counter : 96