      Ministry of Commerce & Industry

      3rd International Conference on Alternate
      Fuels and Raw Materials in Cement Industry

      Posted On: 23 MAR 2017 5:50PM by PIB Delhi

    The “3rd International Conference on Alternate Fuels and Raw Materials in Cement Industry -Towards Realising Swachh Bharat Dream” , was inaugurated today. Ms. Ravneet Kaur, Joint Secretary, Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion lauded the efforts and initiatives of the Cement Industry in enhancing the AFR usage to increase the Thermal Substitution Rate (TSR) which is very low at 1% as against the average 60% world-over. She mentioned that with Indian Cement Industry currently producing 7% of the Global Cement requirement has a long way to go to improve the country’s per capita consumption at a dismal low as yet. She also expressed her appreciation for the recently published BIS Standards on Composite Cement. Ms Kaur assured the Cement Industry that Govt. will support this cause to frame conducive policies to facilitate such AFR usage in the Cement Industry.


    Earlier in her Special Address, Ms. Meldgaard, Deputy Chief of Mission, Royal Norwegian Embassy in New Delhi, said most of the countries in Europe have substituted more than 40% of heat requirement from coal by utilizing waste – Norway > 70%. What Norway does not have is scale. Therefore, some of the international knowhow can be employed and implemented in Indian Cement Industry for a scale up. Norwegian Govt. has been funding SINTEF to work with Regulatory authorities, Cement Industry and other Stakeholders to enhance AFR utilization. I look forward to your support and guidance for successful implementation of the Phase-II project over next 4 years.


    Dr. S. Chouksey, President, CMA in his Keynote Address highlighted the various initiatives taken by the Indian Cement Industry in the effective utilization of the alternate fuels, fly ash, slag, etc. and also mentioned the challenges being confronted by the industry.


    *****


    MJPS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1485486) Visitor Counter : 62