      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Women in Police Force
      Posted On: 28 MAR 2017 4:11PM by PIB Delhi


    As on 01.01.2016, the representation of women police personnel is 7.10 % at all India level.
    
    As ‘Police’ is a State subject falling in List-II of seventh schedule of the Constitution of India, it is primarily the responsibility of the State Governments/UT Administrations to make adequate representation of women in the State Police Forces. However, Ministry of Home Affairs has issued advisories dated 04.09.2009 and 22.4.2013 to all the State Governments/UT Administrations to increase the strength of women police upto 33% of the total strength.
    
    All the State Governments have been requested to create additional posts of women constables/SIs by converting the vacant posts of male constables into the posts of women constables. It has also been aimed that each police station should have at least 3 women sub-inspectors and 10 women police constables.
    
    Ministry of Women and Child Development (WCD) in collaboration with the Ministry of Home Affairs has envisaged engagement of Mahila Police Volunteers (MPV) in States/UTs who will act as a link between police and community and help women in distress. All the Chief Secretaries of States/UTs were requested to adopt this initiative in their respective States. The MPV will encourage women to come forward with complaints of violence and discrimination, provide information to them on remedies for this and assist them in taking their cases to police authorities. MPV will serve as an example to the village and encourage a woman friendly environment both within and outside the police station. Any empowered woman from the community, who is of 21 years of age and is at least 12th pass can be selected to be a MPV.
    
    Haryana has become the first state to operationalise the Mahila Police Volunteer scheme. It was launched jointly by the Ministry of WCD and Government of Haryana at Karnal on 14th December, 2016 for the districts of Karnal and Mahendragarh. A Proposal from Andhra Pradesh has also been sanctioned for implementation of Mahila Police Volunteers (MPVs) in two districts namely Anantapur and Kadapa on pilot basis under Nirbhaya Fund.
    
    This was stated by the Minister of State for Home Affairs, Shri Hansraj Gangaram Ahir in a written reply to question by Dr. Kambhampati Haribabu in the Lok Sabha today.

    ****


    
    
    KSD/NK/PK/KM/4266

    
    
    (Release ID: 1485850) Visitor Counter : 91