      Ministry of Information & Broadcasting

      Prime Minister attends Ugadi celebrations in the Capital
      
      
      Says: Diversity of India is its Identity as well as its Strength
      
      Shri Venkaiah Naidu hosts Ugadi Milan function

      Posted On: 26 MAR 2017 6:18PM by PIB Delhi
      

        The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi today joined in the Ugadi Milan celebrations in the capital today, and emphasized that diversity of India is its identity as well as its strength. The event was hosted by Minister for Information and Broadcasting, Urban Development and Housing & Urban Poverty Alleviation Shri M Venkaiah Naidu at his residence.


        Speaking on the occasion, the Prime Minister while greeting the nation for the New Year, said that the festivals are a reflection of the changing facets of Nature and linked to our culture and traditions. Citing the Ek Bharat Shresht Bharat initiative of the Government, Shri Modi said that this would enable the coming generations to understand the diversity of different states and their cultures. This would strengthen the feeling of oneness and unity amongst all Indians. He called upon the States collaborate with each other thereby promoting uniqueness of their respective cultures and traditions in different regions.


        Regarding the Ek Bharat Shresht Bharat initiative, the Prime Minister gave the example of the MoU signed between Haryana and Telangana, which provided an opportunity for the two states to collaborate in the areas of Film festivals, Language, Cuisines, and Exchange between sportspersons, policy makers and legislators.


        While appreciating the cultural performance of Jatayu Moksham, the Prime Minister said that the struggle of Jatayu was an inspiration for all of us to fight terrorism courageously which currently posed a huge challenge to the entire humanity today.


        Welcoming the guests on the occasion, Shri Naidu said that Ugadi was the beginning of New Year as per Indian calendar. It is celebrated all across India on different days in the month. He said Ugadi Pachhadi, a combination of six different tastes (shat ruchi) consisting of sweet, sour, spicy or pungent, salty, astringent and bitter symbolized various emotions of happiness, disgust, anger, fear, surprise and sadness. He said that Indian Culture was unique and most civilized as there was science in every festival and every tradition.


        Shri Naidu mentioned that the onset of the New Year would bring prosperity and Growth to the country under the leadership of the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.


        Ugadi which heralds the arrival of spring and warmer weather signifies the start of a new year in many parts of South India. The joyous festival signifies growth and prosperity and as with all new year festivals, it provides an opportunity to start new ventures.


        The function was attended by Smt. Sumitra Mahajan, Speaker, Lok Sabha, Lt Governor of Delhi Shri Anil Baijal, Minister of Law and Justice Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad, Minister for Tourism and Culture Shri Mahesh Sharma, Minister for S&T Dr. Harsh Vardhan, Minister for Sports & Youth Affairs Shri Vijay Goel, Minister of State for I&B Col. Rathore, Members of Parliament, Senior Judges of the Supreme Court, High Court and Senior officials from the Ministries of I&B, Urban Development, HUPA.


        Artists from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh gave cultural performances on the occasion.


        ****


        CP/GV

    
    
    (Release ID: 1485721) Visitor Counter : 209