      Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change

      Population of Wild Animals
      Posted On: 28 MAR 2017 7:51PM by PIB Delhi


    

    “There has been an increase in the population of certain wild animals in some areas of the forest.


    Complaints have been received from various state governments regarding attacks on farmers by the wild animals in their fields.


    In order to support farmers and victims of depredations/attacks by wild animals, State Governments provide ex-gratia relief for farmers in respect of damage to crops and loss of human lives from their own funds as well from the assistance provided by Central Government. The amount of ex-gratia relief eligible for assistance under the Centrally Sponsored Schemes for payment to the victims of predation/depredation by wild animals (See Annexure).


    The Central Government provides financial assistance to State/Union Territory Governments under the Centrally Sponsored Schemes of 'Integrated Development of Wildlife Habitats', 'Project Tiger' and ’Project Elephant' for the management of wildlife and its habitats in the country, which inter alia helps in preventing human-animal conflict and support the farmers. The activities supported under the Schemes inter alia include construction /erection of physical barriers, such as barbed wire fence, solar powered electric fence, bio-fencing using cactus, boundary walls etc. to prevent the entry of wild animals into crop fields; improvement of wildlife habitat of wild animals by augmenting the availability of food and water in forest areas to reduce the entry of animals from forests to habitations and setting up of anti-depredation squads to drive away problematic animals.


    On December 24, 2014, the Ministry issued an advisory to the States highlighting the legal provisions under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 to deal with the human-wildlife conflict situations. Vide this advisory, Ministry has also sought proposals from State/Union Territory Governments, after objective assessment of the situation with details of the areas in which notification under section 62 of the Act, declaring any wild animals in Schedule V for specified period, could be helpful in management of conflict.


    Based on the proposals from the state of Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand such notification have been issued for listing wild pig in Uttarakhand, monkeys in Himachal Pradesh and Nilgai and wild pig in Bihar in Schedule V of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972.


    The Ministry of Agriculture, in consultation with MoEF&CC has issued an Advisory in March 2012 for the management of Blue Bulls in the country. This Advisory, inter-alia, indicates various strategies and options for the mitigation of blue bull conflict situations.”


    ***


    ANNEXURE


    The amount of ex-gratia relief eligible for assistance under the Centrally Sponsored Schemes for payment to the victims of predation/depredation by wild animals:

                                                                                                        
Sl. No.  Nature of damage caused by wild animals  Amount of ex-gratia relief                            
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                        
(a)      Death or permanent incapacitation        Rs. 2,00,000/-                                        
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                        
(b)      Grievous injury                          30% of (a)                                            
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                        
(c)      Minor injury                             Cost of treatment                                     
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                        
(d)      Loss of property                         Value of loss/damage as assessed by authorized officer
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                        

    This information was given by Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Shri Anil Madhav Dave, in reply to a written question in Lok Sabha today.


    ***


    HK


    

    
    (Release ID: 1485901) Visitor Counter : 250