      Ministry of Tribal Affairs

      NCST Approves Proposal for Five Additional Seats for Tribals in Sikkim Assembly
      Posted On: 23 MAR 2017 4:52PM by PIB Delhi

      

    National Commission for Schedule Tribes (NCST) has approved the proposal for five additional seat for tribals in Sikkim assembly. In its full meeting held in New Delhi today the Commission gave its approval to the proposal of increasing reserve seats for STs from 12 to 17 in Sikkim assembly. At present there are 32 members in Sikkim assembly and it would be increased to 40. Out of the proposed additional eight seats, five seats would be reserved for Limbu and Tamang tribes.
    
    The Commission has also decided to send a three member high level investigation committee for on the spot investigation of atrocities on Scheduled Tribes. The Commission also decided send a letter to States seeking latest update on tribal welfare programmes. States will also be asked to provide full details about the activities of Tribal Advisory Committees. The states will also be requested to provide link of NCST website on their official website so that people may know the activities of the commission.
    
    Chairing the first meeting of the Commission after taking over as its Chairman Shri Nand Kumar Sai said that Commission is very serious about the illegal transfer of land holdings of Scheduled Tribes. He said a detailed study will be carried out of all such incidents. Later, a national level workshop will be organised in New Delhi sometimes in May this year on this issue where representatives of State governments will also be invited.
    
    Shri Sai said any officer not taking the notice issued by the Commission seriously and failing to provide desired information in the set time limit, the NCST will take very serious action against him. The Chairman of NCST said all necessary steps will be taken to make Commission effective. He said it will be ensured that the activities of the NCST get maximum publicity so that the Commission can play an important role in tribal welfare. Shri Sai exhorted the members and officers of Commission to work jointly for the welfare of Scheduled tribes with personal dedication.
    
    The Vice Chairperson of the Commission Ms. Anusuiya Uikey, Members Shri Hari Krishna Damor and Shri Harshdbhai Chunilal Vasava, Secretary of the Commission Shri Raghav Chandra and senior officials attended the meeting.
    
    Samir/JKD/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1485430) Visitor Counter : 70