      Ministry of Defence

      Re-Employment of Ex-Servicemen
      Posted On: 31 MAR 2017 3:15PM by PIB Delhi


    As per Department of Personnel & Training’s OM No. 36034/27/84-Estt(SCT), dated 2.5.1985, on an Ex-servicemen joining the Government job on civil side after availing of the benefits given to him as an Ex-servicemen for his re-employment, his Ex-servicemen status for the purpose of re-employment in Government would cease. As per DOP&T OM No. 36034/6/90-Estt(SCT), dated 10.10.1994, an ex-servicemen already secured regular employment under the Central Government in a civil post would be permitted the benefits of age relaxation as admissible for ex-servicemen for securing another appointment in any higher post or service under the Central Government. However, such candidates will not be eligible for benefits of reservation, if any, for ex-servicemen in Central Government jobs.


    
    As per DOP&T’s OM No. 36034/1/2014-Estt(Res), dated 14.8.2014 if an ex-serviceman applies for various vacancies before joining any civil employment, he / she can avail of the benefit of reservation as ex-servicemen for any subsequent employment. However, to avail of this benefit, an ex-serviceman as soon as he / she joins any civil employment, should give self-declaration / undertaking to the concerned employer about the date-wise details of application for various vacancies for which he / she had applied for before joining the initial civil employment. This benefit would be available only in respect of vacancies which are filled on direct recruitment and wherever reservation is applicable to the ex-servicemen.


    
    In addition to above, a proposal has been referred to DOP&T to the effect that an Ex-servicemen be allowed the benefit of reservation for second time and even thereafter in subsequent recruitments for civil employment, if the vacancies, which are to be filled on the basis of direct recruitment and where reservation is applicable to Ex-servicemen, has not been filled up with by those Ex-servicemen, who are getting / claiming benefit of reservation for the first time.


    
    The details of reservation available to Ex-servicemen is as under:


    
    (I) In Central Government Ministries / Departments:


    
    (i) 10% Direct recruitment posts upto the level of Assistant Commandant in Central Para Military Forces.
    (ii) 10% Direct recruitment posts in Group ‘C’.
    (iii) 20% Direct recruitment posts in Group ‘D’.


    
    (II) In Central Public Sector Enterprise:


    
    (i) 14.5% in Group ‘C’ Posts.
    (ii) 24.5% in Group ‘D’ Posts.


    
    (III) Nationalised Bank:


    
    (i) 14.5% in Group ‘C’ Posts.
    (ii) 24.5% in Group ‘D’ Posts.
    
    This information was given by Minister of State for Defence Dr. Subhash Bhamre in a written reply to Shri PC Mohan in Lok Sabha today.


    
    NAMPI/Ranjan
    

    
    (Release ID: 1486294) Visitor Counter : 40