      Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation

      RRR of Water Bodies
      Posted On: 30 MAR 2017 2:33PM by PIB Delhi


    Works related to water resources development and management are planned, funded, executed and maintained by the State Governments themselves as per their own resources and priorities. In order to supplement the efforts of the State Governments, Government of India provides technical and financial assistance to State Governments to encourage sustainable development and efficient management of water resources through various schemes and programmes such as scheme for Repair, Renovation and Restoration (RRR) of water bodies etc.
    
    ¬ In XII Plan, 1354 water bodies have been included under the scheme of RRR of water bodies. Estimated cost of these water bodies is Rs. 1010.80 crore. Central Assistance of Rs. 264.67 crore has been released so far for these water bodies. Works in 464 water bodies have been completed and the works in balance water bodies are planned to be completed by March, 2018.
    
    The scheme of RRR of water bodies envisages multiple objectives like comprehensive improvement and restoration of water bodies thereby increasing tank storage capacity, ground water recharge, increased availability of drinking water, improvement in agriculture/horticulture productivity etc.
    
    Demarcation of boundaries and fixing of signboards and demarcation pillars comes under the purview of concerned State Government. As per the guidelines, State Government is to take necessary steps for declaring the water body boundary through a Government order and to ensure removal of encroachments in the water body spread area/water body boundary. This information was given by Union Minister of State for Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation Dr. Sanjeev Kumar Balyan in a written reply in Lok Sabha today.

    *****


    
    
    Samir/jk

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486124) Visitor Counter : 57