      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      Guidelines regulating play schools for Children in age group 3-6 year prepared by NCPCR
      Posted On: 30 MAR 2017 3:59PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry has notified the National Early Childhood Care & Education (ECCE) Policy on 12th October, 2013 and circulated to all the States/UTs as a policy document of Government of India on ECCE. It recognizes multiple models of ECCE service delivery through public, private, and non-governmental service providers including Anganwadi Centres (AWCs), play schools, pre-schools, etc. The Policy clearly lays down basic non-negotiable quality standards to be followed by all ECCE service providers. The standardized facilities envisaged in the Policy inter alia, relate to building and infrastructure; safety and security aspects; pupil-teacher interaction; caregiver: child ratio; learning experiences planned for children; health, nutrition and protection measures; qualification and professional development of staff; parent and community involvement and organisation and management of the ECCE provision.
    
    Recently, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has prepared guidelines for regulating private play schools for the children of the age of three to six year. The guidelines broadly contains i) Recognition for establishing or regulating private play-schools; ii) Responsibilities of school and educators; iii) Curriculum and completion of pre-school education; iv) Monitoring & Redressal of Grievances; v) Accounts, Audit and Inspection and vi) Miscellaneous.
    
    The ECCE Policy, 2013, Quality Standards for ECCE and National ECCE Curriculum Framework formulated in detail and which are in place since 2013 as policy documents are under implementation by the States/UTs. These elaborately cover all the necessary components on ECCE including those contained in the regulatory framework prepared by NCPCR.


    
    The ECCE Policy is already in place and the States/UTs are required to introduce Annual Contextualized Curriculum along with Pre-School Education (PSE) kit by aligning to the curriculum, activity books and celebrate ECCE day on monthly basis.
    This information was given by Minister of State for Women & Child Development, Smt Krishna Raj in reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    
    
    *****


    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486229) Visitor Counter : 16