      Ministry of Textiles

      Steps taken by Government to strengthen Handicrafts sector
      Posted On: 30 MAR 2017 4:11PM by PIB Delhi

      

        The details of contribution of handicrafts sector, including handmade carpets, to the economy of the country through exports during the last three years and the current year is as follows:


        Year Export figures (in Rs. Crores)


        2013-14 - Rs. 26212.29 Crores


        2014-15 - Rs. 28524.48 Crores


        2015-16 - Rs. 30939.27 Crores


        2016-17 - Rs. 31516.92 Crores


        (April to February, 2017)


        The steps taken by the Government to boost and strengthen handicrafts sector, which includes handmade carpets, so as to compete with machine-made products are as follows:


        1. Market Development Assistance (MDA) Grant and Market Access Initiative (MAI) Assistance for participation in Fairs & Exhibitions/Reverse/Buyer-Seller Meets in India & abroad.


        2. Assistance provided by the Government for marketing study, branding/International publicity, participation in Fairs & Exhibitions, Buyer-Seller Meet in India & abroad etc. through Marketing and other Schemes.


        3. Thematic display and live demonstration of crafts by Master Craftspersons in exhibitions abroad.


        4. Brand image promotion of Indian handicrafts abroad through seminars and publicity as well as awareness programs in India.


        5. Organizing Indian Handicrafts & Gifts Fair twice a year besides product-specific shows.


        6. Display of new design through exporters for creating awareness and marketing.


        7. To provide technological support to wooden crafts, a Technological Upgradation centre has been set up in Saharanpur.


        8. To facilitate manufactures/ exporters for developing new design and finishing products, Common Facility Centres have been setup in Jodhpur and Saharanpur.


        9. International Lace Trade Centre has been sanctioned in Crafts Cluster of Lace & Crocheted crafts at Narasapur, Andhra Pradesh.


        10. Moradabad Resource Centre setup at Moradabad to facilitate information relating to business development, word market trends, marketing and publicity and to cater to the changing tastes and requirements of international market and remain abreast with the latest development.


        11. Setting up of Mega Clusters in Bhadohi-Mirzapur & Srinagar for increasing manufacturing and exports of carpets.


        12. Providing Skill Development Training for Carpets weaving.


        13. Providing financial assistance for running Carpet Weaving Training Centers in Bhadohi-Varanasi-Mirzapur areas for creating new Artisans/ Weavers with stipend.


        14. The Excise & Customs Duties paid for importing inputs are refunded through Duty Drawback channel.


        15. Setting up of Indian Institute of Carpet Technology (IICT) at Bhadohi.


        16. Interest subvention and grant of MUDRA loan schemes to the handicrafts artisans so as to compete with machine-made products


        The above information was given by the Minister of State, Textiles, Shri Ajay Tamta today, in a written reply to a Lok Sabha question.


        ***


        GG/DJM


    

    
    (Release ID: 1486334) Visitor Counter : 185