      Ministry of Food Processing Industries

      Development of Food Processing Sector in North-East
      Posted On: 31 MAR 2017 2:23PM by PIB Delhi


    The Ministry had launched a Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS) - National Mission for Food Processing (NMFP) for implementation through States/UTs w.e.f. 01.04.2012. Under the Mission, funds were shared on 75:25 basis by Govt. of India and States; 90:10 in North- Eastern States and 100% grants for UTs. The components of the NMFP were (i) Technology Up-gradation / Setting up / Modernization of Food Processing Units; (ii) Cold Chain, Value Addition and Preservation Infrastructure for Non-Horticulture Products; (iii) Modernisation of Abattoirs; (iv) Human Resource Development; (v) Promotional Activities; (vi) Creating Primary Processing Centres / Collection Centres in Rural Areas; (vii) Modernisation of Meat Shops; (viii) Reefer Vehicles; and (ix) Food Parks (old scheme). However, CSS- NMFP has been delinked from Central Government support w.e.f. 1.4.2015 except for UTs (up to 31.03.2016). The State Governments may decide to continue the scheme w.e.f. 01.04.2015 and onwards out of their increased resources resulting from the recommendations of the 14th Finance Commission.


    T he Ministry of Food Processing Industries is implementing various Central Sector Schemes for promotion and development of food processing sector in the country including North-East, like (i) Scheme for Mega food Park (ii) Scheme for Modern Abattoirs (iii) Schemes for Integrated Cold Chain and Value Addition Infrastructure (iv) Scheme for Creation/Expansion of Food Processing and Preservation Infrastructure (v) Scheme for Quality Assurance, and (vi) Scheme for Human Resource and institutions. The detailed guidelines of these schemes, explaining the pattern of financial assistance, eligibility criteria, procedure for approval of projects, timelines and release of grant-in-aid etc. are available on the Ministry’s website at www.mofpi.nic.in . For development of food processing sector in North-East, the Ministry is providing grants-in-aid at higher level as compared to general areas in all the schemes. Ministry is also organizing seminars/ workshops every year in the North-East to create awareness about these Schemes.


    This information was given by the Minister of State for Food Processing Industries Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti in a written reply in Rajya Sabha today.


    *********


    MJPS

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486270) Visitor Counter : 173