      Ministry of Women and Child Development

      There is no provision for individual cash incentive/cash transfer component by Government in BBBP Scheme
      Posted On: 30 MAR 2017 4:47PM by PIB Delhi


    Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP) is a flagship programme of Ministry of Women and Child Development (MWCD), Government of India to change the mindsets of society to value the girl child and empower her. The scheme mainly focuses on challenging mindsets and deep rooted patriarchy in the societal system, strict enforcement of PC&PNDT Act, advancing education of the girl child: focus is on issues of women empowerment on a life cycle continuum. BBBP scheme has no provision for individual cash incentive/cash transfer component by Government of India and thus is not a DBT (Direct Benefit Transfer) scheme. The fraudulent activity of duping people by falsely promising fake cash benefits in the name of BBBP was brought to the notice of Ministry of Women and Child Development through complaints/ copies of fraudulent forms being filled by people and sent to Office of MWCD. The false promise was to provide Rs. 2 lakhs to a girl child between the age 8 and 32 years on filling the fake forms, which were eventually sent to Ministry of WCD.
    
    Over 3 lakh fake/illegal forms have been received by this Ministry so far which were reported to have fraudulently sold in many cases and filled in the name of girls and sending to Ministry for providing cash disbursements under BBBP. The fraudulent activity started in some districts of Uttar Pradesh. The Ministry of Women and Child Development took immediate action and preventive measures to contain this problem by taking up the matter with concerned State Government Authorities where this illegal activity has taken place as reported namely Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Bihar and Delhi. FIRs have been filed in some districts. A disclaimer has been uploaded on website of the Ministry. Press releases were also issued which were carried out in leading newspapers in Hindi and English. This Ministry has also launched a media publicity campaign through Doordarshan/ AIR and other radio stations as well as through Newspapers alerting general public on the issue. The case has been handed over to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).
    
    This information was given by Minister of State for Women & Child Development, Smt Krishna Raj in reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.

    *****


    
    
    NB/UD

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486176) Visitor Counter : 128