      Ministry of Defence

      Valedictory Function of Higher Defence Management Course-12 held at College of Defence Management
      Posted On: 30 MAR 2017 2:44PM by PIB Delhi


    
    The Valedictory Function of the Higher Defence Management Course -12 (HDMC-12) was held at College of Defence Management in Secunderabad today. Admiral Sunil Lanba, Chairman COSC & Chief of the Naval Staff,presided over the function and delivered the valedictory address.


    HDMC-12 course commenced on 30May 2016 with 150 selected participants of the rank of Colonel and equivalent from the three Services. Besides this, course was also attended by participants from friendly foreign countries, viz. Bangladesh, Nigeria, Iran, Vietnam and Sri Lanka.

    On completion of the course, the successful participants were awarded with the degree of Master in Management Studies (MMS) by Osmania University and a certificate of Advanced Course in Management by the All India Management Association.


    In his welcome address, Rear Admiral Dushyant Singh Chouhan, Commandant of CDM highlighted the activities of the past academic year and complimented the participants for their creditable performance. He expressed the hope that the course curriculum has succeeded in stimulating effective management thought processes which would crystalise into concrete measures for optimisation of operational effectiveness and resources in the Armed Forces.


    In his valedictory address, the Chief Guest congratulated the graduating Participants, who have gone through a demanding curriculum in the last 44 weeks at the College. He also complimented and expressed his special appreciation and congratulations to those who excelled in various disciplines during the curriculum.


    He emphasized the implicit need of the hour to seek and respond to emerging challenges before they can manifest themselves as a threat of any consequence and turn them into opportunity. He brought out the essentiality of future leaders to learn how to better predict the future. He said that, to secure the nation, this crystal-gazing needs to be supplemented by an ability to recognise threats through good understanding and the ability to analyze their manifestations, which must further be complemented by an ability to evolve our responses through good governance.


    He expressed his confidence that the training in identifying cognitive biases during the course would serve the participant officers well and enable them to take timely and positive action oriented decisions in their position as senior military leaders. To achieve this, he considered it essential that in one's area of operations, one must keep abreast of the developments of related issues, partake in decision making along with others and indeed, must work in close coordination with all other organs of the state involved in the management of national security by facilitation and complementing each other's efforts.


    College of Defence Management at Secunderabad is a premier tri-Services institution, acknowledged as a Centre of Excellence for imparting training in Defence Management. The core training curriculum of the College is the Higher Defence Management Course. The College has made significant strides in aligning and integrating management philosophy with operational planning. This is a major milestone in the academic annals of the College.


    BSK/CDM/30032017


    

    
    (Release ID: 1486238) Visitor Counter : 44