      AYUSH

      19 workshops organized in 12 countries over last three years to promote AYUSH system of medicine: Shri Shripad Naik
      Posted On: 31 MAR 2017 6:56PM by PIB Delhi


      The Ministry of AYUSH have taken various steps for promotion and propagation of AYUSH systems of medicine. These include signing of Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) for (i) Country to Country Cooperation in the field of Traditional Medicine, (ii) Setting up of AYUSH Academic Chairs in foreign Universities/Institutes, and (iii) Undertaking Collaborative Research to enhance the acceptability of AYUSH systems at International level. Ministry of AYUSH establishes AYUSH Information Cells in the premises of the Indian Missions/ICCR Cultural Centres for dissemination of authentic information about AYUSH systems of medicine. Ministry of AYUSH also organizes / participates in international exhibitions/ conferences/ workshops/ seminars/ road shows/ trade fairs, etc. to create awareness amongst the local population. AYUSH drug manufacturers/ entrepreneurs/ AYUSH institutions, etc. are provided incentives for (i) participation in international exhibitions/ conferences/ workshops/ seminars/ road shows/ trade fairs, etc. for generating awareness amongst the participating public about the AYUSH systems of medicine and; (ii) registration of AYUSH products with regulatory agencies of different countries to enhance export of the products.


      As per available records, during the last three years, 14 workshops were organised in 12 countries and an amount of Rs. 1,46,15,459/- (Rs. One crore forty six lakhs fifteen thousand four hundred and fifty nine only) was spent. The workshops organised by the Ministry of AYUSH in collaboration with Indian Missions abroad had witnessed tremendous response and created lot of awareness amongst the participants comprising of policy makers, educationists, traditional medicine experts, researchers, etc. about the AYUSH systems of medicine as is evident from the response received from some of the countries for signing of MoUs/ Agreements for cooperation in the field of Traditional Medicine.


      As of now, proposals have been received from UK, Israel and Germany. The Ministry has agreed to financially support and participate in the events.


      This information was given by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for AYUSH, Shri ShripadYesso Naik in written reply to a question in Lok Sabha today.


      *****


      NB/SK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486371) Visitor Counter : 37