      Ministry of Home Affairs

      Slogan Contest on “Role of NPDRR in Disaster Management in India” begins today
      Posted On: 31 MAR 2017 10:20AM by PIB Delhi


    An online slogan contest on the theme “Role of National Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction (NPDRR) in Disaster Management in India” has opened from today. The best entry for the slogan contest will be awarded a cash prize of Rs. 25,000/- and certificate.


    Only resident Indian citizens can participate in this slogan contest. Entry received through email latest by 05:00 PM of April 17, 2017 will only be considered. Entries must be submitted by email to npdrr.india-mha@nic.in along with their contact details.


    The slogans in not more than ten words, either in Hindi or English, should bring out the essence of collective decision making platform in the form of NPDRR provided to stakeholders from government, private, non-governmental sectors, so that country can endeavor to disaster resilient.


    The best entry under the slogan contest will be selected by a panel of judges comprising of four members of National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). The best entry for the slogan contest will be provided with following awards/felicitation:


    · A cash prize of Rs. 25,000/- and a certificate from the Minister of State in MHA


    · To-and fro economy class air tickets from their place of stay in India for participating in the 2 nd meeting of NPDRR


    · Accommodation for 2 day and 2 night stay at Delhi during NPDRR for participating and presenting the view of the award winning entry in the 2 nd meeting of NPDRR


    The 2 nd meeting of National Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction (NPDRR) will be held in New Delhi on April 24-25, 2017 on the theme ‘Disaster Risk Reduction for Sustainable Development: Making India Resilient by 2030’. It will have an exclusive Ministerial session besides Plenary session on the theme “ National Perspective on Disaster Risk Reduction: Sendai and Beyond”. There will also be five Technical sessions on the themes “Understanding Disaster Risk”, “Strengthening Disaster Risk Governance to Manage Disaster Risk”, “Investing in Disaster Risk Reduction for resilience”, “Enhancing Disaster Preparedness for Effective Response and to Build Back Better in Recovery, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction” and “Sendai Framework for DRR: Monitoring”.


    ***


    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486227) Visitor Counter : 28