      Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports

      Promotion of Yoga
      Posted On: 30 MAR 2017 2:55PM by PIB Delhi


    The Minister of State (I/C) for Youth Affairs and Sports Shri Vijay Goel said in the Lok Sabha today that the Ministry observed International Day of Yoga on 21st June during 2015 and 2016 through its field organizations namely, Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS), National Service Scheme (NSS) and Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development (RGNIYD). NYKS observed International Day of Yoga at State, District, Block and Village levels across India in a befitting manner. In its programmes, trained youth demonstrated Yoga as per Common yoga Protocol. NSS also observed International Day of Yoga in Universities, Colleges and Schools across the country in a befitting manner. In Special Camps of NSS, a Yoga Session is held every morning as an integral part of the programme. For promotion of Yoga in the country, the volunteers of NSS and NYKS undertake various activities viz. exhibition on Yoga, Youth Convention, Lectures by Experts on different aspects of Yoga, etc.


    In a written reply he said that the National Curriculum Framework (NCF), 2005 recommended Yoga as an integral part of Health and Physical Education. Health and Physical Education is a compulsory subject from Class I to Class X and optional from Class XI to XII. According to National Curriculum Framework 2005, “the entire group (Health and Physical Education and Yoga) must be taken together as a comprehensive Health and Physical Education Curriculum, replacing the fragmentary approach current in schools today. As a core part of the curriculum, time allocated for games and for yoga must not be reduced or taken away under any circumstances”.


    NCERT (National Council for Educational Research and Training) has already developed integrated syllabi on Health and Physical Education for Class I to Class X. The content of Yoga has been included in the curriculum from Class VI onward. A separate syllabus on Yoga from Upper Primary to Secondary Stage has been developed. On the eve of International Day of Yoga, NCERT brought out the following two textual materials for Upper Primary (VI to VIII) and Secondary Stages (IX & X):


    • Yoga: A Healthy Way of Living (Upper Primary stage) and
    • Yoga: A Healthy Way of Living (Secondary Stage)


    NCERT also organised Yoga Olympiad during 2016 involving students from school to national level.
    CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education) offers a compulsory area titled ‘Health and Physical Education’ in classes VI-XII which includes Yoga, indigenous sports, NCC, etc. The Board has directed the Schools to allot a regular period for the same and the performance in this area is reflected in the final certificate issued by the Board at the end of classes X and XII.


    
    ****


    
    AD/MB
    

    
    (Release ID: 1486138) Visitor Counter : 84