      Ministry of Science & Technology

      National Civil Aircraft Development Programme
      Posted On: 30 MAR 2017 5:23PM by PIB Delhi


    A Feasibility Study has been carried out by CSIR- National Aerospace Laboratories (CSIR-NAL), Bengaluru for National Civil Aircraft Development (NCAD) programme. The programme for development of a 90 seater aircraft will have two phases namely, design & development phase and manufacturing phase. The total estimated budgetary requirements of the NCAD programme is Rs. 7555 crore, out of which Rs. 4355 crore is for design & development phase and Rs. 3200 crore for series production phase. The private sector industry will be involved in both the phases. CSIR had also constituted a Joint Venture Committee whose terms of reference (TOR) was to: (i) identify industry partner (s) through a transparent exercise and work out the modalities for the JV formulation, (ii) suggest equity structure of the identified industry partner(s), and (iii) give necessary inputs to CSIR for developing a cabinet note for obtaining in-principle approval for the implementation of the programme as recommended by the erstwhile Planning Commission. The JV Committee interacted with a number of Indian business houses to develop an EOI and a draft Cabinet note. The JV interim report has been completed. However, the nodal Ministry for undertaking the NCAD programme is yet to be identified. Because of this, a clear picture on the design & development parameters, production aspects etc. along with role of the designated departments/ministries and industrial partners are yet to be worked out. Also, the mode of funding support is yet to be defined.


    CSIR-NAL under the 12th Five Year Plan (2012-17) is implementing a project on setting up a “Transport Aircraft Design Bureau (TADB)” The principal objective of the proposal is to develop a high technology aircraft design bureau required to meet the challenges of next generation aircraft and futuristic programmes of the country.


    This information was given by Minister of State for Science & Technology and Earth Sciences Shri Y.S.Chowdary in written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha today.


    
    *****


    
    RDS/nb


    

    
    (Release ID: 1486235) Visitor Counter : 43