      Ministry of Development of North-East Region

      Destination North East - 2017
      Posted On: 29 MAR 2017 4:22PM by PIB Delhi


    The Destination North East-2017 (DNE-2017) was organized to build upon the comparative advantages of the North East Region, which included Business Summit, Buyer-Seller meet, exhibition stalls showcasing best features of NE to attract investment in tourism, skill, start-up, handlooms & handicrafts, horticulture, medicinal and aromatic plants. The Office of Principal Scientific Adviser to Government of India and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) displayed and demonstrated appropriate rural technologies/innovations of IITs, RuTAG (Rural Technology Action Group) and other technologies. In addition, the rich cultural heritage of NE were displayed by cultural troupes from North East Zone Cultural Council, Ministry of Culture and other NE music Bands. One of the major attractions of the event was the NE food & cuisine by the women Self Help Groups.


    Office of Principal Scientific Adviser to Government of India, Ministry of Information Broadcasting, Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy, Ministry of Textile, Council of Scientific & Industrial Research, Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneur participated along with the State Governments of North East.


    Investment enquiries have been made by the visitors/investors regarding handloom, handicrafts and food products of North Eastern Region. The DNE 2017 was organized with a hope to encourage investments in the NER especially in sectors such as, Textiles, Food Processing industries, Medicinal plants, Organic horticulture produce and fresh flowers, tourism, Cane & Bamboo etc. which are inherent strength of NER. The RuTAG of IIT Guwahati received a concept note for processing "Biomass Dyers" for four states of North Eastern Region at an estimated cost of Rs. 5.5 crore for installation/customization of these dyers.


    Destination North East event is one of the steps taken by Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region to bring North East closer and help assimilate the diverse cultural heritage of India while encouraging investment in priority sectors like Tourism, Handloom, Handicrafts, Food Processing etc. Other steps taken by Ministry of DoNER towards assimilation of North Eastern Region, are funding Business Summits, Seminars, Buyers & Sellers meets to attract investors in North Eastern Region and supporting participation of weavers/artisans of NER in Craft Bazaars and exhibitions all over India to promote their Handloom and Handicrafts and give them exposure to the National Market.


    This was stated by the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER), MoS PMO, Personnel, Public Grievances, Pensions, Atomic Energy and Space, Dr. Jitendra Singh in written reply to a question by Shri S.R. Vijayakumar, Shri Sudheer Gupta, Shri T.Radhakrishnan, Kunwar Haribansh Singh in the Lok Sabha today.


    
    ****


    
    KSD/NK/PK/KM

    
    
    (Release ID: 1486077) Visitor Counter : 88