      Prime Minister's Office

      English rendering of the text of PM's speech at the Industry meet at ONGC Petro Additions Limited (OPAL), Dahej
      Posted On: 07 MAR 2017 5:34PM by PIB Delhi


    Chief Minister of Gujarat, Shri Vijay Rupani
    
    My colleagues of the Cabinet in the central government, Shri Nitin Gadkari and Mr. Mansukh Mandoviya;
    
    Mr. Mansukh Bhai Vasava, the popular MP of this area;
    
    Other dignitaries on stage;
    
    Friends,
    
    Dahej has become a small India in a way. There will be no district of the country whose people are not here and whose means of livelihood is not connected to this city.
    
    It echoes Gujarat’s business ideas and boldness in the whole of India and the world.
    
    Dahej-Bharuch region has contributed a lot in highlighting that boldness of Gujarat.
    
    When I was the Chief Minister of Gujarat, I used to come here several times to accelerate the development process of this region and I was constantly associated with it.
    
    I have seen this place develop brick by brick and progress step by step.
    
    In the last 15 years, the Gujarat government has made massive efforts for the development of Dahej. Today because of those very efforts the entire area of Dahej has developed into a very important industrial city.
    
    Friends, this was the result of the ceaseless efforts of the Gujarat government that Dahej-SEZ has made it to the top 50 industrial regions of the world.
    
    This was India's first such industrial area, which had recorded a grand entry into the world rankings.
    
    In the year 2011-12, the world ranking of Dahej SEZ was 23rd.
    
    Even today, Dahej-SEZ has a special place among some of the world's most industrialized areas.
    
    Dahej Industrial region is playing a significant role in providing employment to millions of youths not only in Gujarat but in the whole country. So far, more than Rs. 40 thousand crore investment has been made in this area.
    
    For this grand success of Dahej-SEZ, I congratulate the people involved.
    
    The Gujarat government has always shown seriousness in developing infrastructure in Dahej and its surroundings. Thus, when it was decided that there would be four Petroleum-Chemical-Petrochemical Investment Regions (PCPIRs) in the country, Gujarat’s Dahej was considered as one of those regions.
    
    More than 1.25 Lakh people have got jobs because of PCPIR and 32 thousand of them are those who are directly associated with it. One estimate is that when the PCPIR will be developed completely, about 8 lakh people will get employment in some way or the other.
    
    Due to PCPIR, the infrastructure of the entire Bharuch and its surrounding regions has been well developed. Due to the Petroleum-Chemical-Petrochemical Investment Region, there has been an increase in the economic activities on a large scale.
    
    Today Dahej-SEZ, PCPIR and Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation have become extremely vibrant industrial sites. This is like a child that I have seen growing up in front of my eyes and therefore I am emotionally attached to it.
    
    And the organisation which has put a feather in Dahej-SEZ and PCPIR’s cap is ONGC PETRO ADDITIONS LIMITED i.e. OPAL.
    
    OPAL is like an anchor industry. It is the largest petrochemical plant in the country. In this, 30 thousand crore rupees were to be invested, out of which around 28 thousand crore has already been invested.
    
    Friends, today, the per capita consumption of polymers in India is only 10 kilos whereas the average of the world is around 32 kg.
    
    Today, when the base of the middle class is growing all over the country, the income of the people is increasing, and the cities are evolving, then surely the per capita consumption of polymers will also increase.
    
    ONGC PETRO ADDITIONS LIMITED has a big role in it. Products associated with polymers are used in many important sectors such as infrastructure, housing, packaging, irrigation, automotive, healthcare.
    
    OPAL will be a major contributor to big projects like Central Government's Make in India and Smart City. It is estimated that by 2018, OPAL's stake in Polymers will be around 13 per cent.
    
    Increasing use of polymers means that the use of conventional things such as wood, paper, metal, will be less. That is, it will be helpful in saving our country's natural resources.
    
    Petrochemical sector in the country is growing very rapidly these days. Experts estimate that in the next couple of decades this sector will grow at a pace of 12 to 15 per cent.
    
    Friends, in the future, the infrastructure of this sector will develop on a larger scale which also includes modernization of the port, 5000 MW of power generation and waste treatment plant. Certainly, this will also provide employment to millions of young people of the country.
    
    To facilitate the workers, the government is constantly trying to expand the job market. Efforts are being made not only towards attracting greater investments in industries but also towards skill development. This is being done in a planned manner in the country by establishing a Skill Development Ministry for the first time. The government is also expanding the job market by scrapping or modifying the old laws.
    
    The number of apprentices has been increased by modifying the Apprenticeship Act and the stipend given during the Apprenticeship has also been increased.
    
    By amending the Factory Act of 1948 the States have been advised to provide facilities for women to work at night.
    
    Besides, Paid Maternity Leave has been increased from 12 weeks to 26 weeks.
    
    Earnings and savings of workers' hard work accumulate in the EPF account. A Universal Account Number has been provided to them so that they can get access to this amount anytime and anywhere.
    
    Wherever there are possibilities for employment, such as in the textile sector, there is a provision to provide employment to workers under "fixed term employment".
    
    States have also been advised to take steps so that the small shops and institutions can remain open for 365 days in a year.
    
    Friends, you are all well aware of the economic challenges that the country was facing before this government came to power in 2014. Inflation was high; the confidence of the investors was dwindling. The direct impact of falling investment was affecting infrastructure and employment.
    
    But the central government tried to solve every problem related to the economy. India is shining as a "Bright Spot" in an otherwise gloomy global economy.
    
    According to the last year’s World Investment Report, India has been placed in the ‘world's top 3 Prospective Host Economy’ for the years 2016 -18.
    
    In the year 2015-16, a record foreign investment of 55.5 billion dollars, ie Rs. 3.64 lakh crore was made. This is more than any investment made in any financial year so far.
    
    In the last two years, India has climbed 32 places in the Global Competitiveness Index of the World Economic Forum.
    
    India was ranked 54th in the World Bank's Logistics Performance Index in 2014. In 2016, India has improved its rankings by achieving 35th position.
    
    Make in India today has become India's largest Initiative.
    
    All the rating agencies have praised its success. Make in India is an effort to make India a global hub for manufacturing, designing and innovation.
    
    Due to this campaign, India is the sixth largest manufacturing country in the world today while earlier India was at the ninth position.
    
    There has been a considerable growth in the manufacturing sector. For example, the Gross Value Addition's growth rate was around 5 and 6 per cent between 2012 and 2015, and last year it increased to 9.3 per cent.
    
    Today India is one of the world's fastest growing economies.
    
    Port Lead Development is the priority for the government. Work on Sagarmala project has been expedited.
    
    This is an important project for modernization of ports, construction of new ports with the emphasis on connectivity improvement, port-level industrialization and coastal community development.
    
    More than 400 projects with an investment of 8 lakh crores have been selected; and projects worth around one lakh crore Rupees are in different stages of implementation.
    
    Indian Port Rail Corporation has been established for better connectivity of railways and ports.
    
    14 coastal economic zones are proposed in different parts of the country.
    
    In Gujarat, more than 40 projects worth Rs 85 thousand crores have been identified. Work on projects with an investment of about 5 thousand crores has already been started.
    
    Some big projects on Kandla Port have been launched.
    
    The present capacity of Kandla Port will be expanded. Besides, smart industrial city is being developed in an area of 1400 acres. This will create approximately 50,000 jobs.
    
    Work on two new cargo jetties and one oil jetty is underway. Wind Power Project and Roof Solar Project are also being expedited.
    
    After the decision against black money and corruption in November, several allegations were levelled regarding the damage to the economy. Answer to these allegations was given by the previous quarter’s statistics.
    
    This action taken after Diwali was supported by some of the world's largest organizations and scholars.
    
    Apple CEO Tim Cook said that the decision would have far-reaching consequences.
    
    Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates said that this decision would eliminate the Parallel economy and bring transparency in the economy.
    
    World Bank CEO Kristalina Georgieva was also in support of this decision. She said that this will have a positive effect on the economy and other countries of the world will study this move taken by India.
    
    Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak also termed this decision as a bold one.
    
    The International Monetary Fund also stood by this decision.
    
    Nobel prize-winning economist Muhammad Yunus also said that the rural and unorganized sector has now come under the banking system due to demonetisation.
    
    Martin Wolf, the chief economic commentator of Financial Times, a famous UK based newspaper, wrote that this decision will transfer the wealth from criminals to the government. And nobody will sympathise with the criminals who may have to suffer financial loss because of this decision.
    
    Friends, of course, when black money will be eliminated from the economy, then every sector, whether it is economic or social, everyone will have the advantage. Today the world is viewing this bold decision of India with great respect.
    
    Friends, in the end, I want to put one more important topic of concern in front of you; and that is environmental protection.
    
    I have already said that while developing new projects, we should emphasise upon the use of new technologies so that no harm is caused to the environment. There can be no compromise with the protection of the environment.
    
    I hope that just as the whole environment of Dahej is friendly to everyone, Dahej-SEZ will also be environment-friendly.
    
    With these words, I will stop here.
    
    Thank you very much.

    ***


    
    
    AKT/IG/MG/AK

    
    
    (Release ID: 1514106) Visitor Counter : 26