      Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare

      Union Government committed to address all the issues of farmers in holistic mode---Gajendra Singh Shekhawat
      Posted On: 04 JUN 2018 12:02PM by PIB Kolkata


    Asansol, June 03, 2018.


    The Government has decided to connect 22 thousands of rural markets under online marketing system to ensure better pricing of farm produce. This was disclosed by Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat at a press conference in Asansol to mark the 48 months of Modi Government. Shri Shekhawat said that 485 Kisan Mandis across the country have also been covered under online marketing system for farmers’ welfare. He further said that the government adopted the means to solve farmers’ problems in holistic mode. The Union Minister emphasized that the government is committed to double farmers’ income by the year 2022. Enlisting the achievements of the present Government in the last 48 months, he elaborated that the Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi led Government has worked towards ensuring a roof over every head by 2022 through Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.


    Union Minister for States Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said that the focus of the present government is on improving the infrastructure of the country at rapid pace. He said that connecting every village through Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana has changed the outlook of road connectivity. He said almost 1.69 lakh kilometres of rural road have been built in the last 4 years. He said ensuring smoke-free life for every Indian family through Ujjwala Yojana has been the priority of the Government. He elaborated that MUDRA entrepreneurs seeding a mega wave of job creation with small entrepreneurs being funded resulting in increase of scope of employment.


    He said that Government’s courageous initiative of demonetization has ensured that digital form of payment becomes a reality. He lauded the Central Government initiative of Direct Benefit Transfer Scheme ensuring money reaching beneficiaries in their account and thereby, resulting in eradicating the middlemen. He said that enhancing quality of life has provided wings to the dreams of the poor. He explained that Jan Dhan Yojana has served the banking needs of the unbanked poor.


    Earlier, the Union Minister interacted with the Radio Jockeys of Asansol in an informal chat over breakfast which was followed by an interaction with the Editors of prominent newspapers of Asansol and Durgapur. Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat addressed several issues of the state in the field of agriculture.


    *****


    CC/AM/SB/Asansol........

    
    
    (Release ID: 1534215) Visitor Counter : 5