      Ministry of Education

      School syllabi to be reduced for classes I and II and pass-fail system in classes V and VIII to be started in March 2019: Union HRD Minister
      Posted On: 04 JUN 2018 12:00PM by PIB Kolkata


    Kolkata , June 3, 2018


    Union Human Resource Development Minister Shri Prakash Javadekar interacted with radio jockeys and addressed media in a press conference held at Kolkata on Saturday (June 2, 2018).


    Speaking about the initiatives of the Union Human Resource Development Ministry in the press conference, Shri Javadekar stated, “Detention and promotion examinations will be held in classes V and VIII from 2019.” He further said, in this new system, the students will get two chances to clear the examination, first in the month of March and later a second exam will be held for unsuccessful students in the month of May. The Minister said, home-work will go off for classes I and II, so that learning becomes fun for children. In the press conference and his meeting with editors, the Minister explained the benefits of various schemes and projects implemented by the Union Government in 48 months that led to development of the nation and transformation in the lives of common citizens like the PM Jan Dhan Yojana, PM Suraksha Bima Yojana, Swacch Bharat, Food Security, DBT etc. The Minister said, “The Union Government under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi has banked the unbanked, insured the uninsured, provided house to the house-less, given pension to the pension-less and empowered the unempowered citizens”. The Minister also said, Direct Benefit Transfer introduced by the Government under various schemes ensures that beneficiaries receive the full benefit all by themselves.


    Earlier in the day, the Union HRD Minister interacted with radio jockeys from various private FM stations, FM Rainbow as well as community radios run by educational institutions in the city. In this candid interaction session, the Minister spoke about the reach and immense power of radio to connect with the citizens at a personal level. He said, PM Modi has chosen radio for his monthly ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme for this very reason. The Minister highlighted some of the societal problems plaguing the nation that radio can broadcast to create awareness. Shri Javadekar informed about the steps taken by Union Human Resource Development Ministry like reducing the syllabi for school students and introduction of physical education and experiential learning for their overall development. The representatives and jockeys from radio stations also shared their views and experiences of working in this medium with the Minister and they also placed before him some suggestions for better reach of radio to the masses.


    The Director-General of Press Information Bureau, Eastern Region Shri A.K. Saxena was also present in these sessions.


    *******


    CG/SC

    
    
    (Release ID: 1534213) Visitor Counter : 3