      Ministry of Health and Family Welfare

      Ayush and Yoga made Integral Part of Treatment Process of Serious Diseases in AIIMS, says Union Minister of State for Health
      Posted On: 09 JUN 2018 6:30PM by PIB Kolkata


    The Union Minister of State for Health Shri Aswini Kumar Choubey today said, according to Pradhanmantri Swasth Yojana, initiatives have been taken to open 20 All India Institute of Medical Sciences or AIIMS and out of them six have already started operations. And in all such institutes, Ayush and Yoga will be part of treatment procedures to cure serious diseases like cardiac one, he reiterated while delineating on the health and sanitation issues in an interactive session on ‘Health and Family Welfare: Recent Trends & Road Ahead’ today in the city.


    Shri Choubey said, the Union Government headed by Prime Minister Shri Narenfra Modi has come up with the biggest health scheme of the world ‘Ayushman Bharat’ to provide affordable health services to the poor and downtrodden people of this country. Through National Health Protection Scheme 50 crore such people will be provided coverage up to 5 lakh rupees per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalization in a year. With this, according to National Health Policy, 1.5 lakh wellness centres will be made available to the people of this country and initiatives will be taken to change every illness centre to wellness centre in the country added Shri Choubey. The Union Government is putting thrust on health education and hence the Centre is upgrading 58 medical colleges and in 73 other medical colleges, super-speciality blocks will be established, said the minister.


    While speaking on Mission Indradhanush, Shri Choubey pointed out that the target of Health Ministry is to attain 90 percent vaccination of mother and child by the end of this year. Till date 528 districts have been covered by this mission, the minister added.


    The Minister said, the health policy of India is a total one and the aim is to provide preventive and promotive healthcare system so as to reach the totality of the health-care system in India. He even added that to make generic medicines available to the mass, the Union Government has opened 3,000 Jana Oshadhi Kendras in the country.

    
    
    (Release ID: 1535013) Visitor Counter : 1